WOW. Those previews of this movie, The Wolf of Wall Street, couldn't be any more accurate. Basically, it told me all I needed to know: everything.Upon watching this undeserved Best Picture Nominated movie, I couldn't believe my eyes. There wasn't an unpredictable part of this movie, as predicted by the movie's trailer. I take that back. I did not predict that this THREE HOUR MOVIE would have a good hour of cut'able footage.I could've easily sliced out an hour of unneeded and obvious footage in the movie and even though the remaining two hours still wouldn't be fresh by any means, at least the audience didn't have to waste three hours on the same ole story – they just had to waste two.Let's see: Young hotshot wants to make it big for him and his wife. He's still wet behind the ears, but dives right into the greed of Wall Street and makes his own mark after a speed bump derails him temporarily. He's – get this! – consumed by the money, power, girls, drugs and luxury. Oh, no! What will ever become of him?Supposedly, though probably, true, this rise and fall story is so blatantly obvious from the get-go, you'll wonder why you need to see another 2 hours, 59 minutes of the story you already know how will unravel from minute one.Granted, the performances are decent – no, it wasn't Leo's best, and the film was professionally made, I just could never get past the A-B-C story of the Rise-and-Fall of the greedy. Nothing new was brought to the table with the exception of a few jokes and scenes so extended that they should've been in the extended cut BluRay and not in the original cut.While absolutely not a waste of time or film – it does boast the most F-bombs that you're sure to become immune to – it's so old, you'd think you're watching a "true story" of the old west.* * * Final thoughts: How this got an R-Rating for this extreme amount of nakedness, sexuality, language, violence<U+0085>makes me wonder who owns the MPAA. Especially when But I'm a Cheerleader almost got an NC-17 rating because it involved lesbians but not 1/1000th of the debauchery here.
I really can't wrap my mind around the rates given to this movie. Though I love Scorsese and Dicaprio's work with him there is just no reason to consider this movie more than a playful comedy. 3 hours of, in all honesty, nothing. No context, no punch not even that great of acting. There is really not a line to follow or any biographical data to grab on. It's just an endless display of "funny" (was it really?) scenes where the main characters display their excesses and appetite for luxury.By the second hour of Leo getting drugged I was completely fed up with it<U+0085>at least these kind of teen/party/drug funny movies are short and give no higher expectations<U+0085> I was really expecting more of Leo and especially more of Scorsese...


                
While the goal of this film was apparently to highlight the negative aspects of capitalism, it relies on scene after scene of sex and drug use to propel the story forward. Like the shallow characters portrayed, the movie has trouble finding meaning or a message.Many of the negative consequences of Belfort's actions are cast into a "funny" light, while at the same time detail is placed into the explicit sex scenes and the highlighting of drug use in practically every other scene. It's very hard to see the movie viewing infidelity or excessive drug use in a negative light.If Scorcese was trying to make a statement, then the movie should have had a strong message. Some will say that the movie should not force feed a message to the viewer, but I still think Scorcese could have tried a bit harder, especially if this movie was suppose to have an anti-Wall Street message. Instead it seems a collection of stories you would hear about from some fratboy's crazy times in college, i.e. something to be idolized and reminisced on, rather than highlighting a dark period in someone's life.The real-life Belfort got millions of dollars for his life story and 100 million dollars was invested in making this movie. That alone suggests that society has given this scumbag more attention and wealth than he deserves. Was Scorcese trying to showcase the ills of Wall Street or the ills of Hollywood directors idolizing scumbags through vague storytelling and shock factor?


                
I'm known for dragging out a story but the first 2 hours could have been covered in 25 minutes, only then would I have contemplated a 5.5 rating. About 3 comedy moments and a long drawn out story that only the downfall was worth watching. I can only think the prevalence of naked women, men and sex has somehow merited the 8.5 rating as "art". Shall now go and do something more interesting, sleep. Sorry, I now have to waffle on and drag this review out as it must be a minimum of 10 lines, what more can I say, I'm tired after 3 hours of boredom and want some sleep.Thoroughly disappointed.


                
"The Wolf of Wall Street" is the story of a despicable piece of human slime called Jordan Belfort, a lying, cheating, alcoholic, drug-addicted, whore monger who happens to know how to con people out of their money. When his lips are moving, he is lying. His partners are less charming criminals Jordan handpicks because of their character flaws and lack of moral accountability. The film devotes most of its time to the day-to-day chore of finding and using narcotics, wooing and banging prostitutes and how to dispose of vast amounts of stolen money in the most idiotic, wasteful ways possible. Where "Wall Street" was somewhat plausible because insider trading is, in fact, a way to grab obscene amounts of unearned money, "The Wolf of Wall Street" is not a film which will satisfy the MBAs or the street-savvy viewers. Scorsese's film is self-indulgent on many levels. It is long, running about 3 hours. It is vapid, dealing only with style without substance. When the film gets a little slow, Scorsese throws in another orgy. Men banging whores. Men banging men. Men banging on airlines. Men getting blow jobs on elevators, in cars at their desks. Public sex, sex at work, sex in the toilet at work. This movie has an army of whores servicing a large number con men. DeCaprio's Belfort is always humping someone. The drugged, drunken orgy continues for a long time. Jonah Hill, playing Donny Azoff, Belfort's business partner, dons some fake teeth and becomes the most annoying sidekick ever. He is every bit as drunk and sexually perverted as Belfort, but he is profoundly stupid. He is stultifying and sucks the oxygen out of every room he enters. As the film moves forward, you dread the sight of him.With "Mean Streets" and "Good Fellas," Scorsese provides a glimpse of the world of Italian gangsters. The films ring true. The stories feel authentic. Maybe Scorsese doesn't know enough about Wall Street to create a sense of authenticity. Wolf of Wall Street is disjointed; it changes tone, and it never finds its true voice. The lead characters are nauseating, and there is hope that Kyle Chandler's FBI agent will bring balance to this film providing a dose of reality with gumshoe detective work, but that part of the story never fully develops. The story would have improved if we saw studies in contrast, like the "French Connection," where the cops are poor and dedicated as they observe the massive benefits of the lawless life.In the end, the orgy peters out. There are some unhappy vile people who get much more than they earned and much less justice than they deserved. Scorsese may be saying that this is how the world works. The cops take a pathetic plea agreement, and the con men blow up the world without paying much of a price for it. But Scorsese was seduced also. He could not take his eye off the whores, the drugs, the cars, the mansions and the glitz long enough to tell a story about money and Wall Street.
Add "Wolf of Wall Street" to my list of LEAST favorite films of 2013. A shame, too, because it held such potential - but honestly, this is the first Scorsese film I've ever seen that actually bored me. Not only boring, but also filled with dull, 2-dimensional characters that I cared little or nothing about. I couldn't get out of the theater fast enough - even though I stayed through all three butt-numbing hours of meaningless, cliché-driven hyperbole.And - can we finally give Leonardo DiCaprio an extended leave of absence from Hollywood? After 180 minutes of his over-the-top, scream-filled over-acting in this effort, I think I've had enough for quite a while. Jonah Hill's paper-thin two-dimensional character was rather disappointing too. But I'm not sure who to blame here - the script was probably as much at fault. That said, two cameos almost made up for the rest of the performances - Matthew McCaugnahey's eccentric broker (who was gone after the first 20 minutes, unfortunately) and Rob Reiner as DiCaprio's quirky father.Sure, it had the usual stylistic flair of a Scorsese film, but it was almost like a film school student's homage to a Scorsese film. Paul Thomas Anderson's Boogie Nights was a better Scorsese film than Wolf of Wall Street.Bottom line, save your money and rent (or re-watch) Wall Street - Oliver Stone's timeless classic still stands as the benchmark for the subject, even after 25 years.I may have to go see another film soon as "mental floss" to get this one out of my head...


                
Quite an achievement to make a film as filled with sex and drugs as this one and this BORING. Yes, if you are 13 years old you will likely enjoy this flick because your parents probably don't want you to see it and it is "forbidden fruit", but there aren't many adults left in North America that haven't seen this exploitation garbage done a lot better countless times. As for the promised "comedy", this simply isn't funny at all-some were forcing laughs in the theatre I was in but EASTBOUND AND DOWN or SUNNY IN PHILADELPHIA it sure ain't. Major disappointment all around. How exactly is Jonah Hill in so many movies-the guy literally has no business in front of a camera at all. As for De Caprio's big "Oscar" performance-at no time at all during this film did I for even two seconds believe De Caprio as Jordan Belfort. Jeez.


                
Don't waste your money on this flick: you'll feel just as scammed as the marks to whom Jordan Belfort peddled his worthless penny stocks. There is no depth to this story whatsoever. The plot is a trite, predictable morality tale and the characters are one-dimensional. DiCaprio is entirely unconvincing in this role. The only redeeming qualities of this film are a few laughs and lots of scantily clad hot bodies. You'll get much better bang for your buck (and better return on your time investment) by renting a 15-minute porno.Minimum reviews on IMDb are 10 lines. This movie isn't worth that many,so here's a taste of the filler that pads it: Drugs, Sex, Drugs, Sex, Drugs, ... get the picture?


                
Wolf is entertaining enough, and Leonardo does another bang-up job, but the movie is also a good example of Hollywood turning out a movie that technically shows the hazards of excess but in the process revels in the excess to such a degree that you have to push aside the 95% of the film that revels in sex, drugs and greed to notice that, oh, yeah, lives are wrecked in the process. If you didn't come out of this thinking that some drugs and some gang sex are the next thing to try, then you are a thinking person and a conscious, active viewer. Congratulations.I would say instead of seeing this, see Boiler Room and watch Giovanni Ribisi, Vin Diesel, Nia Long, Nicky Katt, Scott Caan, Ben Affleck, and Jim Young perform Writer/Director Ben Younger's far better movie. To be fair, Wolf contains several admirable performances, but that doesn't make up for the self-indulgent movie they wound up in.Boiler Room actually contains a few characters you might care for. (I didn't really care much what happened to anyone in Wolf, except the victims, who are entirely off-screen.) It is a tighter film by far, indicating excesses without offering them up as the main dish. Tightly written, well acted, simple and honest.If you will only see one of these two, see Boiler Room. If you must see both, see Boiler Room first so that you can see how Wolf pales by comparison as you watch it.


                
I don't understand why this movie has consistently been given high ratings. The plot can be summed up in 30 minutes, yet the movie is very long. An hour and a half is devoted to establishing Jordan Belfort's debauchery, but it is overkill. We do not need this many scenes depicting his lifestyle. The acting and cinematography are very good, but since it has these two aspects and no plot, it only has two of three very important pieces and does not deserve higher than a 66. Additionally, each time the movie is viewed, Belfort makes money. He is only required to give 50% of his profit to his victims, to whom he still owes millions of dollars.


                
Did Marty Scorcese fall asleep in front of his movieola or lose his place editing the last two thirds of this film involving vapid characters in wild pursuit of cash with no depth to flesh out other than a team spirit equal in locker room adrenalin to halftime at Ohio State. After a couple of overlong Rocknesque team motivating speeches channeling Andrew Dice Clay along the way Lenny and Wolf of Wall St. hits a dead end with nowhere to go but from one drug fueled, sex crazed Bachannalian bash to the next while staying a step or two ahead of the feds.Wolf starts fast with altruistic but ambitious Jason Belfort's ( Leonard DiCaprio) rise, stumble and meteoric burst by way of the penny stock trade to heading a major Wall St. firm. But less than halfway in Scorcese begins to audition acts for a comedy show slowing the pace in favor of DiCaprio and company giving us some stooge slapstick and dense straight man in scenes that neither build or deliver, just eat up endless minutes. The hedonistic office orgies, DiCaprio pep talks, the lust for coke, the reverence for Quaalude we get the first time, enough already.DiCaprio also starts strong but is asked or was given free reign to emote beyond audience patience and he staggers to the finish with one over the top outburst after the next. A scene (one of many) where a nostalgic return to some revered drug goes awry and we are treated to Lenny crawling from the interior of a dwelling down the stairs across the lot and into his Ferrari. It is a scene emblematic of Scorcese's self indulgence and sluggish pace. Halving it (no less) may have salvaged it. At least it would not have wasted so much of your time.The rest of the cast is relegated to throwaway inanity (save for a charismatic cameo by Matt McConaughy as a high powered trader) and team spirit in one noisy scene after the next that just goes in the same circle over and over and over eventuating in a dull payoff. Face it, his films have gotten longer and lousier. The Wolf of Wall St. has no bite it simply howls and howls and howls.


                
I would have rated this a 9/10 based on the first half hour. It was like watching a movie, and I actually got a couple good laughs in. I started thinking to myself "huh, pretty good movie - some nudity and depravity, but its kinda funny, and not as bad as some of the reviewers were saying" But then it starts to go downhill, and it goes downhill fast. It sinks to a new level of low that i've never experienced before. My indifference towards the characters shifted to hatred towards them, so why would I want to watch scene after scene after scene of them doing drugs and having sex? OK, I understand Scorsese - The people of Wall Street are excessive, depraved, and uncaring. But that doesn't mean your movie has to be excessive, depraved, and uncaring about your audience's time. This movie made the cast of Jersey Shore look like angels. I question the people who found this movie to be funny and defend it as a "dark comedy" - most of the jokes were based on ruining peoples lives (cheating, stealing money, sexual harassment). What's so funny about that? Who was Scorsese aiming this movie towards?


                
I'm going to keep this short and sweet, DiCaprio was the main reason I went to watch this film, Scorsese... movie genius but this... this was total garbage, 2 1/2 hours of swearing, drug abuse, sex... wait there was sex?? 1/2 hour of somewhat suspense, well... Jonah hill was a waste of time in that movie, the other characters I have no damn clue what their soul purpose was in the film, movie lacks substance, its fabricated truth, I just don't get why I got sucked into watching it... this movie should be called "DiCaprio" cause he's the only reason why this movie was worth watching... I take that back... I wish I never watched it.. Hyped up, Over-Rated... DiCaprio deserved the Grammy though..


                
First, the good: DiCaprio does a very good job of portraying a sleazy sociopath. It was truly a great performance.However, the main problem of this movie was lack of editing. There were way too many scenes in which a point was being made or a mood created-- and this took place in about 20 seconds--a nod to good film making... ...However, these same scenes then droned on and on for, in some cases, over 5 minutes! We get it--he's making a pep-talk speech to his staff-- we got that in the first 15 seconds. But why continue the same rah-rah pep-talk for a full 5 minutes without adding *anything* new?? This was just one example of many scenes that got so stale and I kept thinking--where was the editor? Why didn't he shave a few minutes off these scenes and keep the pace going?So all in all--I felt what could have been a decent movie was just a long, boring slog.


                
This movie was made for the young crowd who likes sex, drugs and money. The fact that it was laced with nudity/porn shows that it is cheap smut. While I understand this was the environment, it was too extreme. I especially dislike the raw anger displayed among characters, This was Scarface without guns meets Wall Street. Bad just bad. There was a great opportunity lost in making this film filled with so many possibles. No wonder the market is where it is today. I did not Leo and that is surprising for me. Your money is worth more than spending in this movie. Hollywood really sucks if they think they can pass this off as a movie!
'The Wolf of Wall Street' is the story of up and coming yuppie Jordan Belfort as he schemes his way to the top of the stock-broker game. It's safe to say, as entertaining as this movie seems, it really isn't.Martin Scorsese is a legend in the directing business, but he falls short this time with the absurdity of this film. In no way am I intolerant of a hard R-Rated film, but this pushed it to a disgusting and uncomfortable level. The word 'F#%k' is used in close to damn near every sentence to a grand total of over 500 times. Clearly the script writers had an easy job writing dialogue where 80% of it is profanity.In no way am I knowledgeable of the real Jordan Belfort, but DiCaprio's representation of him is way too exaggerated that it's borderline ridiculous. Even without reading the book, I'm 100% sure that the life of Jordan Belfort was in no way as bold-faced, wacky, exaggerated and goofy as it's represented in this film. DiCaprio does an okay job with his performance when it comes to the emotional and more direct scenes as Belfort, but it's buried under the crazy non-sense this film constantly bombards the audience with.Margot Robbie plays Jordan's second wife Naomi, who's only purpose is being the 'sex object' and estranged wife. A woman who marries a man who cheats on his ex-wife (with you), is a sex and drug addict that runs a scheming business, deserves every bad thing that happens. Jonah Hill, rounds off the cast as Belfort's.....goofy sidekick Donnie......and that's it.Scorsese fails on every level for a director of his capacity, making this film a huge miss for him. People are gonna like this film more than not, so DiCaprio will get an Oscar nomination for all the wrong reasons. This was a viewing experience that made me feel high on cocaine when it was over, but not in a good way. The film pushed itself and it's audience till it breaks with all the ridiculous profanity and erratic craziness that leaves you baffled and wondering: "What the hell did I just see?"So if you get a chance to see this film, don't take it.
Martin Scorsese directs the story of a man that reached fortune by becoming really good at doing illegal activities and eventually got in trouble with the law in part for his careless behavior and in part for the bad companion he associated with. One of the few good things of the movie is how it accurately describes the aggressive and intense scene stockbrokers and sellers in general live in, unfortunately that had been done before and done better. Other than that, the movie is just a collection of depraved anecdotes set in slow-mo sequences with cool music (usually "borrowed" from other movies) and that makes it a genuine snore fest (literally, there were people snoring in the audience) I really wanted to like it, but it turned out to be one of the most boring movies I've ever seen, and I've seen the 'English Patient'. I really don't understand why the movie tries so hard to rub in our faces Jordan Belford's excessive and decadent lifestyle, which btw wasn't as shocking as I was expecting. It's funny how critics bash repetitive action and destruction scenes in movies like 'Transformers' or 'Man of Steel', but praise repetitive morbid scenes in movies like this one, when in both cases is a tedious experience. For the first time ever I found myself attending a movie in which I wasn't interested in anything that was going on or cared for any of the characters and when that happens one starts noticing a lot of continuity and edition mistakes that not even direct to DVD movies have, like when a character is supposed to be speaking but even from a behind shot we can see the actor isn't talking at all or the infamous Leonardo Dicaprio "magic pants" scene. But the biggest sin of the movie is that it sacrifices the essence over the form, and by that I mean the pace of the story.Once you get over the so called "controversial" scenes, you realize the pace is slower than grass growth, because the story didn't need a 3 hour movie to be told. The length of the movie was a consequence of the depraved overkill. Don't believe me? Take agent Denham for instance (the character played by Kyle Chandler) he was introduced 10 minutes into the movie, so we have a pretty good idea of his role in the story and where it's going, however the character speaks his first line 90 minutes after he's introduced (that's right, I was so bored I started timing things like that) Grasp that for a few secs. Ninety minutes! I could have walked out, watched 'Gravity' (again) walked back in and the character wouldn't have yet said anything. And how does the plot unfolds in those 90 minutes? It doesn't, all we see is sex, drugs and partying over and over again. I haven't read the book but I believe Scorsese could've made the movie more engaging if instead of focusing so much on Belford's life would have shown how his actions affected people, I mean we're talking about lifetime savings that were robbed and that resulted in broken families,hundreds (if not thousands) of people losing their homes, their health and even their lives. It could've at least bonded emotionally with the audience. But the fact is, if you've seen the 2 min trailer you already know 90% of the story and even worse, the remaining 10% has also been done before and done better when it was called 'Casino' (btw, the first paragraph of this review was copy / pasted from a review of that movie) which was an exciting story, however when seen in WoWS it seems wasted and clichéd and of course you may also take into account that even when their performances were good, Jonah Hill is no Joe Pesci, Margot Robbie is no Sharon Stone and unfortunately Leo Dicaprio is no Bobby Deniro. So my recommendation is sneak in, wait until McConaughey's performance is over and then leave. Don't believe the hype 4/10


                
Right from the beginning i was more than trying to convince myself that this film is actually a biography film. Why are there even films made on characters such as Jordan Belfort who was less of a businessman or a fraud and more of a sex,drug addict,or in simple words a jerk(because this is what is shown in the movie).Nudity and the swearing kept aside,even if we look at the stocks fraud in the movie,what is shown is completely bullish and something just unconvincing.Leaves a big question mark on our face that is that guy some genius, if yes then the it is so very much simple to be a genius on this planet.There's no context present.They never show the victims of the fraud. We see the sales effort but not the people they're selling to. How can you do a movie about people perpetrating a fraud without showing the fraud? There's no character development, They all start out as disgusting creeps and they all end up being master minds of the wall street(all of a sudden). In the end would just conclude by saying, disappointing from Martin Scorsese and in a way by Leonardo too(whats the point of brilliant acting and role play if the film does not have a basic plot only). So a THUMBS DOWN to THE WOLF OF WALL STREET.
I'm not sure just how far into "The Wolf of Wall Street" that the realization finally hit me that Martin Scorsese had made this movie before. It's "Goodfellas" with different criminals, and it's not as good. This film is longer, and raunchier -- I wished my soul could take a shower fairly early on -- and while it's certainly lavishly made, with great acting, this restatement lacks the charm that the mob movie had. The artifices that were so novel in 1990 (the narration, playing to the camera, the long steadicam shots) now look derivative, and you cannot root for these characters like you might have before, even though both casts are replete with lowlife, scum criminals. At least Henry, Tommy, and Jimmy were likable lowlife, scum criminals. Jordan Belfort and his partners are simply reprehensible.I expected the cursing and didn't mind it, even though this film probably tops both seasons of "Deadwood" in uses of the f-word, because many New Yorkers do talk that way. I must admit that I was a bit taken aback by the gratuity of the sex scenes, which made "Caligula" look tame by comparison, and I can't imagine that people could possibly take the amount of drugs depicted in this film and still live, much less function. Perhaps I've lived a sheltered life. But this film is not for the faint of heart.On the positive side, I very much enjoyed the performance of Rob Reiner as Belfort's father, loved Kyle Chandler as the FBI agent, and thought it was a great touch to have Bo Dietl play himself (plus that he appears in both "Wolf" and "Goodfellas"). There are many faces you've seen before, and I'll probably spend a good deal of time surfing the IMDb to see all the connections. And I hope that we see more of Margot Robbie -- meaning seeing her in more films, since we will have already seen all of her in this one -- as this is her meatiest role since "Pan Am," and she proves here that she has some real acting chops.In short, I would say that you should save your money on this film, and buy the DVD to "Goodfellas," that you many enjoy it in its brilliance over and over, instead of this rehash.


                
There's nothing worse than being trapped in a place you can't get out of and this is how I felt when I watched this film. A brilliant director, fantastic acting and an unlimited budget should make for a triumph but I felt that I was trapped for three hours in a Big Brother house with a bunch of morons. There wasn't one character to sympathise with, nobody to like and the concept of stealing money from people, though occasionally funny, was like watching a bunch of vandals smash a bus shelter. I was persuaded to see the film by my lovely girlfriend and I was determined to try my best to overcome my misgivings, but it pans out exactly as you'd expect; from the first attempts at thieving to the inevitable climax. If De Caprio's character walked into my house today I'd punch him.


                
Had very high expectations from this movie but the movie is average at best! Mostly depicts the lifestyle of stock brokers during the time and how they manipulate people into buying stocks. So they make calls and con people of millions and the story simply does not follow through except these guys keep getting richer and towards the end they have to face the law! You get to see them tripping on cocaine/popping pills the after effects and some party scenes where everyone's going wild but then the story line itself is not very gripping! One time watch. Definitely overrated. Dicaprio's acting is good never the less. For all the folks here who think this movie is good please watch *boiler room*
Wow, WoWS is getting critically mauled on these user reviews! But indulge my 2-cents: What works: The level of acting is terrific. I'm not a Jonah Hill fan and I'll give his chops (rumor has it he was paid a paltry $60K in what's purported to be a $100 million production--- if true, he was robbed). His Donnie Azoff (aka in real life as Danny Porus) is a difficult character, having no redeeming qualities to draw from. DiCaprio also manages to pull off a convincing Jordan Belfort and as he possesses a face that has refuses to age, we see Belfort as a hungry 23-year old through about 1998. DiCaprio has a firm grip on the guy, and there's one outlandish scene involving a fistful of Quaaludes that kick in at an inopportune moment. Watching Leo chemically melt on a pay phone and throw his body like a mangled Slinky is the one best scene in the film. What doesn't work: The script is pointless. There's no moral center, not a single redeeming character to empathize with. The inevitable outcome happens with no great surprises, no clever plot twists, nothing. These people are all scumbags. A lot has been said about the nudity. I'm no prude and find it sadly amusing that we Americans don't bat an eye at catastrophic body counts in mindless action movies but howl at skin. But okay, WoWS has an unusually high amount of nudity, sex, raunch and Marty seems perfectly willing to give us what he wants. And I will agree that it should probably have been more correctly released as an NC-17 (the fact that this received a R at all makes me question the rating board itself). Another criticism: I've grown tired of the Scorsese narration. It worked in Goodfellas and Casino but without a tighter script, listing to a voice over pieced out over 3 hours weighs the film down. Although I enjoyed it more than most people here, it would've been greatly improved by whittling 25 minutes off a better script.


                
I finally watched this movie on Netflix after years of people telling me to watch it, mainly specifically for the rude scenes. Those people who watch movies mainly for titillation movies may bring.So when I got a chance I thought, "what the hell", its Scorsese, it has DiCaprio who I am starting to like especially after watching the Departed.But my god this movie is awful, I mean if you take away the nude sequences and the comedic scenes following drug taking, this movie is actually boring. What is the movie's overall message? I don't think even Scorsese and DiCaprio knew either as it seemed that when stuck they through in more drug taking or nude scenes, probably to wake people up.I get this movie may be about the limitations of excess, but so much of the movie made no sense and I am still scratching my head. The main one comes near the end of the movie when Naomi says she is filing for divorce. With this based on true events that moment had be bewildered. She knew him during his excessive moment, after all that's how they met. Yet once Jordan starts loosing it all she doesn't want to know even though he had gone clean for two years. Maybe it was the acting that made this scene poor but I couldn't get my head around what was being said.Even the scenes with the FBI are dreadful, the acting is so poor that the actors especially Kyle Chandler look completely bored out of their minds. As for Jonah Hill, not a big fan but I felt like he was the idiot of the movie which may have been the point of his character, but he was more buffoon then a member of the professional guild of idiocy.Over all I was extremely disappointed with this movie and I expected so much more. I was even enjoying the movie for the first 38mins or so but then it took a massive nose dive when it went farcical and then the constant introduction of naked women.If you want a movie involving no brains and buffoonery and rude scenes to remove the boredom, this is for you. If you want a movie about excess that you want to concentrate on, then watch Wall Street with Michael Douglas, that movie is far superior.
I had a co-worker raving about this movie for weeks. I had heard it was essentially porn with a story, but for lack of better judgment, I watched it (and should have quit after the first 10 minutes; I want the 3 hours of my life back!). This movie should have been 90 minutes, not 3 hours plus! (just removing the F-bombs would have cut it down to 2 hours ;) ) There needed to be an editor for this sleaze-fest! There were some funny lines/scenes, which is the only reason I didn't rate it 1. Scorsese seems to like to portray people who have no redeeming qualities (like the boxer in Raging Bull), and seems to have a habit of dragging his movies out way too long! If you are into porn, drugs, and profanity, you will love this movie!


                
I have not read the book, and after watching the film, I am really not interested in giving one cent towards the "Belfort Enterprise".I am really not sure if the reason I constantly got irritated during the film, would be linked to the fact that I just cannot comprehend people to be as void of any moral compass as Belfort and his gang.This is probably why DiCaprio has been nominated for the Academy Award. His portrayal of this scum of the earth character is quite good, yet becomes quite predictable.The thing that really bothers me about the Wolf of Wallstreet, is that although there are some hints of "regret and rehabilitation" from Belfort's point of view, it does seem like it rather glorifies the sickening business of pump and dump trading, prostitutes, group sex, chauvinism, drug abuse and general hedonism.Although I don't have an issue per say with a hedonistic lifestyle, it is incomprehensible that someone who is entrusted with money from an already exploited public, could just throw it away with such ease and without remorse.This is maybe why the film is quite a love/hate spectacle. You get furious with all the role players in this fiasco, especially Belfort as the film aims to portray the life of a ruthless young man who only has money, drugs and sex on his brain, while dragging dozens of others down the drain with himAt the end of the film, I had mixed feelings. I am sure that some of the scenes (for example the group sex and wild parties) were exaggerated either by Belfort himself or by the filmmakers. It really got a bit too much to see all these orgies, who I honestly believe is a figment of Belfort's imagination (or probably spiced up by the producers to make the film a bit more sensationalist). Where the film succeeds though is the fact that it leaves the viewer hating what these people have done. There is nothing noble about Belfort, his pump and dump operation, or the way that he managed to get a slap on the wrist.The Wolf of Wallstreet made sure that we gain an insight as to where we should not invest our hard earned cash, and that the aspiration to earn millions comes at a high moral price.At the end of the film, where Belfort appears at a Sales Conference in Auckland, I could only shake my head. There are some sins that should not be forgiven and some people that should never be trusted. This man is one of those that should be avoided at all cost. To any aspiring business professional that walked out of the film feeling some form of adoration for this man, do a quick reality check and think of the stories that were not told in the film. The story of all those hard working people that lost all of their money due to these buffoons and their aggressive sales pitches and unscrupulous business practices.Although the movie has moments of brilliance, the fact that it seems to try and portray Belfort as changed, and ignored the pain and suffering that his criminality brought to thousands of investors, left me a cold and annoyed. It seems like a glorified celebration of a wicked conman and his gang of useful idiots. This is why I can only score it a 4/10. Probably one of the most difficult material Scorsese had to work with, especially given that this is a first hand testimony of an egotistical narcissist who probably will do exactly the same thing again should he have another opportunity. Yes, the film probably made millions because of this controversy, but Scorsese and DiCaprio should have probably taken the moral high ground and avoided falling into the trap of celebrating this conman. For some odd reason I feel like they are now, partly involved in the con, which is a sad thing to say for such an accomplished actor and director.


                
