The Wolf Of Wall Street details the rise and fall in real life of one Jordan Belfort who for a while was living high and wide off of other people's money. It was good while it lasted until some relentless FBI agents took him down partly because of his own hubris.Leonardo DiCaprio as he did with such other real life figures like Howard Hughes and J. Edgar Hoover, each of who lived large in his own way with power, DiCaprio lives large with money. At first it's the realization of the American dream, DiCaprio the middle class kid wants to go on Wall Street. He goes, but then is one of thousands cast adrift by the stock market crash of the late Reagan years. DiCaprio is not about to give up his dream.He organizes his own brokerage house, similar to what is seen in the more modestly financed film The Boiler Room. But DiCaprio takes it far from a penny stock outfit. With a collection of his own ill assorted bunch of friends chief among them is Jonah Hill, these guys and I do mean it is reserved for the male of the species DiCaprio makes obscene amounts of money and spends it obscenely. That is sure to attract all kinds of law enforcement attention.I have seen very few films that have depicted the alpha male world so well. Women just do not compete in DiCaprio's world. All they serve as are sex objects. Women work on Wall Street in the more traditional brokerage houses, but not with him where being one of the boys is the first requirement. The world consists of 50% orgies and 50% piling up paper profits and later on hiding them from authorities. True of DiCaprio and true to a lesser extent of all his associates.Martin Scorsese directed this film and handled the film like he did one of his gangster epics like Goodfellas. The narration of the film is by DiCaprio and it takes you from his rise to where law enforcement has him between a rock and a hard place. Like Ray Liotta in Goodfellas a combination of drugs and hubris makes him think he's invulnerable. But in Goodfellas would not have had a scene where the wise guys just out and out dared to challenge the FBI as DiCaprio does with agent Kyle Chandler. It so reminded me of that famous incident from 1984 where presidential candidate Gary Hart dares reporters to follow him around to catch him doing anything outside his marriage. And of course they did.Five Oscar nominations went to The Wolf Of Wall Street, nominations for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and nominations for DiCaprio and Jonah Hill as Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor. Hill was something of a revelation. The kind of nondescript character that you wouldn't look at twice, Hill gets taken to a world that he could only imagine in dreams wet or dry by DiCaprio. In his own Hill is almost as fascinating a story as DiCaprio.The guy who beat Leo out for Best Actor has a brief but telling role as a mentor of sorts. Matthew McConaughey plays a stockbroker who takes him under his wing and they have a great scene at a club where he's getting his first three martini lunch. McConaughey only forgets to teach DiCaprio one thing, discretion.I can understand why women would truly hate this film as they are nothing more than pawns in a male power game, but The Wolf Of Wall Street gives us a fascinating look at a man who tried to play with the big boys of the Stock Exchange and for a while, did.


                
Based on the true story of Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio), from his rise to a wealthy stockbroker living the high life to his fall involving crime, corruption and the federal government.As of now (February 2014), this film sits at an impressive #57 on IMDb's list of greatest films of all time. Using that as a jumping off point for this review, we will have to scale it back a bit. Whether the film should be on the list is debatable, but certainly not within the top 100 -- it is neither that good nor among director Martin Scorsese's best work.Along the same lines, the Oscar nomination for Best Picture is a bit much. While there is no denying it was probably among the ten best films of 2013, with some incredible acting and more than adequate cinematography and editing, the very fact it has no chance of winning makes one question why even nominate the film at all. (Of course, without nine nominees, we would be back to having the reasonable number of five...) Scorsese received a best director nomination, and this strikes me as more understandable. He managed to assemble an impressive cast and tell a story that is both compelling and entertaining, without trying to put some moral tag on it. Whether or not the viewer thinks this is a glorification or denouncement of the acts depicted is up to them, as the film itself is blank (in the best way).While on the subject, could the drug use and sexuality have been toned down? Absolutely. And there is a good argument that they should have been (especially the non-stop sex, which comes across as gratuitous and only adds more minutes to this lengthy financial epic). Another argument says the events are extremely unlikely and exaggerated at times. And this is probably also true; but the film is accurate to the memoir, not reality, and this is Belfort telling his story with all the embellishments that come with it. If you want just the facts, read the court transcripts.Leonardo DiCaprio is nominated for best actor, and this is a choice that is understandable and yet hard to rally behind. He truly becomes Belfort, and probably makes the man out to be even more wild than he was. That deserves a nomination. But this is not DiCaprio's best role (he has also done a fine job portraying Howard Hughes and J. Edgar Hoover) and not one he deserves the win for.Jonah Hill, on the other hand, was amazing and deserves to win his supporting actor category. Being up again Jared Leto, he probably has no chance, but Hill has come a long way in a few short years from a lovable doofus in "Superbad" to a formidable actor in his own right. At first, "Moneyball" seemed to be an anomaly in Hil's career, but he showed the world he could do even better when he became Donny Azoff in this picture. Incredible.Whether Terence Winter deserves Best Adapted Screenplay for this film is unclear without having read the book. Such a nomination seems fair, though the win is hard to say without more familiarity. I am surprised no nominations came for cinematography or editing, which are strong in their subtlety. But oh well.Of the film's five nominations, it may walk away with one win (Winter) or two at most (DiCaprio). More likely it will walk away empty-handed. The film is not flawless (we could go on about how awkward the soundtrack was) and may or may not go on to be memorable for much more than its nudity and pervasive cursing.


                
Martin Scorcese magnificently directs this wild, funny and somewhat repugnant story based on Jordon Belfort's own tome. A bit long, but it is the most interesting and fast moving three hours you'll spend. An outstanding cast surrounding Leonardo DiCaprio as Belfort, a Long Island stockbroker that masterminded a massive securities fraud in the 1990s. This film depicts Belfort being a self-made man; albeit through partying hard, self over-medicating, no holds barred debauchery leading to his whirlwind approach leaving a mark on Wall Street. Belfort's charisma being able to attract followers in sharing his use of other people's hard earned money to live a life of beautiful women, exotic drugs, lavish homes and cars, and the utmost luxury making for a lush life. A master at scamming so well, he is a loud flaunting target for the FBI. It gets hard snitching on your closest friends, But Belfort manages to use the chance to garner a smaller stint in prison...36 months.Leave the kids at home, because THE WOLF OF WALL STREET is forewarned a deservedly hard R, due to strong sexual content, blatant drug use, language, violence and very graphic nudity. A strong supporting cast featuring: Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Rob Reiner, Kyle Chandler, Jon Bernthal and Matthew McConaughey.
" The business of America is business " screams an old cliché but like so many clichés it's based on reality . Is there much difference between a gangster and a stockbroker ? It's the sign of a very poor mobster who can't make a profit for his firm and it's the same with the stock market . Thankfully capitalism is legal and every other socio-economic alternative has been a disaster for humanity but one can't help equating the stock exchange with being the same as gangsterism , supply and demand without any moral or humanitarian mores and one wonders how American auteur Martin Scorsese might bring a story of Wall Street to screen ? If there's a problem with Scorsese he sometimes remakes the same type of film as in THE KING OF COMEDY and BRINGING OUT THE DEAD are remakes of TAXI DRIVER . likewise GOODFELLAS was remade as CASINO .One can't help thinking the temptation to make a story featuring an amoral capitalist could quite easily end up becoming a gangster film set in the world of high finance . " All my life I wanted to be a white collar criminal " In effect this is how the film works to a large degree but Scorsese is on top of his game so having such a large similarity on a narrative and visual level with GOODFELLAS and CASINO doesn't matter because for a movie lasting three hours it just flies by . Once again Scorsese uses the directorial technique of intensified continuity which is film critic speak for in your face direction . All the Scorsese hallmarks are here , breaking down the figurative fourth wall , garish and glossy cinematography , constant camera movement , pumping intrusive music etc etc . It's all here and you've seen it all before but it's so well done that none of this matters and remains totally compelling as once again the master director brings us Shakespearean tragedy in its most American and cinematic form To be fair to Jordan Belfort he didn't torture or kill anybody and his methods of gaining economic profit only differs from the rest of the finance sector in that they're illegal . Actually in amongst the excess of drugs , sex and foul language the storytelling doesn't make a very good job in telling the audience the difference between legal and illegal stockbroking but we're asked to take on board that Belfort isn't that bad because he's played by DiCaprio . Fair enough and he does a good job as a shallow and greedy boy who seduces stupid greedy people in handing over their cash . The rest of the cast also go along with the loud colourful style of the movie but was I puzzled by the one scene cameo by Mathew McConaughey in a pivotal role and kept expecting his character to make a reappearance at some point in the film which doesn't happen . . it'll be very ironic if as I expect McConaughey beats DiCaprio to the Oscar this year . A British audience might also find the casting of Joanna Lumley distracting in much the same way as Ray Winstone in THE DEPARTED , but the cinema audience I watched this with spent much of the running time laughing at the grotesque blackly comical scenes as they played out on screen . Mission accomplished Marty , although one can't help thinking an inclusion of a scene where Belfort passes a card warning a colleague about something is trying a little bit too hard to paint Belfort in a better light than he deserves . I mean it's not like anyone would be queuing up to listen to his lecture seminars after seeing this film is it now ? This is one of the better films from the long , prolific resume of Martin Scorsese , possibly his best since GOODFELLAS but one that will probably be very under rewarded at the prestigious award ceremonies due to one of the strongest film line ups seen in many years . It also won't convert anyone in to being a new found Scorsese fan but for those of us who's enjoyed his familiar language of cinema to tell a story about the American dream turning in to a nightmare it's proof once again that he's Hollywood's greatest living director.


                
Martin Scorsese redoes Goodfellas in the financial sector. Leonardo DiCaprio plays Jordan Belfort, a young man immediately smitten with the ruthlessness of Wall Street (at first represented by Matthew McConaughey in a hilarious cameo). After the market sees a startling crash in the late '80s, DiCaprio gets pushed out of the big leagues. He quickly finds a way in smaller markets, pushing penny stocks. He figures out ways, not all of them strictly legal, to make cash hand over fist. Soon, paired with new best friend Jonah Hill, he opens his own firm. All the rules go out the door as he pulls in millions of dollars a year, which leads to all sorts of drug-fueled mayhem. The draw here is the pure debauchery. It will surely offend some, but the pure spectacle of depravity is enormously amusing. The film really doesn't want to think too hard about the awful things that Belfort is doing, which is kind of a bold choice. Sure, he does end up suffering in the end, but, with all he experienced beforehand, the little bit of suffering seems almost worth it. It could easily be argued that it's a hugely immoral film, but I think it just wants to put us in the action. The film has an epic runtime, which isn't really deserved. I wasn't exactly bored with it (though I was feeling it physically), but it could have been shortened. DiCaprio gives one of his best performances, but I was most amused by Hill. Many will despise his abrasive character, but I thought he was hilarious.


                
I have been using IMDb for years & have never posted a review but after seeing TWoWS I felt I needed to finally enter the domain of amateur critics.I've always been a fan of Scorsese's since I was young, some of most memorable cinematic moments come from his earlier works but for me, when he teams with Di Caprio, it's a match made in the highest reaches of movie-making heaven. 'The Departed' is undoubtedly one of the best crime thriller's to ever hit theater's with outstanding performances from multiple cast members but 'The Aviator' was the role that took Di Caprio to that next level, Scorsese provided him the stage to perform and carry the movie to what I feel will go down as one of the greatest artistic portrayals on film.Everyone did not share my love for 'Aviator' but it looks to be a different story altogether with TWoWS with the film already receiving fantastic reviews and praise despite the controversy about the extraordinary excess portrayed. For those who haven't seen it and are sitting on the fence due to the criticism remember one thing, this is a Scorsese movie and you are almost always certain to be a part of a truly visceral experience, Scorsese is used to pushing the boundaries of what is usually acceptable to a mainstream audience and this is no different.At 3 hours the film never feels overdrawn, the characters are fantastically written (which is attributed to Terrance Winter's screenplay) and some truly memorable performances (Jonah Hill and Matthew McConaughy are both excellent) but it is Leonardo Di Caprio's execution of one of the most sincere slime balls ever portrayed on film that you MUST watch this film for.The best achievement I attribute to it is that without him, for this movie to be ANY BIT as good as it has turned out, you would only be looking at a very select few actors in the business.Will he finally get an Oscar? That remains to be seen..


                
Since many critics emphasize on the overall quality of the movie and the artistry invested in it (no doubt about that), I'd like to write about three special moments in this movie which made my day.So behold – SPOILERS are coming!Are you still with me? Good.1. The speeches at the "Stratton Oakmont" office.There is such an evangelical preaching power beaming from these sequences that even I as a reasonable man feel compelled by the egoistic nature of these motivational statements. Without a single doubt I can say that they represent both the best and the worst sides of the capitalistic culture. We can clearly see how a man can grow wild because of his ego, greed and lust. But without a single doubt I can agree with the director Scorsese that if you show the true nature of things in a comedic-sarcastic manner in the 21st century, you can only benefit from that. And what a performance from Di Caprio. Hands down2. First meeting between Belfort and FBI agent Denham on Belfort's boat.A very aggressive episode in which the viewer can see how the internal tension builds up and blows out between two strong characters. Although pride is the main reason for this wonderfully played confrontation, I can see again the competitive elements of the American culture clash between the two symbols of this adventurous society. Indeed this is a very important nodus in the story.3. The "crawling" episode when Belfort is trying to stop his buddy Azoff from making a call from his home and the ludicrous fight between them on the floor.This whole scene is exploring the limits of human will to overcome whatever obstacle there is in the name of self preservation. The play is so real that I thought for a moment that Di Caprio and Jonah Hill have experience with such situations (I guess celebrities' life isn't easier than the lifestyle of the main character of this movie). This whole episode is so controversial that I was wondering if I should laugh or cry about it. And after all I chose to laugh."The Wolf of Wallstreet" is a movie full of obscene content and crazy role playing. The director Scorsese is a bold and adventurous young soul (as always) and I admire him for that. We can all follow his example in our artwork.I guess that most of the people with moral values will condemn this film in a particular way. But it's expected and it's okay. And even though this movie is not THE best film of 2013, to me it has one of the best (if not the best) cinematic incarnations. There are scenes which are truly "creme de la creme". Profit and Ego are evident sins, but we all have them, so why moralize on this movie instead of just enjoy its merits and remember the morals at the end. Yes, we know it is bad to make a movie about these fellas (real life assholes), but as a part of our generation we can't stop cheering at all the wrong moments<U+0085> :)
Boasting the fifth collaboration between lauded director Martin Scorsese and can-do-no-wrong A-lister Leonardo DiCaprio, The Wolf of Wall Street signals the moment the two finally took the step over the brink. Their previous films together - Gangs of New York (2002), The Aviator (2004), The Departed (2006) and Shutter Island (2010) - were all solid, if hardly groundbreaking works. With The Wolf of Wall Street, Scorsese seems to have let go of his reservations and embraced the daring, X- rated innovations of his 70's and early 80's work, and DiCaprio deserves to look smug after giving his finest performance to date. From the opening shot of DiCaprio snorting cocaine from between a prostitute's open legs, this is 3 hours of utter depravity. And it's hilarious.Shortly after being taught the ways of excess and cocaine by his Wall Street boss Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey), young stockbroker Jordan Belfort (DiCaprio) finds himself out of work following Black Monday. When he takes a boiler room job at a stockbroker's dealing in penny stocks, he learns that commission for these stocks are 50%. Soon enough he is making money hand over fist, setting up his own company, Stratton Oakmont, along with his dentally-challenged follower Donnie Azoff (Jonah Hill). He recruits some of Donnie's marijuana-dealing friends and teaches them a script designed to sell, but ultimately the operation is a pump and dump scam. He is labelled The Wolf of Wall Street in a negative magazine article, yet this propels him to cult fame, and soon has flocks of eager young Gordon Gekko's begging for a piece of the pie.At one minute shy of 3 hours, the film could certainly do with a trim. Yet Scorsese and DiCaprio's obvious fascination with this anti-hero means that we are treated to experiencing every juvenile and ridiculous second of Belfort's rise to Wall Street superstardom. We get flights with on-board orgies and drug taking, Jonah Hill masturbating in the middle of a crowded party at the sight of Belfort's future wife Naomi (the stunning Margot Robbie), dwarf-tossing, and Belfort taking helicopter lessons whilst drugged off his face. This is certainly dangerous territory - the film could easily slip into a celebration of frat-house antics, which is kind of does, but Scorsese keep the insanity levels at such a height that it's hard not to just laugh and shake your head.A lot of it is down to the performances of DiCaprio and Hill, the latter of whom is proving to be a damn fine actor beneath that Jew-fro and obnoxious mannerisms. The film's highlight focuses on a botched scheme to smuggle $2 million dollars via Brad (Jon Bernthal) to reptilian French banker Jean (Jean Dujardin). Having learned that FBI agent Denham (Kyle Chandler) has his phones tapped, Belfort must get home to warn Donnie to get off the phone. The only problem is, they've taken a large quantity of Qualuudes. Thinking that years of indulgence have caused a tolerance to build up, the expired best before date have simply lead to a delayed reaction. Belfort suffers from what he describes as 'the cerebral palsy stage', flailing around on the floor without control of his limbs or his speech. His long journey home is the most laugh-out- loud example of drug-fuelled ineptitude since the ether scene in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998).Of course, the film's morals are questionable, and Scorsese has suffered the same narrow-minded criticism he did from his 'glamorisation' of the mob in Goodfellas (1990). Yet I like to think that Scorsese trusts and respects his audience enough to allow them to think for themselves, to get a laugh from the on-screen antics whilst understanding that this is not the behaviour of a sane or ethical individual. Refreshingly, the movie stays away from any moral preaching or underlying messages, and simply tells a story because it's entertaining. Although it doesn't quite justify it's 3 hour running time, this is the most fun I've had watching a comedy for a long time, and proves that there's plenty of life in Scorsese yet.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com


                
Rated R Post... within the first 5 minutes, Leonardo Dicaprio snorts cocaine off a hooker's ass. The rest of the movie is just as excessive. A spectacular orgy of excess: cocaine, Quaalude, materialism and full frontal female nudity. Check your morals and you might have a good time. But DEFINITELY NOT for everyone.Scorcese directs in his usual High NRG style (like "After Hours" and "The Color of Money", the camera never stops moving.) DiCarpio goes all out with this character, making him human, though not heroic at all. These are awful people doing awful things, and the film might revel too much in that, without showing the consequences of it. A definite GUY film, probably could complement with Pacino and DiPalma's "Scarface".


                
Jordan Belfort can do two things extremely well: sell, and teach others to sell. Setting up his own stock brokerage, he proceeds to make vast amounts of money, which he then takes immense pleasure in spending on property, cars, trophy wife, sex and drugs. Lots of drugs. However, the facts that he is not concerned about the morality or legality of how he makes his money attracts the attention of the FBI. First of all, this is a film not to see if you object to nudity, sex, drug use or bad language on screen, because there is a great deal of all these things in this film. Seriously, if this stuff upsets you, stay away.Martin Scorsese's film, fictionalised from Belfort's book, makes no moral judgment as to Belfort's activities: indeed, it goes out of its way to make him (as portrayed by Leonardo DiCaprio) engaging and likable. Indeed, given that much of the activity here is either callously disregarding of others (much of the money made is at the expense of unseen people who can ill afford it), or dissolute hedonism, it is surprising that the film is often very, very funny (there is a particularly funny sequence showing that DiCaprio has a previously unsuspected gift for physical comedy). The last half hour or so becomes more serious.There are some terrific performances here, and Scorsese's direction is stunning. At 3 hours it is overlong, and there are two sequences where Belfort delivers speeches to his assembled sales team which outstay their welcome, not to mention the fishbowl scene which has little point. But I remained interested and entertained throughout the film's length, notwithstanding some grave reservations about the lessons being illustrated.
I wasn't even aware that I could hate someone so much!From a filmmaking perspective the Picture is a masterpiece. But I truly cannot stand there. I disliked DiCaprio's character and friend so f' hard that I surprised my own self and that's everything I can think about "The Wolf Of Wall Street"!


                
I walked out of this movie after 1 1/2 hrs. and I love Leonardo above all actors. This was such an empty movie and Leo was handsome as ever but vacant.Really Mr. Scorcese, why? And then Leo, why??????I was forewarned by many reviews but went ahead because it was Leo starring. Thank goodness there are so many excellent films of his to offset this bomb. I will watch "The Departed" or The Aviator tonight.I understand that this is taken from a true story about a soulless man who is now some kind of coach. But why did Scorcese and Leo make a film about such an unimportant person and even a vile person. Movie full of drugs, sex and violence and not in a good way. Compared to American Hustle it's truly a loser. I can't believe people are suggesting that Leo should get an Oscar for this garbage.


                
Jordan Belfort arrives in Wall Street and gets a job selling stocks over the phone. The environment is vulgar, brutal, ruthless. One of the senior guys takes him to lunch and gives him the lessons to survive. The main point is to put money from the customers in their pockets, not so much enrich their customers.When Black Friday hits, Belfort is out of a job, and ends up working at a company of amateurs selling penny stocks. He does so well that he ends up opening his own firm ripping people off. He hires friends and shady characters. One of them introduces him to drugs. They are so wildly successful that they pretty much don't know what to do with all their money. He becomes addicted to money, power, and all drugs he can get his hands on. His wife divorces him and he marries the gorgeous Naomi.As the feds start snooping around his business, which involves everything illegal under the sun, he decides to move his money to a Swiss bank and Naomi's English aunt helps in the process as well as various carriers who transport millions of cash by hand. Eventually, the government catches up with him as his life unravels.The Wolf of Wall Street is your typical Scorsese "rise and fall of a bad guy" movie. It's a bit different in so far as Belfort is nowhere near as likable as the other Scorsese main characters. Here you are not wishing for Belfort to escape and get away. You want him to face justice. And violence has been replaced with comedy. Much of this overlong movie is made up of comedy skits basically. There's DiCaprio on drugs, DiCaprio having deranged sex, there's DiCaprio fooling his wife into doing naughty things in front of a hidden camera, there's the company jerks throwing little people at a target, etc, etc. This movie could have easily been cut by at least half an hour. There's also not nearly enough drama.Most disappointing is the lack of any sort of moral message, if you will. It shouldn't have been difficult to point out the insane misantrophy of Wall Street folks. But there's only very little of that. Given that the finance world still gets away with murder, or perhaps these days even more so, it's not clear why Winter, Scorsese, the producers, anyone, was not interested in taking the opportunity to scold the finance world.Acting is OK. DiCaprio is strong except for the scenes where he's motivating his employees. There are too many scenes of those and DiCaprio doesn't convey the charisma necessary. Margot Robbie is the revelation here. I'm not crazy about the rest of the cast- Hill in particular doesn't convince.Like all stories about larger than life personalities written by themselves, much probably didn't happen as told. Nevertheless and despite the excessive lengthy, Wolf of Wall Street is entertaining yet surprisingly and unnecessarily superficial.


                
The Wolf of Wall Street 75This film as a whole was very good. But I expected much more of a serious, dark story of greed, power, and immorality and the path that this can take a person on. This did portray greed, power, and morality issues very well, but I was expecting a much more uprising of Leo's character in the end, which did not happen. Martin Scorsese, one of the best director's of our time, did bring a very interesting story, that did keep me intrigued for the most part, even at nearly 3 hours long, it just didn't go very developed into the harsh consequences of all of their choices. And as an entirety, the movie was kind of offensive, with 504 f- bombs, constant drug use, and casual sex. Nevertheless, it was well acted, with Leonardo DiCaprio and Jonah Hill being hilarious, and was funny, interesting, and intriguing. I was really expecting this to be one of the best movies I've ever seen, but was just let down by the ending.
This movie was interesting,educational and at the same time very very funny. Great performance by Leo as expected!! In my opinion this movie was one of Leo less better movies especially when you consider titles such as Blood diamond, Inception, Catch me if you can and last but not least Titanic. Which was a great movie. One of the things that stood out to me the most in this movie was how Leo' character went from a humble, down to earth and loving individual. To a corrupt, self loathing criminal. It really shocked me what money can do to people and how much you can downgrade the people around you.All and all great movie! 8/10.


                
Wasn't crazy about this movie. Just another copycat ripoff of Wall Street 1 & 2 and The Boiler Room to name a couple and even stole lines from Pretty Woman and the other two movies I mentioned. It is however a good example of how the con artist scumbags took advantage of poor people for personal gain and to a small degree exemplifies how the world economy has been trashed by these scumbags. They tried to make DiCaprio's character into a hero, but he wasn't<U+0085><U+0085> It had a few funny moments. If you liked the last 2 Wall Street's as much as I did, you may be disappointed in this. I haven't liked Scorsese's last two movies, oddly enough they both had DiCaprio in them, lol. He seems to keep playing the same guy and with a different twist and I am a fan of DiCaprio......


                
The Wolf of Wall Street takes an interesting look at the life of Wall street broker Jordan Belfort and his rise and fall. The film had and used some its ingredients to make a wildly entertaining film which included exceptional acting, great plot, narration, addictive soundtrack and the rise and fall of the central character in world of Wall street and finance. These elements have been used masterfully by Scorsese in former classics. Leonardo definitely deserved an Oscar for his performance as he lives the role of a shady Wall Street broker that is corrupted over his tenure as a stockbroker. The first person narrative works brilliantly as we are told Jordan's story. The portrayal of brokers is interesting as cut throat and money grabbing who use on it on all the vices life has to offer. The film excels at showing this lifestyle in excess from hookers, heavy drinking to living in mansions and sailing on yachts. Jonah Hill and the other cast and crew also hit some home runs to make it enjoyable and humorous at times. The achilles heel when it comes to the cast is easily Margot Robbie. While some of the world seems infatuated with her, she was unimpressive and mediocre. She was very annoying and Leonardo had to carry most of their scenes. The film would have benefited from another talented heroine who brought the best out of Leo and could meet his intensity in the scenes. While this is a great film it also had a few issues that stopped it from being an absolute classic. Scorsese can be creative when he makes his films but in this one it appears his creativity got the better of him and got ahead of itself. So instead of making a carefully coherent film like he has done before it is a film that incorporates unnecessary scenes, dialogue and screen time that distracts from the story. The result is a film that is 3hrs long and scenes that add no value to the plot. Scenes could have easily been reduced in length, the gay orgy scene could have been cut as could the scene with Brad living at his mothers and the list goes on. Cutting these scenes would have made this films great plot richer and less distracting. When I started watching this film I thought this was going be the greatest film Scorsese has ever made but the additional and unneeded scenes changed that. In my humble opinion this is what makes this a great film but not an Iconic film. An entertaining film but not legendary. A strong 8/10 that should have earned a few Oscars.


                
After dumping his longtime companion Robert De Niro for the hey-day Leonardo DiCaprio in the naughties, Martin Scorsese embarks on a series of ambitious enterprises to earn his overdue Oscar statuette, finally third time is a charm, THE DEPARTED (2006, 8/10) achieved that goal, but poor Leo is still Oscar-less, so their fifth teamwork is THE WOLF OF WALL STREET, an excessive satire of Jordan Belfort's autobiography, a former Wall Street stock-broker's rise and fall from 1980s to 1990s, which grants Leo the uppermost leniency to embody this corrupted, decadent and indecent character with inordinate excess and extravaganza, unfortunately, Leo's time has yet arrived. Running around 180-minutes, the film is ultra-snappy and the camera faithfully acts in accordance with the doped delirium where Jordan (DiCaprio) and his cohorts habitually reside, it is an out-and-out wealth-flaunting satire, periodically overreaches its boundary with benumbing and slightly off-putting repletion since Jordan's hollow life perpetually orbits around money, sex, drugs and drug-addled misdemeanors. Marty doesn't trouble himself to go deeper than that, the trenchant point is, Jordan is no more than an eloquent salesman and a shallow opportunist, luck is on his side at the right time, but he fails to apply a failsafe mechanism to get away with it, ironically, it is the American judicial system let him slide, all the more it incites audience to detest the hypocritical political body of democracy, which is inadequate in its wealth distribution and justice upholding. Leo's performance is voraciously full of vim and vigor, he devotes every effort to light up the screen with incredible body language and pitch-perfect accuracy with beguiling pomposity, but, an indelible impression is that with every gesture he poises, every line he delivers, simultaneously he is thinking of that damn Oscar, he even makes Jordan lovable and immensely watchable, it is his charisma, not his character's, which may bar him from winning in the race this year. Two-times Oscar nominee (alas!) slash red-hot comedy actor Jonah Hill, not a fan of his performance in MONEYBALL (2011, 6/10), there is no big stretch for him to showcase his prowess as a serious thespian here, he is uproarious and cheeky as Donnie Azoff, Jordan's best buddy, like in his other more coarse comedies, the only difference is this is a Marty's film Having said that, a preciously meaty part is when Donnie is choking and Jordan tries to save him, but we can vicariously detect in one blink Jordan thinks it might be good to let him die. This is one of Marty's masterstrokes to reflect the complexity of human's intuitive caprice. New starlet Margot Robbie consummates her big screen breakthrough as Naomi Lapaglia, the second trophy wife of Jordan, she intermingles her utterly stunning sex appeal with aggressive fervor, which might bring to mind Sharon Stone in CASINO (1995, 7/10). Coincidentally, Leo's Oscar rival and eventual winner McConaughey (DALLAS BUYERS CLUB 2013, 7/10) has a ten- minutes screen time as Mark Hanna, the one who remarks on the golden criterion in the Wall Street business, McConaissance is irrepressible even for such a small role. It could be Leo's idea to curtail the role of Mark in the film in order not to lose the spotlight of his own. Also I must extol Spike Jonze's unexpected cameo which offers some imaginable salaciousness with his tacit smirk. Marty has already risen to a lofty echelon of a cinema maestro who can apply himself to manifold genres with top-notch dexterity, which his recent works HUGO (2011, 9/10), SHUTTER ISLAND (2010, 8/10) all potently bespeak. At the age of 72, the night is still young, may his outstanding creativity will never peter out, which is a tremendous blessing for all the children of cinemas.


                
Review: I really enjoyed this epic movie which keeps you on the end of your seat from beginning to end. Although the film is about serious issues, there is some really funny scenes, especially between DiCaprio and Hill who had great chemistry. The storyline goes from one extreme to the next, which is what made it hard to believe that it was based on a true story. The amount of money that the traders go through is ridiculous and the whole care free attitude had to come to a halt at some point. At nearly 3 hours long, the director done well to keep the movie interesting and a joy to watch. I never thought that I would say this, but it is in the same class as the original Wall Street which was a tough act to follow. A Great Watch!Round-Up: DiCaprio really showed that he is a top class actor with his performance in this movie. He really needed to dig deep to make this character believable because of the amount of drugs, cash and women that him and his friends went through, under the eyes of the law. Jonah Hill was an excellent choice to play DiCaprio's partner in crime who also showed that a different side to his acting skills. Even Matthew McConaughey was brilliant, with his weird expressions and phrases which were a great way to kick off the movie. Anyway, it's very hard to find anything wrong with this film, although some of the speeches on the microphone did drag on, but that's just me being picky. Its definitely worth a watch! Budget: $100million Worldwide Gross: $390millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there witty dramas about the crazy world of a stock trader who works hard and definitely parties extremely hard. 8/10


                
DiCaprio is an actor that I have been very hear and there with. He is a fantastic actor but he has made some very bad films in the past and I will have to say The Departed was the last good film I have seen of his and that was made 8 years ago. If you don't agree with my choice in films I don't really care I just haven't liked his films that much. This film delivers a fantastic story full of laughs, sex, drugs and a whole lot of money. This film does have its ups and downs. The first is that the film is to long and it could of been shortened down by at least 30 minutes even an hour. And the second is that there is just too much swearing in the film come on there are times when I fort they could of said something better then F this and F that. The good thing about the film is that it does deliver on almost every scale. First is the story the film tells a very interesting story which fells almost lubricous when you think about. However this film can not be interrupted firstly you got to completely sit still and watch it because if you are playing on your iPad or doing some work on the computer then you will lose track of what's going on and you may become bored with it in some way trust me I did. Second is Jonah Hill, I hate this actor and he is the reason to why I hated 21 Jump Street but I have to say I did like him in this as he was the only actor that could play himself, OK maybe that's the way the character acted in real life but Jonah Hill plays him like he plays every other character he plays childish, stupid and completely perfect plus he never shuts up and I thanked god when Jon Bernthal knocked him out. Next is the sex, this film is full of it and I am really surprised it wasn't classed as pore movie in some places. I will have to say sex is what made it a bit over the top OK it was great seeing all the hot naked women but I have to say there is a line and this film stepped over it quite a through times and this is where it links in to the story line for example with the plane full of hookers and everyone is getting laid. Nice idea but come on its a bit hard to believe that someone can hire a huge plane and full it up with hooks and turn it in to a whore house. The next bit is the drugs, I am not a big fan of films based on drugs, however with out them in a film like this it may become a little doll and as this is based on a true story they can't leave something like this out and we all know or we can all guess that most of the people in Wall Street take drugs because for some of them a good nights rest and a hot shower in the morning won't help them in this line of work. The last is the cast, Leonardo DiCaprio is a good actor he's not the best but he's not the worst ever, Johan Hill is OK in this in my opinion I would of chose someone a lot better for role like Jim Carrey or Steve Carell as they are fantastic actors and they can play many different characters and would of delivered a much better performance then Johan Hill. Lastly is Jon Bernthal, this actor has come quite far since his time in the walking dead and he has worked with many Hugh actors like Andrew Lincoln, Sylvester Stallone, Robert DeNiro, Dwayne Johnson, LL Cool J and of course Leonardo DiCaprio. This film has it's ups and downs and it is differently worth a try and if you like everything I talked about above then this will be a film for you.
Regardless the nearly 3 hour length may holes were left on the plot. Specifically what happens with the first wife? did they have any kids? same thing, they just killed the story without showing what actually happened to fat Danny and the other cronies. Would have loved to see less tits and more action (i.e. the Wolf closing business deals). The humor is so so too, not good enough to laugh out loud but bare good enough to make the 3 hours enjoyable. I have the impression that something was left, maybe a part 2? Things rushed once the Wolf & Danny were on the yacht in their way to Switzerland and had the accident. What happened with the Wolf's mentor? Did he just disappear from his life, it would have been nice to see him being headhunted by the Wolf's firm later on the film. Definitely worth the 3 hours, good value for your buck.


                
No question the film is awesome because it's a huge entertainment, it has hilarious moments and both DiCaprio and Hill bring the characters to life with a great performance.BUT that is exactly the problem...In my opinion the movie falls massively short in showing the reality of this story. The movie shows the insanity of his life, it shows a man that gives in to every pleasure seeking impulse he has and that is arrogant and selfish, that's true. But it shows it in a way that is so entertaining and funny that you tend to forget to realize that his life was totally f***ed up and he ruined not only himself but his family and tens of thousands of other people, whom he betrayed for their hard earned cash. You leave the cinema and you think that being a drug addict who bangs every wh*** he can bang, does illegal trades, and is a f***ing asshole to the world is the best way to live your life. Why? Because it's so damn fun!!! Because yeah in the end he get's a three year conviction and goes to jail but the people in his company still love him, he's still rich and smart and at the end everything is good because he now has the chance to teach other people how to be like him. All the 18 year old young men in school now think that being a con man and stock broker is the most awesome way to live your life... Scorsese had a big opportunity to make a great movie (which he did) and change the mainstream way to look at Wall Street and the whole monetary system by showing it in its brutal reality and absurdity. Instead he made an entertaining Hollywood story out of it that keeps the myth alive. Seeing post production interviews with the director I get the idea that they had the right intentions but did not realize that making it so fast and hyper entertaining will not stimulate the people to question what they see but rather find it amazing.
The Wolf of wall street is a riveting film. It's funny, dark, and suprisingly fast paced throughout even though it's 3 hrs long. I feel the length is a bit long for the film, I felt that 5-10 mins could have been cut off the film, and it would've been better.You have great performances from Leonardo DiCaprio as Jordan Belfort, Jonah Hill and Margot Robbie, along side some fantastic direction from Martin Scorsese. This film really looks in to what money can do to people, how it effects people, and how greedy we can become when we earn alot of money. I like how Jordan Belfort has no remorse and doesn't care what happens, but this is also a problem, due to the character having no remorse, his character doesn't really change at all, by the end, he's still pretty much the same person as he was at the beginning, with some slight changes.It's a great film to watch with a bunch of blokes and I feel it better suits Males than Females. The Cinematography is creative and varied, with some great shots thrown in there. It's a film where characters don't really change or grow, but it does this to great effect to further show what mass amounts of money can do to people.I had a great time watching it and I would definitely recommend it if you were looking for a great time.8.5/10.


                
I had heard some negative things about the movie, but finally ended up seeing it on a flight. its a long movie but doesn't feel like one. dicaprio acts brilliantly yet again. the movie is a true story of a wall street guy, and depicts his journey to the top; its a telling commentary on human greed. the fact that it was a true story somehow made a bigger impact on me. a valuable insight i got from the movie was how most of us are suckers as far as aggressive salespeople are concerned. they can cheat us, and yet keep selling to us again and again ! such is our greed and meekness ! scorcese is great at making biopics


                
I've always been a fan of Martin Scorcese's work. He's had great cooperations with Leonardo Dicaprio before, so for me, this was a must see. However, I have some mixed feelings about the result.On the upside I thought the level of acting was great. I have always been a fan of Leonardo Dicaprio's work, and, even though I didn't feel that much sympathy for his character, he portrayed Jordan Belfort beautifully. Jonah Hill did a solid job as well, and I liked the absolutely gorgeous Margot Robbie very much (and not just because she didn't leave much to the imagination). As you can expect from Martin Scorcese, the movie is very well made, the photography was great, and the music supported the scenes very well. As far as atmosphere goes, you could really feel the madness. And last but not least, I was happy there was room for some humor.On the downside, I felt it was a very superficial portrait. I haven't read the book, so I don't know how close the storytelling of the movie is to the book, but at times the movie felt like a giant collection of moments out of Jordan Belfort's life, rather than the story of his life. Even though the movie lasts for three hours, there's little or no room for character development. The focus was also continuously on Jordan himself and his side of the story. For example the whole fraud aspect was shown as his big success. There was no room for his victims in the movie. The investigation by the FBI was also rather non existing, as is his relationship with Naomi. After he gets to know her and marries her, she almost completely disappears to the background.In conclusion, it's a good movie, with a powerful portrayal of Jordan Belfort, for which I'm still giving an 8/10. However, the story could have been told better, making it more of a story, allowing characters to develop and showing more than just one side of it.


                
