In the mid-1990s, Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) and the rest of his associates from brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont became the very definition of excess and debauchery, their offices a boiler room fueled by cocaine and greed. High pressure sales tactic and less-than-legal behind-the-scenes manipulation bred plenty of twenty-something millionaires, and Belfort built himself an empire at the top of the heap. His rise and fall is chronicled in The Wolf of Wall Street, based on the memoir of the same name.Under most circumstances, the actions of Belfort and his cronies (including Jonah Hill in a howlingly funny turn as Belfort's business partner) would be viewed as disgustingly abhorrent, but Martin Scorsese frames this tale of greed with a comedic lens that allows us to laugh at things we probably shouldn't find humorous. Whether it's a clumsy attempt at fisticuffs between two characters overdosing on Quaaludes, or the categorization of prostitutes using stock market terminology ("blue chip" hookers make you wear a condom and typically accept credit cards), the film is outrageous from start to finish, and rarely falters in its quest to entertain the audience for three hours.Belfort manages to delude himself and his pals into thinking they can live like this forever, but the audience knows better, and Belfort's eventual comeuppance is hardly surprising. But the path is paved with hilarity, especially in a scene aboard the mogul's luxury yacht, where he surreptitiously offers a pair of FBI agents everything from booze to girls to cold hard cash in exchange for their silence. And let's not forget his punishment for drunkenly piloting a helicopter into the backyard of his estate at 3am, raising the ire of his trophy wife (Margot Robbie).Scorsese has always managed to elicit astounding performances from his actors, and his fifth collaboration with Leonardo DiCaprio results in one of the most charismatic, despicable, offensive and captivating characters to ever appear on screen. As financial bad boy Belfort, DiCaprio swaggers from scene to scene ingesting eye-popping amounts of narcotics, groping and fondling nearly every female within reach, and spouting more profanity in three hours than an entire season of The Sopranos. Belfort is the kind of person that any sane person would detest in real life, but thanks to Scorses and DiCaprio, we can't take our eyes off him.-- Brent Hankins, www.nerdrep.com


                
Martin Scorsese has done it again. His newest and most refreshing effort he's contributed to the world of cinema in years, The Wolf of Wall Street is a roaring thrill ride that is both absolutely hilarious and meticulously constructed. It also presents Academy Award nominee Leonardo DiCaprio in possibly his finest acting performance of his career. At one-minute shy of three hours, I was both engaged and hypnotized nearly the entire duration. A comedic epic that studies the behavior and cultures of a time in America, feels like the uncovering of a time capsule that was buried and dug up to give insight into our current financial crisis. Much more than just laughs, it turns on the dramatic elements early enough in the film to warrant considerable reactions about the choices of our key characters. Expertly paced with intelligent moral questions presented, The Wolf of Wall Street is one of the best films of the year.Telling the story of Jordan Belfort, a young Wall Street broker that gets involved in drugs, money, and even more drugs during the 80's and 90's. In his tenure trading (and stealing), Jordan marries, divorces, does drugs, marries again, does even more drugs, makes solid friendships, and believe it or not, does a lot more drugs. Watching the destruction of Jordan acted as a documentarian's insight that felt like I was watching "Intervention" without the family that cares. The Wolf of Wall Street is a black comedy, giving hints of drama. Natural comparisons will fly to Oliver Stone's Wall Street which is accurate but you can see subtle hints of films like Trading Places, Glengarry Glen Ross, and even American Psycho. That's a testament to Scorsese's outstanding direction and Terence Winter's masterful screenplay. Scorsese keeps Wolf life-size, sprinkled with characters that are both geniuses and morons, but functioning morons. They're like the frat pack group that sat in a corner on my college campus, being loud and obnoxious, and made terrible life choices that they still aren't aware of until this day. Scorsese puts together an all-star cast to inhabit these beings that includes DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Matthew McConaughey, Jon Bernathal, and Kyle Chandler. All of which seem to be having the time of their lives.A lot of the credit of the film's overall success has to be awarded to Leonardo DiCaprio. I've never seen him truly "go for it" in a way that he exhibits as Jordan Belfort. In his breaking of the fourth wall, to his long but completely engaging monologues about life, money, and greed, it's the most assured and compelling work by the actor to date. When DiCaprio unleashed his talents in the mid-90's in What's Eating Gilbert Grape? and later stole the hearts of tween girls everywhere in Titanic, who knew this is the role he'd been gearing up to play. This is the role of his career and something that the Academy Awards should look to for his long overdue recognition. It's a charming and adventurous turn that presents a conundrum to the audience as we find ourselves both enamored and loathing the pure essence of Jordan. A sequence of DiCaprio crawling on the floor will probably be the scene of the year. This is DiCaprio's crowning achievement.As the magnetic and cheesy-minded right-hand man, Jonah Hill's performance as Donnie Azoff is another great turn for the 30-year-old actor. He's allowed to explore some of his comedic ticks and beats that he may not have ever had the opportunity to explore in films like Superbad or 21 Jump Street. In Wolf, he relies on his own instincts, and his chemistry with DiCaprio, which has helped him before for his Oscar-nominated work in Moneyball opposite Brad Pitt. Matthew McConaughey, is one scene shy of winning the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. While his work in Dallas Buyers Club will bring him the acclaim and recognition that he deserves, The Wolf of Wall Street is a prime example of what he should be doing when he's not working or seeking out the strong, independent features that are geared for awards recognition. Stealing every frame and focus from DiCaprio in his ten minute screen time, McConaughey utilizes all his charm and spunk as Mark Hanna, the mentor to young Jordan as he started out.Like any great Scorsese film, the women are in full-force and given the opportunity to shine like the others. Cristin Millotti, a toned down and tragic version of Marisa Tomei in My Cousin Vinny, is sensational in her brief appearances on screen. Beautiful and sympathetic, she offers much needed serious and dramatic elements to Jordan's outrageous antics. In the end, a star is born in the gorgeous and vivacious Margot Robbie as Naomi Lapaglia, Jordan's second wife. Whoever was going to be cast as Naomi, had to be an actress of considerable talent and had the ability to really be the sexy kitten but still warrant an emotional reaction from the audience when called upon. Margot Robbie was the perfect choice and she'll need to owe Scorsese royalties for years to come with the roles she'll be offered following this. Robbie is pure magic and is everything she's required to be. She's the more elusive, compelling, and more thought out version of Scarlett Johansson's character in Don Jon.I loved every second of The Wolf of Wall Street. Terence Winter's script is a natural and well-oiled machine that produces the words of a demigod. You couldn't make these things up. Thelma Schoonmaker is the utmost professional and continues to shine film after film. You won't find another dedicated and glossed editing work this year. The other supporting actors do sensational work especially Kyle Chandler, who has a very well-constructed exchange on a boat with DiCaprio, has us asking more and more, why is this guy not helming his own films on a consistent basis yet?


                
If you've seen The Goodfellas or Casino, then you'll know the story of The Wolf of Wall Street. This is another tale of a criminal whose ambitions sweep him away into a debauched world of dirty money, out-of-control substance abuse, endless lies, a troubled family life, and a downward spiral of corruption that inevitably leads to his own undoing. Only thing is, this is less about the gangsters and mafia, and more about white-collar crime. The guys wear suits, work in proper offices, and everything they do is just business; funnily enough, this whole movie still plays out like a kind of gangster film.Based on the memoirs of Jordan Belfort - the real-life stock broker who made millions by selling shoddy stocks to average joes - the film showcases one seriously messed-up slimeball of a man. If his scheme sounds familiar, it's because it's been the inspiration behind the 2000 film Boiler Room, and this film covers much of the same concepts, albeit with better structure. The film maintains a close and intimate focus on the man as he rises to power, suckers thousands into his schemes, and then lives a life of extreme excess. And it is extreme: the whole film becomes laden with drugs, sex, superficial luxuries, material things, and characters who want nothing more than to take and consume everything. The sheer corruption becomes palpable on-screen, and I couldn't help but to shake my head at numerous scenes when I saw just how far these wolfish characters have gone in their unrestrained partying and debauchery. I have no clue as to how closely this film adapts the real-life events, but at times it's almost hard to believe that things could have gone this far. And yet, the excesses serve to underscore key themes and criticisms on the American dream; the pursuit of money and success, through any means, remains the main drive of the characters and the movie, and it leads to a fairly hard-hitting downfall.This film features good-looking photography and editing. Acting is great: Leonardo DiCaprio is practically perfect as the titular character, and the rest of the cast pulls their weight really well (including Jonah Hill, who seems to fit into his character's archetype very comfortably). Writing is really sharp and good; the film is full of great lines and great speeches. There are some great-looking sets, props, and costumes on display in this film. Music has a varied mix of songs, and they're all used really well for their intended effect.The Wolf of Wall Street is every bit as good as Martin Scorsese's previous work with The Goodfellas and Casino. All these films work with similar plots and themes, but TWOWS is like a gangster film masked by the thin veil of upper-class corporate swindling. It is a film that candidly shows the crimes and excesses in full, before proving that, even for the super-rich, crime still doesn't pay.Recommended! 4.5/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Very Good | Film: Perfect)


                
"The Wolf of Wall Street" is infectiously entertaining. It is probably the funniest movie I have seen all year with witty dialogue, over the top characters, and filled with energy that bleeds off the screen. Between all the fun however,  there is also a story about addiction and how it can cause a downward spiral in your life whether it be drugs, money, or power.Acclaimed director Martin Scorsese does a wonderful job keeping this movie at a high at all times. Never once does this movie lose it's energy or sense of humor much like the drug induced characters. There are a lot of quick cuts and edits to keep the movie feeling as If you are on drugs as well as playing high energy music in some of the more serious situations.The cast brings their "A" game. The stand out is obviously Leonardo DiCaprio, who pretty much owns and excels any scene he is in. This film really showcases his diverse range.Overall "The Wolf of Wall Street" is a full on adrenaline ride that never loses momentum. It's directed with a lot of flair and energy and has an incredibly well written script that gives it depth and a ton of laughs. The cast is fantastic and DiCaprio gives his best and most fun filled performance to date. I really enjoyed this movie and think it's the funniest movie of the year 4.5/5


                
An old adage goes that if on a certain day, everyone in the world received a million dollars, by the end of the day, ten percent of the people would have all the money."The Wolf of Wall Street" pretty much shows how that could happen.Based on Jordan Belfort's book, this is a very entertaining movie - although probably not for those who lost their money. The film follows Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) from newbie stockbroker to head of Stratton Oakmont, the largest 'Over The Counter' stockbroking firm in the US.Along the way he has two marriages, acquires luxury homes and automobiles, a sea going yacht with a helicopter, a taste for wild office sex parties, which would put a Roman orgy to shame, and a huge drug habit. But even after the FBI steps in and everything unravels, the guy still can't help making money.The movie is loud, lewd and often hilarious; it doesn't have a boring minute.Matthew McConaughey gives a brief but telling performance as Mark Hanna who initiates Belfort into the darker side of Wall Street. He also introduces the tribal chest-thumping chant that becomes a motif throughout the film.Aussie Margot Robbie is hard to take your eyes off as Belfort's second wife, Naomi. She was also an amusing guest on talk shows when the movie was released where she told how she pulled off the Brooklyn accent, and kept the news about her nude scenes from her family for as long as possible.But this is Leonardo's movie. Although in his portrayal of Belfort, where there appears to be almost no moral or ethical boundaries, he keeps our sympathy because he can actually laugh at himself; it's a high energy performance, but with a light touch.In a way, the performance has echoes of the one he gave for Spielberg in "Catch Me If You Can". Despite the fact that both Jordan Belfort and Frank Abagnale Jr. break the law, their sheer audacity dazzles us. Also, both Spielberg and Scorsese have great comedic timing; they know how to deliver a punch line. If you were looking for a reason why this film works better than Scorsese's "The Aviator", which also starred Leonardo, it could simply be the latter film's lack of humour - Hughes was eccentric but he wasn't funny.Enjoyable as "The Wolf of Wall Street" is, at the end you can't help wondering if even half of it is true, how it is that with people like Belfort and his friends helping themselves to such over-sized slices of the pie, that the world's economy hasn't descended to the level it did in 1929. In a way, it's actually a very scary movie.


                
It's no surprise that Scorsese is associated with the gangster genre with films such as The Departed, Goodfellas and Casino, of which the last two are possibly the best pure examples of the genre. In Goodfellas the gangsters are dangerous but they operate on a more underground level, in Casino they practically run a major city and can do whatever they like. The gangsters were and will always be a part in America's system. Now, the gangsters are not just accepted by the system, but are considered to be an integral part of it. In the first two films, the gangster is threatening and dangerous, but avoidable. In The Wolf of Wall Street, he's calling to hustle you at home and you don't even know it. Some people view The Wolf of Wall Street as a glorification of Jordan Belfort's lifestyle and want to be like him, as Scorsese portrays this life by its nature, enticing. That's the way it works, and it's impossible to portray it accurately without showing how a charismatic man like Belfort can suck an unsuspecting person into a world of money and fame. The film though, shows us just how empty and destructive that life can be.There is an undeniable similarity between the instantaneous joy, energy and euphoria that we have while watching The Wolf of Wall Street and how Jordan Belfort lives his life, this is a movie where the director skilfully mixes form and content to create an experience which is as hyper and as instantly ecstatic as the life of its flashy and opportunistic characters.The direction by Martin Scorsese which still has infectious energy and power is impeccable, there is no other director who has mastered pacing like he has. This is a three hour movie that moves lightning fast and always manages to keep the audience invested in the story throughout the whole duration. Each scene is packed with so much visual information, and it is fast paced and quickly edited, which complements the general tone of the film. The cinematography by Rodrigo Prieto is gorgeous as well and displays an optimal color palette throughout the whole film. Each shot also looks precise, even during some of the more chaotic scenes.The script is fantastic, filled with many great and memorable lines of dialogue. Every character has a well-defined arc and motives, and the story is given proper breathing room to blossom. The performances are also exquisite, especially Leonardo DiCaprio who gives one of the best performances of his career and portrays the opportunistic nature of Jordan Belfort's character with great commitment as you can see a lustful, hedonistic and impulsive sex & drug-addict man who only wants to have more fun. Supporting him with equal passion is Jonah Hill as Donnie Azoff, Belfort's sidekick, and even he manages to make a mark of his own. Margot Robbie plays Naomi, Belfort's second wife and she does an alluring job in her given role. Matthew McConaughey is in for a very short duration as Mark Hanna, Belfort's mentor, but even in that little time, he is the show-stealer and he dominates the screen unlike anyone else.Martin Scorsese and Terence Winter set out to create a film about the Wall Street excess, and by definition, it contains an excessive amount of everything, such as cursing, sex, nudity, drugs, alcohol and partying. But the film is not really about those things. The story of The Wolf of Wall Street boils down to money, that "most-addictive drug" Belfort speaks of, and not just what it can buy, but what it can do to people. Not just how it changes one's lifestyle but the effects it has on one's morals, beliefs, and values, and how it can effectively change not just how a person thinks and feels but how they operate at their core.With a collection of truly incredible films, The Wolf of Wall Street stands out as one of Scorsese's best films, my personal favorite and by far his most humorous film to date. He truly went all out and it paid off in a hilarious satire on the reverence of money, drugs, women, and the admiration of a criminal money-maker. The Wolf of Wall Street is maddening cinema that's already high on coke but still continues to snort more white powder every 5 minutes for 3 hours. This is a fascinating vignette of excess, greed, abuse and decay and it's one of the best movies of the decade and surely one of the most entertaining movies ever made.


                
This movie is known for its many swear words and nudity, but rest assured it is all with a purpose. It is based on an autobiography of Jordan Belfort (played by excellent Di Caprio), stock market manipulator. I will not elaborate much of the story because it is simple, a story of a self made man from his humble beginnings to his downfall, after some criminal activity, of course. The movie gives splendid presentation of how things work in today's economy and stock market exchange. It is a worrisome and at the same time funny business when you see that many people who rule the economy world are primitive, greedy, lying, manipulative, sinful people with short tempers. They apparently try to enjoy everything life has to offer, without limits. They enjoy drugs on regular basis, alcohol and all kinds of sex. In short, they are in all aspects priests of hedonism. Wherever you have success and money, the face under the make-up is ugly. But the most important scene in the movie, which recapitulates the whole thing, is with Di Caprio and Matthew McConaughey at the beginning where things are explained in short. Everything is a game without any meaning. The only goal is to make naive people give your their money and in exchange they receive the illusion that this money exists somewhere multiplied many times. As long they feel rich, they are rich. When they try to cash this money, the moment has arrived to deliver them from their illusion. Go see the movie, it will be informative and you will not regret it.
Ever had the urge to drive fast after watching a Fast & Furious movie? If you are on the page as me, then beware, The Wolf of Wall Street might make you wanna jump start a career in investment. It is exactly what the protagonist Jordan Belfort motivated his accomplices to do in it. There is always something that you could (not proudly) relate to in a Scorsese movie and in The Wolf of Wall Street its about money and who wouldn't love to relate to it.The Wolf of Wall Street tells the rise of Jordan Belfort, a man with high ambitions and even higher exuberance, how he conquers the stock market, goes over the top and more. This could be considered a rags to riches story and the narrative takes a turn after the second act when the riches phase goes a notch above and becomes greed, power and eventually an inevitable descent. When you are this far down the rabbit hole there ain't no coming back to the surface, unscathed at least. A movie with excessive nudity, sleaze and drug use, The Wolf of Wall Street is exactly how its meant to be and Martin Scorsese has done a job which takes its justified crown at the box office and most likely even at the Oscars. One of the strong points of the movie is humor and Wolf of Wall Street packs it in tons. This is by far Scorsese's funniest movie till date that I developed a cramp in my stomach laughing so much.The Wolf of Wall Street is about 3 hours long and not once did I feel an impatient bladder, I was rooted to the seat eager to know where Jordan was going with it. Agreed Jordan Belfort is not guy you'd want your kids looking up to and his ways are never strictly speaking legal. But despite that you want this guy to emerge at the top for his ambitions, this character is as fun as it can get and who brought life to Jordan? Leonardo Di Caprio of course! This is maybe his 6th collab with Martin Scorsese and you have to owe it to them, they do make a dynamic duo. Leonardo despite his charismatic and magnetic performance in his recent movies never landed him an Academy Award but who cares? He has proved that he is one of the greatest actors of our times who literally steals every scene he's in. For once I wanted to step back from the cosmetic layer of Jordan's pompous life and have a different angle at his ways. But Leonardo Di Caprio's performance was just so captivating and he just didn't give me a chance, there was no stepping back when you have delved this much into being entertained.A stellar supporting cast promises that the screen is always filled with intriguing characters. Jonah Hill especially is a force to reckon with as Jordan's most trusted Donnie. This guy has become the go to guy for brilliant supporting roles and is getting increasingly entertaining, starring in almost all of the Academy Award nominated movies. This is indeed a boy's club where there's little importance for feminine characters and I felt the their roles in the movie were objectified. Of course it'd be Pan Am's Margot Robbie's nude scenes that'd be the talk of the day after watching this movie and it is indeed hard to take your eyes off her but you have to admit it takes a splendid performance to be noticed when you've got a star studded male cast to compete with. Matthew McConaughey, Jean Dujardin, Kyle Chandler and Jon Bernthal equally deserves a thumbs up for their short but memorable roles.Its impossible to deduce how Martin Scorsese had done it. The man's edging over his 70s and has crafted a movie so modern, so energetic and with so much passion that even a younger director would be challenged to top it. I really don't care how he is being criticised for his apparent sleazy glorification of the stockbrokers or for the 506 F-bombs thats been dropped in the whole movie. He just delivered another masterpiece, an edge of the seat dramedy that is on par with most of the his as well as others' best movies ever. I enjoyed every frame of it and was left wanting more. Relentlessly funny, loud & ceaselessly crazy, The Wolf of Wall Street in undeniably one of the best movies of 2013 and is by far the best time I had at the movies in recent times.


                
Movie based on the life of Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio). He was a poor man who joined Wall Street in the late 1980s. He slowly built his way up to the top--making his own company and doing anything (legal or illegal) to come out on top. He also became addicted to drugs and sex and it slowly destroys him.A VERY good but not great Scorsese film. Let's get the negatives out of the way first--it's far too long at 3 hours (this could easily have lost 30 minutes); Jonah Hill is TERRIBLE and annoying in a supporting role; the constant swearing and screaming gets tiresome; there's WAY too much female nudity (while a scene with male nudity was cut down to nothing) and there's no real ending...it just sort of stops. Still I loved it a lot more than I hated it. The acting was great by everybody (save Hill). DiCaprio was brilliant in the title role. Who knew he could do comedy as well as drama? He anchors this film and he's never less than mesmerizing. As I said mostly everybody else is good but special mention must be made for Margot Robbie (as his second wife Naomi) and Joanna Lumley who is incredible as Aunt Emma. The story moves fairly quickly and there's a great use of period music. So this is excellent but not great Scorsese.


                
Leonardo DiCaprio is such a Brilliant actor. Everyone in this movie performed nothing short of excellence. Martin Scorsese has done wonderful work in this movie as in all his others, in bringing out the best in all characters. I have watched several movies that have won accolades for various performances. At the very least,The Wold of Wall Street is as remarkable as other great works. I watched the movie on blue-ray but wish the experience in the the theater would have taken the experience to a new level. Prior to watching the movie, I watched the trailer and read about the plot which provide a glimpse only. Watching this movie has been gripping, enthralling, captivating and a good learning experience.


                
Wolf of Wall St. is a fascinating film by a master filmmaker, bringing 40 years of skill to the table; from casting, to shot selection, to how he pulls you into that world. And a guy who just plain having fun. The 3-hour film, traces the rise and fall of Wall St con man Jordan Belfort. A tightly constructed film, I wasn't bored for a minute.There were some people who kicked up a fuss about the film and its glorification of these slimy characters, their materialistic lifestyle, and their treatment of women as nothing but sex objects. Some have said that the film glorifies that lifestyle, but to me, Winter (screenwriter) and Scorcese went out of their way to show the reality of it. The film focuses on how animalistic and primal people can become when greed takes them over. The obsession with money and power becomes a pathology. This, of course, is what many Wall St people will loathe about the film.As for accuracy, I'm sure Jordan Belfort (who the film is based on and worked as a consultant on the film), embellished a few things, but according to one of the FBI agents who worked on the case, many of the more outrageous aspects depicted in the book and film were accurate.The sad part is that even though there will will many Wall St workers and finance people who will watch the film and think, "That's a bunch of crap. They're painting with a broad brush. It's not fair," there will be far too many young (and not-so-young) Wall St up-and-comers who will ignore the whole last hour of Wolf of Wall St., and simply look at the first 2 hours as an inspirational tale of the American dream.


                
Martin Scorsese's latest offering The Wolf of Wall Street has divided audiences into two camps: those who praise the work as a masterpiece of cinematic verve, and those who say it glorifies white-collar crime along with the film's antihero, real life penny stock criminal, Jordan Belfort. While not quite the magnum opus some call it, I think The Wolf of Wall Street is an inspired parable and cinematic opera about greed, excess, and the perversion of the American dream.Hollywood, like the stock market, is big business, netting profits in the billions every year. In many ways, Hollywood is emblematic of the American dream; certainly the cinema is a place where we exchange money to watch our dreams, fantasies, and even nightmares unfold on a big screen in a dimly lit room. Scorsese, who often challenges Hollywood sensibility, continues to be one of American cinema's great dream makers and storytellers, gifting the world films like Mean Streets (1973), Taxi Driver (1976), Raging Bull (1980), Goodfellas (1990), and The Departed (2006).The Wolf of Wall Street continues Scorsese's fixation with crime, identity, and machismo, as well as his Roman Catholic concerns around guilt and redemption. However, unlike Scorsese's other gangster films there is hardly any graphic violence in Wolf, although there remains, perhaps more than any of his films, his liberal usage of profanity. It could be argued, and probably should, that Belfort's obsession with controlling women's bodies, as well as his betrayal of his victim's trust, is violence. The narrative techniques and do-it-yourself rise to power in Wolf parallels Goodfellas, but instead of mob bloodshed and revenge, Scorsese focuses his lens on robber baron, capitalistic sociopath, and real life penny stock criminal/self-made multi- millionaire, Jordan Belfort.For me, the film was a little like travelling through Dante's fourth circle of Hell (greed/avarice) for three hours, although I do admit that I laughed a fair bit, which is sort of the point of the grotesque parody. The Wolf of Wall Street is an irreverent and potent satire about greed, excess, and the perversion of the American dream. The writing is spot on, Scorsese's directing is inspired, providing lots of room for his actors to improvise, and DiCaprio gives the most dynamic performance of his career. Matthew McConaughey, who also gave a great performance in last year's Dallas Buyers Club, steals a scene in the movie. Some might feel the film glorifies greed. Jordan Belfort glorifies greed. America glorifies greed. The film does not. In some disturbing ways, Belfort was simply being American. As Belfort belts out in one of his many excessive speeches in the film: "This right here is the land of opportunity. This is America. This is my home! The show goes on!"My full review available here: http://pauldbwatkins.com/2014/01/12/the-wolf-of-wall-street/


                
This movie is simply brilliant and complete in every possible way, Martin Scorsese at his best in years! Excellent cast, simply no bad acting across the board, especially remarkable Leonardo DiCaprio and Matthew McConaughey performances. I've watched this masterpiece twice already and this is no coincidence, I cannot stand mediocre movies more than one time.Great story, based on Belfort autobiography, is also a strong side of the movie, no reason to be bored in any minute of the 180 minutes runtime.My rate is 9 out of 10, because the highest notes are reserved for all-time classics in my book, although who knows? Maybe someday I'll decide to update the score to full 10.


                
9.1 of 10. It's hard to criticize a film about it's length that is great and part of its greatness is its satirizing of excess, making the length part of the story. Length, however, and a few other things that could have been cut or given more thought prevent this from being perfect. For example, McConaughey, either just before or just after his award-deserving performance in another award-deserving film, Dallas Buyers Club, is miscast. He doesn't need to be in this film and he looks like an underfed, homeless man in a suit. That said, if you can ignore his appearance and misplaced accent, he, like all the cast, does give a wonderfully amusing performance.I definitely won't complain if this gets awards.For DeCaprio, this is a wonderful complement to his role in The Great Gatsby. In fact, he fits into this character far better. It would be wrong to call it ironic, but his role here is an inversion of essentially the same character he played in Gatsby.As for capturing reality in a film based on true, possibly somewhat enhanced, story, it's nearly impossible to find flaws. Because of the lack of cutting, there is at times some sympathy developed for characters that shouldn't be getting any empathy. I would have also made some different soundtrack choices for a film set in the late 1980s/early 90s.Overall, however, it's an exotic use of time that captures aspects of lesser films this year (I'm thinking Blue Jasmine and All is Lost) all into one masterpiece so you don't have to watch them. If you haven't seen American Psycho, however, be sure to see that. That will help you enjoy the truth is bizarrely similar to fiction elements of this film.


                
The Wolf of Wall Street is exhibition of excess, greed and the perversion of the American dream, it's deeply honest and darkly humorous story of the rise and fall of the infamous Wall Street stockbroker Jordan Belfort. DiCaprio comfortably steps into the shoes of the ruthless wolf 'Jordan Belfort' he quickly transitions from a naive intern to a ruthless, amoral Wall Street tycoon. He goes for lunch with a senior stockbroker to learn that the industry is really just a zero-sum game. No one really knows which stocks are going up and down and no one wins but the broker - all that matters is whether you can sell. Jordan Belfort is the poster boy for everything Wall Street doesn't want us to know.Wall street is depicted to be a world of animalistic instincts where only the ruthless survive. The employees at Stratton Oakmont are often beating their chests like monkeys, chanting in a ritualistic manner, having sex in front of each other and pissing in the offices. The office truly is a wolf pit, where man is enslaved by his primal instincts. Testosterone is in the air, fueling aggressive confrontation and impulsive behavior; in one scene Jonah Hill's character eats another employees goldfish in front of him to assert his dominance. Belfort and his co-workers increase their wealth in equal measure to their hedonism and quest for instant gratification. Cocaine and sedatives called 'Ludes' become as commonplace as coffee, a seemingly necessary part of life as a stockbroker in the 80s. The film is laced with moral questions; even more pertinent in today's economic climate Scorsese makes us ask ourselves how much is too much?The film often feels like a series of darkly humorous anecdotes. At times it can feel like it is missing a direction or any real plot. Only in the last third of the film does a solid plot start to develop with the long awaited arrival of an antagonist. However, the plot is not what makes this film great - it's the depth of the characters, The Wolf of Wallstreet should be viewed as a character study of a man corrupted by wealth and in that respect it excels. I was expecting DiCaprio to blow me away with a performance worthy of an Oscar, but instead I found myself pleasantly surprised at the intensity of Johan Hill's performance. My previous experience of him playing a similar version of the same character led me to believe that he was a one trick pony and made me question whether he could pull off such a complex role However, Jonah proved his diversity as an actor and brought the character 'Donny' to life with a powerful performance, sparking intensely funny scenes with his natural comedic flare. He was reportedly only paid $60,000 for his supporting role, choosing to work on the film because of his respect for Scorsese. Despite being paid much less than DiCaprio, Jonah arguably gave a better performance and deserved to win an Oscar for best supporting role. 9/10


                
I've always thought that there must be a very good reason for a movie to last 3 hours. " The Wolf of Wall Street" is definitely one 3 hour long movie that makes you resist the urge to want to go pee during the movie. I watched the movie at the cinemas last year when it was out, recently I got bored of the 2014 redundant movies and wanted to watch something thrilling and impacting to cheer myself up. The first movie that came to my mind was " The Wolf of Wall Street". This movie is a thrilling unorthodox Wall Street movie with a comedic and pulp twist which is also based on a real story. The movie is an epic comedy that studies the behavior and cultures of a time in America and the lunatic lifestyles on Wall Street." Can you sell this pen now ? " The same question appeared twice in the movie. The first time was when Jordan and Donnie persuaded their team of drug dealers to sell their financial product. At that time the sales answered remarkably, he asked Jordan :" Can you give me your signature?" The second time was at the end of the movie, Jordan was released from prison and was doing a Motivation Speech to a roomful of confused people. The people who answered this time only foolishly described the pen visually or said how good the purpose of the pen was. Well what is the best way to sell something? The answer answered by this movie is to create a need. On the base of this idea the movie is about Jordan Belfort, a con-man, a Wall Street broker, and a billionaire. The story starts about, a young ambitious Wall Street broker that gets involved in drugs, money, and even more drugs during the 80's and 90's. In his tenure trading (and stealing), Jordan marries, divorces, does drugs, marries again, does even more drugs, makes solid friendships, and believe it or not, does a lot more drugs. The Wolf of Wall Street is a black comedy, with splashes of drama. Initial comparisons will fly to Oliver Stone's Wall Street which is accurate but you can see subtle hints of films like American Pie, 21 Jump Street and Pulp Fiction. That's a testament to Scorsese's outstanding direction and Terence Winter's masterful screenplay. Scorsese keeps Wolf life-size, sprinkled with characters that are both geniuses and morons, but functioning morons. Scorsese puts together an all-star cast to inhabit these beings that includes DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Matthew McConaughey, Jon Bernathal, and Kyle Chandler. Leonardo De Caprio is the heart of the film, playing as a daredevil whose motivation seems to be a misguided desire to acquire as much money as possible. After his remarkable performance in Shutter Island, The Great Gatsby and Inception. Leonardo plays again as an intelligent knowledgeable flexible public speaker. 30% of the film is watching Leonardo speak or explain to the audience what he is trying to express. Leonardo truly played this role remarkably true to life. Jonah Hill playing as Donnie Azoff Leonardo's partner in crime, did an incredible job playing as the usual roles that he performs. As everybody should remember Jonah Hill from the movies Superbad or 21 Jump Street, Jonah is this humorous silly sometimes dumb overweight guy which always gets himself in trouble. In this film there was no exception. Jonah's performance truly sprinkles the movie with humorous splashes, and makes the movie more appealing and shocking. Jonah personally gained an Oscar nomination for being the best supporting actor from his excellent performance in this film. He made a lot of sacrifices, for example showing his personal parts to the public, but at the end it was worth it. What I liked about the movie was how shocking and influencing it is. This movie was like nothing I've ever saw before, it literally introduced a new world to me. For example, when Belfort was opening up his own company in order to sell Penny Stocks, the speeches and marketing techniques that he taught his employees were very educational. Another reason I liked it was because it was could make you laugh all the way through the movie. What I didn't like was that it was a little too vulgar, it had a lot of sexual contents and a lot of drug using contents. Half of the film was about people doing stupid yet meaningful things when they were dosed and drunk. So this film may not be a film that you would watch with your family on a Sunday evening.I would recommend this film to adults who likes American comedy films. This is a comedy film with a twist of Wall Street, and as it is written according to a true story, it is much more meaningful and some yet educational. If you are under 18 and pulp comedy movies make you feel sick and disgusted, please do not watch this movie. Overall I'd give this movie a 9 out of 10. It was definitely one of the best movies of 2013, and personally one of my favorite movies of all time. I'd hope you to enjoy it as much as I did.I am presently a University sophomore studying in China. I like watching interesting movies, documentaries and books. I also love investing and gambling and Japanese food. :)
This iconoclastic, black with a capital b comedy is the best Hollywood satire since Showgirls. A jocular epic that bitingly indicts excess at its highest level possible within contemporary society. DiCaprio kills his performance as the titular Wolf, an abominable creation that deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as De Niro's finest collaborations with Scorsese. Formally the veteran director is as inventive and unruly as ever, hyperactively deploying muscular tracking-shots, aspect ratio shifts and unconventional compositions like it ain't no thang. Stylistically the result is marginally less dazzling than say Scorsese-opus Casino but the tonal command throughout is masterful. One criticism is that the film is less engaging in its third-act comedown but that feeling quickly dissipates as Scorsese uncannily saves his pièce de résistance for WOWS' final shot.
the wolf of wall street is what is sounds like the story of Jordan belfort who arrives to wall street and tells how he gets to the top, DiCaprio made easily the best performance in his career, Jona Hill makes this movie funnier and even better, interesting plot, fresh and memorable moments, this movie kept me 100% in it, the drug sequences make it look so awesome and to be honestly i wanna try that stuff because of this movie (jk not really)but still you have to see this movie not with your parents nor grandparents but with your wildest friends for 3 hours, grab some drinks pop-corn get comfy and enjoy the ride 9/10-dicaprio approves


                
From the scene one when the lion walks in the office bay of Stratton Oakmont you know the movie is going to be awesome, and so it is.After django Unchained, The great Gatsby the role of Jordan Belfort is as natural as it can be for Leonardo DiCaprio(a very likable scoundrel). The role of Leo was to do one thing and one thing only to keep the audience Enthralled for 3 hrs of anecdotes, Drama, Drugs, party, music, money, girls, Sex, corruption, a Lamborghini countach! is in there too. The performance of Jonah Hill was only getting ostentatious as the movie progressed from leaving his job instantaneously, the manner in which he expressed the idea of Steve Madden, the after lemmon effect!, of course its the best we have ever seen of him. and hope fully not the last. Scorsese's previous projects physiological thriller shutter island and child sci-Fi Hugo were good as a side project but to me this was the best of Martin Scorsese since the Good fellas(1990) and casino(1995).To conclude the movie has a great story, amazing lead performances and a brilliant direction. what more can anyone want.


                
I've been waiting since around October to see the new DiCaprio movie called "The Wolf of Wall Street". But then I was angered and disappointed when I learned that the local theater wasn't going to show it on Christmas or any other day. It wasn't until a few days ago that I finally received a copy of the Blu-Ray for my birthday. I knew it was a long movie, and I spent the whole three hours watching it after school the next day. And . . . what a movie it was.The Wolf of Wall Street is about a young and wealthy stock broker named Jordan Belfort. Leonardo DiCaprio plays this wild, drug-crazed broker in a truly great display of acting. This movie had great acting everywhere, and I think the whole cast should be proud of their work. The movie takes a long time, three hours, to tell the true tale of Jordan Belfort. And the filmmakers weren't afraid to clearly display the madhouse that went on in Belfort's life and brokerage. The Wolf of Wall Street definitely deserves its R-rating, and there is tons of language, lots of drugs, nudity and revealing sexual content. It's not a movie for kids in any situation, but I don't think there's anything wrong with letting a mature enough teenager watch it. I've heard of a lot of people saying and writing that it's just a constant party through the whole movie, and I definitely don't think that's the case. This movie does show the beginning and progression through Mr. Belfort's wealthy endeavors, and there is a lot more to it than excessive partying. Don't get me wrong, there are some wild, over-the-top party scenes, but there is a lot more to the story. This movie has a like-able, fun style to it that portrays Jordan Belfort's life in an interesting way. It shows the events through Jordan's eyes, showing his life and those around him. It doesn't really go into the damage he does to anonymous people he takes advantage of, and I think that just goes along with how this movie was made and how they decided to tell the story. This movie does not glorify drugs and crime at all in my opinion. This film was made very well and it was entertaining throughout the whole three hours. The Wolf of Wall Street is definitely not for everyone, but it is a pretty decent movie for people who can handle the content and style.


                
The greatness of a memorable film emerges from an exceptional Director like Martin Scorsese. This film entitled " The Wolf of Wall Street " was written by Jordon Belfort who's malicious deceptive practices eventually earn him a stint in Federal Prison. Taken from the excessive exploits of Jordon Belfort himself, it tells the story of a unemployed Wall Street executive who was abruptly lay-ed off but despite his fall, landed on his feet. Despite falling, he arose quickly to create a new financial institution which not only netted him millions, but created a whole new way to acquire further riches. Leonardo DiCaprio plays Jordan Belfort, an enterprising salesman with a golden gift of gab. Inspired by Matthew McConaughey and his own convincing talent, Belfort take a converted Garage, added an exceptional sales crew, transform them into a sea of voracious financial sharks like Rob Reiner. Belfort then creates a lucrative financial institution which nets them untold millions. Achieving his ultimate success, he continues onward and upwards attracting the attention of Wall Street itself and of course agent Patrick Denham of The F.B.I. In addition, Belfort also seeks out and weds the love of his life Naomi Lapaglia (Margot Robbie) who brings romantic security and domestic headaches as well.The movie is fast paced, money, drug and sex oriented along with the life style of the rich and famous. DiCaprio is in his element in this movie as are the talented actors of Scorseses' cast, who showcase what can happen when unbridled greed meets unrestricted wealth. This film will rank as a Classic in time and will become a milestone for Scorsese and Decaprio. Recommended, but with definite warning to one and all. ****


                
I went into the theater practically shaking with excitement. DiCaprio leading with Jonah Hill supporting, that sounds great. A three hour film directed by Scorcese, sounds even better. Scorcese has never made a bad film, but I feel like he's never quite achieved the zeitgeist bending iconic director position of some of his peers (in particular, Francis Ford Coppola). Still, he's got a great list of films under his belt, and The Wolf of Wall Street, from the commercials alone, seemed like an over the top, epic romp. Flashy and Fellini-esque, the commercials depicted a wild and raunchy character study of Jordan Belfort, a real life Wall Street trickster. And with three hours of film time, I knew I was in for something grandiose, a film that captures an entire lifetime.I was only half right in my predictions. The film starts off at something of a wonky pace, as the film sifts through events in Belfort's initial flirtations with the Wall Street money game. An American Psycho version of Matthew McConaughey tells Belfort (DiCaprio) to masturbate twice a day and does cocaine in a restaurant. Belfort loses his job during a stock crash and winds up some morbid Long Island penny stock boiler room, which he quickly takes over with his wit and pseudo sincerity. He meets Jonah Hill, who plays this great greedy Long Island goofball who married his cousin, and the two decide to start playing the stock market in an underhanded manner to get rich quick. The plan works, and then the movie starts. The first act of the film feels too much like a prologue, whereas I thought it would be more like The Godfather (two plot arcs in one film, which it isn't). Nothing in this first act is boring, and DiCaprio is convincing in every scene, but it meanders, which will probably turn a lot of moviegoers off. There's also a LOT of nudity and sex. It's over the top, yeah, and sometimes even disturbing in that black comedy kind of way, but most of these scenes are jarring and unfulfilling. The party office scenes are usually disturbing (especially the one where they pay a woman to shave her head), but I wasn't sure how funny they were supposed to be. The tone is all over the place, and the climax, a cartoonish drug episode, feels out of place and without weight despite how funny and well acted it is. The characters, even when faced with dire situations, never seem to care, and the high stakes never feel very high. There's little tension, yet the elaborate scenes and tone are never extraordinary enough to pass for "style as substance." DiCaprio's character just kind of meanders throughout scenes, being an attractive jerk, doing drugs, having sex, spending money, breaking hearts. And it all looks good, it's shot very well, and I personally was never bored, but it's ultimately unsatisfying. It just doesn't push the excess enough to be crazy (Fellini Satyricon, Spring Breakers), and the script is average.What saves the film is DiCaprio and Hill, what a strange and wonderful pair. Scenes with just the two of them bickering and doing drugs are the highlights of the film. Definitely for fans of those two, but there's not much for anyone else. Not a lot of plot, not a lot of style, it just does not feel epic enough to be three hours. If anything, American Hustle was the better sort-of crime dramedy of 2013, just because it had a tighter script and more cohesive tone (and Jennifer Lawrence).
There is a reason this is called Wolf of Wall Street and not Lion of Wall Street. This is not supposed to be a story about some good guy or misunderstood guy doing things that are a little off. And therefor it was important to make this a comedy. When I watched it, I didn't think it would qualify as comedy. Thought of it more of a drama with some comedic moments thrown in.The way it starts should indicate if this is something you want to watch. Never forget, as someone else also stated, this is supposed to be entertainment and does not take itself seriously. If you are not on that level with the movie, you will call it names. And that is OK, because obviously the movie is out there and it will not be everyones taste. That's why you have to decide early on, if you actually want to watch it or not.If you don't feel like it, don't watch it. Save yourself some time and watch something else that interests you instead. If it hits a nerve with you though, you will revel in it. Especially in the performance Leonardo Di Caprio is giving. There is a scene involving him driving "carefully", that has to be seen to be believed ...


                
It's a shame that January is usually known as 'bad movie month" (e.g Movie 43 last year), because this movie is most certainly not. It really is a unique piece of Scorsese's and DiCaprio's track records. I've gotta start of with the humour. This movie is so hilariously funny. Like, my jaw was aching when I came out of the theatre. At least every 4 minutes pretty much everyone in there burst out in humongous laughter. There was a guy next to me literally howling with laughter (maybe he thought the 'Wolf' mentioned in the title was literal?). I think the reason it was like that, though, is because it was so effortless. I've got to say, it was funnier than 50% of the comedies I've seen in the past year. It was so effortless because regular comedy movies just try to hit one emotion: Laughter. So they need to really try, because that's it's purpose. This film hit so many other levels of emotions that everything about it felt so organic and the humour was placed so perfectly. Even the scenes where the story got deep were full of so many emotions and were hard to watch. You could feel it. It was obviously down to the script (there are some parts where you can tell the actors are about to crack up), but also the editing. It had such great comic timing, and was so subtle that it felt completely natural.It's hard to believe that Jonah Hill is that same actor that played the goofy kid in 'Superbad' way back in 2007. It's the best performance of his I think I've seen. It went past the point of seeing Jonah Hill with all his Jonah Hill-isms playing a character that Jonah Hill always plays. For those 3 hours he genuinely was Donny Azoff, and played the role perfectly. He even managed to develop the character through the acting so subtly but so effectively. You can't not mention DiCaprio when talking about performances in this film. Aside from being the brilliant talent he already is, he worked so hard at the role and it defiantly paid off. The parts where he broke the 4th wall while narrating were so seamless, and when his character fell on hard times, he portrayed it with so many different emotions that his character was becoming so complex it was believable. He could have fallen into so many clichés trying to do that, but seemed to have no trouble side-stepping them. I mean, those scenes where he's 'under the influence' show that this guy is prepared to go above and beyond for his roles. Also, even though he was only in it for a short while, McConaughey deserves a shout. I've only seen him in as trailer for 'Ghosts of Girlfriends Past' as one of the ads on my copy of 'Quantum of Solace' (I think. Anyway, beside the point), so had no idea what to expect. But boy, he can defiantly act. It's because Scorsese knew what he wanted to get out of his actors. He was definitely the genius behind all of this. His direction is another thing you just can't flaw. Everything little thing added so much to the story or the humour or the characters. His way of making everything so surreally extravagant was an incredible medium into a real life situation. To some it probably seems that the amount of profanity and sex was unnecessary, but I think if there was any less the film wouldn't have been as powerful. A 3 hour thrill ride of hilarious eccentricity and amazing performances, this is a film to be experienced. You'd think that during 180 minutes the pacing would start to drag, but just when you think it does, it'll suck you right back in with underlying comic genius or subtle character development. In a way, it felt nostalgic. And in a word, it was incredible.


                
Tell me a movie that is more famous than this. Tell me a movie that has had more parodies spinned off its storyline than this. Tell me one movie that has been as quoted as a much as this. The answer is you can't. No movie has had as much of an impact as The Godfather has had ever since it was released.The acting was simply amazing, what else could you say. What could be more appealing to people(even today) than watching actors like Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Mathew McConaughey and P.J Bryne. This is like heaven for someone who is a fan of movies. With this movie DiCaprio was able to bring himself back into the limelight. His performance as alone is iconic


                
