I watched Psycho for my Perspectives on Popular Culture, and I was not impressed at all by the shower scene.  The one thing that was really intriguing was the character of Norman Bates, who would make an interesting study in probably any field. I guess what made me dislike Psycho is that I knew the plot ahead of time. I bet that if I saw this film in 1960 I would have enjoyed it a lot more. It reminded me a little of the Sixth Sense, another psychological thriller.L.R.


                
Compared to many of Hitchcock's other works, this movie is a bust. Although it may have been extremely scary at the time, today it is laughably bad. The story sucks and the acting isn't great.  The one thing I do give Hitchcock credit for doing well is the famous shower scene. Without it the movie would have never even been heard of.


                
I know this is a classic, and I'm sure back in it's day it was revolutionary, but to me now, it did not impress me. The only part that i really liked, was the historical shower scene! Personally, I thought the birds was a lot better. This just sent me into a state of boredom! I couldn't wait for it to end, Janet Leigh was the best part, and she died early on! Also, I liked the while twist about the mother, but those are the only things that I really like about it. Like I said it is outdated and Older, so I'll cut it some slack. I do think that the acting was really good in it! I just wish that the movie itself would've kept up with the good acting. I do think Hitchcock has done a lot better than this! Examples: Vertigo, The Birds, Marnie, all better than this, in my opinion.
This movie is so bad that I almost would've thought that I watched the wrong movie if it hadn't been for the opening credits. Are all these positive reviews fake? Has no one that has seen this movie also seen a good horror movie? Are people really that easily manipulated? I don't know. I'm going to try to avoid any spoilers in my review of this mess, as people seem to care about it, but honestly there is so little to this movie that there isn't really anything to spoil.The first hour of this movie is extremely boring. Everything is dragged out to pad the runtime. The entire opening scene doesn't even have anything to do with anything that happens after. Towards the middle of the movie, there is a scene in a shower that is so poorly edited and acted that it left me laughing hysterically. I'm pretty sure the scene was supposed to be scary, but honestly I can't see anyone being on the edge of their seat from a performance like that. After that scene, a detective character shows up, and he is kind of interesting, but he dies after less than 10 minutes, so it's kind of pointless. The movie remains mildly entertaining after that, but it's not amazing or anything.The main thing that makes me hate this movie is the closing scene. The truth about the villain is revealed in an exposition dump that lasts like 5-10 minutes. The reason why I don't like it is because this could've been a very interesting plot point that could've been developed over the course of the movie, but is instead just relegated to a plot twist. If we had spent the movie following a villain like that, it would've been really interesting, or maybe even scary. You could say that they didn't do this because they were focusing on the victims, but this movie has no character development. No one grows over the course of the movie, and you don't learn about the personalities or backstories of pretty much anyone.The filmmaking is ok. It's competant. Nothing special. The only interesting shot that stands out is one around a staircase. That's it.Overall, this is a really boring, pointless, and meandering movie with a wasted concept. The only reason why anyone is praising this is because people like Alfred Hitchcock. Or they're just easily scared? I don't know. I really don't recommend watching this one.


                
