Most modern-day horror films make the killer to be an absolutely inhuman, grotesque, unimaginable monster in order to scare the audience out of its wits.  Most of the time, however, these stereotypes create a generic murderer a raving, ranting, clearly demented psychopath.  One of the few memorable cinematic killers that does not adhere to these restraints and cliches is, of course, Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lecter, whom manages to effectively cause the audience to recoil without such drek as the aforementioned devices.Anthony Perkins' skillfully crafts his performance as Norman Bates, avoiding a ranting, raving, drooling, murder-happy, manic characterization; instead his performance as Norman is subtle, creepy, cool, and unsettling.  He is brilliant; from his quiet conversations with Marion Crane amidst the stuffed birds, to his weasling wimpiness when confronted by Arbogast, his performance is so exact that it chills the viewer, all without the unnecessary disturbing images prevalent in more modern films (read The Cell, Henry: Portrait of A Serial Killer).Perkin's fine performance, a tight script, and Bernstein's classic score make Psycho a film that is now and will always be remembered as one of the pinnacles of the horror genre.


                
I have never seen a movie that gave me this type of chills. Very recommendable Horror/Mystery/Thriller !
This movie is far more than the one bathroom scene everybody knows.
Watch it, you won't be disappointed !!


                
A seminal classic of horror by master Alfred Hitchcock, with some of the most memorable iconic scenes in the history of Cinema. Tense, horrific and a superb lesson in filmmaking, it offers well-constructed characters, a lot of revealing dialogue and a huge regard for details.
Hitchcock's classic "comedy" featuring the world's most famous mother's boy is one of the most influential films ever made; every serial killer and slasher movie owes something to this, one of the true greats of cinema.


                
The strings of Bernard Herrmann combined with the screams of Janet Leigh, the knife of Norman Bates and the cuts of Alfred Hitchcock makes the movie moment that penetrated pop culture like no other. My impression is that Psycho is perceived as purely a great piece of craft and entertainment, but in my mind what makes Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho such a singular work is the deep and personal poetry it contains.Hitchcock was completely fearless in his ideas at this point. He makes his most radical and innovative film. The movie is heightened from his famous thrillers to a pure and modern horror movie. The visual universe is now dirty and grim as opposed to beautiful and glamorized. The icy and sophisticated blonds are gone and there are no traces of sympathetic heroes. Everyone who has seen an interview with Alfred Hitchcock knows that he hides behind an inflated and parodic character. In his interviews he is very secretive and doesn't revel anything about himself. The opposite is true in his films. In his movies he is often completely open and naked. He exposes the most shameful truths about himself and his life. In Psycho he does a personal examination on a level beyond anything I've ever seen. He puts himself in the space where he is the most vulnerable. He offers a "peeping hole" into the darkest corners of his personality. The movie is extremely revealing, but in very subtle ways. One has to work to find the treasures of Psycho. Psycho is like a novel in the way images are often suggested and has to be completed in the heads of the audience. The sexual and violent scenes are never explicit. This makes the movie even more disturbing than it ever could be if we had seen the images, and this was also the only way Hitchcock could convey what he wanted to convey and still get past the ridiculously strict American censorship laws of the time.Sexuality is always a theme in a Hitchcock movie, but he never explored it as profoundly or intimately as he did in Psycho. The shower scene for example feels like a rape as much as it does a murder(the feeling intrusion, the nakedness and so on). Norman desperately desires Marion Crane. He is sexually satisfied by killing her(it might be a stretch, but I see the knife as a symbol of the male sex organ). This scene is all about the childish shame of Normans sexuality. Norman, or the mother side of him, tries to suppress his sexuality completely. This is one of the examples of the openness of Hitchcock in this movie. His catholic upbringing would suggest a lot of shameful sexuality in his life as well. Something he has in common with his biggest contemporary director hero, Luis Bunuel. Bunuel are one of very few directors who explored his own sexuality with anything close to the amount of honesty of Psycho.Psycho is such a rich movie. It is filled with details. I believe you could watch it fifty times over and still find something new the fifty first time you watch it. Pay for example attention to all the little symbols and metaphors scatterd all over every single frame. Notice all the fascinations or "fetishes" of Hitchcocks that he put into it. The stuffed birds and the way they mirror Normans mother. The way food and eating connects with murder and sex. The peeping hole as a symbol for voyeurism and the movie camera. The cellar as a symbol of the suppressed and the shameful truths about Norman Bates. I really want to go into all these details, but like I said, there are too many and too much to discuss. It wont fit into the format of an IMDb review... If you don't see the same things I do in this movie, please watch it again. Even more than the magnificent "Vertigo" Psycho has the ability to grow immensely on a second viewing, and continue to grow on the third, fourth, fifth, sixth... In my heart it has grown to be one of the absolute best films in movie history.


                
Strange what the passage of time can do to a film. I remember seeing portions of "Psycho" when I was very young on local TV; when our household became cable-ready a few years later and AMC showed actual movie classics, Hitchcock's film was regular on the rotation. I remember being shocked and impressed by Janet Leigh's shower demise and Martin Balsam's staircase tumble, but not too wild about the actual narrative. When you're less than 10 years old, you take for granted a lot of the nuances of film-making that only make sense when you're older.And "Psycho" is almost entirely nuance and technique. From Anthony Perkins' legendary performance as the quiver-lipped, boyish Norman Bates to Bernard Herrmann's piercingly authorative, all-strings score to Hitchcock's intersection of characters (where misunderstandings and misplaced responsibility are the norm), the film is a masterful blend of all the elements that make for quality cinema. And for all its pop-culture influence (as it was one of the first 'psychological horrors' put on screen), "Psycho" remains extremely subtle and surprising, even if you know all the plot turns in advance.See Marion. See Marion embezzle $44 grand from her boss. See Marion on the run from her own guilt. See Marion make a fateful stop at the Bates Motel. See Norman. See Norman talk about his abusive, domineering mother... (I needn't go any further.) Since there is really no creative way to write about a film that has already been so extensively written on, I offer some of my personal favorite moments: The head-on shots of Marion (Janet Leigh) driving away from responsibility, listening to dialogues taking place far away, her facial expressions our only indicator of emotion. The judgmental look of the used-car salesman. The way Norman leans his head forward in the parlor, becoming somber and defensive over the word 'someplace.' The shriek of strings as the shower curtain is pulled back. Norman's awkward reaction to Private Investigator Arbogast (Martin Balsam)'s casual questioning. Arbogast's oblivious, seemingly slow-motion ascent of the staircase. Mrs. Bates' closing monologue, delivered in an acrid voice whose tone will literally make your skin crawl.And there's a lot more. As much as it's been said already, I will have to concur that "Psycho" is probably Hitchcock's masterpiece (I haven't seen all of his films), a near-seamless blend of story, character, irony, and technique.


                
I just got this film for Christmas.Since it is black and white I thought I wouldn't be interested. How wrong I was. From the start of the film,it grabs you by the throat and drags you into the world of Norman Bates.Although the 'shower scene'has been spoofed in so many other films,seeing it for the first time is truely tense. Don't watch the remake,watch this,and read the book.


                
This definitely contains **SPOILERS**, and is intended only for those who have seen the film, although it's hard to imagine many of you out there who haven't already seen this remarkable film.Let's start with what is probably the most amazing scene in the film, the conversation between Norman and Marian in the motel office parlor. Anyone interested in learning how to develop dramatic, and/or psychological tension, should study this scene. Sharp dialog, mood swings, marvelous camera angles and great character reactions permeate the scene. Much of the scene, and it's darkly humorous lines, hint at the truth about Norman and his mother without actually revealing it. For example, as Norman is bringing the tray of food into the office for Marian after an argument with mother, he says, "My mother is ...what's the phrase...she isn't quite herself today". In the parlor while Marian eats, Norman defends his mother with, "We all go a little mad sometimes". And just before Marian leaves the office she tells Norman, "I stepped into a private trap back there. I'd like to go back and pull myself out of it...if it's not too late". The irony being that Marian may have decided to try to escape her trap, but she has already, unknowingly been ensnared in Norman's private trap. Yes Marian, it is too late.In another sequence while Norman and Marian are talking in the parlor, the camera is at eye level on both characters. Suddenly, when Marian brings up the subject of Norman's mother, the camera angle changes. Norman is now being viewed from a lower angle. We are looking up at Norman and, in the background, his stuffed owl with it's wings spread, clearly in an attack posture. At the same time, we are now seeing Marian at slight downward angle. Norman has become the predator and Marian the prey!Now, how about lighting? In a scene very near the end of the film, Marian's sister has made her way into the fruit cellar, lit by one bare bulb, where mother sits in a wheelchair. Lila touches her shoulder, the wheelchair swings around revealing mother's well preserved corpse. Lila screams and draws her hand back hitting the light bulb, causing it to swing wildly. The end result is that the remainder of the scene is played out in alternating light and shadow due to the swinging bulb: Lila's terrified face, mother's corpse, Norman running into the cellar in mother's clothes wielding a butcher's knife, Sam running in behind Norman and dragging him to the floor, Norman's face becoming a twisted mask of despair as the knife falls to the floor and the wig slips from his head. It all has the look of a nightmare...macabre, surreal, and sheer genius!I have always loved Hitch's brand of humor, dark or otherwise. Here are some of my favorites from this film: Marian talking to Sam in the motel room at the beginning of the film, "You make respectability sound...disrespectful". Charlie the used car salesman, speaking to Marian, who is obviously intent on trading in her car, "First time I ever saw the customer high pressure the salesman". Arbogast, the private detective, speaking to Norman at the motel, "If it doesn't gel, it isn't aspic...and this ain't gelling". Norman speaking to Sam, after Sam has implied that Marian may have made a fool of him, "She might have fooled me, but she didn't fool my mother". Lila to Sam, defending her decision to try to talk to Norman's mother, "I can handle a sick, old woman". How about the fact that Norman's hobby is stuffing birds, and in cleaning up mother's mess he stuffs a "Crane" into the trunk of a car. Classic Hitch!Let me leave you with one last tidbit. In the final scene of the film Norman is sitting in a cell, wrapped in a blanket, and we hear mother's thought that is the last line of the film, "Why, she wouldn't even harm a fly". The scene then dissolves to a shot of Marian's car being dragged from the swamp. Just as Norman's image disappears from the screen, look closely and you will see the face of mother's corpse superimposed over Norman's face for a fraction of a second. One last little (subliminal?) chill from the master! I can see you all rushing to your VCR's now. Enjoy!
Only a sinister organization such as the Academy would bypass Alfred Hitchcock as Best Director in 1960. Psycho is a masterpiece and Hitch will be remembered for centuries regarding his classic portrayal of a young Norman Bates, his run-down motel, and the mysterious relationship and death of his Mother. From Sam Loomis, Marion and Lila Crane, Detective Arbogast, Mr. Lowry, and even the used car salesman, Psycho is filled with astonishing characters, suspenseful plot twists, and a climax that would make every child in America think twice before entering the basement.Alfred Hitchcock was an American icon and Psycho is a true reflection of his genius. To his day, Psycho remains one of best films of its genre. Further, Hitchcock's talent has stood the test of time, ultimately earning him the most honorable surname "The Master of Suspense".


                
Alfred Hitchcock's crisp efficiency is not unlike that of Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins), the dutiful son who cleans up after his mother in the landmark thriller "Psycho."  Not only is this a masterfully directed suspense chiller, it actually set standards by which all fright films since have been measured.  The cinema has produced some great scores, but Bernard Herrmann's music is incredibly enhancing and simply unforgettable, one of the best ever (and it did not even get an Oscar nomination for Best Score). The more I watch "Psycho," the more I prefer the first half, with its sense of dread and a fascinatingly cool Janet Leigh (Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress). Hitchcock, of course, never won the Best Director Oscar, but was nominated for "Psycho," one of 1960's biggest box-office hits.  Shockingly, Anthony Perkins, in a career-making role and one of the most famous performances in screen history, failed to win a Best Actor nomination -- probably because the performance was too edgy and disturbing (which is what made it great).  Some scenes are dated, of course, but this film almost never falters.  It gets a "9" (and a very high nine at that) from me.


                
I watched this movie because someone said it is Hitch's best. I haven't watched all of his movies, so I can't say if it is his best or not. However, it is a really good movie, mostly because of the great performance of 'Norman Bates'. I don't understand why somebody will consider his performance as dry or dull. His performance is fabulous! It was so scary when you saw him having that evil smile on his face, in the dark when he just said goodbye to Marion. You know there's something wrong with him but you don't know what will happen next. You can guess he's probably the murderer but don't know why. The ending is quite surprising. I like the ending. Very special. Not something we'll see these days. Highly recommend.


                
I watched this movie  because it was Hitchcocks anniversary and it was one of those films I'd been dying to see and I thought it was great {I didn't think it was as good as a lot of people had told me though}. The twist about mother was cool, second  best in history next to the Sixth Sense. I thought 2 and 3 were cool too.  Anthony Perkins  was really good as Norman Bates.


                
Hitchcock's 1960 classic Psycho has it all to start with romance, embezzlement, disappearance, secrets, voyeurism, a dead corpse, a split personality of a man who thinks from time to time he's his dead mother and of course death in the most famous scene of all time the scene of Janet Leigh getting stabbed to death in the shower. The first time I saw Psycho as a kid and seeing the shower scene it terrified me so much I actually became afraid to take a shower I had great fear of getting stabbed to death even in my own home. As any child would do myself included they grow away from the terror of scare scenes as age increases, but recently I have looked at the famous shower scene from a different perspective. Many are unaware but it took seven days to shoot the shower scene, seventy camera positions for the forty-five seconds of very famous footage not an actual bare breast or plunging knife is to be found in the final cut, just illusion through montage. Now I begin my discussion on montage for those who don't know it's meaning or importance. Montage is a distinct type of editing that brings more drama to film and it links shots of film together and the editing separates and makes a film different from other forms of art. Montage was developed from the Soviet Union. Montage was used in very distinct ways in Psycho mostly crafted from Russian editor and director Eisenstein whose editing technique clashing of images or more properly known as a graphic match in film. Actually both similar terms can be explained first clashing of images create conflict just as in the shower scene the images flashing quickly of the knife and Janet Leigh's body symbolize the action and drama of the film while tied to the music of the Psycho shower scene. The term graphic match is very symbolic to show that life goes down the drain. To explain in the shower scene as Janet Leigh is stabbed and her body slides down with the shower curtain breaking the camera does a very close angle shot of her eye and then the camera slowly but surely makes it way to the blood and water flowing down the drain to symbolize death. This is a great example of graphic match it does exactly what it says by taking two unlike objects as in this case an eye and a drain of a tub to compare the action and drama that just unfolded in a scene with blood and water going down the drain symbolizing death while the eye open and an open drain show that life is no more. Finally enough about the famous shower scene everyone should know by now the story and technique behind it and how it was done to perfection, but I end my discussion of the scene I don't what you to think that your in a cinema history class! Hey don't forget how great a film Psycho is it has several other good reasons for it's classic ranking besides the shower scene with montage to start the intelligent directing of Alfred Hitchcock he simply was the master at keeping people in suspense and Psycho is full of suspense from start to finish. Also another interesting moment is to notice Hitchcock as the pedestrian outside the office in the very first few minutes of Psycho it was common for Alfred to make small appearances in his movies. And Anthony Perkins was great as the best and most liked Psycho character of our time the famous Norman Bates. The character had such intelligent wit and yet evil twisted means. So make reservations to the Bates Motel you will enjoy this classic of strange happenings at a rundown motel. I added this movie to my video library just this year and I recommend that anyone add Psycho to a personal movie collection of their own. After 40 years and beyond we all still have the right to go a little mad.


                
PsychoDIRECTION 94% Great camera work to SHOCK the watcher.ACTING 95% Anthony Perkins puts in his career best performance!EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 64% Mother is that blood!?PLOT ê% Seems simple at first, but is in fact psychological upon the audience.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC 83% The shower scene<U+0085><U+0085> then the terror and violence becomes more psychological.MUSIC 97% An all time classic in increasing your blood pressure.SOUND 89% The old house and disturbing weather conditions says it all.HOOKABILITY 91% Be engrossed with the money stealing incident<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>..LASTABILITY 95% <U+0085><U+0085>..but don't stop at the Bate's motel.OVERALL 92% A classic production about a female serial killer.


                
Some critics believe 'Psycho' to be Director Alfred Hitchcock's Magnum opus. In my opinion, it's an masterpiece that set a new level of acceptability for violence, deviant behavior and sexuality in American films. Even before the 1960's, Alfred Hitchcock was already famous as the screen's master of suspense and perhaps the best-known film director in the world at the time. This movie just add to it with subliminal themes, subtext and images. The center theme of Psycho is the concept of multiplies identifies where characters are challenge to live through life under multiplies roles. Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) is just that type of a character. She is unhappy in her job at a Phoenix, Arizona real estate office and living in a double life with her affect with strong will Sam Loomis (John Gavin). One day, Marion is given money to be deposited in the bank. Instead of depositing it, Marion takes off with the cash, hoping to leave Phoenix for good and start a new life with her love affair Sam. Rather than meeting Sam, she finds a nervous charming innkeeper Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) at the Motel, she was staying. He was control by his over demanding mother. Anthony Perkins gives a subtle performance here. She is taken by Norman Bates innocent charm, as she sees him as the fragile alter-ego of Sam. In many ways, Norman Bates and Sam have very similar stories, the only different is that Norman can't live without her mother, while Sam can. There's hardly a film fan alive who doesn't know what happens next, as the shower scene is probably the film's most famous sequence. In a way, the shower scene was like baptismal waters. Marion had decided to go back, come clean, and take the consequence, so when she stepped into the bathtub it was as if she cleaning herself of sin. I like the fact that Marion's underwear is white before the theft, and black after. Feeling in rage that Marion might steal Norman away from her when Marion suggests to Norman that he put his mother in a mental hospital, her mother strikes Marion, only for Norman to cover it up. When Marion goes off missing, her personality live on with her double, twin sister Lila Crane (Vera Miles) who finds herself staying at the Bates motel, just like her long-lost sister. I love how Hitchcock utilized and probably was the first to establish the writing technique of the false protagonist. The false protagonist is when the viewers are introduced to a character that supposed to be the main character, only to be removed from the story either by death or other means early in the film. By removing Marion Crane from the story, early on. It might offend Janet Leigh's fans, but Alfred Hitchcock's know what's for the best. One of the best image scenes are the mirrors in why show that the characters have multiply personality. Another running theme is the money. The stolen money that Marion carries about with her represents her dirty little secrets. Hitchcock goes so far as to symbolically link this pile of money to a pile of feces. Every talk about money is weaved into dialogue about how filthy it is. While the showing scene can be seen as erotica for Norman Bates; Norman Bates mother sees it as filth. Contrary to a widely told tale, Hitchcock did not arrange for the water to suddenly go ice-cold during the shower scene to elicit an effective scream from Leigh. But Hitchcock did tested the shock value of Mother's corpse by placing it in Leigh's dressing room and listening to how loud she screamed when she notice it there. Compare to Modern Day Slasher films, this film is really tame of violence. The film was known to be nauseating for some viewers at the time, even with it being shot in black and white. The novel is more brutal than the film version. It had a beheading no less in it. Alfred Hitchcock cut it out, and did stabbing instead. Even with its graphic nature, the "shower scene" never once shows a knife puncturing flesh. Alfred Hitchcock desire to prevent the shower scene from being too gory so he film the movie in black and white, while also trying to cut cost down. I think, the biggest reason why it is in black and white is because it's better for horror films with the use of shadows. While it is tame, the movie is still disturbing. Hints why the film still have the Rated R label. What might bizarre is how often the film talks about eating. Considering that the writer of the original book, Robert Bloch based his story loosely upon the activities of serial killer and cannibal Ed Gein, some of these constant references to eating could simply be a sly reference to cannibalism. One subliminal theme of Psycho is when Norman chats to Marion about his hobby of taxidermy. It's remind us another Hitchcock classic movie 1963's The Birds. By having Marion eat like a bird, and having a last name like a bird. No wonder why Norman wants to eat her all up, but Norman couldn't hurt a fly or could he. That's actually a form of symbolism. The soundtrack of screeching violins, violas, and cellos was an original all-strings piece by composer Bernard Herrmann titled "The Murder" is amazing. It works for the film so well. This film sequels that followed in 1983 are just mediocre at best. There was also a 1998's remake of the film with Director Gus Van Sant that was God awful. 2012 and 2013 was a big high for Psycho fans as Bates Motel started to aired on A&E. Anthony Hopkins star in 2012 film Hitchcock about filming the movie, and also a HBO telefilm call 'The Girl" with Toby Jones as Hitchcock during the filming of this movie, Psycho.
I didn't see all of Psycho, but what I did see of it I liked. The way Hitchcock killed of the "main" character in the first half hour was utterly amazing. The suspense was some of the best I've ever seen, and he did it without nudity. Now thats a sign of a great film-maker.


                
Ofcourse Hitchcock is a great director. But try watching this movie without Bernard Herrmann's score and it will lose almost everything about it. Hitchcock wanted to shoot the shower sequence (most memorable but over-exagerated scene) without any music. Big mistake. Mr. Herrmann thought so too. And now it has become a masterpiece. Talking about the shower scene being over rated; my favorite scene in the film is where the lady is driving at night and it starts raining and she turns on the wipers and she keeps looking at the rear view mirror and then she finally ends up at the motel. That whole sequence is brilliant film making that owes much of its brilliance to Herrmann's score. You feel her anxiety because of her feeling of guilt for what she has done, and we as an audience have a feeling that there isn't something that pleasing awaiting her at the end of the road. How do we know that? Pay attention to how the fast pace of the string ensemble comes to an abrupt change with pizzicatos and low resonance bows, once we see the sign of the motel. And notice how the cue leads up to that part; pure genius at work here, ladies and gentleman. If it weren't for Herrmann's musical score, this film would be just an average movie.


                
During the Mid Eighties I attended a science fiction convention in Manhattan and the feature attraction there was Anthony Perkins. There was Mr. Perkins, the celebrated Norman Bates of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho among all the Trekkies and Doctor Who fans, etc. I think he looked on it as an opportunity to promote the succeeding Psycho films.Tony Perkins was clearly ill at ease among the Sci-Fi crowd. People like the Star Trek cast members know what to expect at these gatherings and act accordingly. Perkins did not really know how to handle the banter, he was in my estimation a serious guy who must have thought he was in a freak show. I asked him about appearing in Friendly Persuasion with Gary Cooper and I told him that that was my favorite role he did. He looked grateful that someone knew he did something besides Norman Bates.But for better or worse, Norman Bates became his career role and it's what we remember Anthony Perkins for. He does create an indelible impression on the screen with Alfred Hitchcock's direction as the shy mother fixated man running a flea bag motel in an area where a new super highway has taken all the potential business.Psycho has a simple plot. Janet Leigh on an impulse embezzles $40,000 in cash from her employer and goes on the run. She winds up in the Bates motel run by Norman and his mother. Later on private detective Martin Balsam goes after her as well. And finally John Gavin as Leigh's boy friend and Vera Miles as her sister go looking for the both of them. Simple enough, but Alfred Hitchcock creates a mood of terror and suspense that lingers long after you've seen the film. My favorite shot of the film is not Leigh's legendary shower stabbing, but of Martin Balsam being knocked down and falling down that flight of stairs and then being stabbed to death. The camera work showing Balsam falling backwards is the most terrifying part of Psycho.Though Anthony Perkins did so many other good things, the average cinema fan will tell you 99 out of 100 times that Norman Bates is the role he remembers Perkins for. So Perkins went with the flow.It was repetitious for him, but a treat for fans.


                
Psycho is more than just one of the best films of all-time. It is the inspiration behind a great number of films since and will forever be THE ultimate in both plot twists and suspense. Who would have ever imagined killing off both the main character and what seemed like an interesting story only a third into the film? Well, Hitch did and even told the moviegoers at the time to show up for the beginning of the film or else miss the wonderful Janet Leigh.Psycho has it all. A great story, well two as a matter of fact. One of the greatest scores by Bernard Herrmann (how many people don't know the skreetching violin and deep tuba sounds that really make the shower scene a classic?). The acting is superb with the chilling, almost-too-real portrayal of Norman Bates by Anthony Perkins and the running scared, almost-too-clued-out portrayal of Marion Crane by Janet Leigh. The supporting cast complete the film like few other casts do. Vera Miles makes the role of Crane's sister, honestly real and more than just a plot device.This film succeeds in all aspects, including the ending which is often said to be overlong and unecessary. Without hearing the inner thoughts of Bates, however, would leave a gaping hole in the production. The double image of Bates face with his mother's scull remains chilling, even in today's glorified, Natural Born Killers-like ultraviolence. Hitch's direction and shot techniques are as innovative as those seen in some of his earlier films like Vertigo and North-by-Northwest. Next time you watch Psycho, slow down the shower scene just to see how many separate shots Hitch put together to make it so great. Quite calculated.It's a shame that a film like Psycho had to have been marred by a few sequels and a terribly awful shot-by-shot remake. Unlike a continuing storyline like that of "The Godfather", this story should have ended here.Full recommendation.9/10 stars.


                
Watch Psycho and you'll find yourself glued to Anthony Perkins very strange Norman Bates.  He's a quiet lad, takes care of the hotel and his sick mother.  A bit odd, but nice enough.  Of course, we don't know what Norman's been up to in that old house.  Perkins allows Norman Bates to get under your skin, and he stays there.  He tricks you with politeness and sincerity, then his creepieness seeps in.  Shot on a very small budget, with the crew from the Alfred Hitchcock Presents tv show, Psycho is the ultimate low budget horror flick.  But what Hitchcock was able to do, it take horror out of the shadows, and shine light on it.  The real shock in Psycho comes at the end, where Norman is sitting there in the holding room.  Watch closely, and you'll see just how powerful "Mother" really is.  Truly creepy.


                
The first time I saw it I was on the edge of my seat through over half the movie. An excellent B/W movie that uses music & suggestion to let your mind complete the scenes.


                
I love Psycho so much I can't begin to describe what it means to me. The trouble is it has been over-sold in the last twenty years or so that it is known as the film with THAT scene in the shower. There's so much more to it than that. It is arguably the most influential film ever made, and the best directed one at that. Without it, there would be no Jaws, no Godfather, no Star Wars. Psycho may not be the greatest film ever made, nor the scariest film ever made, but is probably the best crafted thriller and a fine example of cinematic manipulation. Psycho continues to influence filmmakers. Look at the Psycho references in 2005's Houseof Wax (preservered mother, twin sons/ split personality, scary house on the hill.) Psycho is simply Great.


                
I was first introduced to Alfred Hitchcock when I was very young, however, it was not until now that I knew what a monumental influence he had on film. In my college film class we had the chance to view Psycho and i have to admit at first, i was not extremely excited about it. However, I was hooked in the first five minutes of the film and I couldn't keep my eyes off the screen. I love psychological thrillers that make you wonder and think "outside the box" and i think this was one of the best i have ever seen. I think that Alfred's choices for the movie, (director, characters, etc.) were great. I thought all the characters did a fabulous job. The story line and plot were very creative too. I felt like i was being surprised every five minutes. I also like that this is an old black and white film. I don't think that it would have had the same impact on me if it was a modern story in color. It is definitely a classic!


                
Psycho is an exercise in bait-and-switch by the maestro of playing an audience, director Alfred Hitchcock. What begins as a story about someone stealing money becomes one about murder in a seedy motel shower. Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) is a secretary who is supposed to deposit a huge sum of money, but instead takes it and leaves Phoenix, Arizona, headed towards California. Along the way, she is shadowed by a cop (the classic Hitchcockian theme of distrust towards police) and finds her way to a rundown motel off the old highway, The Bates Motel. Running the once popular, now with "12 cabins, 12 vacancies" motel is Norman Bates, played by Anthony Perkins in wonderful manic weirdness. You know something is askew with young Norman in the very first scenes we see him, but we can't quite put our finger on it. Is it his stuffed bird collection? Is it how he talks about his mother? Is it the way he communicates to Marion Crane in their uncomfortable conversations they have? It's probably the combination of all of the above, but whatever it is, Perkins portrays Bates in such a manner that we know something is wrong with him. In perhaps the most famous scene in movie history, the switch to the money is made. The star of the film, the Marion Crane character is killed off while taking a shower by Norman Bates' mother in brutal fashion. We the audience think we see a lot more than we actually do, if you look at the scene carefully. The scene is 45 seconds long, but features over 90 individual cuts and camera angles, leading to a manic and desperate moment in the movie. The music during the scene, almost as famous as the scene itself, is cutting with the violins, replicating the action in the scene itself. The shower scene in Psycho is pure movie making, showing the audience what the director wants them to see, and in what he hides leaves the viewer to imagine, and sometimes think they saw what they think they saw. The rest of the film plays as an investigative film, as Marion's loved ones try to piece together what happened after she ran off with the money. The star of the second half of the film is Norman Bates as he tries to cover up the murder by his mother, and his paranoid ways really show up during this period. The film benefits from being shot in black and white and the violin-only musical score adds much more depth to the mood of the film. Made for less than a million dollars, Psycho is also an example of what a director can do for cheap. This movie touched a nerve with the movie-going public, as many people feared taking showers for months after seeing Psycho. It has been said that star Janet Leigh still, to this day, has never taken a shower since filming Psycho.
This psychotic thiller is a work of genius by the director Alfred Hitchcock. Made in 1960 this film was well ahead of its time.  The movie stars Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates, a curious motel manager, Janet Leigh as Marion Crane, John Gavin as Sam Loomis, and John McIntire as Sheriff Al Chambers.Psycho forever changed the way films were made in Hollywood.  Alfred Hitchcock's genius shaped this masterpiece in such a way to draw the viewer in and keeping them on the edge of their own seat.  With his experience in movie making, Hitchcock knows just how to influence and play with the mind.Alfred Hitchcock is considered `The Master of Suspense,' and has earned that name rightfully.  He created movies that one would have to watch over and over again in order to get all the little details of a film. Psycho is a perfect example of that, using lighting and camera angles to give the watcher a feeling of being anxious, scared, or weary of what is about to happen.  One might notice that when any certain scene is shown, the camera gets closer and closer to the actor or actress's face, making it very uncomfortable to watch.  Every aspect of this film is amazing for it's time, with a score that has been nominated to be one of the top 100 most influential pieces of music in American history. 
Overall, I give Psycho a 9 out of 10 stars, for being a good movie in general.  It's a powerful film that goes deeper than just scaring people. I would recommend this movie to anybody who loves old horror classics.


                
