Oh my goodness, oh my goodness, this show, this sweet little mini series, this golden show! I am always looking for good cartoons, in a weird way the shorter the better (short and sweet right). However, most short cartoons were canceled (for example: Clone High or Mission Hill). This is not the case for OTGW, which plays like a movie, 10 episodes multiplied by each episode's 11 minute run time is only 110 minutes (or an hour 50 minutes). Yet what I imagined would simply be some odd Adventure Time show about two brothers in the woods turned out to be so much more. The animation is sweet, dark and fluid. The backgrounds are very well done, especially because they are of nature. This really helps keep a deep and real feeling throughout the show, as these two simple cartoons are traveling through a dark and dementedly palpable world. Speaking of the world may I mention that it has two great things going for it (and these two things blend well together). One: it takes aspects form the 1700's, 1800's and early 1900's and Two: this fantasy world is American. I'm not some horn tooting nephew of Uncle Sam, but I am proud to see any show or animation really take advantage of 350 odd some years of "American" (Europeans in America) history, music, culture and atmosphere. This can add to the creep factor, but also grows on you. This show feels like it was made by an American Hayao Miyazaki; in the same way HM uses his Japanese culture to heighten the world. The magic and old time world in this show and Hayao's worlds are so familiar in a completely different way. Plus the two have old women with giant heads, spirits, magic, nature, human like frogs, adventure, strong females, and young protagonists in a fairytale environment. The world actually feels like the "Frog and Toad" books I read as a child. Don't let me forget that this show is also a musical in a sense. As many cartoons do now (I'm looking at you Adventure Time) the characters sing in every episode, accompanied by fantastic music (that matches the various American eras), and I quite enjoy the opening song as well. The voice acting is superb with Elijah Wood, an actual child (which I appreciate in animation) by the name of Collin Dean, and Melanie Lynesky taking center stage. Yet Christopher Lloyd and many others provide there talents too. The characters themselves are very real and multidimensional. Wirt is one of the best heroes in a long time, with a fantastic arc and a very unsure demeanor, Greg (his brother) is an adorable, optimistic and surprisingly bright boy who lives in his own cute little world, but not so cute that he doesn't also live in the real world, and Beatrice is a sassy, brave and loyal friend. I also like the clean character designs, I mean they're simple but also fluid, fresh and different. I don't want to spoil any part of the story, but I will say all your questions are answered and everything wraps up beautifully. The episodes are unique but they are all touched upon again, connect, and add to this singular plot. Sometimes you will start somewhere unexpectedly new (or rather without precise context) and this can be disconcerting, yet it does make sense. And more importantly the episode will start somewhere and stay somewhere, 11 minutes never flew by so quickly on a river ferry or a grammar school (the music also contributes to the speed of the episodes). Nod of course to writers: Tom Herpich, Amalia Levari, and Patrick McHale. Also the director Nate Cash (this show also has great directing) Over the Garden Wall is so great, and I'm writing this right after finishing the show, that's how great it is. It is dark and bizarre at times (not too dark for most children), but it is also a true adventure with lots of light and hope inside bleakness. And it is the perfect blend of real and surreal that fantasy deserves, there's plenty wacko s@#$ but the story and motives aren't wacko. By episode 2 I was definitely hooked, and by episode 6 I was pretty sure it was going to get my 10/10. I had some doubts with episode 8, yet I was won over during the episode and of course with the show's end. An end that perfectly wraps up everything in a neat bow. Episode 9's "surprise" is also so exciting and sets up the tenth to be a sort of finale, but again this is really just a movie, and its so short that there is no fear that one wouldn't finish it and consequently love it.And that's its beauty and why it is a ten starred masterpiece. Kids movies are very rarely so, long, weird, and have such a unique flow (and all the other great stuff from earlier), children's shows will have extra stories and characters than they often need (and again not have all that stuff from earlier). This is like the "True Detective" of children's animated television shows. And the world, oh my gosh the world, I know I already talked about this but whatever. I've just never seen anything like this, and when you wrap all these great elements together you get a perfect show. I recommend everyone see this show and I will be going back over the Garden Wall very soon, to enjoy it even more...p.s I forgot to mention it's funny too


                
I recommend Over the Garden Wall to kids, teens, and adults, (maybe a little scary for tiny tots) looking for a super fun, aesthetically-pleasing fairy-tale-Halloween mystery. The unique characters are likable and break a lot of cookie-cutter-character clichés. The atmosphere is dark and eerie while humorous and exciting. Each episode contains its own cool twist, and the series overall contains several bigger twists. I don't wanna drop any spoilers but there's lots of super awesome twists. You will love it! It's wonderful! I want to watch it again right now. I also recommend watching all ten episodes in one sitting like a movie.


                
Over the Garden Wall is a masterpiece. Recently i have been binge watching cartoons to try and find one which i was instantly hooked on. So far i have enjoyed the excellent Cowboy Bebop and other shows such as Rick and Morty and the wonderful Gravity Falls but none yet have been up to the standard that i now have after watching Over the Garden Wall which masterfully tells the tale of two brothers in the land called 'The Unknown' as we see them try and keep up faith that they will ever return home.Firstly, the characters are truly amazing, Wirt (voiced by Elijah Wood) a sullen boy with low self esteem issues struggles with his overly excitable brother Greg who is always messing up and seeing himself in often worse situations than in the beginning. We also get to meet up with the mysterious cast of characters that this show brings such as Beatrice a bluebird trying to help her family also the mysterious and creepy antagonist the beast who is always seems to be playing at the strings of our heroes trying to make them lose all hope and faith of ever returning home. Each character brings something that we can all relate to and overly helps to form a truly compelling story.OMG the style of animation. It is fluid, dark and creepy and helps bring the eerie feeling of mystery that is present in every episode. The simplistic character design helps them 'pop' out against the highly detailed and aesthetically pleasing background done in a autumn forest style. Helping to portray the tones as our antagonists wandered through the dark and creepily palpable world. This is assisted by the music which in turn helps to create at some times a light atmosphere but also transforming the world into a eerie and mysterious place which makes you fear for Wirt and Gregory. Also if all of the music in this was put onto an album i would instantly buy it *hint hint Disney* because of how much i was enthralled by the show. One of the factors that attracted me to this was it knew when to end, other shows such as Adventure Time and the Amazing World of Gumball (although being brilliant) seemed to drag on a bit too much. Over the Garden Wall lasting 10 episodes still manages to develop the characters to an extent that i have not seen in other shows whilst still retaining humour and also atmosphere. Overall, would highly recommend this to anyone who is interested in a cartoon which can entrance you and make you hope for a journey back into The Unknown and in the future I hope for more masterpieces like what i found in Over the Garden Wall.


                
Over the Garden Wall is brilliant. Thank you Cartoon Network for allowing it to happen. Beautifully animated, wonderfully paced with just the right blend of humor and creepiness. Also - kudos to using the mini series format, I hope this is only a sign of things to come and more self contained short events are on the way. I'm tired of watching several seasons of a series that started strong end up wandering aimlessly with no clear endgame in sight. The voice cast was exceptional, and the resolution handled perfectly. A big thanks to the other reviewer that gave the Cartoon Network programming history perspective above, explains a lot. Now if only CN could find a way to apologize for and right the wrongs done to all of the terrific DC nation series that were unceremoniously canceled.


                
In May 2014, Stuart Snyder, the man responsible for single-handedly destroying Toonami, bringing in live-action schlock to CARTOON Network, establishing the "NO GIRLS ALLOWED"* policy for cartoons, declaring that boys only like comedy (as a member of that demographic, I can assure you that such a statement is completely asinine), and ultimately killing every good show the network made resigned as the President of the Network. And oh what glorious day it was.If Cartoon Network made this series as an apology for the sins of Snyder, then it succeeded. This series is dark, atmospheric, weird and pretty scary at times. It's not bright, it's not dumbed-down, it doesn't hold back on the creep factor, especially for Tim Curry's character, Auntie Whispers, and it takes its audience seriously. And even though the cast has a lot of celebrity actors (aside from Tim Curry, they also got Christopher Lloyd and cast Elijah Wood as one of the two main leads), they got them because they knew these guys were perfect for the roles. The story is revealed a snippet at a time and from what little I've gathered from the two episodes it strikes me as being just as dark as the setting and atmosphere.Oh, and just to put icing on the cake, they stuck the old Cartoon Network Studios animated logo on to the end of it like they used to for shows like Samurai Jack and Power Puff Girls, followed by the classic Cartoon Network logo with the Cartoon Cartoons theme dubbed over it.They're back, and this is only the beginning of what I hope is another era akin to that of the late-90s/early-2000s.*IMDb does not allow me to spell the word "GIRLS" with a backwards "R". Please pretend that it did.


                
This series, without a doubt, is a treasure of animation. Never once has a series or movie ever gotten me so interested. It isn't too long, it perfectly runs its course, unlike other fantastic shows like Adventure Time or Regular Show that can be hard to keep up with. Ten episodes, each about ten minutes, giving practically a feature- length movie that is certainly going to strike you as wonderful. Elijah Wood gives an amazing and realistic depiction of the average modern teen, and Greg provides the comical child-like wonder that we all could relate to our past as kids. Lessons in trust, family, friends, love, and honor perfectly blend with the simplistic yet entrancing artwork, and not since Gravity Falls has a cartoon ever amazed me with its genius concept and plot devices. The series is short and wonderful, and it needs more exploitation. And just as I was growing worried for animation on television like Clarence or Uncle Grandpa which leave little to be desired. If you like the creativity of Regular Show, the quirkiness of Adventure Time, and the art of Steven Universe, coupled with the humor of Amazing World of Gumball, this is without a doubt the best animated creation that has been put out in decades.


                
As I was watching Over the Garden Wall with some friends, I found myself commenting, more than once, how charming this would be/is for kids. It's got anthropomorphic creations (birds and horses and other things that talk, pumpkin-headed farmers, frogs in a band on a river-bank, magical and funny and weird dreams, or a dream, from a child), and yet it has a sophistication to the writing that kids appreciate; one might think that they will only take in the lowest-common denominator - put on whatever, it's fine, it's for kids - but this is smart stuff. This is also really great for adults, the ones at least who can tap a little into their childhood sense of awe, because of the humor and irreverence. Over the Garden Wall is like taking Adventure Time, transferring the other-worldly into early 20th century Americana, folk tales, even some Alice in Wonderland (the structure for me is very Wonderland, especially with a young character getting lost and on a series of episodes), and adding some songs as well that are reflective of the period.The story follows Wirt and Gregory (Elijah Wood and the young Collin Dean, who has been on Adventure Time a couple of times), brothers who seem to be lost in the woods and are trying to find their way home. Their main adversary appears to be 'The Beast', who is being stalked by the Woodsman (Christopher Lloyd in a wonderful part - you can't always tell if he's good or bad or both). As one can imagine, or hope for, a lot of wild and crazy things happen to these young people, such as the pumpkin farmers (what are they digging for in the farm?), the frogs on the boat (and suddenly there may be some singing from Gregory's frog, who's name always changes), and John Cleese as both the possibly deranged landowner of a spooky mansion and an old woman. Even Tim Curry gets a good character as 'Auntie Whispers', who is 'protecting' her niece, a possessed girl.The creators of 'Garden Wall' suffuse many scenes with some nightmarish moments, but it's all with a light, absurd touch, and a lot of this is helped immensely by Collin Dean's performance and the writing for the character of Gregory. This is a little kid who has zero filter; he'll say the truth of something no matter what, even if it's a moment (especially if it is) when the smart thing would be to lie or shut up. That's where so much humor comes in - also watch and listen how he sings ever so cheerfully at times - since in many scenes Wert is trying to get by on a fib or a lie or a trick, or doesn't have that sense of boundless optimism. It's one of the most charming acting voices for an animated character in as long as I can remember, and accentuated by the gigantic pupils - made to make him look cute as a button - and head-gear (he's an elephant, after all!) There's a real sense of play and, equally, danger (the final episode with the Beast, Auntie Curry), and I found myself laughing a lot, but I also found I took this story a little more seriously than I would an Adventure Time or something else with Patrick McHale's name on it. It takes from some folk tales and fairy tales, but it has an identity all its own. It's creepy and weird and adorable and heartfelt, and it carries both the awe and innocence of being a little kid and the disillusionment of being a teenager like Wert. And did I mention the songs are a lot of fun and contribute to the atmosphere? It's like taking in old ragtime songs (some of the time) and giving them an animated, pop-up book feel. It's tremendous, semi-subversive stuff for kids, and a joy for adults.


                
Over the Garden Wall is really something special. Not only is it good on its own merit, but it also breaks some of the barriers of animation. Over the Garden Wall proves that not everything animated needs to be either a TV show or a movie... animation can tell a simpler story without having to stay longer than necessary. Yet, it doesn't need to be a "movie" in terms of structure. That is what makes Over the Garden Wall so interesting... in total length, it is only 100 minutes... a movie length... but it feels like it is much longer than that (in a good way) because it is structured into 10 minute chapters. This gives the miniseries a very unique feel for animation.The atmosphere in this show is spot-on. The music fits its melancholy Americana fairy-tale setting, the colors and drawings fits with the bitter autumn tone, and the dialogue is never forced or drawing more attention than it needs to. That is another aspect I like about this series: It never really draws attention to itself. Nothing in it is really big or massive and the jokes are never really forced. Almost everything in it is subtle and quiet. Even when strange things happen, they aren't quite as upfront about it such as in other Cartoon Network shows like Adventure Time (which is still a great show).The plot to the show is also a fairly strong point. At first, nothing seems incredibly attached, but once the show reaches its last two episodes, everything starts to make sense. Fortunately, this show has a lot of strong characters. All of them are voiced excellently except for Fred the Horse. Fred the Horse wasn't a bad character, but his voice... stuck out a little too much. He seemed like a character that was intentionally trying to be a cartoon; though thankfully he only talks in oneish episode.The main characters: Wirt, Greg, and Beatrice are all likable. Wirt has an incredibly low self-esteem and is into a lot of unique interests but is also pessimistic and blames Greg for everything. Greg is his little step-brother who is always several steps behind everyone, but is still very useful in his optimism and resourcefulness. What is really nice about this series is that Wirt is not shown as "the brains" or the guy who has it all together. He truly is lost and he really is pathetic. The other nice thing is that Greg isn't always childishly dumb. Sometimes he really does have his act together. Both characters are strong. Beatrice is nice because she may not be pessimistic, but she doesn't care about fun or getting distracted. She simply wants to be finished with the issues at hand.Without giving anything away, the show is unique in its ability to constantly surprise. I always think that I know where the show is going, but it always takes a clever twist. To make things better, all of the plot-twists (except for maybe one) all make sense upon watching the series a second time. If anything, the series IS BETTER the second time through because it is scattered with little hints and secrets that fit together.All in all, a very good series that needs some recognition. I'm surprised how little attention this show has even though when it was first released everyone was talking about it. It is clever, smart, mellow, and beautifully crafted.I hope to see more mini-series from Cartoon Network like this. And that's a rock fact.
This story was a piece of artwork. I loved how thick the plot was, but all it needed was 10 episodes, 5 if you want to make them 30 minutes each. Yes i agree this show isn't really meant for the younger crowd but then again since when was Cartoon network only for children? Since when did they agree to only design shows for a certain age group? Cartoon network has always been for everyone, all ages. So seeing them make a show like this that was more targeted by my age group, made me happy to know that a network channel is also appeasing to the older range group. The story has a lot of symbolism and does teach us all a powerful lesson, but you must be old enough to understand. If a 6 year old watches this, they won't understand much, but if someone my age were to watch it, they would understand the powerful meaning behind every character. Behind the show. And would truly understand what is Over the Garden Wall.


                
"Over the Garden Wall" is a Cartoon Network miniseries that was shown on TV in the November of 2014. It is a beautifully crafted tale of friendship , love and courage that follows the adventures of Wirt and his brother Gregory as they attempt to travel home in the mysterious world , " the unknown". The series as a whole is a perfect blend of light hearted comedy and dark, creepy setting. For one thing the comedy and jokes are actually funny, hilarious at some points very reminiscent of the weird humor of adventure time ( I will touch on that later), this comes as no surprise as writer, story boarder and creator Patrick McHale worked with Pendelton Ward in the first two, arguably best, series of adventure time . Wards craft and love of character has clearly rubbed off on McHale who here creates a series so supremely beautiful and touching , there really hasn't been anything like it before in the world of cartoons . The characters for one are extremely likable and memorable all throughout , Wirt representing the cynical teenager ( without overdoing the cliché) and his little step brother Gregory is wonderfully memorable and funny throughout , if you have a younger sibling I guarantee you will find similarities . To be honest I feel the plot of the series is best to let you discover as it feels to me like true magic watching it, bringing me back to my childhood whilst still feeling like an complex show. Now to the craftmanship of the show, the title cards at the start of each episode add to the literary narrative reminiscent of the best silent films shown on old grainy, projected screens in an old cinema . Credit should go to art directors Nick Cross and Nate Cash as the series subtley blends from beautiful colour in the lighter scenes to pitch black terror in the darker ones invoking a sense of fear and dread inside us all. The music also deserves a special mention , written by McHale and performed by " The Petrojvic blasting company", a gypsy folk band . The score is elegant and delightful invoking nostalgia as well as adding to the mystery and whimsical comedy of each chapter . The setting of the unknown is hauntingly beautiful and surreal ranging from fantastical colour backgrounds to dark, murky forest reminiscent of Snow White . Each chapter invokes a different aesthetic , for instance the whimsical episode, " Schooltime follies " brings into mind the work of children's illustrator Richard Scarry in the style of the animals , whereas the episode , "Songs of the Dark lantern " brings into mind the everlasting animation of Max Fleischer . The series as a whole seems to be inspired by a whole lot of classic and fantastic things , for instance the world , "the unknown" seems to be a beautiful mix of Walt Disneys Snow White and Miyazakis Prince Monokoke . Two animation pioneers , the steamboat in chapter 3 is a not so subtle reference to Disney . Similarly the old witch " Lady Whispers" could be taken directly out of " Spirited Away" .The miniseries as a whole reminded me of a stronger , more fleshed out version of the classic Adventure time Episode "Finn the Human" in terms of the characters and animation style . This work of art fits in perfectly with the new wave of seeming "adult shows" from Cartoon Network, with adult back stories yet all the traits of a fantastic kids show. The ending is a heartbreaking one that is best left unspoiled . The miniseries as a whole shows a deft range of emotional anguish and is overall the story of two brothers , demonstrating the power of friendship always shines through . Overall the series is a haunting fairy tale for our generation similar to the brothers Grimm in that two children get lost in a terrifying, fantastical world , and like any good fairy tale this one runs it's course perfectly. Overall this beautiful crafted blend of Disney and Miyazaki is a gem not to be dismissed as "Just a kids show".


                
Cartoon Network were responsible for some really fantastic childhood-favourite(that still hold up) shows like Dexter's Laboratory, Courage the Cowardly Dog and The Powerpuff Girls, but have over the years gone downhill. Not completely because the first three Ben 10 shows, Regular Show and Adventure Time are good, Young Justice is great and Amazing World of Gumball has a few weak spots and several good ones, but Johnny Test, Uncle Grandpa and Ben 10: Omniverse are three of the Network's worst and sadly are two of the shows that are on often on daytime TV.And then here comes the 10-part mini-series Over the Garden Wall, and while it's not one of Cartoon Network's all-time greatest it is a gem of a show and one of their best in a long time. It's really beautifully animated, with the handsome and very smoothly detailed backgrounds coming off particularly strongly and the mystery of The Unknown setting is realised brilliantly. Think Adventure Time but with more detail, darkness, sweetness and colour. As well as being good-looking animation, what the animation also does so brilliantly is two things, one being that it sets the melancholic but sweet folksy atmosphere of the stories very effectively and maintains that quality consistently and the other being how well it transports one to another world completely and draws one into the world to utter transfixing effect.The series throughout is very charmingly and hauntingly scored, having a real presence while also allowing the atmosphere to speak, which it wouldn't have done as effectively if the scoring was louder, brasher and more constant, the stories was I feel going to benefit from having a more melancholic, lilting and sometimes sparse approach to the music, and the music in Over the Garden Wall is exactly that. The main theme is very memorable too. The very unique stories are paced perfectly; feeling swift but never rushed and gentle while never dragging, and are very imaginatively and compellingly told even when episodic in nature(and with a couple of random spots like the end of the third episode). While the series always did get off to a strong start, it kept getting stronger until by episode 4 the quality was better than anything that Cartoon Network has been airing in recent years and came close to rivalling the Network at its best. Like with the animation, the atmosphere is melancholic, quirky and folksy, these qualities coming over in a gentle and very touching way and never getting silly or confusing, the series also gets dark with characters like The Beast but in a creepy way rather than traumatising.Over the Garden Wall succeeds wonderfully in the writing department too. It's funny, suspenseful and remarkably poignant, but it's not just that these qualities are present; it's also how they're balanced and written that made the writing strong. The humour never felt juvenile or too much, in fact especially with Greg(who has at least 3 funny moments an episode) some of the writing is adorable and at its best hilarious, the numerous emotional moments which can be primarily found in the characterisation of Wirt don't make the mistake of dragging the stories down and really succeed in allowing one to relate to Wirt and his troubles and the suspense is nail-biting but should not unsettle younger viewers too much. All this without one of them over-powering the other, this easily could have had too much humour of the wrong kind jarring with the atmosphere or been too scary, but I didn't find that to be the case with Over the Garden Wall. The characters are very well written, looking like and having the personalities of folk fairy tale figures. The protagonists are very easy to relate to, especially Wirt and it is easy to be endeared by the resourcefulness and cute optimism of Greg. The Beast is a very memorable main villain with a suitably scary appearance, and Beatrice, Woodsman, Auntie Whispers, Adelaide, Endicott et al make good impressions within their stories.The voice work is excellent from all involved; there are some truly talented names here and they don't disappoint and have strong material to work from. Elijah Wood's Wirt is very deeply felt and Colin Dean's chirpy enthusiasm contrasts most endearingly. Melanie Lynksey brings plenty of sass to Beatrice, John Cleese and Christopher Lloyd voice with sympathy and demeanour, Tim Curry has been better(understandably as apparently this was post-stroke voice work) but is effectively grotesque, Deborah Voigt is sympathetically mysterious and Samuel Ramey is devilishly creepy as the Beast. The series ends on a perfect note, feeling complete.Overall, a Cartoon Network gem, and one of their best in a long time. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I sincerely hope this show becomes a full series. The atmosphere alone would earn an 8 out of 10, but this show added genuinely interesting characters, a fairy-tale feel, excellent voice acting (especially Tim Curry), and an awesome villain. The villain is called "The Beast", and only his two glowing white eyes are shown throughout the show until the final episode. Even then, his character is still shrouded in mystery (his character could be developed more if OTGW gets a full show). This show is not just for kids. It has elements of storytelling that adults will appreciate, as well as good morals.The setting is called the Unknown. It is a dark and mysterious place, with more than one layer. How they go there is never explicitly explained (Yeah, I know they fell into the river. But why did they travel to the Unknown from there? Was it a magical river?), but that is sort of the point of the Unknown. It wouldn't be as threatening, beautiful, or amazing if it were completely explained.The last reviewer wrote that the show basically said "It was all a dream" in the last episode. However, there are several hints that it was not a dream, such as carried over character development for more then one character (how could they experience the same dream?), and the fact that Greg's frog is shown glowing at the end, something that would not have happened without the events in the show.OTGW was a wonderful experience, and I have my fingers crossed for a journey back into the Unknown!
Over the Garden Wall is a very impressive show. Almost everything is pitch-perfect. It has excellent voice acting, a unique and permeating mood, and it didn't over-stay its welcome. What most impressed me about Over the Garden Wall is both the atmosphere and themes that the show holds. It has a very Kafka-esque feel to it, and the show is excellent at asking existentialist questions. We are purposefully never told Wirt's motivation, aside from 'getting home,' and each episode begins with little-to-no segue from the previous episode, leading us to question if we are going forward or moving backward from our goal. The dreamlike tone matches perfectly, with odd and off-putting parts of the universe just taken at face value, with no explanation. Just for example, there is an episode where a school-teacher runs a school for animals. After class, she instructs the students to go to bed. The animals pass through a doorway, then there's a cut-away to them entering a doorway wearing nighties. Wirt, too, is there, but the transition is so quick and so dreamlike, yet we take it at face value. Consider another thing: we never see Wirt eat, and Greg eats only once - a spoonful of potatoes. What a small touch, but despite witnessing several shot of food set before them, we only once see any put into their mouths. Eating, surprisingly enough, often grounds a person in reality. Another moment that impressed was when Wirt and Greg entered the tavern with people who identified themselves by an occupation or label. The people identify Wirt as 'the Pilgrim, master of his own destiny,' yet this contradicts what we have seen over and over, that Wirt doesn't take control of situations, and is mostly stumbling along from one place to another and playing it by ear.The only thing I could critique the show on is the animation. It espouses the modern style of having your computer-generated characters walk across mostly still backgrounds. It makes the main characters seem a little rubbery and lifeless at times. But, that's pretty typical for modern animation. I guess I also rolled my eyes at the 'liar-reveal' story of Beatrice, but it didn't take away much from the miniseries as a whole. I don't believe that any piece of art should ever be considered perfect, as there are always ways to improve. Nevertheless, I believe Over the Garden Wall is superb, telling a charming, folksy story with excellent voice acting, mood, setting, direction, and music.


                
The previous reviewer might have waited to see all the episodes before writing. The whole concept becomes clear in the last two episodes, with an "aha" moment. We have seen this idea in many movies. In short, it is the "It was all a dream." concept. Very cleverly done, but I don't know what the age range would be. When is a child able to "get it?" It seems that it takes a more developed brain to be able to backtrack through the first episodes to make sense of the story as a whole. As a very mature adult, and lover of frogs, I'm glad I stuck with it through to the end! I would advise watching all the chapters at one sitting. Great characters. Spooky story. Satisfying ending.
I won't point out any new things which aren't in other reviews. I approve every good word which was said about this mini-mini-series. There are 3 things that struck me the most: 1. little brother, his easy-going style, his kindness and in some moments - unexpected, a bit edgy character traits (do not think of him as a numb-nuts). and the teapot, oh my :) 2. the world, its detail, its color and shadows. Simple but alive. 3. complete mix of modern world details and details from others, unknown times in historyBTW. If you look closely you will notice blur at the edge of screen. This effect and music are greatest reasons for the magical feeling :)


                
Last year, I saw the commercials for "Over the Garden Wall", and I thought, "Looks nice, maybe I'll check it out." One year later, Cartoon Network reran the show for Halloween, and after hearing so much praise for it, I recorded the entire series. And, holy cow, was it amazing! This is probably the darkest I've seen Cartoon Network get. The acting was spot on! Everyone does a fantastic job! I also like how they didn't use these big names as promotion for the show. They got Christopher Lloyd, John Cleese, and Tim Curry and I had no idea they were in this until after I did some research. The animation, spectacular! I think the best piece of animation in this is the Highwayman's song, so cool! I'm glad they didn't take the "Teen Titians GO!" approach and use Flash animation. If I did have one problem it'd have to be "the liar revealed" cliché. But that's just nit picking. Overall, if you want a new fall tradition, go buy this on DVD and watch it every Halloween or Thanksgiving.


                
I am not the target audience for this series. Because of that, I am not going to give the show a score--just talk about it and what other 'oldsters' like me might think of it."Over the Garden Wall" is a cartoon movie that's been split into 10 segments. Because of this, you may just want to watch it all at once. The story is about a boy (probably about 12-13 years-old) named Wirt and his little brother, Gregory. The story is about their weird quest to find their way home from a strange and magical land--which is sort of like a dystopian version of Wonderland. It's all very dark and EXTREMELY confusing. In fact, what it's all about isn't even apparent until episodes 9 and 10! In the interim, you'll no doubt be very confused. I say it's best NOT to try to think about what you're watching--just watch and enjoy the occasional laughs. So is it worth seeing? Well, yes if you have a VERY high tolerance for the strange and confusing. If you demand that the show explain itself and be normal, then don't watch. The story, while convoluted and weird, is worth while by the end. The background animations are very nice and there are a few familiar voices such as Elijah Wood and Christopher Lloyd. The bottom line is that it is nice to see Cartoon Network trying something different--and it certainly is different.


                
Well, this was a charming surprise. This show haunted me and charmed me at the same time, it also left me with a lot of conflicting emotions and thoughts. Let's start with the seating. Let's just say that if I was going to rate this show only in seating I would start by giving it a 12/10. The atmosphere of this miniseries is incredible, like a mix of fairy tale, old cartoons from the 30ies and a dreary tone as the autumn turns to winter and the protagonist encounter different creepy settings. The music in this show is also amazing, featuring a soundtrack that is cheerful and dreary. Finally the characters. They are not the strong point of the series but I enjoyed the interactions between all the inhabitants of the unknown (the woodsman and the beast) even thou I think the two brothers where a bit lacking, specially Greg. All and all, if you haven't watched this fine series you are not spending your time correctly.


                
Over The Garden Wall is a show that barely focuses on comedy. This show is complex and hard to understand at first. It is scary and mysterious, and definitely not for smaller children.That being said, this is one of the greatest things that has ever happened to not only Cartoons, but Television.Over the Garden Wall is not only my favorite one-off, but my favorite series. Why is it so good? Over the Garden Wall delves into a mysterious place called the Unknown. Our Heroes, Greg and Wirt, are brothers who get lost and end up here. A beast roams the Unknown, turning wanderers into trees. The Woodsman, a character who reoccurs in the series, chops these trees down to keep a lantern burning with the Woodsmans Daughters soul inside, unknowing that these are actually wanderers lost in the unknown. Soon a Bluebird named Beatrice comet to bring the brothers to Adelaide, A woman who could bring Wirt and his brother home. I cant even spoil the rest of the series for you guys. All I can say is the show soon enough has all the pieces soon enough brought together by the very last moments. Unfortunately the series isn't shown on air anymore, but you could find the episodes online or On Demand. Watch it. Do it now. Please? Okay.
From the first wistful violin tune that gracefully unveils the episode title, Over the Garden Wall entranced me. Of course, the very first episode starts with that excellent intro sequence that begins bizarrely with a spinning piano on which a singing frog delivers the first half of the theme song, The Loveliest Lies of All. The second half isn't delivered until the very end of the series but both are filled with gorgeous little vignettes that have even more significance and nostalgic meaning the second time around. That frog's beautifully rich voice belongs to Jack Jones, renowned pop and jazz singer, who is just one of the voice actors that lend the cast of wonderfully bizarre and colourful characters that much more depth. The main two characters of OTGW are brothers Wirt and Greg, who are trying to find their way home but inadvertently get lost in the woods. Wirt, the elder brother, is voiced by Elijah Wood, who is wears a pointy red hat (shaped after his nose) and is a bundle of social anxiousness and nervousness, not overly so, but in a more endearing way. The second last episode in particular focuses on this aspect of him. The younger brother Greg is voiced by Collin Dean, who provides that childlike delight, wonder, imagination and naivety that only a real child voice actor can produce (looking at you Wreck It Ralph). He wears an upside down tea-kettle on his head, and is the source for much of the humour in OTGW, with his curiosity and innocence that clashes with Wirt's seriousness of their plight. His adorable sing-song voice (and later song) are instantly appealing. Together they set off into the unknown as they meet a whole variety of odd situations and characters. The animation style perfectly blends the mellow beauty and the more sinister eerie settings they encounter. At times the painted backgrounds remind you of Miyazkai films with their attention to detail and captivating beauty. The art direction is phenomenal. As time goes on, autumn becomes winter and the colour palette shits from that of earthly browns and oranges to a colder, darker atmosphere of blues and snowy whites. Although the characters are designed with a more cartoonish appearance, this never derails them from the serious and ominous scenes that showcase real danger for the brothers. There's an assortment of weird and wonderful fairytale fantasy characters that provide laughs but also contemplation and emotion. They feature some impressive voice actors that turn the peculiar, the creepy and the charming beyond a cartoon's expectations. Some familiar names include John Cleese, Tim Curry, Christopher Lloyd and Thomas Lennon, but don't be surprised if you don't immediately recognise them. Over the Garden Wall is dished out in 10 episodes, each about 10-11 minutes long. The brothers go from setting to setting and meet new characters along the way, but it never feels rushed or confusing. They even jump between time periods of old America with a melancholic and fitting soundtrack to match, but lend an eager hand to the audience. Without spoiling anything, often you'll expect the story to go one way but it will go in a completely different and unique direction, but always keeping within its tone. Bits and pieces of their journey may seem insignificant but are quite important later, and the emotional punch of the last episode is one that builds upon the previous stories to great effect. The very last shot is particularly poignant. If you have a spare 2 hours, give this miniseries a watch. Over the Garden Wall will draw you into its magical world.


                
Wow.This miniseries is fantastic. You won't be able to find anything remotely like it on TV. Not only is it well animated but the story is extremely engaging with interesting and unique characters that keep your attention. I must tip my hat to the people who created this wonderful series. Their hard word paid off.Over the Garden Wall is a dark, surrealist horror cartoon that focuses on two boys: Wirt and his little brother Greg. After getting lost on Halloween night, they two of them stumble into the Unknown. They struggle to get back home and avoid the Beast.I will say this. As much as I love this series, I do not recommend it for little kids. Under ten years old, do not let them watch it.This cartoon is extremely dark but it has it's silly moments and some heartwarming scenes. I think what also really makes this series so great is the songs. At least every episode has at least one song and all of them of great. If you love surrealist animation as well as interesting and engaging stories, I highly recommend Over the Garden Wall.


                
This has to be one of the best animated series I have seen in a long time.For a while now have been watching shows such as Gravity Falls, Steven Universe, Regular Show, Adventure Time; cartoon shows that are marketed to children, but clearly carry some great adult themes with them.Over the Garden Wall was recommended to me by one of my best friends, and after seeing the pilot episode, I was instantly hooked. Add to that the simple yet gripping finale, and I am now praising this piece of animation as one of the greatest out there. I only wished sometimes that it would have been a little more darker than it was, but that is just me.The tale itself is an age-old formula: Kid(s) find themselves in an unknown world (see what I did there?), have to find their way home and meet all sorts of crazy people and adventures on the way. But for the more adult viewers there is more than enough to marvel at. It is a beautiful representation of the the spiritual nature of our world, and how every living being, dead or alive, are interconnected. This fits perfectly with my personal view of our world. Every episode is part of the imagination of people or even animals who have been alive on our planet at some point in history. Or maybe even in the future, who knows. Quincy (John Cleese) and his 'ghost' lover come from the early nineteenth century, when capitalism started booming, Beatrice herself is from a time somewhere in the industrial revolution, and I think her anger with the bluebird who later curses her and her family is a nice representation of ho we as a species have come to see nature and agriculture with the rise of factories and such (or maybe Im just taking this too far). If you know what to look for, this series gives some nice social commentary.The music and score are wonderful. The use of old bluesy and folk- country music from the 19th and early 18th century fit perfectly with this mixed display of US American folklore and old European fairy tales. This is only further enhanced with the casting of people like Blind Boy Paxton and C.W. Stoneking, who not only lend great voices and personality (and in Paxton's case, his singing voice in the Highway Man), but whose independent music are great favourites of mine.Finally the animation. Wow. It is simple and yet conveys so much. In the first episode, when the presumed Beast shows up, the animation and style of the weredog was perfectly in the style of the show, yet it's movements and animation were somehow a style in and of its own, and I most confess that he scared me a bit haha. Also the style of drawing when Gregory goes to Cloud CIty was heartwarming to me, as it reminded me of the early Disney cartoons from the 30s and 40s. I don't know if it was done on purpose, but seeing as they used it only in this environment (more than 3 characters on screen, song-and-dance routine), I almost have to conclude that the creators did this on purpose.Finally we come to the greatest aspect of the series, at least in my eyes. The Beast.Over the Garden Wall is one of the few media I know that, while not outright being a horror show, stays true to the number 1 rule of that genre: Never reveal what the monster looks like. And they did this all the way to the end, which I applaud. And even when Lloyd's Woodsman shines his lantern on the Beast and reveals his true looks, it is only for the briefest of seconds, and I spent at least two full minutes trying to pause the screen just right to see what he looked like. And even then, it fitted perfectly with his lore, and still managed to give me the creeps.The animation for the Beast and Samuel Ramey's voice were the perfect match, especially at that moment when Wirt, at the last minute, refuses to give in, are a joy to see. His eratic movement and the changing of the eyes (did anyone notice the weredog in E01 had the same rainbow eyes? Brr...).In the end, I do have to give some minor critique, if only for reality's sake. At times, I found that the creator's took the lore a little too lightly, and I believe the impact could have been a bit deeper if they made it just a bit darker. The core tale itself and the Beast's lore were very simple and they could have expanded on this. It was a bit too easy to figure out what the lantern actually was, but then again, this is a kid's show. These minor, minor points are the only reason I'm not giving this series a 10, and as you can see they are only personal nitpickings.
I entered the world of Over the Garden Wall after I finished catching up with Rick and Morty, a superb animated TV series that prides itself on the feelings of its characters and the darkness of its story lines. This was recommended as a "child-friendly" subsidiary and so I decided to give it a go. Initially, I was dubious about the need to rely on the efforts of two young boys and a bird companion, but this show is deceptively unique and thoughtful. What may seem like an innocent adventure turns out to be a dip into the troubled thoughts of youth and how those feelings affect the circumstances, and it all boils down to the relationship Wirt and Gregory have with each other.Split into ten short chapters, each episode has its own self-contained theme and situation (with the exception of chapter 10, which is a mature correlation of everything), but they connected somehow through a clever continuity referencer character. I struggled slightly with Episode 3 and 8, mainly because they delved a little too far into childish maelstrom, but on the other hand, it's required in this story to show the innocence of these children and to make us care about them. What really stands out in this episode is how the animation accentuates the dark tone, by using significantly dark imagery, such as a horned beast (synonymous with Hannibal's stag). It also depicts dark parallels with the real world and successfully shows how terrifying and uncomfortable these situations are. Chapter 2 and 7 are great examples of this, showing how the unknown can makes us feel unprepared and forced to make snap decisions. The show constantly reminds us of this throughout the chapters, and it allows us to consider the reality in the fantasy.It's the contrast between Wirt and Gregory that's so striking though, possibly because of the age gap, but it's fascinating to see how these two brothers can have such different perspectives. Initially, it's unclear where they stand in terms of each other, but later on it becomes quite clear and you notice how quickly the characters gain depth in development. An experiment in animation and storytelling, most likely, but it's undeniably a successful one. It's funny, scary, adventurous, dark, romantic, beautiful and painful. I can highly recommend this masterclass of animation, but I can't be certain you won't feel changed after you watch it - it has a depth that barely any kids TV series have these days (unfortunately), and to pack an entire series of characters, quests and scenarios in 1 hour and 50 minutes is a crowning achievement.
This is my first time writing a review, and I hope it goes well. Overall.. I felt like the series was a bit rushed. But, with 10 episodes the characters seem vary well developed. With that, I felt like it could have ran longer. It does seem that there are still people interested to know more about this animation world. For me, I felt there was a moral trying it's best to form. Innocence, sacrifice, self-realization, and the greater journey for Greg and Wirt getting home. I really enjoyed "Over the Garden Wall". A good start I would say, and I wish the series comes back!! For other recommendation on cartoons that have good character development and story progression I would suggest; "Steven Universe" and "Adventure Time". Now, child within, off to watching more cartoons!!


                
What can I say about this show? It has to be expirienced to grasp it, because of all these interesting characters which appear in the different episodes.The main characters Wirt and Greg make up this pair of brothers of which Wirt is an insecure but straight one and Greg is a goofball with high spirits. Even though both serve a purpose in the series I kind of hated Greg most of the time, because the goofball role came of not as comedic but just stupid like a no-brain moron most of the time, but he gets better over time.We encounter many interesting characters and scenarios through the episodes on their journey through the forest. Creepy stuff happens and they somehow solve it.An unsetteling feeling hangs over every episode and the gorgeous backgrounds are made with great attention to detail to suit every feeling we're supposed to feel and that is the core purpose of art! One of the highlights of this mini-series.Worth watching for everyone who enjoys well crafted animation and fairy-tales.


                
