Oh my goodness, oh my goodness, this show, this sweet little mini series, this golden show! I am always looking for good cartoons, in a weird way the shorter the better (short and sweet right). However, most short cartoons were canceled (for example: Clone High or Mission Hill). This is not the case for OTGW, which plays like a movie, 10 episodes multiplied by each episode's 11 minute run time is only 110 minutes (or an hour 50 minutes). Yet what I imagined would simply be some odd Adventure Time show about two brothers in the woods turned out to be so much more. The animation is sweet, dark and fluid. The backgrounds are very well done, especially because they are of nature. This really helps keep a deep and real feeling throughout the show, as these two simple cartoons are traveling through a dark and dementedly palpable world. Speaking of the world may I mention that it has two great things going for it (and these two things blend well together). One: it takes aspects form the 1700's, 1800's and early 1900's and Two: this fantasy world is American. I'm not some horn tooting nephew of Uncle Sam, but I am proud to see any show or animation really take advantage of 350 odd some years of "American" (Europeans in America) history, music, culture and atmosphere. This can add to the creep factor, but also grows on you. This show feels like it was made by an American Hayao Miyazaki; in the same way HM uses his Japanese culture to heighten the world. The magic and old time world in this show and Hayao's worlds are so familiar in a completely different way. Plus the two have old women with giant heads, spirits, magic, nature, human like frogs, adventure, strong females, and young protagonists in a fairytale environment. The world actually feels like the "Frog and Toad" books I read as a child. Don't let me forget that this show is also a musical in a sense. As many cartoons do now (I'm looking at you Adventure Time) the characters sing in every episode, accompanied by fantastic music (that matches the various American eras), and I quite enjoy the opening song as well. The voice acting is superb with Elijah Wood, an actual child (which I appreciate in animation) by the name of Collin Dean, and Melanie Lynesky taking center stage. Yet Christopher Lloyd and many others provide there talents too. The characters themselves are very real and multidimensional. Wirt is one of the best heroes in a long time, with a fantastic arc and a very unsure demeanor, Greg (his brother) is an adorable, optimistic and surprisingly bright boy who lives in his own cute little world, but not so cute that he doesn't also live in the real world, and Beatrice is a sassy, brave and loyal friend. I also like the clean character designs, I mean they're simple but also fluid, fresh and different. I don't want to spoil any part of the story, but I will say all your questions are answered and everything wraps up beautifully. The episodes are unique but they are all touched upon again, connect, and add to this singular plot. Sometimes you will start somewhere unexpectedly new (or rather without precise context) and this can be disconcerting, yet it does make sense. And more importantly the episode will start somewhere and stay somewhere, 11 minutes never flew by so quickly on a river ferry or a grammar school (the music also contributes to the speed of the episodes). Nod of course to writers: Tom Herpich, Amalia Levari, and Patrick McHale. Also the director Nate Cash (this show also has great directing) Over the Garden Wall is so great, and I'm writing this right after finishing the show, that's how great it is. It is dark and bizarre at times (not too dark for most children), but it is also a true adventure with lots of light and hope inside bleakness. And it is the perfect blend of real and surreal that fantasy deserves, there's plenty wacko s@#$ but the story and motives aren't wacko. By episode 2 I was definitely hooked, and by episode 6 I was pretty sure it was going to get my 10/10. I had some doubts with episode 8, yet I was won over during the episode and of course with the show's end. An end that perfectly wraps up everything in a neat bow. Episode 9's "surprise" is also so exciting and sets up the tenth to be a sort of finale, but again this is really just a movie, and its so short that there is no fear that one wouldn't finish it and consequently love it.And that's its beauty and why it is a ten starred masterpiece. Kids movies are very rarely so, long, weird, and have such a unique flow (and all the other great stuff from earlier), children's shows will have extra stories and characters than they often need (and again not have all that stuff from earlier). This is like the "True Detective" of children's animated television shows. And the world, oh my gosh the world, I know I already talked about this but whatever. I've just never seen anything like this, and when you wrap all these great elements together you get a perfect show. I recommend everyone see this show and I will be going back over the Garden Wall very soon, to enjoy it even more...p.s I forgot to mention it's funny too


                
I recommend Over the Garden Wall to kids, teens, and adults, (maybe a little scary for tiny tots) looking for a super fun, aesthetically-pleasing fairy-tale-Halloween mystery. The unique characters are likable and break a lot of cookie-cutter-character clichés. The atmosphere is dark and eerie while humorous and exciting. Each episode contains its own cool twist, and the series overall contains several bigger twists. I don't wanna drop any spoilers but there's lots of super awesome twists. You will love it! It's wonderful! I want to watch it again right now. I also recommend watching all ten episodes in one sitting like a movie.


                
Over the Garden Wall is a masterpiece. Recently i have been binge watching cartoons to try and find one which i was instantly hooked on. So far i have enjoyed the excellent Cowboy Bebop and other shows such as Rick and Morty and the wonderful Gravity Falls but none yet have been up to the standard that i now have after watching Over the Garden Wall which masterfully tells the tale of two brothers in the land called 'The Unknown' as we see them try and keep up faith that they will ever return home.Firstly, the characters are truly amazing, Wirt (voiced by Elijah Wood) a sullen boy with low self esteem issues struggles with his overly excitable brother Greg who is always messing up and seeing himself in often worse situations than in the beginning. We also get to meet up with the mysterious cast of characters that this show brings such as Beatrice a bluebird trying to help her family also the mysterious and creepy antagonist the beast who is always seems to be playing at the strings of our heroes trying to make them lose all hope and faith of ever returning home. Each character brings something that we can all relate to and overly helps to form a truly compelling story.OMG the style of animation. It is fluid, dark and creepy and helps bring the eerie feeling of mystery that is present in every episode. The simplistic character design helps them 'pop' out against the highly detailed and aesthetically pleasing background done in a autumn forest style. Helping to portray the tones as our antagonists wandered through the dark and creepily palpable world. This is assisted by the music which in turn helps to create at some times a light atmosphere but also transforming the world into a eerie and mysterious place which makes you fear for Wirt and Gregory. Also if all of the music in this was put onto an album i would instantly buy it *hint hint Disney* because of how much i was enthralled by the show. One of the factors that attracted me to this was it knew when to end, other shows such as Adventure Time and the Amazing World of Gumball (although being brilliant) seemed to drag on a bit too much. Over the Garden Wall lasting 10 episodes still manages to develop the characters to an extent that i have not seen in other shows whilst still retaining humour and also atmosphere. Overall, would highly recommend this to anyone who is interested in a cartoon which can entrance you and make you hope for a journey back into The Unknown and in the future I hope for more masterpieces like what i found in Over the Garden Wall.


                
Over the Garden Wall is brilliant. Thank you Cartoon Network for allowing it to happen. Beautifully animated, wonderfully paced with just the right blend of humor and creepiness. Also - kudos to using the mini series format, I hope this is only a sign of things to come and more self contained short events are on the way. I'm tired of watching several seasons of a series that started strong end up wandering aimlessly with no clear endgame in sight. The voice cast was exceptional, and the resolution handled perfectly. A big thanks to the other reviewer that gave the Cartoon Network programming history perspective above, explains a lot. Now if only CN could find a way to apologize for and right the wrongs done to all of the terrific DC nation series that were unceremoniously canceled.


                
In May 2014, Stuart Snyder, the man responsible for single-handedly destroying Toonami, bringing in live-action schlock to CARTOON Network, establishing the "NO GIRLS ALLOWED"* policy for cartoons, declaring that boys only like comedy (as a member of that demographic, I can assure you that such a statement is completely asinine), and ultimately killing every good show the network made resigned as the President of the Network. And oh what glorious day it was.If Cartoon Network made this series as an apology for the sins of Snyder, then it succeeded. This series is dark, atmospheric, weird and pretty scary at times. It's not bright, it's not dumbed-down, it doesn't hold back on the creep factor, especially for Tim Curry's character, Auntie Whispers, and it takes its audience seriously. And even though the cast has a lot of celebrity actors (aside from Tim Curry, they also got Christopher Lloyd and cast Elijah Wood as one of the two main leads), they got them because they knew these guys were perfect for the roles. The story is revealed a snippet at a time and from what little I've gathered from the two episodes it strikes me as being just as dark as the setting and atmosphere.Oh, and just to put icing on the cake, they stuck the old Cartoon Network Studios animated logo on to the end of it like they used to for shows like Samurai Jack and Power Puff Girls, followed by the classic Cartoon Network logo with the Cartoon Cartoons theme dubbed over it.They're back, and this is only the beginning of what I hope is another era akin to that of the late-90s/early-2000s.*IMDb does not allow me to spell the word "GIRLS" with a backwards "R". Please pretend that it did.


                
This series, without a doubt, is a treasure of animation. Never once has a series or movie ever gotten me so interested. It isn't too long, it perfectly runs its course, unlike other fantastic shows like Adventure Time or Regular Show that can be hard to keep up with. Ten episodes, each about ten minutes, giving practically a feature- length movie that is certainly going to strike you as wonderful. Elijah Wood gives an amazing and realistic depiction of the average modern teen, and Greg provides the comical child-like wonder that we all could relate to our past as kids. Lessons in trust, family, friends, love, and honor perfectly blend with the simplistic yet entrancing artwork, and not since Gravity Falls has a cartoon ever amazed me with its genius concept and plot devices. The series is short and wonderful, and it needs more exploitation. And just as I was growing worried for animation on television like Clarence or Uncle Grandpa which leave little to be desired. If you like the creativity of Regular Show, the quirkiness of Adventure Time, and the art of Steven Universe, coupled with the humor of Amazing World of Gumball, this is without a doubt the best animated creation that has been put out in decades.


                
As I was watching Over the Garden Wall with some friends, I found myself commenting, more than once, how charming this would be/is for kids. It's got anthropomorphic creations (birds and horses and other things that talk, pumpkin-headed farmers, frogs in a band on a river-bank, magical and funny and weird dreams, or a dream, from a child), and yet it has a sophistication to the writing that kids appreciate; one might think that they will only take in the lowest-common denominator - put on whatever, it's fine, it's for kids - but this is smart stuff. This is also really great for adults, the ones at least who can tap a little into their childhood sense of awe, because of the humor and irreverence. Over the Garden Wall is like taking Adventure Time, transferring the other-worldly into early 20th century Americana, folk tales, even some Alice in Wonderland (the structure for me is very Wonderland, especially with a young character getting lost and on a series of episodes), and adding some songs as well that are reflective of the period.The story follows Wirt and Gregory (Elijah Wood and the young Collin Dean, who has been on Adventure Time a couple of times), brothers who seem to be lost in the woods and are trying to find their way home. Their main adversary appears to be 'The Beast', who is being stalked by the Woodsman (Christopher Lloyd in a wonderful part - you can't always tell if he's good or bad or both). As one can imagine, or hope for, a lot of wild and crazy things happen to these young people, such as the pumpkin farmers (what are they digging for in the farm?), the frogs on the boat (and suddenly there may be some singing from Gregory's frog, who's name always changes), and John Cleese as both the possibly deranged landowner of a spooky mansion and an old woman. Even Tim Curry gets a good character as 'Auntie Whispers', who is 'protecting' her niece, a possessed girl.The creators of 'Garden Wall' suffuse many scenes with some nightmarish moments, but it's all with a light, absurd touch, and a lot of this is helped immensely by Collin Dean's performance and the writing for the character of Gregory. This is a little kid who has zero filter; he'll say the truth of something no matter what, even if it's a moment (especially if it is) when the smart thing would be to lie or shut up. That's where so much humor comes in - also watch and listen how he sings ever so cheerfully at times - since in many scenes Wert is trying to get by on a fib or a lie or a trick, or doesn't have that sense of boundless optimism. It's one of the most charming acting voices for an animated character in as long as I can remember, and accentuated by the gigantic pupils - made to make him look cute as a button - and head-gear (he's an elephant, after all!) There's a real sense of play and, equally, danger (the final episode with the Beast, Auntie Curry), and I found myself laughing a lot, but I also found I took this story a little more seriously than I would an Adventure Time or something else with Patrick McHale's name on it. It takes from some folk tales and fairy tales, but it has an identity all its own. It's creepy and weird and adorable and heartfelt, and it carries both the awe and innocence of being a little kid and the disillusionment of being a teenager like Wert. And did I mention the songs are a lot of fun and contribute to the atmosphere? It's like taking in old ragtime songs (some of the time) and giving them an animated, pop-up book feel. It's tremendous, semi-subversive stuff for kids, and a joy for adults.


                
Over the Garden Wall is really something special. Not only is it good on its own merit, but it also breaks some of the barriers of animation. Over the Garden Wall proves that not everything animated needs to be either a TV show or a movie... animation can tell a simpler story without having to stay longer than necessary. Yet, it doesn't need to be a "movie" in terms of structure. That is what makes Over the Garden Wall so interesting... in total length, it is only 100 minutes... a movie length... but it feels like it is much longer than that (in a good way) because it is structured into 10 minute chapters. This gives the miniseries a very unique feel for animation.The atmosphere in this show is spot-on. The music fits its melancholy Americana fairy-tale setting, the colors and drawings fits with the bitter autumn tone, and the dialogue is never forced or drawing more attention than it needs to. That is another aspect I like about this series: It never really draws attention to itself. Nothing in it is really big or massive and the jokes are never really forced. Almost everything in it is subtle and quiet. Even when strange things happen, they aren't quite as upfront about it such as in other Cartoon Network shows like Adventure Time (which is still a great show).The plot to the show is also a fairly strong point. At first, nothing seems incredibly attached, but once the show reaches its last two episodes, everything starts to make sense. Fortunately, this show has a lot of strong characters. All of them are voiced excellently except for Fred the Horse. Fred the Horse wasn't a bad character, but his voice... stuck out a little too much. He seemed like a character that was intentionally trying to be a cartoon; though thankfully he only talks in oneish episode.The main characters: Wirt, Greg, and Beatrice are all likable. Wirt has an incredibly low self-esteem and is into a lot of unique interests but is also pessimistic and blames Greg for everything. Greg is his little step-brother who is always several steps behind everyone, but is still very useful in his optimism and resourcefulness. What is really nice about this series is that Wirt is not shown as "the brains" or the guy who has it all together. He truly is lost and he really is pathetic. The other nice thing is that Greg isn't always childishly dumb. Sometimes he really does have his act together. Both characters are strong. Beatrice is nice because she may not be pessimistic, but she doesn't care about fun or getting distracted. She simply wants to be finished with the issues at hand.Without giving anything away, the show is unique in its ability to constantly surprise. I always think that I know where the show is going, but it always takes a clever twist. To make things better, all of the plot-twists (except for maybe one) all make sense upon watching the series a second time. If anything, the series IS BETTER the second time through because it is scattered with little hints and secrets that fit together.All in all, a very good series that needs some recognition. I'm surprised how little attention this show has even though when it was first released everyone was talking about it. It is clever, smart, mellow, and beautifully crafted.I hope to see more mini-series from Cartoon Network like this. And that's a rock fact.
This story was a piece of artwork. I loved how thick the plot was, but all it needed was 10 episodes, 5 if you want to make them 30 minutes each. Yes i agree this show isn't really meant for the younger crowd but then again since when was Cartoon network only for children? Since when did they agree to only design shows for a certain age group? Cartoon network has always been for everyone, all ages. So seeing them make a show like this that was more targeted by my age group, made me happy to know that a network channel is also appeasing to the older range group. The story has a lot of symbolism and does teach us all a powerful lesson, but you must be old enough to understand. If a 6 year old watches this, they won't understand much, but if someone my age were to watch it, they would understand the powerful meaning behind every character. Behind the show. And would truly understand what is Over the Garden Wall.


                
"Over the Garden Wall" is a Cartoon Network miniseries that was shown on TV in the November of 2014. It is a beautifully crafted tale of friendship , love and courage that follows the adventures of Wirt and his brother Gregory as they attempt to travel home in the mysterious world , " the unknown". The series as a whole is a perfect blend of light hearted comedy and dark, creepy setting. For one thing the comedy and jokes are actually funny, hilarious at some points very reminiscent of the weird humor of adventure time ( I will touch on that later), this comes as no surprise as writer, story boarder and creator Patrick McHale worked with Pendelton Ward in the first two, arguably best, series of adventure time . Wards craft and love of character has clearly rubbed off on McHale who here creates a series so supremely beautiful and touching , there really hasn't been anything like it before in the world of cartoons . The characters for one are extremely likable and memorable all throughout , Wirt representing the cynical teenager ( without overdoing the cliché) and his little step brother Gregory is wonderfully memorable and funny throughout , if you have a younger sibling I guarantee you will find similarities . To be honest I feel the plot of the series is best to let you discover as it feels to me like true magic watching it, bringing me back to my childhood whilst still feeling like an complex show. Now to the craftmanship of the show, the title cards at the start of each episode add to the literary narrative reminiscent of the best silent films shown on old grainy, projected screens in an old cinema . Credit should go to art directors Nick Cross and Nate Cash as the series subtley blends from beautiful colour in the lighter scenes to pitch black terror in the darker ones invoking a sense of fear and dread inside us all. The music also deserves a special mention , written by McHale and performed by " The Petrojvic blasting company", a gypsy folk band . The score is elegant and delightful invoking nostalgia as well as adding to the mystery and whimsical comedy of each chapter . The setting of the unknown is hauntingly beautiful and surreal ranging from fantastical colour backgrounds to dark, murky forest reminiscent of Snow White . Each chapter invokes a different aesthetic , for instance the whimsical episode, " Schooltime follies " brings into mind the work of children's illustrator Richard Scarry in the style of the animals , whereas the episode , "Songs of the Dark lantern " brings into mind the everlasting animation of Max Fleischer . The series as a whole seems to be inspired by a whole lot of classic and fantastic things , for instance the world , "the unknown" seems to be a beautiful mix of Walt Disneys Snow White and Miyazakis Prince Monokoke . Two animation pioneers , the steamboat in chapter 3 is a not so subtle reference to Disney . Similarly the old witch " Lady Whispers" could be taken directly out of " Spirited Away" .The miniseries as a whole reminded me of a stronger , more fleshed out version of the classic Adventure time Episode "Finn the Human" in terms of the characters and animation style . This work of art fits in perfectly with the new wave of seeming "adult shows" from Cartoon Network, with adult back stories yet all the traits of a fantastic kids show. The ending is a heartbreaking one that is best left unspoiled . The miniseries as a whole shows a deft range of emotional anguish and is overall the story of two brothers , demonstrating the power of friendship always shines through . Overall the series is a haunting fairy tale for our generation similar to the brothers Grimm in that two children get lost in a terrifying, fantastical world , and like any good fairy tale this one runs it's course perfectly. Overall this beautiful crafted blend of Disney and Miyazaki is a gem not to be dismissed as "Just a kids show".


                
Cartoon Network were responsible for some really fantastic childhood-favourite(that still hold up) shows like Dexter's Laboratory, Courage the Cowardly Dog and The Powerpuff Girls, but have over the years gone downhill. Not completely because the first three Ben 10 shows, Regular Show and Adventure Time are good, Young Justice is great and Amazing World of Gumball has a few weak spots and several good ones, but Johnny Test, Uncle Grandpa and Ben 10: Omniverse are three of the Network's worst and sadly are two of the shows that are on often on daytime TV.And then here comes the 10-part mini-series Over the Garden Wall, and while it's not one of Cartoon Network's all-time greatest it is a gem of a show and one of their best in a long time. It's really beautifully animated, with the handsome and very smoothly detailed backgrounds coming off particularly strongly and the mystery of The Unknown setting is realised brilliantly. Think Adventure Time but with more detail, darkness, sweetness and colour. As well as being good-looking animation, what the animation also does so brilliantly is two things, one being that it sets the melancholic but sweet folksy atmosphere of the stories very effectively and maintains that quality consistently and the other being how well it transports one to another world completely and draws one into the world to utter transfixing effect.The series throughout is very charmingly and hauntingly scored, having a real presence while also allowing the atmosphere to speak, which it wouldn't have done as effectively if the scoring was louder, brasher and more constant, the stories was I feel going to benefit from having a more melancholic, lilting and sometimes sparse approach to the music, and the music in Over the Garden Wall is exactly that. The main theme is very memorable too. The very unique stories are paced perfectly; feeling swift but never rushed and gentle while never dragging, and are very imaginatively and compellingly told even when episodic in nature(and with a couple of random spots like the end of the third episode). While the series always did get off to a strong start, it kept getting stronger until by episode 4 the quality was better than anything that Cartoon Network has been airing in recent years and came close to rivalling the Network at its best. Like with the animation, the atmosphere is melancholic, quirky and folksy, these qualities coming over in a gentle and very touching way and never getting silly or confusing, the series also gets dark with characters like The Beast but in a creepy way rather than traumatising.Over the Garden Wall succeeds wonderfully in the writing department too. It's funny, suspenseful and remarkably poignant, but it's not just that these qualities are present; it's also how they're balanced and written that made the writing strong. The humour never felt juvenile or too much, in fact especially with Greg(who has at least 3 funny moments an episode) some of the writing is adorable and at its best hilarious, the numerous emotional moments which can be primarily found in the characterisation of Wirt don't make the mistake of dragging the stories down and really succeed in allowing one to relate to Wirt and his troubles and the suspense is nail-biting but should not unsettle younger viewers too much. All this without one of them over-powering the other, this easily could have had too much humour of the wrong kind jarring with the atmosphere or been too scary, but I didn't find that to be the case with Over the Garden Wall. The characters are very well written, looking like and having the personalities of folk fairy tale figures. The protagonists are very easy to relate to, especially Wirt and it is easy to be endeared by the resourcefulness and cute optimism of Greg. The Beast is a very memorable main villain with a suitably scary appearance, and Beatrice, Woodsman, Auntie Whispers, Adelaide, Endicott et al make good impressions within their stories.The voice work is excellent from all involved; there are some truly talented names here and they don't disappoint and have strong material to work from. Elijah Wood's Wirt is very deeply felt and Colin Dean's chirpy enthusiasm contrasts most endearingly. Melanie Lynksey brings plenty of sass to Beatrice, John Cleese and Christopher Lloyd voice with sympathy and demeanour, Tim Curry has been better(understandably as apparently this was post-stroke voice work) but is effectively grotesque, Deborah Voigt is sympathetically mysterious and Samuel Ramey is devilishly creepy as the Beast. The series ends on a perfect note, feeling complete.Overall, a Cartoon Network gem, and one of their best in a long time. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I sincerely hope this show becomes a full series. The atmosphere alone would earn an 8 out of 10, but this show added genuinely interesting characters, a fairy-tale feel, excellent voice acting (especially Tim Curry), and an awesome villain. The villain is called "The Beast", and only his two glowing white eyes are shown throughout the show until the final episode. Even then, his character is still shrouded in mystery (his character could be developed more if OTGW gets a full show). This show is not just for kids. It has elements of storytelling that adults will appreciate, as well as good morals.The setting is called the Unknown. It is a dark and mysterious place, with more than one layer. How they go there is never explicitly explained (Yeah, I know they fell into the river. But why did they travel to the Unknown from there? Was it a magical river?), but that is sort of the point of the Unknown. It wouldn't be as threatening, beautiful, or amazing if it were completely explained.The last reviewer wrote that the show basically said "It was all a dream" in the last episode. However, there are several hints that it was not a dream, such as carried over character development for more then one character (how could they experience the same dream?), and the fact that Greg's frog is shown glowing at the end, something that would not have happened without the events in the show.OTGW was a wonderful experience, and I have my fingers crossed for a journey back into the Unknown!
Well, this was a charming surprise. This show haunted me and charmed me at the same time, it also left me with a lot of conflicting emotions and thoughts. Let's start with the seating. Let's just say that if I was going to rate this show only in seating I would start by giving it a 12/10. The atmosphere of this miniseries is incredible, like a mix of fairy tale, old cartoons from the 30ies and a dreary tone as the autumn turns to winter and the protagonist encounter different creepy settings. The music in this show is also amazing, featuring a soundtrack that is cheerful and dreary. Finally the characters. They are not the strong point of the series but I enjoyed the interactions between all the inhabitants of the unknown (the woodsman and the beast) even thou I think the two brothers where a bit lacking, specially Greg. All and all, if you haven't watched this fine series you are not spending your time correctly.


                
Over The Garden Wall is a show that barely focuses on comedy. This show is complex and hard to understand at first. It is scary and mysterious, and definitely not for smaller children.That being said, this is one of the greatest things that has ever happened to not only Cartoons, but Television.Over the Garden Wall is not only my favorite one-off, but my favorite series. Why is it so good? Over the Garden Wall delves into a mysterious place called the Unknown. Our Heroes, Greg and Wirt, are brothers who get lost and end up here. A beast roams the Unknown, turning wanderers into trees. The Woodsman, a character who reoccurs in the series, chops these trees down to keep a lantern burning with the Woodsmans Daughters soul inside, unknowing that these are actually wanderers lost in the unknown. Soon a Bluebird named Beatrice comet to bring the brothers to Adelaide, A woman who could bring Wirt and his brother home. I cant even spoil the rest of the series for you guys. All I can say is the show soon enough has all the pieces soon enough brought together by the very last moments. Unfortunately the series isn't shown on air anymore, but you could find the episodes online or On Demand. Watch it. Do it now. Please? Okay.
The fantasy genre has always been my favorite because one of the best things about it is in the world that it takes place. The fantasy world is always fascinating because there is just so much that is different and similar that contrasts to the modern day reality. It's a nice form of escapism because it's just always fun to want to see or find something different constantly as opposed to what we are use to every day.This mini series is one of my favorite TV shows of all time, it was just one of those surprises I've been looking for.The story I think is great, it's imaginative and original despite being nothing new in format it's similar to Lewis Caroll's "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking Glass". Like in those stories it's about an individual that gets lost in an disorienting fantasy world. But why this story stands out is in it's execution and the fact that it uses this kind of format shows the timeless quality of the fantasy genre. The animation I personally think is excellent, I like the character animation which fits them perfectly, however it's really the background animation that stands out the most which I think look just beautiful. From the woods where just mere panels could be another background painting for an art gallery. I really love the fantasy world created, it seems to be a mixture of decades from the 1700s, 1800s, to the early 1900. From certain housing structures, customs, clothing, music, just about everything you see along the way. It is so rich in depth, I always wished there could of been more episodes to explore this world more. The atmosphere is always wondrous, unpredictable, strange, and really creepy/eerie all at once which makes this all the more great. The show knows when to be fun but also knows when to be dark which I really love, there's no water down bull crap, this show really behaves and acts like a really fairy tale/fantasy story.I even like the music which I think is great, most of the music sounds like the kind you would play on a gramophone. The style of music they used is late 1800's and early 1900's music, it perfectly fits the world it takes place and the songs are memorable like "Potatoes and Molases" and my favorite which is one of my favorite theme songs of all "The Lovelyest lies of all."The characters are excellent, from the main characters to some of the supporting characters they run into. I really love the dynamics going on from Wurt and Greg whom felt like real brothers and in a way you could say it's almost a Freudian dynamic in a way Wurt is the superego and Greg is the id. I also like the dynamic they have with Betrice, where she is both a guide and a foil at the same time.Wurt (Eliah Wood) is true to his name as his character as he is pretty much a worry wort throughout the journey. He's ill confidant, non assertive and practically has some low self esteem issues. This character really does have a fascinating character arc, because deep down he really does have strong confidence he just needs to climb a few step more to get there. As the journey goes on you do see him grow a little as we see him take charge more and do what he has to do because there's no one else that will except him.Greg he is really funny and fun. He is a highly imaginative kid just high in spirits you can never bring him down. What I love about him and it's something I can emphasize with is that he just loves to do whatever he feels like doing, he doesn't care what other people think of him if something makes him happy he acts on in, some would say this would make Greg ridiculous and mad well in the words of the Cheshere Cat from "Alice in Wonderland" "I'm mad your mad, were all mad." However really does contribute and help out in whatever way he can and that's another thing I love about the character is he's selfless, he really does care and love his brother. In a way he's sort of the rock for Wurt and even Betrice as their spirits are somewhat low he reinforces their by keeping his up and lightening things up.Berice (Melanie Lynskey) she is really funny. Her character comes off a tad unlikeable at first as she is kinda guilty of anti social behavior she's kinda off putting, a bit self centered. But what I like about her is that the grumpier she gets in her desperation and lothing of being a bluebird she gets sweeter. We also see her also have a fascinating character arc, throughout the journey she learns to be more courteous, admits to her own faults and even begins to open up to Wurt a little and also does what she has to do.One thing that really interesting is throughout the show you begin to discover in a way this is really more Wurt's journey and it's really about him finding himself, which in a way is sort of the theme of this show. Each of the characters have lost something or have gotten lost somewhere along the line. It all about finding what is lost in your life or within yourself in order to live life with more fulfillment than before.This is a garden with plenty of strange beauty to get lost in.Rating: 4 stars


                
This short series is enjoyable for any age. It has an engaging story filled with wonderful and well developed characters. The writing is perfect and it's hard to stop watching. It's a simple and pure series


                
A friend recommended this show and I'm so glad I watched it. The imagery is beautiful, from the pumpkins to the beast. It's hauntingly creepy, yet elegant and reassuring at the same time. I wish it was longer than one season, but at the same time, it went through the whole journey adequately. And the relationship between the brothers is touching. Would highly recommend to anyone, especially since each episode is only 11 minutes long!


                
If i must choose an animation )for the eternal lives, sending other life forms or something Etc.) obliviously my choice was 'Over the Garden Wall'. Not just for the amazing fairytale, this work made of full metaphors, strong sociological critics and human-being thoughts. Unbelievable, sarcastic and joyful.


                
Back when my Dish cable provider blocked all the the Turner based channels around before Halloween, Over the Garden Wall came out on TV. It was the one show I was looking forward to since it was announced earlier last year. Lucky enough, thanks to the modern world, I was able to buy the entire mini series digitally and it was absolutely worth every buck of it.Created by former Adventure Time writer Patrick McHale, the show involves around 2 step brothers Wirt & Greg who are lost in the Unknown. Aided by a talking bluebird named Beatrice, they encounter many places and folks including dancing pumpkins, a schoolhouse teaching animals, and a steamboat full of frogs while finding their way home. However, it's not all peaches and cream as danger lurks when a Woodsman of the Unknown is working for a mysterious beast who turns children into oil and the brothers themselves get caught onto the problem on the way.The animation and music is some of the best I've seen for an American cartoon and it definitely borrows from late 19th and early 20th century folk art and music as well as some Studio Ghibli influences too. The dark tone the show takes a lot and the many unexpected twists the stories give will definitely give you suspense, surprises and more, in which will be enough for you'll keep you interested to watch up until the very end.So in conclusion, Over the Garden Wall is overall amazing. It's beautifully written and crafted altogether and it may as well be my vote for my favorite show of last year and one of my all time favorite shows. If I had any more suggestions, I recommend watching this in the dark and during the Fall to get a better feel watching it.
Patrick Mchale did some legendary stuff on this cartoon, I absolutely love it. The show's vibe, stories, characters, animation, art, all amazing. This is an absolutely astonishing cartoon made by Cartoon Network, the pacing is great. And also it's a mini series. So it ends with a proper conclusion and that it doesn't go on and on and on. It has some good humor on Greg's part and the serious scary and creepy moments really make you shiver, this cartoon is absolutely gorgeous the background art just really sets its mood. This cartoon made me flip when I first watched it. I was shocked by how good this is. I also love Wirt and his character, the worried, "loser" characters are always my favorites. I wasn't really expecting anything when I first jumped into this, but now that I have I can safely say that this is one of the best cartoons of this generation or if not one of the best cartoons ever.I could give this a 9 out of 10, but I really want to give this a 10 out of 10


                
I re-watch this series every year, it became a fall tradition for me. Ah I'll never get tired of watching it. ITS SO GOOD GO WATCH IT!!


                
All in the title but they're making me fill this with more text just so I can submit the review. The illustration and style brings me back to when I was a child and reminds me of "The Tailor of Gloucester" (pronounced glo-ster).


                
I started watching Over the Garden Wall with reasonably high expectations, I had seen it being given a lot of praise, but I still underestimated this film and could not have anticipate just how much it would get to me. The premise is simple enough, two young brothers become lost in the woods and try to find their way back home, encountering all sorts of interesting characters and adventures on the way, however, that simple summary cannot do justice to or encapsulate the scope and brilliance of Over the Garden Wall.The animation in Over the Garden wall is simplistic and elegant, while it may not be the most visually stunning style it convincingly conveys a range of emotions and characters that are very rarely aesthetically unappealing. The voice acting is superb and never feels forced or inauthentic, and as a result the characters never seem like facades or puppets, which really helps to maintain your investment in the characters and the world of the show.But animation and acting alone cannot bring a film to this level, and the writing is what really sets it apart. The dialogue is very well written and each episode has a tight plot and manages to fight a full story with a beginning, middle and end into a a 10 minute run-time. The resolution never feels cheap or forced and each story brings to light different facets of the characters in an organic way. In addition to the well plotted episodes and great dialogue, the characters in this show are fantastic. The stand outs are Greg, Wirt and the Woodsman, (wonderfully voiced by Christopher Lloyd) who all have very emotional performances in places and bring an incredible amount of depth to the show.This animation completely blew me away, and has what I think will stand as one of my favourite scenes ever put to film. I cannot recommend this enough, so do yourself a favour and find Over the Garden wall, get yourself comfortable and take a peek into the unknown.


                
This 10 episode cartoon is an obscure gem in today's world of television which probably not many will ever get to see, but if you do happen to come across this, don't hesitate one second. Anyone can make time for this show as its total runtime is just a bit short of two hours and I would recommend watching it in one sitting. The story being told is absolutely magical with well developed characters and fantastic music. Children watching this probably will still enjoy it, even though they probably wont understand most of the deeper morals and subtopics being explored. This cartoon seems to be focused on young adults who grew up in cartoons network glory days, and this certainly hits the spot. This show is already a real classic for me hopefully it gets shown to as many people as possible.


                
OK so firstly, I only discovered this show earlier on this year, probably in May and I came across it in a rather funny way. I was watching Alex Hirsch(the creator of another amazing show, Gravity Falls) accept an award for best animated show and he said how he was glad to be in a category with some of his favorite shows, and he mentioned Over the Garden Wall. Now I had never heard of it so I decided to look it up out of curiosity. I found out it was a 10 episode mini series. After reading a pretty short and simple summary I said, "well I'm bored, let me check this out on youtube and see what it is, it sounds interesting." Let me tell you, the best decision I ever made. The show is centered around two boys, Wirt and Greg, who find themselves lost in the dark woods called the Unknown trying to get home. In order to return home they must keep faith lest they fall into the hands of the Beast, a creature feared by all who inhabit the Unknown. The minute the theme song played I found myself feeling overwhelmingly nostalgic and invested. I wanted to know what was going to happen immediately and this was only a couple seconds in. The show is also folksy and quite charming which is something I happen to love. I honestly didn't know what to expect, but I didn't expect this. The characters, the art, the music, the story-line, it kept me hooked from beginning to the end. The characters are incredible and rather different. Once the show starts, we meet two stepbrothers who are lost in the woods. Wirt who is a socially awkward but talented teenager, and his younger brother Gregory who is optimistic, goofy, and all around adorable. What I love about Wirt is that he is very relatable, and they did something unique to him. Even though he was shy and awkward, people liked him. His crush Sara clearly felt the same way about him, but he feels that she is in love with "Jason Funderburker" who is his competition for her, and the reveal of this competition was quite funny. His classmates also liked him. But he doesn't have self confidence, he's down on himself and he is so afraid of ridicule he keeps his poetry and clarinet abilities to himself. His brother Greg is the complete opposite. Greg is outgoing and cute and silly. He owns a Frog which he obtained before they got lost, and its name constantly changes. He does things that sometimes upset his brother because he doesn't understand Wirt's more neurotic behavior in comparison to his more carefree nature. You will find yourself going "aww" quite often as Greg makes every scene lighthearted and sweet. We later run into a bird named Beatrice. She and Wirt didn't really get along at first which made for some entertaining dialogue between them, especially when he accidentally insults her when they first meet. She is a nice addition to the story with an interesting past. She helps them by bringing them to Adelaide in order to get herself and the boys home, but there is more to it than appears which we learn in episode 6. The Woodsman who was brilliantly voiced by Christopher Lloyd, was probably my favorite character. He helps the boys and warns them of the Beast, telling them to get out of the Unknown as fast as they can because the Beast feeds on hopelessness, and will claim you once you lose will. The Woodsman is introduced in the very first episode, residing in a mill where he grinds Edelwood trees to fuel a lantern. We learn why he is so adamant about keeping this lantern lit in episode 4. During episode 1 and 4 you might find yourself thinking he is the Beast, but watch til the end and it's all explained. His story I found to be the most tragic. The visuals are particularly stunning. I loved that it took place in Autumn, and that it was traditionally animated. The characters were wonderfully designed and voiced. The episodes usually mix in between being dark and lighthearted but it's all done really well. The overall atmosphere in The Unknown is generally eerie and deep although there are many moments of whimsy. And the music! It was all beautiful. It sounds like something you could play on a record. My personal favorites were the frog's song which was coincidentally called Over the Garden Wall, Patient is the Night, and the show's main theme as well :) The songs made sense when they were played, and definitely added to the scenes. The instrumental themes were no less amazing, especially in the final episode. The story is really engaging, they meet interesting characters along their journey, and we discover a lot about the residents of this mysterious forest. And "the Unknown" the final episode. You will find yourself invested in whether or not they make it home. The reveals are heartbreaking and the show gets pretty deep. Maybe it's just that I'm very emotional, but the buildup to the finale was quite amazing and emotional. It left me speechless. The only way I could see you not liking this is if you were not a fan of animation, not that sentimental, or not a fan of folktales/fairy tales. The story is in "media res," meaning it starts where things have already happened, but rest assured you WILL have answers. Don't get wrapped up in trying to figure out what's going on, just get lost in this story and you will find yourself surprised at how it goes. All I know is I ended up watching it until almost midnight, and I HATE going to bed later than 11pm but I couldn't stop watching. I just knew I couldn't sleep until I finished. It's creepy, emotional, nostalgic, mysterious and genuinely funny.
