"Over the Garden Wall" starts with the moody teenager Wirt and his lively little brother Greg getting lost in the woods. Over the course of the ten episodes of the mini-series they try to find a way home, encountering a number of quirky people. But they're not alone, there is a Beast prowling around the woods and it is stalking the brothers....The series creates a spooky atmosphere that wanes from time to time in favour of funny interludes but is ultimately maintained throughout the series. The gloomy setting and tone is however not too scary for kids, and there's usually a balance between the funny and the scary bits in each episode.The series tends also to include songs, these musical interludes might not be for everyone.Combining episodic and serialized storytelling the series features a number of smaller as well as a couple of big twists. The main characters are not just types, they are multi-layered characters that actually develop through the course of the series.
They are also brilliantly voiced: It was a good decision to let Greg being voiced by an actual child named Collin Dean who wonderfully manages to get across his character's childish wonder and optimism. Elijah Wood and Melanie Linskey do a great job with dramatic Wirt and pragmatic Beatrice and their chemistry while bickering is palpable. The Beast is also perfectly voiced by Samuel Ramsey who has the evil. dangerous creature voice down pat.All in all, "Over the Garden Wall" is a very well made cartoon that can be enjoyed not only by the children it's aimed at but also adults.


                
A harrowing surreal tale inside a cute horrowing tale. This has beautiful animation, create surreal set pieces, but a very loose incoherent story (by design as is revealed in the end).A unique experience and definitely worth a watch. Is particularly suitable around Halloween.


                
The strengths of this series are the short duration of each episode (11 minutes) and their disturbing and strange taste. It's inspired by the old tales of american folklore combined with good animation and an original graphic style that at times recalls the first cartoons of the 30s.I would not say it's a funny series. It's more odd than funny. And that's fine! It doesn't necessarily have to be hilarious and silly.They created something new and fresh by using old style elements.


                
The summary for this on IMDb reads "Two brothers find themselves lost in a mysterious land and try to find their way home", but it should say "Two brothers look for their purpose in life in a strange land, while coming across many others who are doing the same". I never ever thought that a Cartoon Network animated show could ever stir so much emotion in me. Wert is a boy in high school who is too scared of failure to do anything in life. He is constantly searching for meaning, and for a place where he fits in. His little brother, Greg, really doesn't care about finding meaning. He tries to have fun and incite happiness in others everywhere he goes. The opening of the series tells us this will be a fantasy with a basis in reality.Everyone Wert comes by seems to fit in where they are except for him. They see danger everywhere they go, but the slowly learn that almost everyone has good intentions for what they are doing, except Adelaide, who they expect to be good. They learn that they can't judge a book by its cover, whether it's a good cover and a bad book or vice versa. Everyone needs to find their purpose, and many find it through love, whether it be for friends, family, or a significant other. He stumbles across one place that finds their place only in death. Wert helps these people find purpose, but finds solace in this only for a limited time, since he knows he's just going to need to keep searching for his own purpose.Greg eventually sacrifices himself to "the beast" (who represents the evil in everyone and how and why it takes hold of us) so that Wert can get back home. Only then does Wert realize that his brother is the only person that has stuck with him through all of this and usually gave him happiness through all of this. They end up escaping the forest (but almost dying), and Wert has gained the courage in himself to ask his crush out. Wert found purpose (for now) but the outro reminds us that there are many in the forest, still lost.The intro song to the show has the line "If dreams can't come true, then why not pretend" and only in the outro is it revealed how we can pretend. We see Beatrice as a human, having dinner with her family, but only to be laughed at (implying she ran away or was outcast), yet she still smiles for one frame, showing that she treasures even this horrible memory, and transforms it into a good thing. She, as the other characters are and the song playing over that moment suggests, is "dancing in a swirl of golden memories, the loveliest lies of all."
Great show, good story and is fun to watch for adults as well as children.


                
