This was... simply put, the best documentary I have ever, ever seen! There's no other way to define it. I mean, man, where do I start? The editing is... breathtaking! The music... ohhh... what a delight. The way the stories are intertwined. Simply marvelous. You don't have to be into hip-hop to watch this. It is pure history. I'm not much of a reviewer, this is my first one in almost 12 years of IMDb, but I felt like it needed at least ONE review, since it had none at the time I wrote mine.Anyway, if you can, DO watch this! It is incredibly well done and compellingly truthful.


                
A masterful documentary about Dre, who I grew up listening to, and Jimmy Iovine, who I had only heard of. The work ethic of these two is beyond inspiring. The ups and downs were entertaining but their persistence and commitment to their vision kept me glued to my TV. The 4+ hours flew by. Whoever edited this did a great job. These two are the American dream and give me hope. You will not be disappointed.


                
What Can i say? It is pure happiness that flows through me after watching this amazing documentary:-) We should be grateful that there are (We Have) these amazing people in the music Industry. Im proud to wear Dre, Pac, Eminem on my tattoo. Much Love To Dr.Dre & Jimmy Iovine <3


                
Exceptional Docu series...full of great music, great artists, inspirational and utterly compelling. More please...


                
Amazing amazing amazing!!
Had my full attention at all times. I'm a huge hip hop fan and have been since around '87 and I thought I knew a lot but let me tell you, hearing the story, watching old footage, and listening to the music was magical. Much respect to all involved.


                
This is such a great music documentary. The way that the narrative flows is incredible. The pace is emotional, and keeps you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end. Also the editing of the interviews was quite accomplished as it captures reactions in a unique way.


                
I was curious about this documentary given my love for rap music. But the background of the story and the role of Jimmy Iovine simply surprised my. And also the depth of dre's character. This is a really good documentary, must watch if you love the chronic


                
Honestly this was the best documentary I have ever seen. Truly incredible. Don't have to be into hip hop to enjoy it, fantastic production, just incredible.


                
It is a very good series with great content and history about many artist we know and their struggle through their life...
Direction is good.


                
This charts the career and success of two geniuses from two very different backgrounds. Some very open, honest and heartfelt interviews from Dre and Iovine, as well as accounts from some of biggest names in music from the last 40 years. This is a truly inspiring documentary that covers massive moments in pop culture.


                
