This dual narrative about a Brooklyn pit-bull of a record mogul (Iovine) and one of the most successful rapers-cum-producers-cum-engineers-cum-executives/directors in the game, is the most stylish (and best) episode of Behind the Music ever made, and then some. It's excitingly produced, kinetic, edited so that it's taking the usual taking heads with editing that will often play one head against another (this is extremely helpful due to the business dealings with Iovine and Interscope that could become dense too), and how music flows through this with a rhythm and juxtapositions that cant be touched.I was also very impressed not just by finding out things I didn't know (frankly outside of Iovine with Springsteen on Born to Run I didn't know much about his career at Interscope), but the scope: this isn't only about Dr. Dre but the entire WORLD around him that he got into and loved at times and hated at others (he left Death Row before that imploded, so to speak). It reminds me of digging in to a really strong biography more than a typical doc. Oh, and it's funny at times too (Snoop catches you off guard sometimes).I'm waiting for Primus's doc though..PS: did Dre become the Kubrick of rap?


                
Love, love, love this documentary series. Not only is it a behind the scenes story of some of the world's best music (from Springsteen and Petty to NWA and Eminem), it's the story of an unlikely partnership that evolves and defines the future of the music industry. Even if you are not a fan of hip hop, this series is well worth watching with an open mind - looking towards learning about how art, technology, business and good old American ingenuity changed the world.


                
Never have I seen a music documentary like this, so much talent all untwined, imspirational, emotional and at times even brutal.Would recommend to any music fan.


                
Truly magnificent this series is amazing, fantastically well edited and telling an amazing story that's so interesting this series is perfect for those interested in not only rap music but the platform as a whole as it documents the insane stories of some of pop cultures most notable faces and explores their impact, worth a watch


                
Sometimes the stars are alligned the right way. And some of those times are depicted in here (and also pun intended). While this is mostly focused on Rap, there is also other musical artists who get their fair share and their story told. How did they get where they are? By not applying to the rules that were forced upon them.Defiant they are then. It is also quite in depth, although obviously you won't get every detail about Tupac or Death Row, but this is more than coherent. You get an overall picture and you get a lot of backstory and also every episode of this documentary (4 in total) get a beginning, middle and end. This is really good and anyone who likes documentaries and music will get something out of it


                
Great insight on the story of how those guys and how they became who they are and their success.the Dr Dre parts are i thought the most engaging of both and really interesting, full of old original footage as well as nowdays interviews.the Jimmy one started ok but then he constantly complains about things he decided to do (with the only goal of making more money) which becomes really annoying, complaining about this thing and that thing which he himself chose to do, if you dont like raw fish dont go to a sushi restaurant, if you do go then dont complain about it because you are the one who chose to go, this is exactly what Jimmy does in this documentary so his parts were irritating.


                
