This tired script has been rehashed over and over in Hollywood. The story is about a young boy who learns his great great great grandpa was a musician, but he mixes up the famous musician as being his family. He then is cursed, goes to the after-life world, learns that the real father is being held captive so the truth won't be told. He then seeks to release his real great great great grandpa.While the animation is good and the voice acting is too, the script just moves along with a bunch of plot devices to move the character along the road until the writer gets them to the conclusion. There is no real conflict. There is no struggle. The little boy just needs to be in the right place at the right time and he will succeed.This script could have been so much more but the typical Hollywood style of writing is formula based. Overall I was bored out of my skull by this weak script.
When i first heard about this movie, i thought how great it was to see an animated movie about mexican culture. The story however is so morbid, negative and depressing all the way til the end that the upside came up too late and short.. I dont want to spoil anything but while the look/feel of animation is amazing, this has to be arguably the worst animated story i have ever seen.


                
While Spirited Away is awesome, Coco just bored me lots. I accidentally wound up nearly watching this film when I was going to see Early Man, a film I actually like, so I was spared of this yawnfest. I can barely remember the film, except that the plot was the same as Spirited Away and that it involved the Day of the Dead. I don't mean to give Pixar harsh criticism (their animation is some of the best in the world) but I found this sooo dull.


                
Please be warned my review must contain a major spoiler, as the main reason I was so saddened by "Coco," when I went to the theater hoping for joyous laughs and a truly touching (and musical) celebration of Día de los Muertos (the impression I got from trailers, clips, and reviews I'd read prior to my seeing the film) is a critical plot point. Instead of joy, laughter, and earned tears I felt the filmmakers were far too calculated in their usage of an elderly woman's dementia and her slow decline toward death, so the supposedly "uplifting" ending instead came off as cruel and even heartless in manipulating the audience to tears (and likely tapping into very sad memories of relatives and friends who have passed from dementia and Alzheimer's). I also found the first third of the film almost completely unengaging, which truly surprised me, as Pixar is usually so careful with story and characters. This felt like a film that was coldly calculated to drain tear ducts rather than earning those tears from joyous creation and real caring for the characters onscreen. I hope I'm wrong about the filmmakers' intentions, but I came out of the theater thoroughly depressed and feeling, well, horribly manipulated. Dementia and Alzheimer's are incredibly cruel diseases, and their reality is very different than how it is portrayed at the end of "Coco." Either the filmmakers and scriptwriters have never actually closely experienced someone they loved being taken by these diseases or they are as heartless as it comes in using the gravity of these diseases as an easy way to make audiences cry. To those who loved the film and felt it earned its emotion: Of course I hope we will see our relatives and friends who have been diminished by memory diseases fully restored in the afterlife, but here it struck me as a cheap, quick, and easy shortcut trick of manipulation: The "triumph" of the final afterlife scene was either unintentionally cruel or coldly cruel, depending on the filmmakers' personal reasons for including same in the film. Be warned that if you have closely watched a loved one deteriorate and struggle with the fear and horror of losing their memory and faculties you, too, may find yourself angry at film's end, instead of joyous and uplifted. The only reason I gave this film two stars is that the animation is undeniably beautiful, and some of the songs tuneful and engaging--but that was it for me for any bit of enjoyment of the film.
