Coco tells the story of young boy named Miguel living in Mexico (Coco is his great grandmother). Miguel loves music and must keep his love a secret from his family who has forbidden music of any kind since the days of his great great grandmother. On Día de Muertos, Miguel wants to enter a contest to showcase his musical talent, but his grandmother intervenes, reiterating the family's ban on music. In his hunt for a suitable guitar to play, Miguel finds himself in the land of dead, meeting the spirits of those who have passed on. On his adventure he meets his musical hero, much of his deceased family, and a strange man who asks for his help and quickly becomes a close friend. Along the way, Miguel helps his new friend and his friend helps him understand the true significance of Día de Muertos. Of course, the title character (Coco) turns out to play a vital role before the movie is over. When the moment arrives, she delivers something powerful, and it's beautiful. It moved me in a very satisfying way that felt well-earned and authentic, rather than manipulative, the way many movie moments of this sort feel. Quick sidebar: when I took Spanish in high school, my teachers would occasionally incorporate culture from Spanish-speaking countries (usually Mexico) into the lessons. In some of these lessons, I learned about Día de Muertos. Sort of. I'm not sure if the lessons were lacking or if I just wasn't paying much attention to them. Regardless, I learned more about Día de Muertos from Coco than I did in four years of high school Spanish classes. In high school, my understanding of Día de Muertos was that it was basically a Mexican Halloween. They raised spirits from the dead and played music or something, as I understood it. It seemed silly to me. After watching Coco I realized that the tradition is anything but silly. It's not about the dressing up or the food or the music. It's about family and remembering those that came before us. Leave it to Pixar to not only entertain me, but also educate me about a rich and wonderful tradition of another culture. Bravo!


                
It's not a secret that every time Disney's Pixar make people of all ages spend their holiday or weekend with their families on the theaters to watch their latest product, the movie must be full of lovable characters, funny scenes, memorable soundtracks, and tear- jerking scenes that would push a critic website like Rotten Tomatoes to score it above 90% or so. Just take a look at Toy Story 3 (99%), Up (98%), Inside Out (98%), and Wall-e (96%). As for this year, we have Coco. As I write this review, Coco already gained a score of 96% on the aforementioned website. Well, it turns out that critics (almost) never wrong when it comes to scoring. Coco helps viewers to remember that no one ever truly dies as long as the memories about them, be it good or bad, live inside the hearts and minds of their loved ones, that the real and true death comes when the records of the dead simply vanished and no one is left to keep them safe and sound inside their neuron system, a cruel fate that everyone on the planet share sooner or later. As terrifying as it is, we are left with the choice of how we are going to be remembered before we fade away into nothingness, is it by doing something remarkable? something evil? something amazing? embarrassing? or just something mediocre? You decide..... Another element that I fall in love with in this movie is the plot twist and what it brings to our protagonist, Miguel, and his family, dead or alive. I mean seriously, no one would ever see that coming, the shocking revelation that will make our mouth open wide and turn the tide of the story.It wouldn't be a Disney movie if at near the end of the movie, they didn't include at least one tear-dropping scene that would almost make everyone sobbing. This time, the heartwarming conversation between our hero, Miguel, and his great-grandmother, Coco (from whom this movie gets it's title). I swear to every divine being that had been, or has been, or being, or will be worshiped by humankind, the guy who sit next to me was rubbing his eyes for a moment (and honestly, I was ready to rub mine had tears leaked from both of my eyes).So far, this movie is really fine by my standard, every generation from every corner of the globe should watch it to remind them that death is not something to be afraid of for it is a part of our life that everyone will undergo someday, that no one ever truly dies, as long as someone still remember them in their memories, forever and ever.
Gloriously animated, "Coco" takes about twenty minutes to really get going, but when it does, it's an absolute delight for the senses. The animation is strikingly detailed without distracting from the plot, bringing to life a colorful world that's truly unlike anything I've seen in an animated movie before. The musical sequences are alternately gorgeous and touching, full of life and vigor without straying into obnoxiousness, and the movie's characters are well-rounded and engaging. But what makes "Coco" all the more impressive is its sprawling, sympathetic narrative, which finds its titular character lost in the afterworld while attempting to find a long-dead relative to benedict his burgeoning love of music. It allows the production team nearly limitless opportunities to create a self-contained world defined by its splendor and its peculiarities, and the finished product is stamped with a deliberate, unique visual and sonic identity. It's a great movie for all ages, but it will surely hold more meaning for those who already have an appreciation for music.


                
In Mexico, a girl's musician father leaves the family in search for fame and never returns. Her mother Imelda Rivera bans all music and goes into shoe making. The little girl grows up and becomes Miguel's senile grandmother Coco. The family follows Imelda's footsteps into shoe making and music hating. Miguel reveres late music legend Ernesto de la Cruz and secretly aspires to be a musician. When he tries to steal Ernesto's guitar, he falls into the land of the dead and reunites with his dead ancestors.This is an imaginative world with appealing characters and a compelling adventure. It has the terrific Pixar animation. Basically, it hits all the right notes and ends with a tear jerking climax. The has been animated movies about the Day of the Dead which may be diluting some of the impact. It is nevertheless quite a fun movie for the entire family.


                
"Coco" its the latest Disney Pixar animated film, I try not to miss that many Pixar movies and even if a few of them have escaped me I still do whatever I can do to watch them, I love a good Disney movie and "Coco" its no exception.I know that the gimmick this time its that it takes elements from the Mexican tradition known as El dia de los muertos (actually, it takes elements from general Mexican culture) but I cant help to feel that this is a small story that happens to take place in a huge startling world, we follow our characters through a journey that only affects them, the rest of the world does not depend on their fate but they aren't apathetic towards them, its a nice balance between a big story and a personal one. The plot isn't anything special, the world it establishes isn't special either, the characters are likable but they aren't great, except for a few of them like our main lead who carries the whole movie (as it should be), yet I wish they would have developed the rest of the family a little more or at least in a better way. The movie opens with exposition, as many modern Pixar movies do, I remember "Moana" doing this too, it doesn't bother me that much, I know that there's a lot to explain and to establish, so I just go along with it until it stops giving us information and tries to have actual scenes, when we get to them they are worth it. While I do like movie I will say it hits all the story beats a movie like this would, its not original, its quite predictable and melodramatic at points, but its effective, for whatever flaws it may have, never do they break the mood and they feel somewhat insignificant when compared to the wonders the film offers. The themes and subjects it plays with are familiar to me, physical death isn't the worst thing awaiting man and the pursuit of a dream will take away part of you. I was predicting where it would go and I was also awaiting for an specific moment to come, as I knew that it will be executed perfectly, and it was. I had a good time watching this, when its not being good its about as average as you can get, that goes to show how superior Pixar is to the rest, when they are not being exceptional they on the same level as their competition.


                
The accurate and well depicted movie Coco is historically correct in their way of showing Dia de los Muertos. It shows how certain factors are portrayed in real life and in the film remain the same in every family like having ofrendas.What is included on the ofrendas is the part that changes from family to family. 
Coco had a good representation of the ofrendas because of how they used the yellow marigold flowers leading their loved ones from their graves back to their home. They also had some of the dead relatives favorite things like favorite food, drink, and even piece of clothing, are put on these altars. Other families eat the favorite food instead of placing it on the altars for the dead. In the movie, Dante eats food off of the ofrenda and Miguel yells at him saying it is for their ancestors not him. According to Lara Medina, "The cempasúchil (marigold flower), with its bright color and strong sent, leads the dead to the altars. Candies, incense, photos, food and drink that the dead enjoyed while living enhance the offering" (176-177). This quote helps show the historical value or the relationship between what happens during Dia de los Muertos and how it is almost the same as it is in Coco. The quote explains how they use specific items in their lives to help make the home or the altar feel more like a family display of memories. In the movie, they have the skull candy heads on the altars, they have the marigold flowers leading from the graves back to their home, and they have pictures of every dead ancestor represented on the ofrenda. 
Another example from Coco is how Miguel's grandmother, Coco's daughter, makes a huge deal about how the ofrenda has to look and be presented. She feels this way because it is the first thing the family sees when walking into the room because it is so extravagant with so many colors, and items on display. It is also again, how their past family is remembered and what was important to them in life to show their support and their gratitude for them being apart of their family. The ofrenda also helps remember what generations passed down through the family. In Miguel's family, it is the shoe business. His family is very driven to make sure he doesn't become a musician, and by doing that they pressure him or show him he is a shoemaker at heart. Medina writes, "For the Mexica, during the last three days of the tenth month, the dead came back to interact symbolically with their families" (176-177). This quote helps support the idea of family heritage represented on the ofrenda in Coco because if Miguel's ancestors came back and saw a guitar on the ofrenda instead of shoes, there would be trouble and no one in the family would be happy for the change in tradition. It also helps explain how the dead watches over the living through the ofrenda, through their pictures, through the memories of their families.
Incorporating the aspect of the dead and the living joining together during this festive holiday is shown throughout the film, but is shown the most at the end. When Miguel can finally play the guitar in front of his family and all of his ancestors are dancing around him and enjoying their presence. A piece of evidence edited by J. Gordon Melton states, "In Mexican culture it includes a belief in the unity of death and life" (382). This evidence is shown in the film because it talks about the belief of death and life coming together to celebrate this holiday as one. In Coco when the dead travels over the marigold bridge to see their family, they can only pass if their family has something of theirs presented on the ofrenda. If not, they cannot visit. This relates to the quote because the dead want to be able to visit their family and be united with them for one day but, the family has to want them to visit in return. Like Hector and how the family did not want him to be able to come see his family and to see Coco again. 
Overall, in regards to Dia de los Muertos and Coco, the movie was very descriptive and historically accurate. It gave or showed in depth thought to how they represented the ofrendas and how it is important to the basis of the holiday. It shows how the ofrenda is where the holiday's heart or core is because without the ofrenda, the family members cannot visit or come back to see family.
Wow this is a great Disney movie, one of the best non princess films they have made, it never gets boring as I must have watched 5 times already. It was gorgeous. Would recommend


                
Is it legendary? Is it a game changer? Perhaps not. But it was certainly a memorable watch and deserves a solid 8/10. The movie brings several ideas we are familiar with to life, through the use of vibrant visuals and audio. I was stunned by how pretty and detailed the 'city of the dead' looked, I have never seen such detail in other Pixar films.All in all, this movie expresses the familiar tear jerking formula to its entirety. It is suitable for all ages and definitely worth a watch with your family.


                
A Mexican boy tries to find meaning in his life through music, discovering magic flower pedals resembling doritos. Pixar returns to greatness by using, relatable and very emotional familial themes, colorful gleaming lights, a couple memorable songs, and playful convenient pets. It is thrilling, inventive, colorful, and joyous.


                
I remember being blown out of my socks by the first Pixar movie, which I saw at an animation festival in the mid-80s: A child-lamp playing with a ball, squishing it, and getting consoled by mother-lamp. It was only a minute of computer graphics, and the CGI was amazing for the day, but the short film differed deeply from similar efforts of the era: it actually had a story!Fast forward, and things have not changed: still state-of-the-art in visual quality, and still outstanding stories. Even their second sequels (Toy Story 3?) are far above the level of most animated films.Coco is no exception. The story of a boy, who first has to learn the value of family to understand that only that knowledge can fulfill his life's dream, is amazing. How do you make skeletons charming? Well, that question is answered in Coco! In all aspects, from the musical numbers, to the voice characters, to the storytelling, and of course the colorful animation, this is a superb film.I almost feel guilty for not giving it a 9 or 10, but while the film did give me a lump in my throat, it did so using well honed plot twist techniques, such as turning an apparent hero into a demon, or swiftly reconciling people even though one of them has hated the other for 100 years. The tricks of the trade are applied here as deftly as I have ever seen, but the best of the best don't need to apply them at all.
My wife and I watched and enjoyed this movie at home on BluRay from our public library. The title is a reference to the great grandmother who, as a child, was sung to by her father. The father disappeared when she was a girl, maybe 90 years earlier, to pursue his own musical career. But, as we eventually find out, the story was a lot more complicated.Young Anthony Gonzalez, 11 when he was given the role, is featured as Miguel who wants to become a guitar player but has to hide it from his family, they never forgave the great, great grandfather for disappearing.The story plays heavily on Mexican family customs, where the matriarch usually has the last say in things. It also plays heavily on the belief that you must display photos of deceased family members to assure their remembrance in the afterlife.As my wife commented, it is similar to "Monsters Inc" in that it has a really interesting story to go along with the great Pixar animation. It won the Oscar in 2018 for best feature animated movie.All in all a great little movie with good family messages.


                
#uplifting. visually stunning, not as funny as other #pixar's movies, some good twists, and a perfect ending.
This movie just secure a place as one of my top 5 pixar's movies.


                
" Creatively colourful, with some twists and turns. The story was basic until the end though " (8/10).Coco is a 2017 Family and Kids genre, 3D computer-animated movie from Pixar studios. One worth a watch :)Good" Pleasant music and storyline morals".
" Brilliantly colourful animation".
" Some unpredictable twists and turns".
" Captivating plot towards the end".
" Clear introduction to story".
" Creative ideas for unique concepts".Bad" Storyline a little too basic".
" Limited hints of ending".
" Too many twists towards the end".
" Slow character development".
" Lack of character diversity".
" Lack of story progression in the middle".AtmosphereThe atmosphere was well established through good ideas, resulting in well applied colour, imagery, and settings. The characters moods created tension at times, but more personality would be needed to connect with all the family. The atmosphere shifted well in times of trouble, which was refreshing and invigorating towards the climax. All in all, a good atmosphere for the most part was maintained.MusicThe music was often spritely and happy, encouraging the viewer into the setting. It was a little too refrained during protracted parts though. Towards the end it was used as a true symbol of family, which appeared the intended audience for the film. At this time it was rather appropriate.PlotThe plot was understandable, yet too basic for a whole-family target audience. It had one key idea underpinning the whole film. This idea had good morality, but wasn't developed enough until close to the end. Therefore the plot was insufficient to provide a great film throughout the entirety, yet provided a solid foundation for a good film.The characters were well played, with good expressions and emotions. A lack of character development was apparent for too long though. Too much information was revealed towards the end, which could have made slower parts of the film more enjoyable. At this time though, the plot was interesting, the music and colours were good, and even the story's complexity increased slightly, to a good family audience level. The middle 40 minutes could've benefitted from some of this hugely.GraphicsThe graphics were the highlight. Colour was generously used to draw attention to the beauty of the setting. Colours used, were calm and tranquil, including purples and pinks in the early stages, into a much brighter repertoire, symbolising the excitement in the latter parts of the film.SummaryA greatly colourful film with creative ideas in the latter stages. Some twists and turns before the end, and a clearly understandable plot. Let down by limited character development and a lack of story progression in the middle stages. Overall a film with good morals for the family. One that wasn't earth shattering though.


                
It was a very good movie, very sad at the end and very family friendly to watch with family
This was a well executed film. Love how they incorporate both theistic , culture and history in the film . Also , made me cry


                
It is not the common animation movie. In this case there is a very interesting plot and there is not the need to make the spectators lough very frequently. Instead, in more than one situation It is also moving.


                
Coco is a another Disney Pixar and it's directed by Lee Unkrich and Adrian Molina, written by Lee Unkrich and voices-staring Anthony Gonzalez, Gael García Bernal and Benjamin Bratt.Story by Jason Katz, Matthew Aldrich and Adrian Molina. Despite his family's baffling generations-old ban on music, Miguel (voice of newcomer Anthony Gonzalez) dreams of becoming an accomplished musician like his idol, Ernesto de la Cruz (voice of Benjamin Bratt). Desperate to prove his talent, Miguel finds himself in the stunning and colorful Land of the Dead following a mysterious chain of events. Along the way, he meets charming trickster Hector (voice of Gael García Bernal), and together, they set off on an extraordinary journey to unlock the real story behind Miguel's family history.The sins of this movie are existing, the biggest sin is the sense of humor, I didn't laugh a lot in this movie, it was just dark and tragedy. With its powerful message and story, I don't care about the comedy of this movie, but still, it's a very important element to see in an animation movie.The next sin has a little spoiler, and it's the strange creatures in the dead's world, including the dog, I didn't like them, especially the dog.The last sin is the long trip that got me bored, yeah, I got bored in the middle of this movie.But Coco presents a great animation feature, fitting voices and a very powerful story.I'm gonna give Coco a B+.Thank you, guys for reading this review, and as always I welcome you comments.


                
Great story .. great idea ..it deserved to be watched ..


                
I never really knew much about the Day of the Dead until I saw the Bond movie Spectre which created a fictional parade for this important event.Coco deals with the more intimate aspects and its importance in Mexican culture. Little Miguel wants to be a musician and not a cobbler like the rest of the family.Miguel's grandmother Coco who is now senile had a musician father who abandoned his family to pursue his dream of musical success. Coco's mother was so incensed with her husband running off that music was forbidden in the household.Miguel who wants to take part in a talent contest runs away from his family only to end up in the land of the dead. If Miguel can meet up with his musical hero and get him to say the right words in time, he could return to the land of the living.This Pixar animation has a very colourful and a revered depiction of the Mexican culture of remembering those that have passed on. The songs were a bit weak though and I did think the story was rather predictable, the main twist was obvious. Yet I found this to be a very moving and emotional film.


                
I had little expectations for this movie when I sat down to watch it my family. But I was blown away, because "Coco" is without a doubt one of the best animated movies that I have seen in a long, long time.The storyline was quite good, and it wasn't all that generic or predictable. So the writers did a great job with the story and the plot.The animation style was just spectacular, with lots of minute details in every single scene. And I will say that you should actually watch this animated movie more than once. Because the first time around is focusing on the story, while the following times to take in all the details and ongoings on the screen."Coco" was filled with some very lovable characters, and these characters very different from one another; each one adding something unique to the story.The voice acting was quite good, and it was clear that they were giving themselves 100% for the movie. There weren't all that many talents that I was familiar with, but everyone certainly did perform quite well."Coco" is definitely the type of animated movie that you owe it to yourself to take the time to sit down and watch.


                
Disney & Pixar did a great colab on this movie. Hard work paid off. They didn't sell cheap thrills at all. Beyond the great animation we can all agree on, there's this story that keeps everything alive until the end and which also teaches you something about the Mexican culture and their way of living. It truly deserved the Oscars. Go on an adventure through surreal realms! Be ready to be amazed!


                
This film came at the right time to tell the world that Mexico has culture, and also helped to give a kick to the racism of double-edged. A film with a story too simple and cliche-prone Mexico. But this does not take away the beautiful colors and the good representation of everything.


                
Coco Review 
 Coco is a great movie to watch. It was very funny and family friendly. It talks about one of the major holidays in the Hispanic culture being Dia de los Muertos. It is a huge holiday and has so much that is needed to be correct in order to actually represent the holiday. For example the food that they typically would have for the holiday are the favorite foods of the passed. They do a great job recognizing this in the movie. They say they will have certain foods based on the people. Also they do a great job talking about music. In Mexico there is music everywhere. People go and listen to music in the park and on the streets. And that is very well represented in the movie with the talent show that happens. Everyone is very excited about the show and a lot of people are signing up. It's a great example of how they treat music. The thing that the movie Coco does best is talk about the family dynamics. The main thing that they try to show in the movie is how the family comes first no matter what. If the family does not like something then the entire family is to not like it. They start as a family and end as a family. Also much of the family lives together under the same roof. So it can get crammed but that is the culture of it. But most importantly it shows that the oldest in the house is the boss. Weather it is a male or female they rule the house.(Junior Worldmark Encyclopedia) 
 Overall though the movie gets a solid 8 out of 10. The reasoning behind that score is because of how much the movie also missed.The country of Mexico has some incorrect facts about it. It doesn't show 100% the correct things about the country. For example the way people travel in Mexico is just like here in America, Cars (Mexico Cities of the World). It shows the people walk everywhere to get places. There are barely any cars in the movie. It just lacks the small details of the culture and lifestyle about Mexico. But Overall it is a great movie and has an awesome message to it. I would recommend you go check it out.


                
The Disney movie, Coco, portrays a well-rounded, authentic view of the Mexican culture and one of its most important holidays, Day of the Dead. Although the representation is not 100% accurate, it gives the viewers a basic understanding of what a traditional Day of the Dead celebration would look like. For people who aren't familiar with the holiday Day of the Dead, it is said, "During Dia de Los Muertos, families gather to celebrate life while they honor the dead, sweep graves, build special altars to honor the newly dead, and place items such as flowers, cakes, and soda next to photos of loved ones in their homes. Graveyards become the place for large parties with fruit punch and concerts." ("Mexico: Holidays" 1). Coco shows the focal point of the Day of the Dead with people creating, altars, called "ofrendas", with pictures that remember the lives of the loved ones that have passed. Through the eyes of the main character, Miguel, the viewers get a glimpse of a family celebrating the lives of those who have died. In the movie, it shows the family building a huge ofrenda that takes up the whole room and consists of their loved ones' images, similar to the altars that families create in real life on this holiday. Those who do not have that vitally important image on the ofrenda are not able to visit with their families. Through the Land of the Dead, it is shown that the spirits only exist beyond the grave as long as someone living remembers them. The spirits, portrayed as skeletons in the movie, cross from the Land of the Dead over to the Land of the Living on this special day and reunite with the living at the village cemetery. This shows a glimpse of the significance of the holiday, a day to remember those who have passed. Furthermore, the setting of the movie belongs in a city in rural Mexico, a place where this holiday is celebrated by many. Part of Day of the Dead is spent in the graveyard. Within the film, the graveyards are covered in bright orange flowers, foods, and more. It is like a fiesta for everyone to join in. The gathering in the graveyards shows the place of celebration for Day of the Dead. Coco shows the celebrations and fiestas that take place during this holiday. Although Coco does a good job of showing the celebrations and traditions of Day of the Dead, it did not include the different days this holiday is broken up into. This holiday takes place over the course of 3 days, starting October 31 and ending on November 2. This is further explained, "From noon on October 31 until noon on November 1, the spirits of infants and young children who have died-called difuntos chiquitos-are said to return. The spirits of adults who have died are believed to return from noon on November 1 until the evening of November 2. This day is often called Day of the Faithful Dead." (Griffin 218). Coco shows Miguel's journey through the Land of the Dead; however, it does not specifically distinguish the three days and what occurs on each of those days. Coco shows the viewer a good representation of what the holiday Day of the Dead is like and its importance in Mexican culture, but it could have shown the different days that make up the holiday. By doing so, the viewer would get a thorough understanding of the holiday as a whole. Nevertheless, even without including the three different days, Coco still gave the viewer a good authentic perspective of an example of what a Day of the Dead celebration could look like.


                
Overall, I feel as if the movie Coco, was an exceptional film. But, as with every movie, there are a couple downsides. The main downside that I noticed was that the cultural aspects in the movie didn't represent the proper Mexican culture. I think that the movie was great for the reason that it really shows the children watching what Dia De Los Muertos is all about. I didn't know what the holiday was until I went into highschool, but I think that since the movie teaches the kids so early about this culture/holiday, it's a great film. On the other hand, the movie isn't culturally correct. I know that children's movies are supposed to make the movie more magical and more beautiful than real life, and Coco demonstrated that. But the movie was trying to remain culturally accurate and failed.
 The first thing I noticed is that the ofrenda (altar) in the movie didn't represent what ofrendas in real life look like. In Coco, there are pictures opon pictures of family members on the ofrenda. In real life, ofrendas are not as extravagant as portrayed in the movie. From the information I gathered from David Baez, (Guerrero Baez, David, "Mexican Culture", English 2 class, Douglas County Public Schools, Mountain Vista High school, Highlands Ranch, CO, Guest speaker)they are simply laid out on a plastic card tables and have only has one or two pictures of family members. Or at least that is how his family celebrates. The movie ofrenda also had more food and objects that the passed relative loved. In real life, the family only puts out the sweet bread, a favorite food and one favorite object. Although the movie was very beautiful and colorful, that just isn't how it is in real life. 
Another thing that I really didn't think was accurate about Coco, is that there are actually TWO days of the dead. The movie didn't even mention el Dia de los inocentes (Day of the innocents). According to David Baez (Guerrero Baez, David, "Mexican Culture", English 2 class, Douglas County Public Schools, Mountain Vista High school, Highlands Ranch, CO, Guest speaker), this day is celebrating the children that have passed that are younger than 18 years old. It's not like this day isn't equal or isn't as fun as Dia de los muertos. Because it is equal! The people in Mexico party just as hard for the children's day as they do for the other day. It really bothers me that this wasn't mentioned because it is a HUGE part of the celebration and not one thing was said about it. 
 All in all, I felt like Coco was a great movie with a great story line if you aren't fully focused on the cultural accuracy of the film. By having incorrect facts in the movie, this causes confusion that might never be resolved in the viewers life. The viewers of the movie might learn the true meaning and traditions of Dia de los Muertos, but as a reviewer, I'd rather the viewers learn now.


                
