The best thing I can say is: watch Grave of the Fireflies instead, it is one million times better, more realistic and is not as biased as this film.Come and See is a WW2 film about the horrors of war. However, it is not remotely as good as people seem to think it is. I found it terribly mediocre and extremely boring. The characters lacked real emotion and the sadness seemed really forced, each character behaved in a very strange manner and nobody looked like real people. Instead they moved around like corpses without emotion.Also, the cinematography looks very amateurish, as if I had shoot this film at my backyard. The soundtrack is boring, without any decent music at all.And I liked some Russian movies, like those by Tarkovsky, which are monumental pieces of art.Besides being a failure as a film it is also a piece of Soviet propaganda. Indeed, it shows WW2 as "the nice Soviets versus the evil Germans", however, that is ludicrous. They depict the German soldiers as Nazi devils without any hint of humanity and driven by the sole purpose of exterminating the Soviet population. However, the truth is that German soldiers were people just like the Soviet civilians and while there were a few psychopaths in the SS, the vast majority were normal people.Indeed, this is not a realistic film in any way, shape or form. Saving Private Ryan is also very unrealistic, but in another way. Both films fail to attain realism and depict the war in a satisfactory way. Both firms have an anti-German bias and a nationalistic bias. The general problem with WW2 films is that any film made in a country that won the war tends to have nationalistic biases and so they tend to be really offensive and become implicit propaganda. This movie is not implicit propaganda, it is explicit propaganda of the Soviet regime, which had Joseph Stalin at its helm at the time, a murderous regime equal to Nazi Germany in their lack of humanity.The good WW2 films are always German or Japanese. Since losing the war make them more humble and they don't tend to depict their enemies as inhuman monsters.Its propaganda, devoid of any artistic merit. I give it the minimum score because of its extreme pro-Soviet bias, which makes the film offensive and indeed Soviet propaganda. Ignoring the bias I would give 5/10, since it is a mildly interesting film for WW2 buffs.Obs.: I have not seem 100% of the film, in the middle parts I slept for 20 minutes, due to its boring nature.


                
I'm going to really stand out from the crowd on this but I thought it was dreadful. Poor acting, poor direction, desperately slow, lacking content and with a childlike obsession with re-using the same image over and over again. I'm sure the plane in the sky is meant to be symbolic. To me it just showed the director only had the budget to buy one piece of archive footage.I'm a lover of slow paced films so I am by no means a modern impatient film watcher. And I love films, but really films are supposed to be entertaining. Or shocking. Or thought provoking. This is so tedious it feels like the director is calling the viewers bluff.i doubt anyone on here will agree with me for fear of appearing like a philistine that just didn't get the 'deep direction' but hey ho.And one more thing. The sound effect used (repeatedly) like an orchestra warming up and crescendo-ing has been done before, properly, by Kubrick in 2001. Copying it like this doesn't come off as homage - just plagiarism.I became so bored I resorted to fast skipping some parts towards the end which I never do. But it's still almost 2 hours of my like I'll never get back.


                
If you think A monkey throwing paint at a blank canvas is art of the highest order, you will adore this movie. If however, you have higher standards (assuming you have objective standards) you will be absolutely frustrated with this movie which drags on and on and on. In an unintentional way, this film is very fitting of the Soviet, 1984ish genre. It feels like it was made by a Soviet Politburo's child shooting his first movie. Where everyone knows it stinks, but must nonetheless stand up and cheer for its greatness for fear of being sent to the gulag. This movie is a complete waste of time.


                
