Even before the final credits rolled, I strongly suspected this movie would end up on my Top 20; in fact, perhaps even my Top 10. A teenage boy, his hearing impaired from having just been at the site of a bombing, and a young woman clutching at him, the two of them stumbling and sludging through a slimy, smelly bog. A stork in the woods as it rains. A cluster of dolls piled up on the floor with flies buzzing all over the room. You don't need vast, elaborately choreographed battle scenes to bring home the message of the senselessness and pain of war. Reading viewers' comments on the movie, it seems that most found the second half <U+0096> which admittedly contained some of the most powerful massacre scenes ever filmed <U+0096> as the most "satisfying". A few other viewers seem to imply the movie doesn't really get going until the second half. For me, it was the first half that got under my skin the most, for its cinematic originality, poetry and symbolic power. War is experienced by civilians as well as by soldiers: this may seem like an obvious statement, but it's only after watching Come and See that you realise how few war movies are truly about the suffering of the ordinary man and woman, defenseless child and frail senior citizen. Also, never before had I seen the plight of raped women in war so powerfully conveyed, and all this without the movie ever being voyeuristic or graphic. In cinema, rape is often portrayed as something that looks like rough sex. It isn't always quite clear why women get so upset over it. In Come and See, rape is shown as nothing but pure, unadulterated, hate-fuelled violence with only a superficial, external resemblance to sex. Unlike other raped women on film, you cannot imagine those in Come and See ever healing from their scars. On another subject, whoever thinks this movie contains "propaganda" is obviously prejudiced against the movie simply because it's a Soviet production, and should think things over a little more carefully. It's astonishing how you can still find little traces of the Cold War mentality surviving to this day, even in younger viewers... The fact that as detractors of Come and See claim, Stalin "was no better than Hitler" has nothing to do with anything at all, in this movie's context - Klimov's picture is NOT about nationalistic oneupmanship on who had the worst tyrant - it's about the basic suffering of ordinary humanity in war - ANY war, though this one happened to be going on in Bielorussia. There was in fact ten times more propaganda in ten minutes of Saving Private Ryan than the whole of Come and See. This is painful, sublime cinema. I've always believed there's something special about Russians when it comes to producing art, especially literature - this movie goes some way towards reinforcing that impression in me.


                
One of the greatest of all war films, Klimov's stunning work stands amongst such works in which the horror and sorrow of conflict are made fresh over again for the viewer, left to stumble numb from the cinema thereafter. Produced for the 40th anniversary of Russia's triumph over the German invaders in WW2, based upon a novella by a writer who was a teenage partisan during the war, the propagandist use to which it was later put - when the GDR was still in the Eastern Bloc, citizens were forced to watch this to warn them of another rise of fascism - does not impair its effect today at all. It echoes intensity found in another masterpiece by the director. Klimov's shorter Larissa (1980) is a remorseful elegy to his late wife. Poetic and very personal, its sense of shock anticipates the heightened anguish that ultimately reverberates through Come And See. Through his images, the director stares uncomprehendingly at a world where lives are removed cruelly and without reason, if on this occasion not just one, but thousands.At the heart of the narrative is Floyra, both viewer and victim of the appalling events making up the film's narrative, his history a horrendous coming-of-age story. It begins with him laboriously digging out a weapon to use and much changed at the end, he finally uses one. As he travels from initial innocence, through devastating experience, on to stunned hatred, in a remarkable process he ages before our eyes, both inside and out. His fresh face grows perceptibly more haggard as the film progresses, frequently staring straight back at the camera, as if challenging the viewer to keep watching; or while holding his numbed head, apparently close to mental collapse. Often shot directly at the boy or from his point of view, the formal quality of Klimov's film owes something to Tarkovsky's use of the camera in Ivan's Childhood, although the context is entirely different.The film's title is from the Book of Revelations, referring to the summoning of witnesses to the devastation brought by the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. 'Come and See' is an invitation for its youthful protagonist to arm up and investigate the war, but also one for the audience to tread a similarly terrible path, witnessing with vivid immediacy the Belorussion holocaust at close hand. Here, the intensity of what is on offer justifies amplification by the use of a travelling camera, point-of-view shots, and some startlingly surreal effects pointing up unnatural events: the small animal clinging nervously to the German commander's arm for instance, soundtrack distortions, or the mock Hitler sculpted out of clay and skull.Main character Floyra is the director's witness to events, a horrified visitor forced, like us to 'see' - even if full comprehension understandably follows more slowly. For instance during their return to the village, there is some doubt as to if Floyra is yet, or will be ever, able to fully acknowledge the nature of surrounding events. In one of the most disturbing scenes out of a film full of them, Glasha's reaction to off-screen smells and sights is profoundly blithe and unsettling. So much so, we wonder for a brief while if the youngsters really know what is going on. Its a watershed of innocence: one look back as the two leave and the reality of the situation would surely overwhelm Floyra - just as later, more explicit horrors do the viewer.Come And See was not an easy shoot. It lasted over nine months and during the course of the action the young cast were called upon to perform some unpleasant tasks including, at one point, wading up to their necks through a freezing swamp. Kravchenko's face is unforgettable during this and other experiences, and there are claims that he was hypnotised in order to simulate the proper degree of shell shock during one of the major early sequences. The sonic distortion created on the soundtrack at this point later appeared to a lesser extent in Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan, as did elements of a much-commented scene where a cow is caught in murderous crossfire. Klimov's camera ranges through and around the atrocities, although one doubts that a steady cam was available. By the end Florya is isolated from humanity, technically as well as mentally, by a striking shot that excludes the middle foreground. Disturbingly expressionistic though these scenes are, others such as the scene where Florya and the partisan girl Rose visit the forest after the bombing, achieve an eerie lyricism that are however entirely missing from the Hollywood production. And whereas Spielberg's work concludes with a dramatic irony that's perhaps a little too neat, contrived for different audience tastes, Klimov's less accommodating epic finishes on a unique, cathartic moment - no doubt partly chosen to avoid any bathos after events just witnessed, but one which sends real blame back generations.Hallucinatory, heartrending, traumatic and uncompromising, such a movie will not to be all tastes. It certainly does not make for relaxing viewing, although those who see it often say it remains with them for years after. This was Klimov's last film for, as he said afterwards "I lost interest in making films. Everything that was possible I felt had already been done," no doubt referring to the emotional intensity of his masterpiece, which would be hard to top. By the end of their own viewing, any audience ought to be shocked enough to pick up a rifle themselves and vengefully join the home army setting out to fight the Great Patriotic War - a necessarily stalwart response without limit of participation, symbolised by the director who tracks a camera through the dense forest before finally rejoining a column of soldiers heading to the front. If you feel, like I do, that any real war film should succeed in conveying the power and pity of it all, then Come And See is an absolute go and watch.


                
The best true-to-life war movie I have ever seen, and possibly the best movie I have ever seen. My eyes were opened when I saw this for the first time a few days ago. It made me realise what I miss 99% of the time when watching movies. So few affect me like this one did.No special effects of note, no big budget, no set-pieces of note, no heroes, no redemption. I feel quite sure the director has really captured what war 'feels' like - unlike Spielberg and Coppola's depictions of war, this director lived through WW2 and the horrific siege of Stalingrad, as well as spending many months researching the massacres in Belarus, one of which he depicts in this film (this from the DVD extras, well worth watching).The direction, cinematography, soundtrack and AMAZING acting by a first-time untrained actor in the main role are faultless, in my humble opinion.I found this film depressing and emotionally draining, but cannot wait to watch it again.


                
"Come and See" has to be one of the most powerful war movies ever made.It left me emotionally drained.The film tells the story of 12-year-old Florya(Alexi Kravchenko),whose desire is to join his countrymen in the battle against the fascists.His enthusiasm is written all over his face:in the opening scenes,which show Florya's recruitment by partisan soldiers,he wears the blissed-out smile of a hopeful child.After a bombardment,which leaves him temporarily deaf,he is left behind and stumbles across Glasha(Olga Mironova),who has also been abandoned.Together they return to his village, the atrocities witnessed there anticipating horrors to come."Come and See" is a deeply unsettling film.It's hallucinatory,hellish,traumatizing and uncompromising.There's an aura of profound sadness here,as Florya ages dramatically over the course of the story's events.The film's most disturbing sequence revolves around the raising of one village and the slaughter of most of its inhabitants.The acting is excellent,the cinematography is stunning and the use of Mozart on the soundtrack is particularly effective.10 out of 10.A must-see!


                
I have a bad habit of reading too many reviews and comments about a film before I've seen it, mainly to get an idea about whether it's going to be worth a couple of hours of my time watching it. As a result, I am often slightly disappointed with much of what I see, as all the hype that I've read about a film kind of blows my expectations out of all proportion. I had a feeling this would be the case with Elem Klimov's 'Come and See', a film I'd read a lot about, particularly here on the IMDb. (Imagine my "excitement" when, having tried to see the film for nearly a year, I discovered it was to be released on DVD a week or two ago from today!) Well, I finally watched the film yesterday and... well, nothing could have prepared me for the sheer intensity and unflinching visceral horror of the atrocities that 'Come and See' invites us to... come and see. (Has anyone commented before on what a clever title that actually is...?) This is one of those films, like, say, 'Requiem For A Dream' or 'The Magdalene Sisters' (both of which, though great films, are simply not in the same league as Klimov's film), that one does not (obviously) so much enjoy as submit oneself to. By the end of such films we are left numbed and shell-shocked, wondering what we are supposed to do with the intense emotions that have been evoked within us. Yes, I felt like the ground had been pulled from beneath me; yes, what I saw in that film made my blood boil, my head hurt and my heart pound; and, yes, it showed me things I'd seen before but to a degree of intensity and detail that I had not experienced before. The point though, I guess, is that the role of cinema (and art in general) is not to offer answers or tell us what to think but to simply show us particular events and characters and allow us to come to our own decisions about what those things 'mean'. I'm rambling now, but I'll simply end by saying that 'Come and See' is, with its outstanding technical and artistic credentials aside, a film whose very title alone demands that it be seen. It is the work of a visionary, a cry of despair from the depths of hell, and an important reminder of humanity's capacity for inhumanity Go and see...


                
There's not much one can say about this movie, besides "Be warned, it's going to hurt you - a lot". The story is simple: Byelorussia in 1943 and it's Hell on the Earth. The Nazis are fighting a no-quarter-given-or-asked war against huge Soviet partisan units, and the population is caught in between (historically the German security forces destroyed hundred of Byelorussian villages murdering most of the population in the effort to "clear" the rear of Third Panzer Army). Those who haven't been deported or killed by the Nazis are trying to join the partisans. One of them is Florya, a young boy - and in his quest to "join the fight" he get much more he had bargained for. It's a movie about an apocalyptic world (the title is taken from the Book of Revelation, a most of the movie looks like it has been filmed on another planet), but unfortunately it was all-real. The emotional centre of the movie is a lengthy sequence involving the destruction of a village, with all the sickening (but not exploitative) details shown with cold determination. There's no catharsis (this is not Schindler's List!), no hope, no redemption - even the eventual revenge against the village's destroyers become just a sad and murderous business. "Come And See" is a difficult, violent and surprisingly poetic movie, compared to which even classics like "Saving Private Ryan" (Spielberg payed a homage to this movie on SPR's beginning) or "The Thin Red Line" seems just artificial. This is the real thing!


                
What most of the foreign viewers perhaps don't understand is that the factual side of the movie has always been a common knowledge among millions of Russians especially those of older generations. People like me, who were born 10-15 years after the war ended, knew it all along first hand from the stories told by parents and grandparents actually living through those times and events. My own mother at the age of seven was thrown by German soldiers into a barn that got lit, her front teeth were knocked out by the butt of a German soldier's rifle and she, along with tenth of other village kids, was saved by my grand-mother and other villagers only because some partisans had chosen to attack and deliberate the village that day. What most of Western viewers find horrifying, shocking and disturbing is nothing but the truth being accurately depicted by some later movie makers. This movie is pretty much like a documentary that could actually be shot with the help of some sort of a "time machine" in case there was one in 1985 when the movie got filmed.


                
Come and See (1985)**** I first saw this movie a couple of years ago. I didn't really know what to think of it at first. The soundtrack on the DVD is a little messy and the acting was a bit strange. I knew it had affected me though in a way that not many other movies had. As time went by I began to realize just how much of an impact the movie had on me. It really, really stuck with me. One night, while writing a review of Errol Morris's latest documentary "Fog of War", I found myself thinking more and more about Come and See, and decided that I had to watch it again immediately. I ran out after midnight and rented it, and watched it 3 times or so over the next week. I started to see why the film had been haunting me and sticking around my thoughts. The reason was that this movie is simply a masterpiece.Elem Klimov directs the film, starring Aleksei Kravchenko as Florya, a young boy who desires to fight with the Partisan's army against the invading Nazi army. He digs until he finds a rifle, then the next day he is off to a camp in the middle of the woods. The scene is chaotic it seems and unorganized. The fighters try to take a photo that takes about 5 minutes to accomplish because everyone keeps messing up their positions. Florya spots Glasha (Olga Mironova), a young girl, who has the younger fighters swooning over her, and who also seems to have some sort of relationship with the leader of the camp. What that relationship is exactly we never find out. Florya gets left behind on the attack because he is perhaps too young, and besides another older fighter needs some new boots, and swaps with the new kid. .The anxious Florya is upset by this decision and he takes to the woods for some solitude, he cries and then discovers that near by Glasha is also crying at being left at the camp, more so for being left alone than behind. The two begin to bond and end up in an open field when German planes attack and begin to bomb the encampment. The scenes that follow next teeter on the brink of madness on film. Come and See is likely one of the most maddening films ever made for that matter. The key is the soundtrack. Florya is struck deaf for a few moments by the bombs. Sounds are muffled, but not like anything you've ever seen in a Hollywood film. The soundtrack is a mix of strange ringing and sounds and music, adding to the atmosphere of chaos that the two youngsters have now been thrown into. Much of the film has this style of soundtrack, which makes the Florya's descent into madness much more poignant.The film movies forward from here back to Florya's village which has now been deserted. The two head to an island on the other side of a bog where Florya believes the town is hiding along with his mother and sisters. The scene where they climb through the mud is another example of Florya losing his mind. The soundtrack again becomes ambient and menacing in its strange blends of sounds. They eventually find some villagers and Florya now even more loses his sanity, along with some of his hair, which is given to recreate a statue of Hitler. This will be the last time we see Glasha in the movie, as Florya goes with a party to collect food for the starving people.The most famous scene, and the one that will likely never leave you, is of a village being ransacked by Nazi soldiers. The scene is chaotic and culminates in a barn stuffed with the townspeople being burned and shot apart. Another one of the most famous shots from the movie is of Florya shooting a photo of Hitler, each bullet making time reverse. The photo goes back in time until it is a picture of Hitler as a baby on his mothers lap. He is an innocent infant, and Florya cannot bring himself to fire another shot. These shots are incredibly powerful and they stick in your mind.Obviously, Come and See was filmed with influences of Soviet Propaganda in it, but it hardly matters because it is so well made and so maddening you can't help but be totally absorbed by the experience. The movie has a hypnotic quality about it, and without being horrifying because it's a jump out of your seat surprise bloodbath, it is horrifying in its representation of the cruelty people are capable of in war.I can't remember ever seeing another film that expressed the descent into madness any better and being so involving as Come and See. By the end of the film, you feel like you've just experienced what it must be like to lose your mind. The film never goes into the desensitizing of violence in war. Instead it focuses on the violence which causes those who witness to become desensitized from the madness of its cruelty.Elem Klimov created this film out of his actors and their emotions, and essentially used the viewer as another character. This movie draws you in and makes you experience exactly what the characters must. There are few other films that do that to you, especially to the extent that this one does it. And for that, Come and See is not only a masterpiece, it's really one of the best films you'll ever see. Find it, but don't just watch it. Allow it to take you in; even if that means you have to see it a couple times. Let it take you in, and you're in for an experience rarely found in cinema anymore
Elem Klimov and Aleksei Rodionov's handheld cinematography, present the viewer with the mental and physical destruction of a boy who changes in front of your eyes beyond recognition.Cacophoneous, industrial sounds and sometimes cryptic story-elements (for as far as there is a story) contribute to this ruthlessly escalating history lesson about Nazi's who burned down hundreds of villages in 1943 in Russia. The realism makes you wonder how many people were harmed making the film, while the score represents the mindnumbing experiences of Florya, a tour-de-force performance by Aleksei Kravchenko (16 at the time).  All along, somehow Klimov knows very well how to prevent the audience from becoming numb.ILM's specialFX are smoother, but the FX here in 'Come and see' are so realistic, it's almost unreal: reminiscent of the first 30 min of Saving private Ryan, Thin red line (watch the animals), Apocalypse Now and the painstaking 'Band of brothers'.  Indeed forget about the rest of 'SPR', Platoon and even Full Metal Jacket.  However, I would like to recommend Deer Hunter (Cimino, 1978) and Hotaru no haka (1988).  But I never suspected there was something massive like this.  10/10


                
Historical note:"The film concerns the Nazi policy of "total annihilation" in the republic of Byelorussia (now known as Belarus or White Russia, adjacent to Poland) in 1943. The racial policy of the Nazis was to eliminate all "inferior races" such as Jews and Slavs from Eastern Europe and to make land available for German settlement in the east (Lebensraum). Because of the importance of Eastern Europe to Nazi policy the bulk of the German Army was sent to the eastern rather than the western front. Estimated that 20 million or more Russians (by Russians I mean the people of many nationalities that included Russians, Ukrainians, Byelorussians, Jews and many others who used to live on the Soviet territories occupied by Germans during 1941-1943) died fighting Hitler (recent estimates place figure 25-30 million). Units of the SS (Schutzstaffel) and SD (Sicherheitsdienst) were used to carry out the genocide. The SD was separated from the main body of the German Army (Wehrmacht) and made up of fanatical Nazis and fascist East European (often from the Baltic) collaborators."Elem Klimov's and Ales Adamovich's Film is perhaps one of the most powerful and horrifying films about the war (I would add Tarkovsky's "The Childhood of Ivan" aka "Ivanovo Detstvo" and Mikhail Romm's documentary "Obyknovenny Fascism" aka "Ordinary Fascism" aka "Triumph Over Violence"). Not for a moment would the film let the viewer relax. With each scene, the feeling of horror increases. We are transformed into the main character, 16 year old boy Florya. We are forced to see with his eyes, to hear with his ears. In the beginning of the film, Florya is a child. At the end, after having witnessed the unspeakable terrors of the fascists, he becomes an adult, and not just an adult <U+0096> an old man. His face is the face of War <U+0096> and it is to us, the viewers, authors say <U+0096> come and look in this face if you dare. War unmistakably selects as its victims the weakest, the youngest and the tenderest - the authors could not go against this truth. In the military camp, Florya meets the young girl, Glasha. Together, they try to make their way to the village where his family lived. But no one is there, it is empty - it is burnt out. And again some force pushes Florya, Glasha and us to go further. But where? To the shed where the women and the children are burning alive? Into the hands of the rapists- fascists? Or to be photographed with the revolver put at your temple, surrounded by the laughing SS-men? Is there any way out of the Inferno of War? The mystery of the final episode<U+0085> Florya can not force himself to shoot the child at the photograph sitting at his mother's lap. Even if the child's name is Adolph Hitler. Florya puts his rifle down. The clear blue sky is above him. Sounds Mozart's "Requiem". What is this? Victory? Or defeat? Did Florya survive or did he perish like millions and millions during the endless days, months, and years of the worst war the humankind had known? Even if survived physically, he is a changed forever man, the man who looked triumphant death and horror in the eye for too long to ever forget them.
World War II in Belarus, in the region near the Polish borders. Compelled by patriotism and youthful idealism one young boy (Aleksei Kravchenko) leaves his village to fight with the Soviet partisan resistance against the Nazi invasion. Within minutes his innocence is stripped away and the premature knowledge of war is revealed to him. He gets away from his unit and returns home, only to find the whole village including his family slaughtered and their bodies stacked behind an old farm!The horrendous depiction of war that Klimov creates is unique in the history of cinema. There is no plot, only a terrifying wandering in the nature, as the boy comes face to face with constant terrorizing and horrendous scenarios. Heroisms and sacrifices do not exist, nor inspiring speeches that excite the people to resist and fight the enemy. There is only the unexpected, death, violence and victims! A poem of a nightmare, relentlessly grim, deeply disturbing, and made unquestionably more dread-inducing by the fact that almost everything depicted really happened, it is a depressing but necessary reminder of one of the darkest chapters in human history. Idi i Smotri also manages to be both poetic and realistic and that is a supreme accomplishment on the part of the director.The film depicts real and surreal images that only war can justify. Transporting us back to World War II setting with its aptly-chosen locations and era-appropriate set pieces Alexei Rodionov's documentarian cinematography incorporates a lot of steady-cam and captures the events without any interruptions by employing long takes, and stands as one of the best films to use it as extensively as this one does, while desaturated colour tones add an urgency and bleak feel to its aura. The imagery at times is darkly psychedelic and truly arouses a sense of fear within the viewer because Fliora's surroundings are often made to seem out of this world. Such an image is the one where a soldier of the resistance, using mud, pieces of wood and a Nazi uniform, creates a German soldier totem. The widows and the mothers attack the totem and destroy it in a primitive act of violence and catharsis. There are moments in which the film is depicted through the eyes of the protagonist, and all sounds collapse into oblivion, reinforcing his deafness after the bombs' explosions.Come and See is one of the most affecting and confrontational war films ever made. The majority of war films claiming to be anti-war, show heroic acts with weapons and very capable soldiers that can save the day. Come and see does not offer such relief and comfort. It shows that in the war there are only victims. Though no one could possibly describe the experience of watching Come and See as a fun time, the film is nonetheless a masterpiece, worthy of consideration as not just the best war movie ever made, but also one of the greatest films ever made. Come and See is an enduring landmark of Soviet cinema whose potency and relevance will never be diminished by the test of time.
This movie has had to restrain itself from showing the true level of German atrocities in Belarus and Russia, in order not to be distracting. But what is shown is enough, and the movie is beautifully done. The director did not make any more movies because he said everything he wanted to say.This is war movie like no other. If you want to understand what happened, this is a must see. There are so many movies about Holocaust, but the level of suffering on the Eastern front is unfortunately for political reasons severely underplayed in the West. 20 million Russian and Soviet civilians died from the Nazi hand. The decency with which this movie tells the truth about the war is really worthy of greatest respect. There is not a second that is fake in this movie, it is pure, distilled soul of the Soviet people and their struggle against Hitler. If you want substance, look no further. There has been no other movie like this.


                
Come and SeeGrowing up watching war movies from Apocalypse Now to Black Hawk Down, I thought I knew what war movies are. Apparently, I was wrong. Come and See is not like those films. It does have soldiers, explosions, and people dying. However, Come and See doesn't have John Williams making you feel like storming the beaches of Normandy is somehow best expressed by French horn. What makes Come and See so interesting are 3 basic elements: 1. We experience war through the eyes of a teenager, 2. It doesn't follow a formulaic approach and 3. It's brutally real.First of all, war movies are typically seen (in America) through the eyes of some brave (almost always white) man heading off to the glory of the war. Ben Affleck in Pearl Harbor, Tom Hanks in Saving Private Ryan, Tom Sizemore in every major American war movie or TV Show since 1989 (including the two aforementioned). In Come and See, our protagonist Florya is a teenager who eagerly jumps at the chance to fight with the Russians against the Nazi invasion. His youth and innocence at the beginning is just like the audiences. He believes he knows what war looks like, but when confronted with the reality of it he, along with the audiences, slowly loses his mind and his prefabricated ideals. He (and we) become lost in this seemingly alien world of war that had previously been a clear vision to us. Our joint progression is a testament to Klimov's smart design. What I cannot stand about American war movies is the obviousness of plot. That doesn't mean all American war films are bad, but I do believe they follow a very specific pattern. Here it is: Someone goes off to war; they battle, lose a friend, gain some friends, recover from loss, learn some important lesson, and come home. Saving Private Ryan's title character (Matt Damon), Pearl Harbor's Danny Walker (Josh Hartnett), Jarhead's Anthony Swofford (Jake Gyllenhaal) all follow this line. In Come and See, Florya does go off to war with some ideals, he makes and loses some friends, but he never comes home. Also, he's not doing it in any cookie-cutter/Michael Bay way. He is literally destroyed of all his innocence, family, self- worth, and judgment. He never recovers from his losses, he simply pushes them deeper within or ignores them (which could be argued is the same thing), he never learns lessons from his experiences (he becomes angry and disavowed with own thoughts and ethics), and he never comes home, because he doesn't have a home anymore and he wants to keep fighting (I also understand that "war" and "The Army" could be his home, but I disagree with that. I feel his home is truly destroyed, when his innocence is destroyed). Lastly, Come and See's realistic approach to filming is remarkable and startling. There are no sweeping shots of the horizon and the soldiers walking through vast fields, epic crane moves around the statuesque protags (a la every Michael Bay-type war film), or funky color separation or manipulation. It is really is 2 hours of hand-held camera, live ammunition and explosions, real color, and original WWII uniforms. Come and See is an intelligent exploitation of your senses and emotions that are clearly visible in the young actors own minds. When Florya stands next to the nearly leaded cow you see his real fear just like the guy watching the film next to you. Some documentaries are a cleaner look at war than Klimov's film.
This is just about as powerful as a war film can get.The year is 1943. A teenage Belorussian boy by the name of Florya finds a rifle and then joins the resistance to fight the Germans. On the way he sees all the horrors of war and thats what this film is really about.This is one of the most powerful war films I've seen and I have seen a lot. The events aren't dramatized too much and the film manages to keep a good sense of realism. At the same time however it achieves an excellent surrealistic atmosphere by contrasting this young boy to the horrors of war that surround him. The soundtrack helps a lot in this area by not really providing music in the traditional sense but rather these very tense and powerful, slightly ambient noises. Reminded me a lot of the sound that an orchestra makes when they're getting ready right before the start of a concert. Now the film was made during Soviet times so it does show the Germans in a bad light and as very cruel but to a large extent, thats how things were. Aleksei Kravchenko, the actor portraying Florya, pulls the job off well despite his young age. He doesn't have much dialog to say and this really is more of a visual film.To add to the artistic qualities of this film, there is also an excellent technical side. In addition to the soundtrack which I mentioned before, this film has some of the best cinematography I've seen in a long time. Director Elem Klimov makes excellent use of the steadycam with which he follows his characters as they go from one place to another and without cutting away. There are two excellent examples of this: First is when Florya comes back to his village and the camera follows him as he comes down a hill, goes into his yard and then into his house. The second is the last shot in the film which follows a collumn of soldiers, then takes a brief detour (which is more of a shortcut actually) into a forest and then rejoins that group of soldiers some time later. Simply awesome. The battle scenes are very intense, especially one of a group of German soldiers taking out a village. What I really liked was that everything seemed genuine. During one scene where a bomber bombed a forest, you could really see the dirt being kicked up and trees falling down.An absolute must see film.


                
To write a simple review seems to be an easy task. Let's complicate the matters a bit. If You have time and inclination, perceive my point and method of commenting this particular movie. All right, here we go. What do we have on the negative side? The following lines are taken out from the IMDb reviews.1 "The soundtrack is boring, without any decent music at all... Indeed, this is not a realistic film in any way, shape or form... Its propaganda, devoid of any artistic merit. I give it the minimum score because of its extreme pro-Soviet bias, which makes the film offensive and indeed Soviet propaganda". (by Jose Cruz)2 "And I love films, but really films are supposed to be entertaining. Or shocking. Or thought provoking. This is so tedious it feels like the director is calling the viewers bluff". (by robc-26 from United Kingdom)3 "A war movie should educate the viewer in any of a number of ways. We should appreciate courage and sacrifice, we should empathise with the cold, hungry and terrified. We should be told about historical events and their impact on the final outcome". (by Reebox from United Kingdom)4 "Lack of dialogue and explanation means that much of the time you don't know who people are or where they're going or what they hope to accomplish when they get there". (by hanfuzzy from Barrie, Ontario, Canada)5 "The character of the boy doesn't seem developed enough and the imagery presented in some so-called "intense" scenes did not truly attract my attention nor made me empathize with the character". (by dubbs37 from United States)6 "Bad lead character development". (by entej from Russian Federation)7 "The film is very slow and at many times throughout, nothing much is happening... The long, ringing in your ears, muted sound is off putting and not effective". (by richard6 from United Kingdom)8 "I wanted to see more actual fighting, and how the war was perceived by soldiers not a 12 year old boy..." (by Steve Johnson (twiglet-1))9 "The Nazis was professional killers, OK, but they were yet civilized (if I could say so) beside of a savage hypocrite murders called russians with their red army!.. Nazis were stupid kids beside Red Holocaust and Stalin. Be serious!!!!!" (by nazratst from Romania)10 "The infamous village massacre happens in the last fifteen to twenty minutes of the film, and the German soldiers look so ridiculously evil and cartoon-like that it's very hard for this scene to have any particular interest or emotion. To be honest, I was so bored up to this point that the barbaric events unfolding on screen before me were almost welcoming as at least something was finally happening". (by JSwallowX1 from Ireland)So, we can sum it all up in the lines below (adding some groovy spice will also help).Being a piece of blunt Soviet propaganda, the film is devoid of any historical accuracy and artistic merit. It's dull and tedious with an uninteresting main character (who has absolutely no background and is free from any development – either physical or mental). Who cares about some kid during the war times? Give us a HERO, not a whimpering child! This "war" flick is neither entertaining nor serious. Its fictional happenings (women and children burnt in the barns by the Nazis? come on, in reality it was vice versa! read the historical documents!) pump up to the levels of "Star Wars" with one serious difference: "Star Wars" was at least thought-provoking and shocking. There is no decent music in the movie at all and the whole soundtrack cries out to get turned off. The last straw that could break any camel's back (i.e. insult any viewer's ears) was some cheap melody at the end of the flick. The whole movie is boring to such degree that any normal human being will yawn and fall asleep during the initial 10 minutes. If you want to see a real feat for the eyes and ears, watch the documentary "Der Ewige Jude", which IS a masterpiece at all levels and on top of everything has realistic cow scenes (unlike this one). Watch any USA picture with the WWII topic – they are not many, but at least they represent the historical facts and show us WHO won the World War II and at WHAT unspeakable price... The Russians exaggerate things immensely, making the events going on on their territory look like some kind of annihilation. Nonsense. The Germans were never cruel during the WWII on the USSR territory and they always behaved in a most decent manner. It was Russian troops who were deranged killers (there is even a historically accurate photo of a Russian soldier bullying a poor German woman and robbing her of her bicycle! and it happened in the streets of Berlin when the war was over! Check out the I-net archive footage if you don't believe! just imagine WHAT was happening during the war days!). The verdict: if you are a sane civilized and thinking European, stay far away from this schmoopy fantasy.Do You agree? What do You know about the WWII? How empty is Your vision? To which extent are Your brains brainwashed and "freed"?Any further comment is superfluous. Actually, this movie does not need any review or comment. But our today's way of life needs it badly. And today's cinema.Thank you for attention.


                
Russian director Elem Klimov's final film, 'Idi i smotri {Come and See},' is a masterpiece of the genre, a war film so disturbingly intense that it strays into the realms of psychological horror. Set in 1943, during the Nazi occupation of Belarus, the film follows the fate of a young boy, Florya Gaishun (Aleksei Kravchenko), who joins the Soviet partisan army. As the horrors of war unfold before him, Florya loses his idealistic preconceptions of combat, becoming confused and psychologically unstable. The entire film is witnessed through his young eyes, as his civilised world is thrown into turmoil and those that he loves perish at the hands of a merciless enemy.Much like Francis Ford Coppola's 'Apocalypse Now,' the film is almost surrealistic in its exploration of the horrors of war, constructing a hallucinatory nightmare of escalating confusion, fear, death and madness. And yet, despite this, the film manages to come across as being frighteningly realistic. Perhaps this surrealistic approach is also, paradoxically, the most realistic depiction of war. Young Florya is cast into a hellish world he simply can't comprehend; placed in the same position, I imagine, the experience would strike us as being one long, distressing and horrible dream. Florya seemingly even treats it all as such. With the ghastly events happening all about him, he can do nothing but stare with petrified shock and awe, as one who expects to wake up at any moment.'Come and See' boasts a string of remarkable sequences which will resonate with viewers for a long time after they see it. A series of bomb strikes tear apart a Russian forest, silently obliterating the mature trees as a shell-shocked Florya hears only the maddening ringing in his ears; Florya attempts to clamber through a thick, murky bog, feeling with each step as though he is getting nowhere; he awakens in the midst of a thick mist, his head resting on the carcass of a dead cow. Perhaps the most lasting scene is one in which an entire population of villagers is herded into a barn, and then consequently set alight. Words fail to describe the horror of watching the flaming barn doors still flapping wildly as the inhabitants fight with their last breaths to save themselves and their families. Meanwhile, Florya just stares, his blank, disbelieving expression infinitely more effective than any other actions would have been.Inexperienced teenager Aleksei Kravchenko is excellent in the lead role, which the director subsequently described as "a very difficult role with extreme emotional states." So arduous were the emotional burdens of the film that Klimov later expressed surprise and relief that young Kravchenko did not suffer any adverse psychological trauma during and after filming, which notably employed the use of live ammunition to maximise authenticity. His character is placed in situations that are, to us, simply impossible to fathom, and Florya reacts to these changes in his life with a sort of awed silence, sometimes anger. Young actress Olga Mironova, apparently in her only film role, plays a pivotal role as Glasha, whom Florya befriends in the early part of the film.The film ends with a simple but very disturbing montage of archive footage. As Florya attempts to symbolically destroy Adolf Hitler by firing bullets at his portrait, the black-and-white World War II footage rapidly rewinds: we see corpses at a concentration camp, a 1930s Nazi party rally, Hitler's services during World War I. As Florya fires more and more bullets, the images continue to reverse themselves, as though eradicating the history from existence. Finally, we arrive at a photograph of Adolf Hitler sitting on his mother's lap as a young baby. Unlike the Nazi savages who felt no remorse in torching entire villages to the ground, Florya cannot bring himself to symbolically murder this innocent child, even with the knowledge of the horrors he would later orchestrate. Is this morality the reason why wars are an inevitable consequence of human existence?Though the final reel does undoubtedly stray towards propaganda (the Russian citizens are clearly shown to possess superior morals to those of the evil, fiendish Germans), the entire film is executed so disturbingly perfectly that you are too engrossed in the spectacle to really notice at all. There is no clear resolution to the story. Of course, the valiant Soviets successfully triumph over the company of Nazis, but they then strike off for another confrontation. The War will go on forever, and Florya will never be given a reprieve from all the horrors he has witnessed. The original working title of the film had been "Kill Hitler," not specifically referring to the infamous dictator, but with a more general meaning. As Klimov explains in the DVD preface to his film, he meant the title to suggest that we should kill the "Hitler" within ourselves, "because we all have our demons in this or that measure." However, after the title was deemed inappropriate, another was chosen from chapter 6 the Book of Revelations: "...and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as with a voice of thunder, "Come and see!""'Come and See' was the final film that Klimov ever directed. Having experienced World War II with his own eyes as a child, he felt that it was a film that he needed to make, and, after doing so, he was no longer compelled to continue directing. The director comments, once again on the DVD preface: "I don't regret that I made that film. It had a difficult pre-history and history. But one has to make it a difference once in a while, to commit something worthy. Herein lies the sense of creative work, when you can offer to people something real serious, real meaningful<U+0085>" Simply put, this is the masterpiece that he was born to make, and a single viewing will ultimately change the way that you view war.
Idri I Smotri is the most horrifying war movie you'll ever see. No, I have not seen every war movie but I've seen many and none of them were remotely close to this.If an American war movie is considered anti-war, you usually see really gruesome stuff happening to soldiers. American movie wars are fought in computer servers, a totally unpopulated battlefield were the troops can run around and kill each other. If a movie shows bad stuff happening to civilians, it's always limited and often implied.Idri I Smotri goes all out and shows you the whole thing. Rape, murder, massacre, brutality in every way imaginable. There is very little plot, a tool to further show the randomness and confusion of war. The happenings on screen are often bizarre and unexpected, and dialog is confused, desperate, hopeless and often barely human.On top of the ghastly pictures is a whine, drone, noise, call it what you will. I'm guessing someone call's it "soundtrack" but that's too generous. It's nauseating, and very effective.Acting is extremely believable, characters feel real as life. That doesn't mean they are likable, rational or enjoyable, but they're undoubtedly there, experiencing first-hand what we are seeing filtered through or TV screen.I will never forget this movie. It leaves a mental scar in your mind which takes a few days to recover from and you'll probably never recover fully. If you've seen movies like "Saving Private Ryan" or "We were soldiers" and felt they were too strong, DON'T watch this movie. If you never feel terribly affected by movies, well, you'll soon know what it's like.


                
There exist movies that within few opening scenes make me forget that I am watching a movie, that it is all make-believe, and that those are not real people but simply actors performing their craft. This movie is not one of those – it is beyond it. There are parts of it during which I caught myself stepping back from the immersion and almost forcefully suspending the suspension of disbelief. Such is the torment in it, but then again, that was the idea behind making this movie – to capture the horror of WWII and help us understand the scale of human destruction, physical as well as mental. I believe that there is no other movie in existence that does this better. I do not make this statement lightly. Set in small Byelorussian village in 1943, a minuscule part of Soviet Union, the atrocities committed in it, combined with a statistic shown at the end of the movie will help you understand just how it is possible that tens of millions of people died, in Soviet Union alone. To try and imagine, to picture, one million people in front of you is daunting. Thirty million seems like a distant theoretical concept at best, of which our cognitive grasp is fully incapable. And yet, it happened. Florian, a young boy – barely a teenager, is recruited by Soviet Partisans. Full of innocence, enthusiasm, and eagerness as only a young man can be, he says goodbye to his family, and walks as if on clouds, to join the rest of his garrison. Through his eyes and the rest of the senses, one by one, those traits will be viciously taken away, until the only thing left is a shell, the boy is long gone, and the person than stands before us is barely recognizable. But this new shell has a will of steel; to defend and fight back – to survive. The story and the level of acting are not the only impressive components of this 1985 film. The way it is shot and its unique sound complete the elements that are required of every epic. In his introduction of this film to us, my film professor stated that in watching it, you will be able to smell, almost taste, the gore. I, of course, did not say anything, simply thought that perhaps he is slightly exaggerating, trying to get us to pay closer attention to the film. Two things – I was wrong; if anything he undersold it, and two – a great deal of concentration, in a way, is not really necessary for this film. Even if you are an average movie-lover, rest assured that this masterpiece will grab a hold of you until it possesses you fully, and then not let go for next two hours. All of you are familiar with "Saving private Ryan." Most of you will remember the great scene where true burden of war presents itself – Tom Hanks' character loses any remaining sanity, goes deaf, and starts shooting his small Colt handgun at an oncoming German Tiger tank. Guess where Steven Spielberg got the inspiration for that scene? Yep, you guessed right. Now imagine the psychological and emotional level of that twenty-minute scene spread out to two thirds of a movie. Guess in which movie this actually happens? Right again."Come and See" is easily one of the greatest films ever made. With any great film that scars me, I ponder the meaning of its title. While it contains biblical references, in writing this review, I realized its, oh so simple, meaning. "Come and See" what war is really like. "Come and See" what it really does to men. Finally, this film succinctly illustrates the reason behind my eternal gratefulness that Hollywood is not the only worldly entity making movies. Because, and let's get this clear, this movie could have never ever come from Hollywood, and yes, they really killed a cow.
If any movie can induce PTSD or reduce one's expected lifespan simply by viewing it, this is that film. I am not usually in favor of restricting movie viewership, but this is one film that I cannot rightfully recommend to any person under the age of 18. If I had watched this film when I was 12, I would have either created some sort of psychological barrier and have been unable to fully comprehend the events taking place, or I would have been emotionally damaged for life. Possibly both. After viewing "Come and See", I am a changed man. Though it contains no graphic sex, outright gore, or extensive vulgarity, "Come and See" is so powerful it's haunted me long after it ended. I've seen many horror movies (and even more war movies throughout my life, but no film I've ever seen even holds a candle to "Come and See" in terms of psychological trauma. I've heard stories about the horrors of the holocaust and of WWII, my grandfather was even in a concentration camp in Poland during the war- at the tender age of 14, about the same age as the main character in the film. I've read "Night" by Elie Wiesel, and I have seen "Schindler's List," and though I felt great sorrow for the pain of those who lived through such terrible ordeals, at the end of the day all of the stories I'd heard resonated with me as just that; stories (very real stories, but stories nonetheless). This was not the case with "Come and See." Klimov's brilliant directing style is somehow capable of pulling you in and making you feel absolutely helpless against the surrounding evils. Not just sorrow and remorse for the characters, but complete empathy for their pain in a way that is indescribable. "Schindler's List" might be hard to get through at times, but you still remain fully cognizant of the screen separating you from the death and suffering you see. "Come and See" destroys that protective mechanism. As an audience member, you have no feelings of "seeing" the film through a lens, but you "experience" it like you might experience the effects of a hallucinogenic substance that latches onto your brain and changes the very chemicals that determine the way you view the world- in a way I would imagine that is similar to an LSD trip gone horribly wrong. I now have even greater compassion for my grandfather's ordeals, and cannot imagine what I would have done were I in the same position as he. The film raises serious questions about whether or not it is truly "better" to survive a massacre than die in it. Even if you walk out of this film, it's too late. Closing your eyes, covering your ears; all attempts at ignorance are pointless -because "Come and See" goes past your vision and hearing- it penetrates your very consciousness. If you've seen enough to want to turn off the film, it's already too late and you've already felt the film's power. By the end of it, there is no way you'll ever look at war the same way again, and you'll likely remember this film and its lessons for years to come. Every single person considering joining the military, and every single person capable of voting should watch this film, because I guarantee it will cause you to deeply reconsider the choices that could easily send thousands of men into similar situations you see unfolding in "Come and See." Though I am always in favor of watching all great movies at least twice, and though "Come and See" is nothing less than great (if not spectacular), it is one film I dread watching a second time. Be sure to have a pack of cigarettes, black coffee, and/or a stiff drink ready in hand before viewing this film.
I've always been deeply intrigued by the atrocities committed against humanity during war, specifically WWII. I thought I had seen every WWII war movie there is to see. I accidentally stumbled across this gem when I was searching for the best Halloween movies and #100 was Come and See. After reading all the reviews here on IMDb I absolutely had to watch it for myself. I was not prepared for anything this spectacular, it's truly, like many others have already stated, "A MASTERPIECE!" I watched it last evening, alone and was crying by the second scene and never really stopped crying. It's exhausting, painful, and an emotional drain but quite possibly the best movie I have ever seen and I've seen thousands. I would not recommend this be viewed with young children. If you are in high school and you are learning about WWII history you might want to check this one out but be prepared to become mildly depressed. I haven't been able to really think of anything else since watching it last night. I almost feel like I need some sappy, happy-go lucky book or movie to make me feel better. They don't make movies like this one very often, in fact, I can't think of anything in recent history that even comes close.


                
"Come and See", a film directed by Elem Klimov is the paradigm of anti-war films; brutal, sober, and gut-wrenching. From the darkest moments of the film (The Church being burnt to ashes) to the "lightest" moments of the film (Flyora and Glasha laughing at each other), Klimov never lets go of the hell bound gas pedal.Director: Elem Klimov, born July 9th, 1933, lived during the Battle of Stalingrad. In fact, his mother, her baby, and himself, had to evacuate from their home on a makeshift raft in order to survive (Wikipedia). Klimovs experience with this displacement is very apparent in Flyoras attempt to survive; florya is constantly leaving new friends and safe places in order to survive at all costs. Yet, what truly makes Klimov a special director is his unusual attempts to eek every last drop of acting out of Flyora and Glasha. For instance, Klimov has allegedly hypnotized Kravchenko to make him gaze empty looks of depression and hopelessness. As well, in the scene where Flyora and Glasha attempt to cross the boggy swamp, Klimov allegedly told the child actors to attempt to cross and all he would do is roll the camera. Talk about method direction! Sound Track: Although most amateur directors think capturing images is the most important part of the film, what you hear is just as important. Of course, images from "Come and See" are astounding (Such as the long take of them walking across the swamp), but in that scene, it is the soundtrack that makes it even more dramatic and sensational. The swelling of low frequencies and the rumbling of muddy sounds feed off an eerie vibe that this swamp is not your average swamp; it is a death trap, sucking in hopeless children closer and closer to their death. And without the shrieks and moans of Glasha -- the yelps for parents that are dead, the moans for Gods that aren't there, the cries for friends that are murdered -- Come and See would not be the riveting and disturbing film it is. The sound track sets a tone of discomfort, where sitting in my chair watching the movie, it was the deep haunting frequencies that chilled my bones just as much as the fear stricken Russians.Acting: Just as Italian Neo-Realist used amateur actors to convey a more gritty realism (Such as in films like the Bicycle Thieves directed by Vittorio De Sica), Klimov pulled Flyora and Glasha from Russias streets to star in his daunting epic. While this may seem crazy -- the idea of giving two amateur child actors the lead in a film -- the soul of Russia and real knowledge of the Mother countries sufferings translated seamlessly to their characters actions. In fact, Kravchenkos acting was so "method" that his hair turned blonde during filmmaking, and once again, he was under hypnosis nearly 50% of the time. While most people can easily look "scared" or "depressed" if they are an experienced actor, the gut feeling and soul feeling of knowing the unimaginable terror of war seen through the eyes can only be accomplished by either the $20 million dollar actors or the real actors who know the Russian war story. Cinematography: The cinematography in "Come and See" is miraculous. At least every frame in the film deals with one of the five senses; smell, touch, taste, sight, hearing. Obviously, hearing and seeing are the easiest, but it the smell, touch, and taste that are more difficult to come by. In one scene where Flyora is back in his home and after it has been raided by Germans, he sits down at his table and eats food. Yet, it is clear to Glasha, and unclear to him, that his family has been kidnapped as everything in the house is thrown around and flies buzz in every corner. In this moment, viewers can smell the rotten stench of sweat, tears, spit, blood, and bad food just from the buzzing of flies, the eerie colors of the house, and the bloodied teddy bears strewn on the floor. When Glasha and Flyora walk through the swamp, viewers can almost touch the swamp, feeling the sticky and disgusting feel of thick mud encompassing their tiny bodies and wrapping around them, sucking them down into dirty brown water as it seeps through their childish pores. Even more, you can taste the burnt flesh of the village farmer as he lays on the ground with his skin rotting away and burnt to shreds. These scenes are not just haunting for their images, but for how the cinematography interacts with more than 3 of viewers senses at all times.Overall, Come and See is a brilliant war story that never truly leaves the viewer for years to come. Nothing has ever scarred my mind and changed my views on war than "Come and See". To physically watch the life be sucked out of a child, not just in film, but in reality as well, is the most disturbing and saddening faucets of life. Eat before you see the film, because "Come and See" will definitely take you down a haunting, chilling, journey into the world of death and the city of hell.
I saw a lot of WWII movies in my life but "Come and See" was surely one of the most impressive one. It's way of experiencing war not only through the eyes of a child but to actually feel how this journey changes him was one of the most horrifying as well as incredible experiences I every had. Elem Klimov managed to show the pure brutality and bestiality of war in the most incredible way I've ever seen. He not only made it possible for the audience to experience a sense of being deaf but furthermore he even makes you smell the smoke when ruthless German soldiers burn those innocent people. The most memorable scene for me was when Florya shoots at a picture of Hitler at the end thus using his pistol for the first time. After everything he had to endure this symbolic act was proof for me off how much he matured during only a few days. Ultimately he can't force himself to shoot at a picture of Hitler as a baby, which really makes you, the audience, think, not only about what would've happened if Hitler had never been born but also about the innocence of a baby and what must have happened to him in order to become such a monster. This is only one out off many scenes throughout this movie that really made me think about the nature of human beings and the horrifying truth about wars. This movie is certainly a Must See!
I consider my self to be a real war buff. I Have watched a HUGE number of war movies in my time. My library of books on the subject of war dwarfs that of my local library. I have visited many battlefields and have spent many hours conversing with veterans. However after seeing this film I realised I knew NOTHING of war. the sense of loss, of sadness, of destruction is overpowering. I have never cried after seeing a film. In fact I find it very difficult to cry in general. But about an hour after seeing this film I broke down and cried like never before in my life. That is true art. Saving Private Ryan has often been sited as being in the same league as this in other reviews here. I find this insulting. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely loved SPR, but to mention it in the same breath as this is just wrong. An event in my life recently reminded me quite strongly of Come And See. There is a beautiful forested aria not far from where I live. An aria of outstanding natural beauty. I have gone for walks there since I was a child, and continued to do so for many years. Some of my happiest memories are of the beauty and tranquillity of that forest. Then about a year ago there was a forest fire. My beautiful forest was gone. Come And See evoked the same feelings of loss and sadness but more intensely. Those were only trees -beautiful although they were- but these were real people. Although Come And See is not based on a true story per se, it is firmly grounded in history, with 628 similar instances. If this film touched you as deeply as it did me, I would recommend a trip to the Khatyn Memorial in Belarus.


                
Elem Klimov's "Come and See" is the brilliant film that pioneered the use of cinematic tools to replicate shockingly realistic elements in many war movies and video games that fascinate us today. Klimov omits the juvenile use of musical tracks, and instead opts to use amplified sound effects - most intriguingly during the bombing scene in Act 1 where Klimov simulates the main character's deafness through manipulated magnetic tape. As hyperbolic as it might sound, the movie is even more brutal than "Schindler's List". Klimov follows the main character's transition from fragile, innocent teenager, to a psychologically disturbed, traumatized, terrified young man after enduring the horrors of war. "Come and See" commemorates the 40th anniversary of Russia's victory against the Nazis. Interestingly, what is most attractive about this film is how Klimov stays clear of the over-romanticized "war hero" plot in an effort to articulate the need for peace, as opposed to glorify the synthetic triumphs of war.The film is truly progressive in style without sacrificing its dramatic value, on the contrary, enhancing it. It is without exaggeration among the best movies I have ever seen.
Put simply, 'Come and See' is one of the best films I have ever seen. It is also one of the most effective anti-war statements ever produced and many of its images still resonate today, particularly the dark and bleak ending. It works better as an experience rather than as entertainment and should definitely be watched in a single sitting.Amazingly shot, filmed and acted, it serves as one of the pinnacles of Russian Cinema. That being said, it is not a film for the faint of heart. Althrough the actual atrocities in the film make up only a small part of the film, the scene is unrelentingly brutal and there is a prevailing sense of dread throughout the film.Also, there is much controversy about the ending sequence of the film and many people view the film as anti-German and merely Russian propaganda. Personally, I view the film, at face value, as a warning about the dangers of fascism rather than being anti-German. 'Come and See' is not simply a case of condemning Nazism but rather a wider view that everybody has the capacity to do what Hitler did.'Come and See' cannot fail but provoke a reaction in an audience, which very few films actually do and because of this it is universally worth seeing. It is definitely a film that lingers in the memory.


                
