I rented this based on the comments here, but was disappointed. Unless you live for foreign art films, stay away. This movie goes on far too long without getting to a point (if it ever does, besides war is bad for everyone), and I've seen way to much of that anguished kid staring shocked and dismayed at the camera (about half the movie). There isn't much war going on, just tragedy, atrocity, or pointless wandering around the edge of war. Lack of dialogue and explanation means that much of the time you don't know who people are or where they're going or what they hope to accomplish when they get there. Luckily I had ironing and sewing to do while watching this, or it would have been a total waste of time.


                
A war movie should educate the viewer in any of a number of ways. We should appreciate courage and sacrifice, we should empathise with the cold, hungry and terrified. We should be told about historical events and their impact on the final outcome.This film sent me to sleep during the first 60 minutes. Time that should have been spent providing some base detail about Floryan's life was spent with long shots of expressionless faces and inconsequential wildlife. I tried hard to see the relevance but it escaped me. As a result I did not bond with the lead characters.The tuneless soundtrack was delivered at such a level that I couldn't make out the most important bits of dialogue. I had to switch on the subtitles to follow the story. I say follow the story but I'm not sure it had one. It was more a jigsaw of loosely connected events. I was unable to reconcile one scene with another. You find yourself asking " How did he get there" and " Where did so and so disappear to" The DVD blurb mentions the movie having "realistic battle scenes". Nonsense - there isn't a single battle scene where you see the Belorussians v the Nazi's in a conventional fight.The blurb also states that " this is a film that Hollywood would never make". I agree, it wouldn't make any money.This film contains nothing that hasn't been done before.The only reason I give this two stars is that the film educated me about the Belorussian landscape.Most disappointed !


                
Only thing this movie is good at is violence. It is boring, not so well made movie about war. Yes, there is the terror, yes there is some drama, but done in such a boring way you feel like you could just walk away from it all and everything would be just fine. I don't understand the hype, but as a trend follows, foreign movies tend to get good reviews mostly because of patronizing commentators, who want to seem smart and profound. Boring, low-quality overrated garbage. And there is this constant babble about how Hollywood can't make this. Hollywood is not always at it's best, but we all know it can surpass this crap by a mile anytime. Shindler's list, for example, is way better than this. This is waste of time, with good promo story. One of them is, that kid acting went back to school with gray hair. Oh give me a break will ya'. Don't believe hype about everything. There is a reason this crap of a movie is not so well known. The most horrible things are faces, that are made to look almost like in a horror flick. Yes, war can be horror, but movies that rely on brutality are usually crap and achieve their impact through gore and violence. There is much more impact behind deep storytelling than this.Intermezzo: When you watch reviews you see many saying "he actually walked through mud to film this", while no one says SHE DID TOO. Crap on crap is crap. This movie is brutal, boring crap. And playing Mozart in the background is beyond stupid since it is only for molesting viewer. No Mozart is playing in the real world and no sinister sound is in the background. To get real feel set this to mute in every mayor scene. Not that big of an impact. Only well brutal with horror soundtrack in the background. With that music, baking chocolate chip cookies can look as a deepest horror flick ever.


                
