In recently becoming interested in films and mini-series centered on fictitious or historical characters in World War II, I ran across this title on several top 50 or 100 war films lists. I was rather keen to see it, especially given the reviews which called it "chilling" or lauded it as one of the top war films of all time. Forgive me for being a killjoy here, but after viewing this film, I was simply left with a feeling of "Really?". The character of the boy doesn't seem developed enough and the imagery presented in some so-called "intense" scenes did not truly attract my attention nor made me empathize with the character. Some scenes also appeared to drag on too long without any meaning or added effect. In short, I would probably put this on my "Top 50 War Films to Pass On" list. I should have simply watched another coming-of-age war film that is an outstanding film: "Europa Europa."


                
Unfortunatily, though I wanted to, i did not find this film interesting. Come and See is an extremely cereal film to watch. If before watching the film,I had not bothered to read the sub text. I may not have know what the story was about. For the viewers who have little knowledge about the Eastern front in the early 1940's,it could be confusing to watch with no understanding of the concept of the story.Quick over view, for the people who haven't seen the film. Come and See" is based on experiences witnessed by citizens in Eastern Europe during the German Invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 . Their treatment, mostly the work of the SS, towards the citizens of these countries were barbaric. Countless men,woman and children were raped,beaten,shot and slaughtered in one of the biggest act of Genocide in history. Come and See is set in Byelorussia around 1942-1943. The film is told from a young Byelorussian boys view named, Florya who joins the local partisans against the German invaders. We see him go through the film in an unconscious state of mind.The problem with the film is that we get to know little about Florya,we don't learn anything about who the characters are and why they are there. The film is very slow and at many times throughout, nothing much is happening. The one good set piece that as any little visual effect showing the horror, at bested a film can, that these people went through comes right at the end. Like the massacre of Florya's family ,which you don't see, it could have been better done.The film as a whole could have been so much better. The long, ringing in your ears, muted sound is off putting and not effective.This film gets three stars from me for the reason of 1. The trees exploding scenes (around 20 seconds each) are visual stunning as well as 2. The bullets travelling at speed and glowing up the air, (also around 20 second). 3. For bringing to screen, a story from a group of partisans in Eastern Europe view and for the last 15 minutes of the film.Come and See is not a total disaster of a film. It is well filmed by the director Elem Klimov and does,though very loosely, tell us about the experience of the partisans during the war. However their are NO set battle scenes, hardly a shot is fired, their is only one massacre scene at the end, and most disappointing of all the film is very SLOW.


                
This movie is another propagandistic thing that old 1950-1960's Russian war movies were suppose to do. It is great filmed, I couldn't deny. But its message is an hypocrite idea. It seems that an real event were took place in Belarus in that time, OK. But why this guy made this film in 1985 repeating the same...thing? I mean about de "devil" Nazis beside the Russian angels? I liked the image that look germas like crazy vikings hailing ang drinking, very funny.... Have anyone an idea how was the russin occupation of eastern Europe in the late of WWII? How many murders, rapes?... The Nazis was professional killers, OK, but they were yet civilized (if I could say so) beside of a savage hypocrite murders called russians with their red army!.. Nazis were stupid kids beside Red Holocaust and Stalin. Be serious!!!!!


                
I don't like Russian movies generally, but I was going through that 'damn' book "1001 MOVIES you must see before you die" and I saw this one. I was really surprised because I didn't even heard about it. Came here, read this board, I thought "Gee, this must be good". It took one day for me to find DVD, and here I am - ready to watch. And everything went downhill since than 1) IMDb says its in Russian. Hell no, I couldn't understand a damn thing (most of the movie). It was in Belorussian or Ukranian language. I almost hugged TV just to hear some familiar words. There were no subs... I know this is not movie's problem but it gave me a really hard times 2) The whole relationship between Glasha and whatever-his-name-is was just a mess. It led nowhere. From the moment he saw her the first time - it was like was wondering why she is going with other guys and he was just sitting in a tub. It looked like he wanted more, thats what I thought. But there was no more. So I don't see why Glasha-character was even there. Also if they decided to add her - so please bother to tell what happened with her at the end (dead, missing, etc?) 3) Bad lead character development. The was no... lets say "presentation" of him in the beginning at all. I simply didn't care about him. It is hard to like a movie when you don't like / care about lead. 4) Some action of characters was just idiotic (first talk with Glasha in the woods, OMG. It was too strange) 5) Many posters here said about "how great was the acting". Didn't see that 6) Didn't feel the whole war-thing. (MAYBE is was just me) 7) The barn scene was stupid. Do you remember before the fire two people got out from the window. OK. Here comes the fire. Is it BETTER to stay inside and burn alive or you COULD at least try not get shot but go through the window??? It was about 100 or 200 people inside and all they did it's screaming? I'm not buying it. Maybe its because movie was cheap, I don't know about others but I was looking on empty barn on fire 8) I can think of more but do I really need to? I've got an idea that most of the people liked it because its Russian (kinda new, exotic, about the war). If this is the reason - I get it. For example I have a thing for danish movies, there is something magic about them for me. I didn't see any Russian people here, and I must say this movie is not very "popular" here in Russia. I ask a lot people about it, even my mom and dad haven't seen it. I tried to like it, I gave every possible chance for it, but "idi i smotri" responded with nothing right back to me.
I thought the movie was average at best!  If you like artsy films, you might like this.  There were some very good scenes that were enjoyable to watch, and made it somewhat interesting to watch.  But, it had about 2 hours of boring scenes that were not that eventful.  I don't want to think how it felt or have some weird imagery, I wanted to see more actual fighting, and how the war was perceived by soldiers not a 12 year old boy  The movie was not cohesive at all it reminded my of a Thin Red Line, if you like that movie you would like this.  I would imagine most war movie fans would not like this movie.   Save your money and pass this one up!!


                
