I've seen a lot but this one..
I wasn't expecting anything. I'm just watching the top250 one by one.
So far every movie was good and rated them from 7 to 10.This one has nothing to do with reality. German soldiers did not behave like that.
In here german soldiers asked if they can help with the stuff that my grandmom's grandma carried! This happened in the maternal side.
On the paternal side my father's mother was raped by the soviet union's soldiers.So when I watched this movie. It started out ok. Then there was a scene where I had no idea if they cry or laugh. I had to watch that total nonsense scene for minutes. Then the bad bad germans came and the soviet union showed up as the good guys. It's not about who killed how many people in WW2. Just saying that the gulag was not different from the german camps! It's a soviet made propaganda movie, a lie. (And I'm not a german.)
I wonder if any country would make a movie about how bad are the US soldiers. How on Earth would that be in the top250.
If I don't care about the story then I have to say it is still a bad movie.Cinematography, directing, acting was awful.The sound and the design was ok. Nothing else.
I strongly disagree about this movie being a piece of art. Maybe the ending sequence, but that's about it. I was very disappointed by this film due to the high IMDb rating. It feels like the director wants to be Tarkovsky; but he isn't. Filled with flaws and clichés as well as being propagandistic and biased. Could have been much better. The intro is weak and all through the movie there is a lack of framing. Music could have been used in a much better way. The only really good thing I found was the camera movement which were pretty realistic and made the movie captivating at times. As a whole though, this movie is far from a masterpiece in my opinion. I believe there are much better Russian films and much better war films.2/5


                
This movie is boring, horrible. Throughout the movie much of it is just the camera following dull actions, like behind a boy walking for 30 seconds while playing 80's scary sounds, then the camera stares right in the face of the "actors" while they talk non-sense and material which does not move the movie forward much. True depiction of war I'd say with a propagandist flavour but it is just so boring to watch.In all truthfulness there are so many better movies, watch something else, this is just boring boring boring to watch. Terrible. 4 Stars for the budget of the movie which focused on blowing things up, but story line is garbage. I can probably write a better plot with zero experience.


                
If you want an "arty" war film, then I suppose this is for you.
I think the director only partially succeeded in portraying the suffering of civilians during times of war, due to making some silly mistakes with the planning and execution of certain scenes.
Some parts stretched credulity beyond breaking point. For example, the protagonist being allowed to splash around for ages in the bog before his girlfriend eventually decided to tell him that it was futile because she knew his family were dead.
The recurring motif of the airplane, so badly executed that it was akin to a flying saucer from a 1950's sci-fi "B" movie.
The Germans, who, to a man, were completely ecstatic about burning a barn full of Belarusians. You might have thought that one or two of them would be human enough to turn away or find something else to do other than applaud.
The very poorly applied makeup on the protagonist's face which was supposed to convey his dramatic aging due to his experiences.
The stupidity of running into the middle of an enormous field when supposedly trying to sneak past German lines to get food.
The stork. Very arty but incomprehensible.
All these issues pull down what could have been a great film.
I think the best part was the unexpected "bomb" from the airplane. Human moment.
Some other parts were well done. The sacking of the villages was portrayed well, possibly due to a complete lack of planning the scenes and winging it.
Use of animals worked well, must have been excellent handlers (apart from the stork).
The acting was very very good. Characters developed well, just some fibre, maybe some documentary styling missing to make the thing more believable.
Watchable, interesting, different, but by no means a "masterpiece" or "great".
This is based on actual events that happened on the Eastern Front in WW2. The Nazi deeds were monstrous.The suffering of the civilians and common atrocities were done in the name of Hitlers crazy ideology. Ethnic cleansing and industrialized murder were commonplace. This is based on the brutal reality that caused casualties on this front of more than 30 million . Mans depravity as seen thru the eyes of a teenager. A coming of age movie set in an apocalyptic time period. This movie has some Russian quirks but still rates as a monumental film.


                
