Elem Klimov directs "Come and See". While the film predominantly follows the rites-of-passage journey of a young boy, it is remarkable how often and effortlessly Klimov shifts visual perspective, offering us the objective and subjective states of a wide range of characters and objects. For example, in one of the films most surreal scenes, several characters are shown guiding a cow across what seems to be open and unguarded terrain. Suddenly a series of intense firefights break out. Several characters are killed, but it is the fate of the cow with which the film is most preoccupied.The images of the cow standing untouched by the raging skirmish, then struck by a barrage of bullets, and finally of its eyes rapidly shifting and dilating before death, are indicative of "Come and See's" ability to produce indelible images from what are often quite standard war film situations. Like Malick, Klimov is as much interested in the landscape (and the objects and people that inhabit it), as he is in representing the minutiae and widening horror of his protagonist's journey from home to the multiple sites of slaughter and genocide that mar his countryside.The journey of a wide-eyed innocent across apocalyptic terrain is common territory for the war film (Ichikawa's "The Burmese Harp", Tarkovsky's "Ivan's Childhood", "The Human Condition" etc), but Klimov is going for a much more macabre tone, bludgeoning us with the sheer intensity and sick morbidity of his images.Unlike, say, "Schindler's List", "Come and See" is also remarkable for its use of abstract colour and sound. This is not a realist film; its shocks and effects are more dreamlike, from the mutedness of its burnished cinematography, to the extraordinary close-ups of several of its characters' impossibly aged faces, to the hyper expressive performances of many of its actors, to the impressionistic and at times almost expressionistic use of sound. In this context, the title of the film is not just a call for audiences to bear witness, to "see" that which is not imaginable, that which has little visual record, and to get a sense of the physical conditions (the "come" of the title) experienced by those during the war, but a description or pointer towards the more spectatorial expectations of the film. Of course the order "come and see" also functions as an exploitative challenge; "Come and see if you dare!" Indeed, many Chinese war-porn/propaganda films feature eerily similar titles.The film is essentially an epic journey and many of its images possess an almost Dantesque quality. It can also be seen as a "coming of age" film, a remarkable "coming" or progression (or is it regression?) that is etched upon the utterly transformed face of its central character. Unsurprisingly, Spielberg screened "Come and See" several times for cast and crew prior to shooting his Holocaust film. "See" would prove a huge influence on Spielberg's "Empire of the Sun", "Schindler's List", "Wr Horse" and "Private Ryan", in its mixture of child-like innocence (lots of dollying in to the shocked children's faces) and brutality. This is the worst aspect of Klimov's legacy, his film opening the doorway for an onslaught of other shock-porn movies - all the way to Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" - all of which pretend to be history lessons and important "humane" testimonies, when in reality they simply use progressions in technology to escalate violence levels, push tolerance levels and are built around a primary need to jolt apathetic, desensitised audiences. Hilariously, as war-porn gets more hard-core, in real life the numbers of genocides, wars and atrocities demonstrably increase, whilst media coverage decreases and public apathy increases. This is the mistake of all "war films": people don't repeat because they forget (the implication being that we must therefore shock ourselves into awareness), we forget because we repeat (see "The Shining"). The human animal needs denial more than food.So while "Come and See" and its Spielberg imitators lack any real historical depth, complexity, nuance, understanding of human beings, and trade in simple exploitation, they also possess a kind of psychological naivety, perhaps best exemplified by Klimov's final scene, in which a kid essentially refuses to shoot a young Hitler. WW2's engine had little to do with Hitler, but here he's reduced to the genesis of evil, the seed from which WW2 blossoms.Though commissioned by the Soviet Union as a propaganda piece, "Come and See" was made shortly prior to the fall of the Iron Curtain, a period in which artists had a certain amount of freedom. Klimov's films is thus at times self consciously a meditation on Stalinist war films. In this regard the film literally begins upon the beach where Tarkovsky's "Ivan" ends, from where it attempts to create a new "war narrative", shunting aside Stalinist glorification for a kind of psychological shell shock. The result, though, is basically a Soviet version of "Men Behind the Sun", the infamous Chinese propaganda film in which we're called to bear witness to the activities of sadistic Japanese soldiers. In Klimov's case - the film focuses on the Nazi atrocities in Byelorussia - we leer at sadistic, vile, rapacious, murderous and cowardly Nazis while Communist partisans are portrayed as playful, comradely and righteous people. If a countries leadership willingly sided with the Germans from 1939-41, invaded countries (Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Finland etc) carried out numerous atrocities against other nations and their own people and supported the Gulag system, then the viewer needs to be extremely careful when they view material that has been officially sanctioned by that leadership.8/10 - Worth one viewing.
This is the only war movie which make'd me cry, there more though war movie's but this one is the hardest! Should you have some romantic view of war, this movie will end it. This movie tells the story of a boy which joins the russian partizans, it is one of the few war movie's that doesnt have glamour, there no winners in this war. The movie shows the life of Aleksei (Florya Gaishun)during the rage of the nazi's in Russia. He joins the Russian partizans against the will of his mother, from here he loses grip on things and the war is taking over his entire look on things. It is quiet clear to me that his actions where motivated by romantic views on life(and war)but the steps he took into action had shown him another thing about war and hate. This movie is the best war movie i ever seen and i saw quite a lot of them, it will change your view on war(every war). I rate this movie with ***** out of *****, the best war movie i ever seen!


                
Just for starters, this is a movie that is actually painful to watch, and one of a few that made me look away from the screen several times. However, it carries a strong message and is filmed in a way that makes it feel incredibly real. Things I read and heard such as the guns being fired with live ammunition strengthens the realism even more. I also appreciated details such as when the protagonist Florya goes deaf from explosions and the way the director lets us understand it. All in all an incredibly good movie about an incredibly horrible time of which we all bear a responsibility of never forgetting. If you are to only see one WWII movie, choose this one. PS. I felt sorry for the cow.
This film showed the brutal reality of what war really is. It is frustrating to see how many lives are taken unnecessarily with out any remorse. And unfortunately to see a young boy's dream to be a good soldier for his country be trampled on. Florya gets a rude awakening when he experiences what war is really about and to see all the death at a very young age. Even though some scenes in the film are graphic, the director did a great job in making the death seem so real that as if you could actually smell the blood. The film was raw and making scenes so traumatic that they become embedded in your mind. Also the use of long continuous time takes allowed some scenes to be even more intense, for example when Florya and Glasha are in the mud pool and to see their struggle, their expressions made it even more real that it made you want help to pull them out. This film definitely makes the point across that it's not about the plot, but of the horrors of war. But to also see how young Florya aged through the film was amazing. To see his innocence in the beginning of the film and by the end it has diminished. War has literally stolen the life out of him. This film is brutal, raw but definitely amazing. Highly recommend


                
A disorienting film about the disorienting nature of war. Symbolic psychotic images fuel the film; and on screen the damage to soul, and to soil, is quite vivid. I think different film-making standards and guidelines in Russia.If I had a bit of a problem, it was that our channel for said soul damage was a teenage boy. While I can see that choice underscoring the innocence that war crushes...or the notion of serving one's motherland, at times my connection to Aleksei Kravchenko as Florya faltered. His trembling, frazzled face...and the camera lingering on it...odd moments of petulance...but then maybe I'm not *supposed* to relate to him, as who really can? Your town invaded, your family massacred...well sadly on earth there are still many who can, but not myself. At one point, there's a shot where he's scouring a large pot, and it's as if he is being cooked alive.Still I felt an older actor might have delivered a more nuanced performance, hell Kravchenko was less than 16 years old when he made this. I see he is still making films to this day, so maybe I need to see his body of work. Indeed as the film went on, he seemed to deal with the shock a little more internally.Sadly, as the film went on, Glasha disappears...there was a time where I felt she was an imagined character. I know of course she was meant to be real, but something about her felt like an externalized innocence that was trying to keep Florya afloat, and alive. A sweet self-defense mechanism?The film though is filled with tragical magical realism. The Hitler hominid that the Russians hump about. Glasha's singing and dancing in the rain, the bog crawl.Ultimately I walked away reminded that war, any war, is such a failure of us as humans. I think this film starts with the image of the kids playing in the wake of the war, infantilely infatuated with infantry...but the lesson comes harsh and fierce.I saw the Kino edition (via Netflix), wish I had come across the version mentioned here with more bonus features. I noticed that this was Klimov's last film for what it's worth. A pretty powerful and savage swan song. I may try his take on Rasputin next...7/10 Thurston Hunger


                
Unfortunately for myself, I was not effected by this movie like most people were. When I saw this movie the audience thought it was the most intense movie they had ever seen, but for me it had no effect; I feel that it's because I have seen this story and cinematics done time and time again. Perhaps if I would have seen this movie before I saw the other countless war movies I would have had a different reaction. Regardless, I can appreciate this film; Klimov has a great message about Russian spirit during the war in this movie, he showed the bravery of the people from these small towns, and how they were able to fight off the Nazi's despite their inferior weapons and training. Anyone who likes war movies with a great story and message should watch this movie.
Come and See was unlike any other "war movie" I've ever seen. There was no gratuitous and glory-filled banquets of violence dripping down the screen, in fact, considering this is a WWII film it's shocking that Klimov could create this film with such a minimalist approach and yet still have it be so powerful and shocking. Instead of just making your average war film stuffed with violence they fill this film with emotion, which one can clearly see in the lines etched into our protagonist's face by the end of the film. When a violent act is happening, like in the case of the barn being burned with the town's children inside, we don't even see what's happening. All we get is the view from the outside, which when taking into account the joyous time the Germans are having, has the atmosphere of a light hearted social occasion, a birthday perhaps. What makes the scene horribly all-too memorable is the shrieks and cries erupting from within, along with the urgent shaking and banging on the door one could only imagine would be the product of children being burned alive. Even when stacked up against the most gruesome of cinema's war scenes, for instance when the American troops rush the beaches of Normandy in "Saving Private Ryan" and blood is running in rivers down the beach, "Come and See" manages to leave a more deeply penetrating effect, really driving the message of humanity's potential for incomprehensible atrocity towards the darkest depths of our psyche. I couldn't forget those cries and small clenched fists banging on the wooden doors if i tried precisely because Klimov left what was going on behind those doors to the viewers imagination, something two dimensional images projected on a screen can never compete with.
This film was truly unlike any film I have ever seen. This Great European "Auteur" was a heart- wrenching coming of age story of a boy Florya; from leaving his mother to joining the partisan soldiers to falling in love. Florya starts off as a boy playing in the sand looking for guns yet as the movie progresses he has to use the gun for more then just play. The aging of Florya can be seen on the boys face through out the movie and is made even more apparent with close up shots of Florya staring straight into the camera. The camera movements can be disconcerting but it only adds to the emotions running rampant within Florya. He seems to almost go crazy at points. This movie left me in a quite shock. Its images where haunting and powerful.


                
This film, personally for me, while watching, got me frustrated in general. Frankly because I had no control over what was happening while the movie was going on, especially, when the German Nazi soldiers were almost harassing the Russian civilians. This film in general made me really despise the Nazis more than any other films that I've seen that has to do with the Nazis. The movie had very realistic camera angle, as well as the story line. It generally gave me an idea of how much people went through during the times of World War II. My favorite part of the movie was the very last scene, where the Russian soldiers were marching on to fight against the Nazis; it generally gave the audience hope as to what's going to happen; also, when the main character steps into the crowd of the other soldiers, it reminded of the ending from the "Bicycle Thief" because it felt like he just moved in and disappeared into the crowd. The little hope at the very end of the movie, really, watching the horror for about 2 hours, gave me a real hope at the end.
Before watching come and see my professor warned the class to be prepared for a movie that "you will never forget" and he was right. I know this movie will be imprinted into my mind forever. By engaging all my five senses, I really felt what was happening in the movie. I also mentally prepared myself being warned beforehand that I would see and feel unpleasant things. I saw a totally un-glamorized version of war, which I have never seen before. It makes me proud and thankful for the people in the army for their bravery. Innocent people were being gruesomely killed left and right. I felt as though I was right beside Florya as all these horrible things have been happening. When it said that this was happening to 628 other villages in Russia, it pained me even more that this horrible specific event was happening to villages all around as well. In the midst of all this sadness, Florya and Glashas friendship was delightful to see. They stuck by each other's side and even at the end of the movie when they were separated, Florya thought of his love for Glasha when he saw the raped girl. I wondered how people, like the Nazis could kill people so heartlessly but unfortunately people are killed to this day. People must see this film because it is sure to change your life and make you think.
"Come and See" was a film in which I really had trouble watching and enjoying. It goes without saying though that Elem Klimov deserves to be praised for his brilliant film-making. He was really able to effectively encapsulate this tragic event through the use of disturbing sounds and horrifying visuals, though it's a movie that would pain me to sit through again. It's one thing to remember and reflect on brutal, historical events, but to be involved in them first hand(which is what the movie essentially does to you), is truly overwhelming for the psyche. A film like "Schindler's List," on the other hand, is something I can sit through several times without feeling as 'mentally abused.' I recognize that this was exactly what Klimov wanted to evoke in me. His intentions were geared towards having me take part in this war alongside the films protagonist Florya. The film forces you to use all of your senses, making it a truly disturbing 2 1/2 hour journey.


                
Ellem Klimov's masterpiece about the German invasion of Russia. This film truly captures the feeling of war. You can even feel the quick mud and cold weather in this film. One thing that is truly amazing about this movie is that although it is an anti war film(and the best, in my opinion), it doesn't whine about war and how the soldiers are treated(unlike "Born on the fourth of July"); instead, it gives us the true feelings of the people who are under attack by others. I don't recommend this film for people who(like me) lived through these situations since it brings your most horrible memories in front of you. But other than that, it's highly recommended for people who are interested in cinematography and sound design, since it has some new ideas used in it.


                
Do not watch this movie light heartedly, possibly with a alcoholic beverage (it might help ease the pain). Klimov does an amazing job of jolting the audience and showing how close to annihilation we were when the Nazi's were trying to take over. Set in Byelonessia 1943, a little boy is digging in hopes of finding guns or grenades that have been left behind. He finds a rifle, which he is so happy about, but doesn't realize the events that have been set by him now trying to be a solider. Klimov does an excellent job of showing "glasnost", creating a vertical relationship with the audience, and a holds no bar kind of feeling. The audience experiences everything with the Flor, from his hearing loss when the bombs go off, to swimming through the mud. You feel disgusting and want a shower as you watch this. All and all though, it is the triumph of the human spirit that shines through. Flor is put into unimaginable situations, where he must survive, grieve his family members who have all be killed, and become an adult before he is fully ready. There is a scene, where Flor finds bandages, and tries to bandage his rifle (as if that is going to fix it) but it is from a little boy's mentality who is obviously not really ready to take all this on. The Hitler Montage in the end, is perfect way to create another vertical relationship with the audience. It starts with images of men found in Nazi camps, and runs through everything down to the baby picture of Hitler. It makes you question and think, babies are suppose to be harmless and adorable. But this baby is responsible for killing thousands and thousands of people!
Come and See blew me away from the first bomb that exploded. The beginning sequence that Saving Private Ryan mimicked was breath taking and eerily haunting with the contrasting dark greens and blues of the landscape. Every second of the movie after that was ripping your heart out of your chest and tearing it to pieces. Every shot from the extreme close ups of Florya and Glasha to the continuous long shots at the end just add to the hauntingly beautiful cinematography and heart wrenching story. Even though this movie does leave you feeling emotionally drained at the end, you don't regret seeing it. You start to understand the dark side of war and fighting and how it isn't always about glory and honor, as Hollywood often makes war out to be.


                
Amazing movie, really shows the Russian suffering. The depiction of the Germans is sovjet propaganda though. It conflicts with everything known about German culture. The Germans act as sovjets. A shame of an otherwise great movie by a great director.


                
After you see the first couple of scenes of this film you wonder if you are watching the work of a surrealist. The story fragments do not seem to connect and the characters are hardly appealing or even understandable. However as the film moves on the story emerges. The film is set in German occupied Russia in 1943. A young boy joins the partisans but is deafened and disorientated by a bombing attack. He wanders around moving towards his own village. Around him moves a group of German SS troops leaving carnage as they massacre the women children and elderly men in the villages. You do not see the Germans till the last part of the film but their presence is everywhere.The climax of the film is his meeting with the SS unit as it moves into and destroys a village. In the end the film is one of the most gripping and realistic portraits of war ever made. The film has no heroes, there is no message yet the film captures you in its intensity. None of the characters are attractive and the feeling is one of realism.In the last few years a number of films have been made about combat on the Eastern Front. For instance Enemy at the Gates and Stalingrad. Both films look like sanitised television shows by comparison. The film is both effective as a work of art and also of a portrait of the reality of a brutal conflict.


                
This film follows the path of a young boy as he confronts the incredible brutality of the partisan war in the Soviet Union during WW II. The film starts with the boy joyfully going off to join the partisans while his mother shrieks with fear. However, when the partisan band heads off, he's left behind due to his youth and innocence. As a result, he becomes a witness to the atrocities visited upon his village and others nearby by a wandering einsatzgruppen unit that takes great pleasure in its grisly task of extermination. The film is episodic and takes some unusual turns (the effort to put up the dummy German is one). This is film about images, not words. There is remarkably little dialogue throughout much of the film. It's also brutal and graphic. A great deal of the horror of this films comes from the simple joy (and conviction) that the Germans bring to their goal of wiping out the population.
It would be very, very hard to recommend this movie to a stranger. Picture it: "This film was very moving, it just breaks your heart what happens to these people, it's all so horrible...hey wait, where are you going? Please, come back!" It's impossible to say that I felt good, in any definition of the word, after watching Come And See. The Belarusian countryside is shot beautifully, its depiction of Nazi war crimes is terrifying, and yes, the fate that befalls its main character is heartbreakingly sad. But there's so little that is actually said, I was not certain that this film was actually meant to have a protagonist.I'm afraid to say that I eventually gave up on this film. It blasts horror into the viewer's eyes like a shotgun held directly up to one's eye socket, and it actually ends up numbing you. I gave up caring about what happens to the protagonist, because by that point, death would actually be merciful.


                
I dislike gratuitous violence, loud screeching noises, uncomfortable scenarios and images of Hitler. However, the way the the movie, Come and See portrays these things is surprisingly tasteful. Taking on such content is risky because if the viewer cannot handle the content, they will not be able to appreciate the essence of the director's interpretation of said content. I compare this film to the movie, Schindler's List in the way that it wrenched at my guts and did not let go for a sustained period of time. In Schindler's List, Spielberg used violence in such a manner that it was not difficult to endure. Instead the context of the violence was the disturbing part. The viewer has the power to differentiate between reality and what was going on in the movie. This was not the case in Come and See. Both the violence and the story were disturbing and captivating giving it a potent blend of horribleness. I felt sick and intrigued at the same time while watching this cinematographic work. There were some points in the movie were the director did allow a quick breathe of musty air to allow you to keep going. One example of these quick breaths was a certain scene which I found gave the piece a dark sort of comic relief. It was when they built with mud and excrement a puppet Hitler. By giving this crude inanimate representation a ventriloquist's voice, it showed that even an object formed from the grotesque, compared to the content of the movie could appear light-hearted and comical in the eyes of the beholder.
First part of the film was promising to display some fine intricate human feelings, both characters being out of balance in different ways. The forest scenes with birds and rain were quite good, contrasting with the violent war and threat of death to both children. The island where villagers gathered and cow-stealing scenes were still promising.But then; a super-villain a la James Bond films enters the scene and does everything to provoke hatred in watchers using very coarse methods (killing people and laughing&eating lobster,...). When film watchers see this much inhuman villainy, they are bound to be shocked. One of the starting characters reappear at the end with blood dripping down her legs, this time to serve the hatred of the watchers.The villains beg for mercy at the end, accuse each other to escape death, lower themselves even further in the eye of the watcher. Final scene is a symbolic return to the childhood of Hitler, in her mother's arms (and not sympathetic even then) before everything. All in all; promised a lot but ended like many other Hollywood war/revenge-of-the-innocent movie except that revenge was partial here if that is what makes an art film.
Young Byelorussian youth Florya finds a rifle buried in the sand. He joins the resistance against the Nazis. He falls for beautiful peasant girl Glascha. A bombardment deafens him. He struggles around the war torn world. After getting separated once again, he pretends to be a simple farm boy. He is rounded up by the invading German force with the other town folks. He barely escapes a massacre of innocent villagers.The first half has a lot of surrealism. Some of it is quite disturbing, and not necessarily the big obvious things like the dead bodies. The encounter with Glascha is the woods is completely wacko. I still don't understand what's going on between the two kids. Talking directly into the screen and extreme closeups are very disturbing. The dead body Hitler scarecrow is probably the most normal thing in that section. It keeps the movie from finding its feet. It unbalances what should be a compelling introduction.The technicals of the movie is fair. I do wonder if they used real ammunitions. The big explosions are shocking. The tracer rounds look very real. I'm pretty sure they killed that cow. I doubt they used any animatronics to do the rolling of the cow's eye. When they use real flamethrowers and real ammunition, it leaves all the fake Hollywood effects behind.And then when they burn down the church, I wanted it to be more realistic. I guess the Russians don't have the Hollywood expertise on stunts so a burn man is out of the question. The Russians put a lot of man and material into this. The wild orgy of violence is impressive. The second half of this movie is far more engaging. The movie is odd mix of realistic action and surreal emotionalism.


                
I love war movies, although this was much more different than the usual movies I normally see. I watched this film in my Film class and its the first I've never seen. come and see shows more emotion and scare to the audience. the expressions you see in this movie is quite disturbing and real. you can see the struggle people during the world war 2 had to go through and what the Russians had to experience. you can see in this movie that the characters thrive for freedom. The movie tackles the other emotional glands in your body. the disturbing images and scenes tell you that war is not pretty, and there is more to just shooting guns at your enemy. scary, chilling is what you will encounter if you watch this film.
