In 1943, in Byelorussia, the naive teenager Florya Gaishun (A. Kravchenko) seeks a weapon to be accepted by the Resistance. He joins the revolutionary army but the rookie partisan is left behind with the girl Glasha (O. Mironova). They return to Florya's village, but they discover that his mother, the twin sisters and friends had been killed by the German army. They cross a swamp and find survivors in starvation; Florya and three other comrades go to Perekhodi to bring food for the survivors. However they are attacked by the German soldiers and only the boy survives. He meets a farmer that brings him home but the ruthless and savage German forces has already reached the village where Florya loses the rest of his innocence with the cruelties of the invaders.Idi I Smotri" is an impressively realistic drama of war depicting the lost of innocence of a young teenager with the cruelties of war. The endurance of the lead character is amazing, experiencing and surviving to the most brutal situations. The direction and the performances are superb, giving the sensation of a documentary to the viewer. There are many impressively crude and disturbing sequences that are not recommended for sensitive viewers, or people that has lived the horrors of a war. If you like realistic non-Hollywoodian movies, go and see this gem. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Vá e Veja" ("Go and See")
Although seemingly a war film, Come and See really presents itself as a drama of sorts centring around one person and their horrific journey through a wartime period. The fact that this protagonist is, indeed, a 'fish out of water' adds to this theory. He doesn't seem to have a particular set mission and once the film gets to its hour and three quarter mark, the only mission aim I could see was: just damn-well survive!Very rarely do we get to see films about the Second World War, set on the Eastern front and made by the Eastern Europeans themselves. When we do, it would seem; we are royally treated. Back in the 1920s, something known as 'Soviet Montage' was the Soviets finding their film form. This is put across most notably in 'Strike!' and 'Battleship Potemkin'. In Come and See, despite being made in the 1980s, there are numerous Soviet Montage references that proves at least to me that director Elem Klimov knows his stuff. A series of disturbing images is put across to us without much in the way of dialogue but also relying heavily on music of the classical variety <U+0096> this is Soviet montage and this is what happens during the truly memorable moments in Come and See. The film begins on a light-hearted note of two children 'playing' wars on a battlefield that has recently been fought for but this is only the hint at what's to come <U+0096> one of these children is going to wish it had stayed a game. Then, he his taken from his home and tossed into the Eastern front. This event setting up a fascinating twenty-five or so minute sequence set around a woodland base where he meets other soldiers, gets his picture taken and indulges in some good old fashioned propaganda <U+0096> he also accidentally yet seemingly randomly steps on a nest full of eggs when out on patrol; I feel this is an indication to the death and the crushing of the innocents to come.The film cleverly moves from one thing to another be it bedded down in a woodland base camp, taking cover in a field during a gun fight between two sides he is, quite literally, stuck in the middle of or perhaps the most famous: stumbling across a small town that the Nazis have targeting for utter eradication. It's no secret that the Germans destroyed villages by killing the inhabitants, destroying the buildings and then burying absolutely everything to cover up evidence and what happens in Come and See is as close to that as I have ever seen in any other film <U+0096> maybe no other film with a better example even exists. With regards to the Soviet Montage references, when Come and See was made; Russia as we know it now was still the Soviet Union and its depiction of events is not only shocking and disturbing but also loud and forced upon you <U+0096> such is war to a young man without too much life experience. From the fact an actual skeleton is dressed up to look like Adolf Hitler; just so it can be blown up again, seeing burnt out corpses lying there to music of some kind to the overuse of faces and peoples reactions in close up and, more importantly, montage format is enough evidence to suggest this is not only a modern, mind numbing war film but also a throwback to the old days of Soviet film-making. What also works is the constant use of horrible, horrible sound. The loud, disturbing noise the aeroplane makes when it hovers overhead constantly reminds us and the lead character of the first time it happened when bombs were dropped relatively close by; thus rendering him (and us) temporarily deaf. It is a nasty reminder of the psychological effects of war. The way the town is dealt with through suspense and screams is particularly horrible as is the way the Nazis merely leave alá the Vikings did centuries ago. They came, they burnt, they pillaged and then they left <U+0096> torches aloft just like the Germans in Come and See.Come and See is not for the feint hearted nor is it for people who aren't heavily into film. At over two hours long, it's difficult to sit through and concentrate on fully all the time but not only this, it presents some of the most disturbing scenes in the eeriest of ways I've ever seen in a war film. Truly memorable film-making.


                
This film was no fun to watch, nor should it have been considering it is about the Nazi atrocities in Belarus during WWII--as seen through the eyes of a young recruit for the partisans. This young boy appears to be about 12 or maybe 13, though through the course of the film, he ages what appears to be many years, though the action that occurs seemed to take place over just a few days. The movie was a solid recreation of the horrors and is good because it makes the faces and lives affected by this sick war so very real. Because of its content, it is not a film for children, though it probably is okay for teens provided you discuss the movie with them afterwards. No serious complaints about the movie at all, though it would have been nice if the German planes they used in the film weren't the same FW-189 reconnaissance aircraft over and over again--but this is the most minor of complaints--it was a great picture overall.


                
This is one of those rare situations where you can't really tell how you feel. Throughout this whole movie we continually get slapped kicked and punched by our emotions. There is no possible way we can all feel like the character in this movie, or even try to understand what he is going through. But if there was one possible way for the director to make us feel what he felt the director provided it for us, If there was one, and only one way for the movie to be directed and it definitely did that. There were points in the movie to where I had to turn my face away because the cruelty was just too much. He didn't even have to tells us, hey look at what these people did don't you hate them. NO he just told the story from a totally subjective view and sat back and let us draw our own conclusions.


                
"Come and See" directed by Elem Klimov documents Nazi Germany's assault on Russia during World War II. The story centers around a young boy named Florya who has a dream-like idea about being a soldier and fighting for Russia, but his ideas of war are shattered when he gets a taste of the utter truths of what the war can entail. After seeing his family dead, he is utterly distraught and knows he cannot contain this child mentality of war anymore. We can see Florya age dramatically through the course of film, even though he is still the same boy from the beginning of the film. The experience has truly caused him to age and change and for the audience to get a new look at him at the movie's end. "Come and See" is truly an assault on our five senses, capturing the realistic feel in all aspects. Klimov does a fine job capturing the essence of the brutality of the war with little violence. Movies like "Saving Private Ryan" documents more violence, blood, and SGI then actually capturing the true emotion and hardship. "Come and See" really focuses on emotion and the horrors of war. The scene which really is special is when Florya finally fires his gun to have a sort of epiphany and realization. Going backwards in the scene really makes it more captivating. Any of these events could be stopped if Hitler did not exist or was killed before he could let the horrendous events of the Hollacaust unfold. I really recommend this movie to truly reveal what the war is really about and how psychologically damaging it could be.
When I saw this movie I was shocked from all the horrible images I saw of what kind of things happened in White Russia during World War 2. Its a very strong movie, and very beautifully shot. This movie is the ultimate anti war Film. When you see this film, I promise you that you will never want to join the army and go to war. The film has very powerful and strong images, that touch you and really make you feel for the people and the protagonist in this film. there is one part of this movie that almost makes your heart stop completely, you are so focused on what is going on, and you don't even believe your eyes. This moment for me is pure art of cinema, the director did a great job of expressing all these fellings and emotions. To fully understand what I mean, a person has to see this great film.
The film Come and See is one of the most haunting films I have ever seen. It is a film that depicts the affects of war during WWII Byelorussia."Come and See" is centered on a young boy named Florya who is anxious to get involved in the war and do his part. Slowly throughout the film, you see Florya go through hardening situations that force him to grow up quickly. I was in total shock and awe of how Florya's face aged so rapidly at the end of the film. His face was filled with shock, terror, anger and absolute sadness of not only what he had gone through but what he has seen. The movie is a gripping experience in that takes you by the shoulders and shakes you to see what war really is, pure chaos. I will be forever haunted by the image of the young girl bleeding from being repeatedly raped by German soldiers. The film will leave you feeling shocked, overwhelmed with sadness and pure anger for just a glimpse of how war truly is.
I think this movie was amazing. I think that there has been a lot of films that have been made about the time of Hitler and the tremendous tragedy that all felt. The way this film portrayed this time in history made you feel deeper than any film I have seen before. Your heart always hurts when you hear about the war but this film makes you feel like you are there experiencing it in the moment. I also enjoyed the parts of the film that were almost dreamlike and surreal and you wonder if the characters are floating to another reality or if this was reality and the insanity that was happening around them was a dream. I loved its raw beauty and tragedy. I highly recommend this film.


                
This is probably the most harrowing war movie ever made...I can't think of any other war film that hits you over the head and stomps on your guts as much.  It is a very Russian movie, I can't think of another part of the world where a movie like this would be made in that style.For me, some scenes stand out because I have never seen anything like them. The boy in the woods concussed from the explosions as the German paratroopers arrive.  The soundtrack goes to a high pitched ringing.  The two children running through a deserted village, they stop at a house to eat a cake left in the kitchen.  All around are flies, but where do they come from?  They run out of the house and out of the village; in the background, you see why there are so many flies; the bodies of the villagers are just piled high against a building, but the children don't notice them.  The Germans herding the villagers into a barn and burning it.  Later, the Nazis are herded themselves by Russians and douse themselves with petrol as they go mad.  The effigy of Hitler made out of mud and grass.
Apparently, this movie was originally planned to have been directed by Klimov's wife; the brilliant Larissa Shepitko (who directed "The Ascent") who died in a car crash before the project got going.  "The Ascent" deals with a lot of similar themes and shares the same premise of partisans struggling to survive under Nazi invasion, but goes into the human side a lot more.


                
Idi i smotri is one of the movies that I felt the most, it is a very realistic and heavy war movie, the Soviet movie portrays very well what is a war, the film has scenes that bothers you, people suffering, you see the Terror of war, the direction of Elem Klimov is very good, he commands very well, the cast is also very competent, Aleksei Kravchenko is excellent, but I think the film takes time to gear, I think the 2 and 3 very good acts, But I did not like the first one, I found it very tiring and even a little exaggerated, the photograph is good, the 'dead' tone combines too much with the film, you do not see hope in the movie, and that works very well, Idi i smotri It's a very good war movie, and it's worth your time. 8.4


                
This movie has reached the excellence in dramatizing the horror of the War in that contemporary (specially in that burning scenario), through the eyes of an innocent child. Who bit by bit turned into an exhausted partisan. As the movie goes on the the sequences gets harder and ends up getting you on the edge of your feelings. This is definitely one of the best anti-war movie ever made, though some-what ignored due to foreign language.I find myself lucky enough to give this movie a try without skipping it for the sake of those uncomfortable subtitles. This movie can be easily classed with some of the best antiwar movies ever made by many well know houses.


                
A glance into the underbelly of the Nazi regime during World War II, this is not your typical war movie. It plays on your psychology and bring the forefront what really happened when the Nazi's invaded Eastern Europe. The overall struggle of the Byaloorussian people and their will to survive is an amazing story.I think this is one of the few films that literally kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time. The direction is amazing and the acting, especially from Florya, was even better. There is not a single moment that I did not feel like I was a part of this story. Klimov keeps you in tune with mindset of a teenage soldier, who seems to age decades by the end of it. Understandably so after seeing his family and multiple villages destroyed, along with the genocide that we experience.The score of the film keeps you psychologically involved at all times. The symbolism of the airplane flying over head throughout the movie, puts the same fear in your mind as it does the main characters.
This was one of the unique movies i have ever seen. I'm use to the Bruce Willis movies where Bruce kills 100 bad guys and goes into the sun and is the greatest police officer the world has ever seen. This movie should me the things that actually went on during the war, it's one thing to read about them in the newspaper or book, or hear them from somebody, but to actually witness the things they did to these people. It was inhumane i don't know how anyone could do these things to a animal yet along a human being, it's disgusting. This movie made me feel so lucky that i wasn't born in the time it took place. I don't know what i would have done if i was the kid in the movie, everything he did was the right thing, if he would have changed anything he probably wouldn't be alive at the end of the movie, but after everything that is happen to him i don't think he is alive anymore. The worst part of the movie that made me extremely sad was when they gather all the people in the village and put them in the barn and then light them on fire. I know it was a movie but as i was watching it i had to think to myself this actually has happened and is happening some where right now and there's nothing we can do. They didn't even let the kids live, they were true animals
This film is not to the faint of heart or weak of stomachs. This is a very realistic war film, that is very unlike the mainstream Hollywood war films that are made today. There are no heroes in this film, just a young boy trying to survive through many horrific situations. There are no special effects and no stunt men. This film sent me through and emotional roller coaster the whole time I was watching it, and made me question whether I would be able to go through these same situations and still have the will to live. For me, this film border lines a horror film, mainly because it is very haunting and scary. The scene where the Nazis are torching the homes with the people inside were particularly scary to me because I have a huge fear of fire. But at the same time, it could have been just as scary to come out of the house because the torture could have been just as bad or worse. It was moments like these that made me think about war, its purpose and the sacrifices or decisions that people who are in it make. Although this film is meant to be realistic, it can become hard to continue watching. There are no moments of hope or happiness, and watching Flyora age so quickly through out the movie is very disturbing. Still, in contrast to the typical war films that are made today that glamorize war and the military, I am happy that this film was made because it shows what war really is, a truly horrifying event.
"Come and See" a Russian propaganda film.This film was an eye opening heart shattering need to see film. As any holocaust film, you are overwhelmed with a feeling of compassion and anguish. As you delve into this film you want so much to help, and you forget you are at home. When watching, you notice how the director used specific angles and shots to actually make you believe everything you see is real. In a scene from this movie, there is a barn burning to the ground with dozens of people inside it. As you see this barn burning you see the doors being banged on from the inside. With all of these people being slaughtered and burned alive it flashes to a female German officer in her car. The camera makes eye contact with her. You see her look at the chaos and destruction and you see grin and eat a shrimp cocktail. Upon seeing that i was filled with rage.I wanted nothing more then to throw her in the burning building. I loved that this movie could do this to me. After this movie you will need some personal time to unwind. As good of a movie as it puts you in a weird place.
Come and See is a very impressive film that almost literally leaves you shaking after the camera tilts up to the sky in the final shot. It proves that war movies can only be made effectively when they are not visually and narratively sugar coated. For one, because this is cinematically more interesting and relevant, but more importantly because it does more justice to the people that underwent the atrocities of that particular war. "Come and see" is a tribute to the people in the former Soviet Union that were affected by Nazi atrocities. A tribute to those who died and to the survivors of the Nazi invasion. Visually it is a raw movie, allowing us to see what this war and war in general is like. It warns us how people can follow evil blindly and become dehumanized killing machines. And by showing this in every ugly detail we actually come as close as possible to knowing what went on in this Belarusian village. It does justice to those that died and suffered. Just as "Schindler's List" pays tribute to the six million Jews that were killed by the Nazis. Just as "The Deer Hunter" did justice to the soldiers that came back from Vietnam with post traumatic stress disorder. The point is that these movies were dramatic, but not melodramatic in its depiction of the premise to allow the viewer as accurate a depiction of the events that took place as is possible. "Come and See" is a very powerful movie that depicts the resiliency of a lesser equipped Partisan force that beat the Nazis. It also shows us that war can make numb, but that numb doesn't mean dehumanized. This shows in how Flyora shoots at the the portrait of Hitler in the montage sequence, but finally cannot pull the trigger when his thoughts portray Hitler as a baby. Klimov's message is that Flyora becomes the same as the Nazis if he'd shoot the baby picture, just like the general is saying in the scene before when he decides that the Nazis shouldn't be burned. They would stoop down to the animalistic level of the Nazis that we saw in the barn scene. Flyora joins the Partisans as a boy that is hardened by life, but still a human thinker fighting for a just cause. "Come And See" is a must see movie both for the messages that it conveys to us, but also because it is a very well crafted movie by a smart director.
"Come and See" is heavy. Okay, too heavy. Made in commemoration of the 40th anniversary of World War II, one would clearly expect a war movie to be heart wrenching, and that it is...and more. Unlike most war movies, Come and See salutes war without a victimization undertone. The incredible soundtrack is the cherry on top of a fantastically realistic piece of work, which does a great job at capturing what war really is all about...hell. The movie will leave you speechless and even breathless at times. It's almost hard to watch, and even harder to believe that some of the things that happened throughout the 2 hours actually happened in big numbers during this period, and that this was the story of only one village. It is a story about courage, a story about love, and a story about passion. The passion to defend what you believe in and stand for. The passion to remain calm and keep your cool when everything is in your way and the odds are against you.


                
This movie was one of the most realistic movies I've ever seen. For a movie in a completely different language then English it was amazing how in touch I felt with each of the characters. It is a emotional roller coaster, I would advise watching this film with no references or pre knowledge of the plot. I watched it not knowing what to expect and I feel it affected me the most this way. I also don't want to write about the plot much because like I said I want you to have a clean slate once viewing. But even with such horrible images the pictures shot are also so beautiful. From a technical standpoint this movie is a masterpiece. I think what shocked me the most was how real everything was and how it was shot in almost a perspective view to make it feel as if I was there. Once my mind was connected with the film to make it seem as reality the story and plot hit me so much harder and by the end of the movie all i could really say to explain how i felt was numb.


                
I basically can not say anything new to add to the praise already said here about "Come and See". The movie is very shocking and at the same time very realistic. It's the kind of movie that makes you want to disappear, and never have discovered about this reality. But in the same time makes us realize that we should not be as coward to not want to see what the real world is.The film is shot in a very interesting cinematic techniques. The set up of the cameras helps to tell stories, and acting of the children are astonishing.


                
Mind-blowing and wonderfully done. This thought-provoking film presents us with brutal and vivid images that take us into the violent reality of war. The viewer can nothing but witness a young man's experience in a world of destruction and despair, its loss of humanity in the face of the horror and trauma of war. "Come and see" is a mind-blowing visual, but most importantly, emotional experience, a play on human psychology that redefines what one accepts as believable. It gives us insight on the absurdity of war: the ingenuity that one can put in destruction, the pleasure that one can take in imposing suffering, the dehumanization of a fellow human being along with the trivialization of death. The brutality of these images pushes us to question ourselves: how could one possibly believe that this quest for power, war, is worth the relinquishment of our humanity? How can one possibly justify the atrocities of war? And how can we today, everyday, go on with our lives ignoring on-going similar atrocities?


                
while watching this movie i couldn't stop thinking about my grandparents and all the people that had to endure these kind of cruelty. This movie is about 1 village out of hundreds that had to go through hell because of the Nazis. This movie didn't tell me anything i didn't know about the WW2 but it told the story from an other point of view, when most people think about WW2 they think of Jews and Nazis, well this movie is about what Russians went through. A lot more Russian people died then Jews during this war and the way the Nazis killed them isn't better then the way Jews were treated during this terrible war. This movie is a real chef d'oeuvre even in the slow scene of the movie they are filmed so realistically and you can tell that no scene is pointless. Some scenes last more then 5 min without a cut and you really feel like you are in the war, i would feel my heart beating faster and getting anxious while watching it. Sometime you feel like you need to hide from the bomb yourself even though you are sitting safe in you're living room. very incredible movie


                
It is the year 1943 in Soviet Russia where war against the Nazi-Germany is at its most brutal. The protagonist, young boy name Fljora, is eager to take part in "The Great Patriotic War" to fight with the partisans against Nazis. Fljora, naïve and inexperienced in life, thinks he is going on a great adventure, but soon he realizes he has made the biggest mistake of his life. Fljora has gone on a journey to the darkest corners of the human mind and into a living hell. That also marks the end of his childhood.Elem Klimov's masterpiece Come and See is an absolute anti-war film. There is no sign of the glamour of war that we are so used to seeing in Hollywood films – this is war as it really is. Klimov shows us the worst of humanity and it isn't a pretty sight. Some of the images shown to us are literally so penetrating and horrifying that they will likely be imprinted on our minds forever. Klimov attacks all our senses: you can feel it, hear it, see it, sometimes smell it, and almost even touch it. Largely this is due to the spectacular formalist soundtrack that is so impeccably constructed - the viewer is being made to hear exactly what Fljora hears. The intensity of these sounds heightens all other senses so much so that you almost forget you are watching the movie in the comfort of your own living room.The most stagnating and unforgettable scene in the movie is the burning of a barn in a little village – with the villagers inside it. The Nazis show no remorse - they laugh at it. At this point, after losing his family and having already witnessed too much death, Fljora, who also witnessed the burning of the barn, has become a ghost of himself. The boy in the beginning is no more and we can visibly see how much he has aged – not in years, but in mind. Towards the end of the movie, Fljora is nothing but a frail human body. His mind is lost to cruelties and he is beyond salvation: the future, if there is one for him, is dictated for him already – all hope is lost.Come And See deserves all the praise it has gotten since its release in 1985 and it can be considered one of the most important war films ever. For it says that there is nothing admirable, understandable and exciting about war. War takes away the humanity of people and in the midst of all it all, we forget who were are. People become savages who do unspeakable things in the name of ideologies. There is no room for love in war.
The character change seen in this film, would be exactly how I would imagine a child would be after experiencing such a time in WWII. The child in the film is once seen as excited and thrilled by the idea of war, but immediately is thrown into a sickening, confusing and horrific world where there is no other option but survival. The imagery in this film is incredible. The impact it had on me while I watched this film nearly made me sick. It was brutal to watch but I was very thankful for that, no one wants to see the war sugar coated. The soundtrack was equally as impacting as it complimented what was going on on screen perfectly. The actor playing Florya did an incredible job at growing with the story as the boy did look about 25 years older in the last scene in the film. Absolutely brilliant.


                
Many movies glorify war and death, but not "Come and See". This movie makes one really understand the terrible circumstances of war."Come and See" is a must see for every kid who is thinking about joining the army. It gives one a whole different perspective of what war is like and what a dreadful outcome it will impose. Elem Klimov definitely succeeds at demonstrating that war, truly is hell. To me the movie demonstrated how fragile life really is and how casual death was at the time. People became highly desensitizes by all the terror they encountered. This horrific event is a part of the war which many people are not familiar with. It's a very vivid insight of the consequences of war.


                
Come and see the devastation of war, not only upon countries, but upon children.WWII is a time when Florya (Alekseyow Kravchenko) is growing up and he is forced to grow as a witness and participant in one of mankind's greatest atrocities.The horrors of war have seldom been displayed as they have here. There is no hope, no possibility of escape. Genocide and murder reigns,and you just wait your turn.Florya discovers his whole family killed, he loses his hearing to the shelling, and he is forced to deal with terror that even adults should not see.This film will not excite you with zippy dialog and fancy stars. It is about was, and there is nothing zippy or fancy about it.


                
