"Jaws" was definitely a huge box-office success when it was first shown and it won three Oscars. Nevertheless, I was not contented with the movie.Firstly, the film was featuring as "Super-Thriller". However, there were only four shark attacks within 120 minutes. The scene that the first victim killed was quite thrilling while the following attacks were minor. In every attack, the movie captured the scene before the attack. There was gush of blood on the water surface and it then abruptly changed to other scene. There was no struggle between the victim and the shark and hence the intensity of excitement was very low. The film used low filming technique because the most exciting scenes not filmed. It also lowered the cost of making the movie.Secondly, the film also featured realistic special effects. I scarcely thought that it was a realistic movie. The terribly made model shark was not vivid. I doubted if the filmmaker had spent much money on special effects. Moreover, the ending of the film was ridiculous and irrational as Hooper could hide safely from the shark after it gnawed the cage.Lastly, the theme song composed by John William was undoubtedly a success, but the music did not match the film. For example, when the shark was attacking the ship, the background music was folk music. This made the atmosphere very strange: neither exciting nor relaxing, was very confusing.To summarize, I thought "Jaws" was not worth three Oscars nor could it enjoy such a high recognition.
First, this movie is stupid in so far as it is filled with anti-shark propaganda. You have a much greater chance of being killed by a falling coconut or a dog than a shark. They are not a force of evil created by Satan.The movie could still have been entertaining however, lots of good movies have idiotic stories. Unfortunately, the characters are dull, the story moves at a snail pace, the serious dialogue laughable, the shark fake looking, and the acting mediocre. Really, the only things worthwhile are the poster and the shark theme.Tldnr: a boring curio from the 70s that probably helped push the great white further towards extinction.


                
Like "The Usual Suspects", I need to give this movie another try. On AMC, I saw 40 minutes of this movie, in a 3 hour airtime. I tried to enjoy it, but I was bored. That's really the only reason I couldn't keep going. I was waiting for the sharkto show up, but I heard afterwards that the shark takes a while to show up.
 Most people already know the plot, that it's about a family getting hunted down by a shark. Moving on...this is another review that is invalid for now, as I will one day rewatch it, and see it it all. 
 But for now...you don't need a bigger boat for me, I'll stay on shore.


                
When I saw that Cruise Ship try to dock on the HUGE Port of Call called Amityville I knew I was in for the typical Spielberg treat.... i.e. almost slipping, almost killed, dumbed down dialogue, almost drowning, electrocuted, you know the "missed it by that much" element that is presented, oh let's say every 11 seconds.... does Vegas cover a bet like that, hmmmmm Winner Winner Chicken Dinner!! Ever seen a fake shark chew a 5lb pack of Bazooka Joe Bubble Gum??? Well you are in for a treat and as luck would have it, this fishie is going for the big blow, haven't laughed so hard in ages, Steven you darling, should have been on the DVD cover! Honestly, I have great admiration for the articulate and smooth move grammatical structure reviews, but regurgitating the entire script and blatantly white washing the entire film is most irritating. Thank you to the low star reviewers who lack respect for drivel driven cinema.Loved Robert Shaw with his soliloquys and poems, and the best facial reaction from Roy seeing that huge chunk of cheese or silly putty (your choice), bravo!!! ;}}
