The film has its moments of tension, like when Brody (Roy Scheider) feeds fish into the ocean and, as he is chatting, quite unexpectedly the head of a giant shark pops up out of the water next to him. "You're going to need a bigger boat", Brody then ominously warns Quint (Robert Shaw), skipper of the rickety old fishing boat they're in. This sequence shows up in the second half, where most of the film's tension is. And the cinematography in this second half is quite good.But overall "Jaws" is a silly, made-for-kids adventure that is not remotely plausible. The shark keeps coming back to the crew's boat, as if the shark is out for revenge. Referring to the shark, Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss), the third of three crew members, says: "he's chasing us; I don't believe it." No, I don't believe it either. Natural predators are not capable of revenge.Of course, to advance the plot and keep the audience engaged, the unlikable and stupid three-man crew does all the wrong things. On-board chaos results. But the film's shallow (pardon the pun) premise and plot sells the popcorn, no "deep" themes needed.The story setup is way too long. Lots of talky dialogue, crowds of beached whales (or rather sunbathers), a parade, and a greedy mayor who is more of a villain than the shark render a boring first half. Director Spielberg could have used the shark to chop off most of the script's first half."Jaws" is a big budget Hollywood production with some tension out on the open waters. And it has some good underwater footage. But a too simplistic premise, precious little subtext, vapid setup, and unlikable, overwrought characters sink the film into the dregs, the production appeal veering sharply toward viewers pacified by frothy, Disney-ish cheese.


                
I saw this movie for the first time 30 years after it came out, and now I remember why I never bothered to see it in the first place: because I imagined its plot would be predictably boring, and that the shark's behavior would belie it's true nature, that is, it is not a real shark. A real shark wouldn't do the things that mechanical shark did, and I simply wasn't able to suspend my disbelief for two hours so I could enjoy this film.Like most modern films, this one has only one simple idea. Spielberg proceeds to beat you over the head with this idea: There is a big killer shark in that water! And as the film goes on, it gets bigger and bigger. I wouldn't be surprised if there was a sequel titled "Jaws Attacks the Titanic."
As a scary movie, this movie fulfills. It did such a great job that, on many vacations to Mexico and Hawaii, as well as to Australia, New Zealand, the Cook Islands, etc., I didn't go in water past my knees. Ever. And I'm not alone in knowing it traumatized an entire generation of potential swimmers, divers, et al.I thought I'd challenge myself this summer and face the fear head on. I took an open water dive course (where I didn't think of sharks once underwater, knowing that my 'buddy' was more of a danger) -- and then watched 'Sharkwater'.If you're terrified of sharks because of 'Jaws', I implore you to watch 'Sharkwater'. Our Stephen Spielberg did a hell of a job in scaring the crap out of people, and I'll give him that. But the world' s shark population has decreased by an insane amount in the last 10 years because people don't care about these animals -- not pandas, not elephants, not cuddly -- but millions killed for fins, and trust me, peeps, sharks are incredibly important to the planetary ecosystem.'Jaws' did a great job in terrifying people, but it's not real, and it's not the truth.


                
