For me - The only times that the movie "Jaws" ever came to life and became somewhat worthwhile to watch were only during the scenes that showcased the shark's attacks.And since these attacks happened so few and far between, that about rendered the remainder of this ultra-silly monster movie as being nothing more than one big, long yawn, for the most part.And another thing - Yes. Of course, I do fully realize that "Jaws" was "just-a-movie" - But, all the same, I'm hardly convinced that a shark (especially one of this predator's apparent cunning) would ever behave as this one inevitably did in its hot pursuit of Quint and his 2-man crew on-board the Orca.If you ask me - This great white rogue of the ocean was just too obviously dumb for words. Believe me, this blood-thirsty beast was just asking to be killed. (And, yep, in the end, its wish came true) In conclusion - From where I was sitting - 1975's "Jaws" was yet another one of those ridiculous, big-budget movies that (now 40 years old) still manages to be grossly over-rated for reasons that I'd say are, for the most part, quite unfounded.


                
When this movie first came out, I'm sure it was frightening. I'm sure that people were on the edge of their seats. I do not doubt that many people think it great for that reason.I saw it for the first time with a group of friends in 2002, and fell asleep 30 minutes in. I woke up just in time to see the final scene on the boat. Apparently, I didn't miss anything too important. And the boat scene didn't hold my interest for that long (though in all fairness, I was next to a cute girl - but I'd hope a top #100 movie could draw my attention).It's good for what it was, but I simply did not enjoy it.
Sure Jaws started a massive monster movie craze which has lasted all the way up to the present day, an was undisputedly a huge box office success worldwide, but that isn't saying it's necessarily a great or necessarily good movie.  I always found this film good in places but overall the viewing experience is an overlong and generally unpleasant one.This film has all the essentials of a good shark movie, the 3 R's... yeah Roy, Richard, and Robert.  Yes, the acting in this film is surprisingly top-notch for the genre, even Shaw who almost overdoes his thick seaman drawl to the point where it often becomes hard to understand.  There's also a classic musical score by John Williams, who with the Star Wars and Indiana Jones tracks has become one of the most successful composers in history, film or otherwise.  Probably the best aspect though is the photography which looks even more mystifying at night-time with an almost silvery-great look to the water than it does during the day.There, so it's a good movie but the hype surrounding it is totally overblown.  First of all, there's not really much in the way of action in this film.  There only are 4 actual shark attacks over the course of the film's 120+ minute running time.  The film slows down terribly near the end with the three men endlessly bantering amongst themselves ending with several repetitive scenes of them shooting harpoon after harpoon into the shark.  Maybe it's just the overfamiliarity of the subject matter that has come over the years, but the scene has very little in the way of tension. The mechanical sharks look awfully cheesy during some of the close-up shots revealing some wrinkles in the rubber nose.  On top of that, the ending was completely ridiculous, in that there was no way the guy could have gotten out of the cage and hid from the shark for several minutes.
So to conclude, this film is a good movie, but it never was really worthy of the classic status its overblown hype has brought it.


                
This decidedly heavy-handed, $8 million monster movie (which earned back 25x its production costs within its first year of release) actually had me yawning uncontrollably within its first half-hour.Following the very first shark attack (which was, by far, the best of the lot), Jaws' story steadily lost serious momentum as the dramatic edge of this tale spiralled hopelessly downward at a constant rate.It's really hard for me to believe that Jaws actually thrilled audiences to pieces back in 1975. If you ask me - This Spielberg "Creature Feature" has got to be one of the most over-rated and undeservedly praised horror movies of all time.And what made Jaws even more difficult to enjoy was that the principal characters were all impossible to like. I mean - As an example - Can you imagine a mayor (who was well-aware of the shark attacks) actually pressuring citizens to get back into the water regardless of the great risk that this posed to their very lives? All-in-all - I'd say that Jaws came very close to being a total dud, in my books. And, besides the laughable, old-school shark effects, I thought that Quint's inevitable demise was one of the worst staged moments of ultra-violence that I've seen in a mighty long time.In conclusion - Spielberg, as a director (then & now), is certainly far from being the genius film-maker that so many of his devoted fans make him out to be.


                
I rented this just a few years ago, wondering if it would still hold its own after the many suspense thrillers I have seen. Well, for me it did not. I was not interested in the characters, I wanted Jaws to eat them all, and I did not feel the suspense. Maybe it is one of those movies you should never rent, only see on the big screen. I was just completely bored.


                
Without question, Robert Shaw's character of Quint was by far the most interesting. My only criticism is that he should have had more time on camera. This movie doesn't really stand up today, however, Shaw's portrayal of Quint is always fascinating to watch.  It's a shame Hollywood lost one it's greatest performers.


                
This one has the distinction of being the first film to reach (and surpass) the $100 million mark during its initial theater run.  If you haven't seen it, then you've probably heard something about it.  Some of Jaws' best scenes of fright / suspense (1 voting point for each scene) occur when we merely imagine the great white shark (25 feet long!) may soon surface and bare several rows of jagged, triangular teeth.  When we finally get a look at the man-eating fish, it turns out to be a machine with unconvincing--and unnatural--dewlaps that form around the corners of its mouth during rare moments when the shark is not shown chomping into tourists.  I saw this one at a tender age.  I was glued to my seat when, in the film, a beach full of terrified swimmers race over each other after somebody spots the all to familiar dorsal fin poking out of the water.  During production, the machine-shark was dubbed "Bruce," after Spielberg's lawyer.  All in all, this suspenser is worth a viewing... too bad computers in 1975 weren't sophisticated enough to erase those goofy, over-lapping hinges on 'Bruce's' mouth.


                
Steven Spielburg, was always a horrible director. He hasn't made a single good film ever, and he will never make one either. People just have bad taste. They find trash, and they start liking it. It gets released in a theatre and it becomes a big hit. People make it become way way over rated! This is just a horrible movie, and shouldn't be considered a classic. It sucks!


                
This film constantly gets copious amounts of praise for how well directed and well managed it was. Granted the Jaws theme John Williams composed has remained a classic in film score and depicted with aplomb the anxiety and terror of a large predatory shark closing in, and the scenes are decently directed and put together if you assess them with conventional mainstream movie criteria... but this is so far removed from actual shark phobia in any realistic, poignant sort of way and is so completely disinterested with it aside from the very first scene (possibly the only really creepy moment). It never even attempts to be realistic or genuine and only settles for that big production plastic Hollywood atmosphere and basically self-imposed itself as the one good shark movie out there that was legit (all other attempts being cheap B rated rubbish). It had John Williams for the score, Spielberg behind the cams, and Scheider/Robert Shaw and Dreyfuss, all well established big names, to give it the outside credibility it really is all about in the end. And 'Jaws' was even a novel, so they already had their story written for them.Instead of looking to develop psychological triggers of thalassophobia (fear of the ocean), perhaps kenophobia (fear of immense empty spaces), or actual fear of sharks, where they could've shown a lot more footage of the deep dark endless ocean and managed the suspense up to a climax there, built tension of a lurking sea monster which looming presence is felt like its terrifying appearance is imminent, played around between the ominous utter silence of the ocean blue and filled up that silence with a sudden change of pace and horrifying panic... basically instead of doing their job at that with this being the supposed top notch 'fear of the ocean/featuring a great white shark' masterpiece, they settle for the bare minimum in terms of exploring the phobia itself and just go for processing a bland screenplay and script and scenes that are about as superficial and deep as the entrance of a beach.


                
