As a fan of Marvel movies I was excited to see Guardians of the Galaxy. However, this movie failed on several levels.It is supposed to a comedy but the jokes are not funny. I genuinely laughed once. Furthermore, one 'joke' was weirdly inappropriate.The story is completely generic. It seems like they just needed some story, any story, as a vehicle for the characters to get together and try to be funny.I wanted to write a review without spoilers but the big set-piece ending of a spaceship crashing into the ground has to be called out. This was done in the Avengers and Star Trek: Into Darkness. To me, it's like directors have to have this '9/11' shot in every movie (big thing crashes into buildings) and it has to stop. It's boring now.The only positive about this movie was the special effects and space backgrounds.It seems that Marvel have figured out punters will pay cash money for any old junk if its wrapped up in special effects and a decent soundtrack. I will approach the next Marvel with extreme caution, and I will not see Guardians of the Galaxy 2.
I thought it would only be fair giving this 1 star, even though it's maybe - at BEST - a 4, because this is definitely not worth 8. GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY was a shot I chose to try in god knows how long since I've been to the cinema. This is just another load of Hollywood trash. I had the impression it was innovative, considering the Guardians being pulled out from the bottom of the pile and the whole outlaw thing... but I was wrong...IN THE BEGINNING, what's-his-name is on Earth and it is APPARENTLY '88. The kid's mother dies. OK. Is this meant to be emotional despite the fact I have no attachment to any of these characters yet? OH WOW IT'S THE FUTURE NOW!! I'm sorry; his mother dies, he goes outside and then he gets abducted? What is this supposed to signify? Not to mention it's (obviously) unbelievably and strangely timed, but this is probably an attempt at giving some depth to the main character, but really doesn't do ANYTHING for the major plot of the entire film.The rest of the film was just a bunch of underdogs coming together because they end up in the same space prison (because what happens when you're arrested together is you share a block, not to mention gender is no issue here). Then they fall into this orb situation. What is it? It.. it is this orb.. and it is powerful.. a bit like the cube or something. There was little development in the story at all really, a few changes in direction but no real twists or anything surprising. I don't even know, I was almost asleep half the time. I was constantly checking my watch to see when it was over.So we have hideous CGI here. Ridiculously unprofessional, but I guess I'm not in with the CGI in blockbusters. They have this obnoxious claim to fame with technology it seems; having the ability to do these things doesn't make it cool, it just looks like a video game. Another thing, visually, was the designs. It was just so typical of the action/sci-fi genre in the technology and whatnot, and the characters... very much in the same boat but more-so thrown together effortlessly.Then after that its all EXPLOSIONS - SPEEDING - ADVERTISING - HITTING! In between there's a conceited amount of one liners that made me cringe. The best kind. And in the end we have some false suspense because we know everything is going to be okay.OVERALL: >The comedy was... horrid... >The story was simple. >The characters were lacking in... everything really. -The cinematography didn't even involve cameras. >The soundtrack was a bunch of pop classics chucked together. So what was good about it? The ACTION!!!1111 Wait, no... >The action was too much, unnecessary and clearly there to fill in time. Main reason I even saw this was I received an invitation from some mates. I think I'll try go back to sticking to films with a point. The only point of this was to brainwash and make big bucks.
Guardians of the Galaxy is just another mediocre film. Under the pretence of future, it sneaked in embraces of the past. Perhaps it tried to be both, but it was neither a serious film nor a comedy. It failed to trigger any deeper emotion inside me. Its humour was out of context. There were too many characters, most of which were not properly developed. The purposes of existence of those figures were very confusing. I'll comment in detail on the triggering of deeper emotions and the humour in the following 2 paragraphs.Someone commented that the films like the Dark knights series set a standard that superhero films must be deep and thoughtful. That person further commented that this film, Guardians of the Galaxy challenged this standard. I generally don't like dogmas. But here it's not at all about dogmas. It is just the fact that those "deep" ones could trigger deeper emotions, or provoke thoughts, or inspire the audiences, or help the audiences learn something, or help the audiences learn themselves better. By these, the audiences like, think about, involuntarily recall, remember and give high scores for those "deep" films. Of course different people have different opinions on deepness. So, I don't comment on the deepness of Guardians of the Galaxy. Just commenting on triggering deeper emotions, or provoking thoughts, or inspiring me, or helping me learn something or learn myself better, unfortunately, Guardians of the Galaxy did none of these to me. So, it just didn't make me feel that way, that it was one of those all-time great films.Someone commented that Guardians of the Galaxy was not a serious film, but rather, it was a great, light-hearted comedy. Even for this, I don't think I could agree. Great humour exists in context. In the right context, something plain could be hilarious. Out of context, brilliant jokes were just nothing. In Guardians of the Galaxy, too much humour ran out of context. For example, the raccoon said later, that he asked for one prisoner's prosthetic leg was just a joke. What did this convey? It was clever to play such heartless jokes on your partners when it was time to be serious? No. How about it tried to portray a figure, the raccoon, who was unfazed in front of great danger? But then you had to make the situation look dangerous. Even in The Wizard of Oz (1939), the scenes felt more creepy than here in the prison. The prison here felt just like a noisy second-hand market. So, I didn't find the joke funny and didn't know why it was in the film otherwise either. There were many such lines. I knew they were intended to be something to make people laugh, but I just didn't feel that entertained at those improper moments.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy has no place on the all-time great list. Perhaps it was the last joke it could play, on itself, being put into the Top 250 list. Among those great films, its mediocrity would just manifest itself. Just within the first month of its release, it dropped 20 places on the Top 250 list from the 34th to the 54th. As time goes on, this film will likely drop further when the enthusiasm fades after its initial surge. There are great films, like In the Name of the Father (1993), A Beautiful Mind (2001) etc. They were not on the Top 250 list before, but gradually rose up and emerged into the all-time great list. Just on the contrary, Guardians of the Galaxy will gradually drop out of the Top 250 list.
The movie was recommended to me by a friend who saw the reviews and somehow believed those. Huge mistake.To say the movie is childish would be an honor for this movie, I have seen plenty of animated movies which were a huge lot better.The story is dumb and entirely predictable. The characters are almost flat and have absolutely no credibility from either a serious point of view nor from a parody point of view. Acting was also poor.Visual effects were OK and being a 3D movie helped, but that is the only positive thing that I can say about the movie.The theater was half-full but during the entire movie there was not a single time when you could hear everybody laughing hard.The only way I can imagine that so many 9 and 10 star reviews were added for this movie is since all the brainwashed Marvel fan-boys and sock-puppets for the studios somehow managed to overwhelm normal reviewers.


                
I love Marvel. Whether it be X-Men, Thor, The Avengers, Spider-man, Iron Man... most of the commonly known ones, of course, but I always loved them. But to put this as simply as I can -though that doesn't mean this will be short-, this film was filled with 1,000 of the most common clichés extracted from these great films and stories and crammed them into one mashed-up, jumpy, unreserved, ridiculous, abnormal, spiteful, detestable, idiotic, moronic, absurd, ludicrous, senseless, meaningless, pointless, terribly-written, unbelievably- unrealistic, super-super-super-hero-wannabe movie that very desperately AND obviously AND obnoxiously attempts to special-effect everything -and I mean everything- to simply gain some big bucks because, hey, it's Marvel, what could go wrong? It's sad to see how successful their attempts were; I fell for it... for me, it's all due to The Avengers because that was freaking amazing, even though it had a lot of commonplace stuff. And boy, do I regret wasting my two hours on this extremely disappointing collage. Basically, it's a film made of collages because everything just had to be colorful in outer space. No seriously. Of course everything is colorful there. It's not like the galaxy is filled with 96% dark matter that is called DARK for a reason. So yeah. Totally makes sense. And your skin also starts rotting in outer-space, too. Serious case of leprosy then? I liked Elektra more than this. I'd rather have watched that five times. Kind of feel like that says something. The only reasons I smiled or laughed was because the directors and script writers were decent at making corny jokes, puns, and lines funny enough that giggling is impossible prevent unless you are emotionless. They should have gone with comedy, rather than action-adventure, though, since I sincerely thought the rest of the moments were just junk. Call me a spoil-sport if you must, but I was literally whispering what would happen in the next minute to my friend beside me. Usually I'm not very good at predicting what happens in films -unless they are seriously full of clichés...which this film is-, but I said them anyway. I was right 8 times. Out of 9. I counted. Anyway... though the beautiful graphics did rival that of Avatar, the plot of "saving the people from the evil mastermind only this time it involves the whole galaxy instead of just one planet so it's not just Earth that's being targeted this time so ha we are different" never got THIS tiring. I was so close to sinking in my chair and dreaming up a nightmare because of how stupidly predictable this film was. Maybe that was intentional and Marvel fans just wanted to see some new, more unique heroes this time, and also to see the visuals, and maybe to see Chris Pratt and Zoe Saldana's pretty butts...but whatever. I had half that mind prepared for a cliché-turned- awesome movie when I walked in the theater. I came out with my whole mind filling up and overloading with shame and displeasure.So, plot: Would have been old and good but it wasn't. Protagonists: I would have cared for them more if the filmmakers didn't blow up almost everyone's favorite guy and kept alive some people's least-liked guy(s). So, yeah. Villains: ... oh my gosh, no, seriously? What even happened to the evil robot woman? Did the filmmakers just completely forget her? Music: Louder than Inception's horn. And I loved that even though it had no tune. Couldn't stand this though. But still, be ready for some rocking 80s and 90s music that I would have downloaded if they didn't play those songs during totally inappropriate moments. Comedy relief my butt. The only relief I got out of the soundtrack that isn't even their soundtrack -hopefully they didn't violate any copy rights... I mean, if it's these filmmakers, I wouldn't be surprised- is that I'm glad Groot enjoyed himself. Visuals: Stunning. That wasn't sarcastic at all. At all. What else? Oh yeah, unless you pay me a million dollars, I would never watch the sequel. So sorry I can't contribute ten dollars for Marvel next time. Tough luck.Don't let this review stop you though. Most of my friends liked it. And of course, most people who reviewed this movie liked it, so I guess I'm just a jerk. I'm betting you readers agree, and that's totally understandable since I am totally venting. But hey, three out of four of my friends never watched a Marvel movie so... call me bluffing, but I sincerely experienced one of the deepest disappointments I have ever dealt with in regards to a movie franchise in my entire life.... I'm still going to watch X-men though. Dang you, Marvel.
I've never seen so bad movie since "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull".... HOW?HOW can this movie has a rating above 8?? From the beginning of the movie till the end all you see is a mess! Childish plot, childish characters and awful, AWFUL humor ALL the times !! Even in the "serious" and "important" scenes there's always a stupid joke to ruin the moment(which is already ruined but anyway..). countless clichés and a story so bad that made me burn many many brain cells! The CGI where just OK and the fight scenes were at best indifferent..there were also some slo-mo scenes with nothing really to offer,i mean it's like a guy jumping in slow motion...seriously!nothing cool about it nothing new!Nothing about this movie is new or original! I have nothing else to say for this "movie"..stay away!
If this is what passes for blockbuster entertainment these days then, after 50 years of cinema-going, I'm opting out for good. Are the filmmakers of the 21st Century so devoid of originality that everything has to be a cut and paste from the past? So, a brief run through of the tedium that passes for plot from that most dreaded of all auteur's the writer-director. A dude from the past (1988) gets taken into space sub-Hitchhiker Galaxy-style and gets to spout sub-Star Wars dialogue in a sub-Spaceballs kinda plot. I was looking at my watch after the first half hour. There was no irony or intelligence in the story, the hero takes off his space helmet in the vacuum of space and hands it over to the sour-faced flat-chested Star Trek reboot and they both survive! The director could have at least looked at Total Recall if the physics were too tough for him. If they can censor the best part of Zulu for alleged raaacism then I truly hope this garbage gets shredded for stupidity and cynicism. A sequel is, naturally, in the works. God bless you Stanley Kubrick.
Such an awful wreck! There I said it. These marvel films are becoming a huge bore and nevertheless have disappointed anyone even bothering to consider that maybe one day Hollywood will create a stellar film. But this?! This!? Garbage? Filled, to-the-lid with CGI! The typical stereotypes blown over proportions and yet people still go to these theaters and pay for this crap and still LIE to themselves and honestly say that it was a "fantastic" and "great" and "awesome" A film that would put a psychologist laughing maniacally in their leather armchair. The "Ten out of Ten" reviews are being given out like candy from these people. Were the characters bad? Yes. How many? Out of the guardians, it's obvious out of the five, there's Groot, the tree humanoid incapable of having a conversation, but don't worry it can understand what you're saying until of course, the record of the Idiot starts to play and Groot marches off and ruins your pitch perfect plan. He's the cgi character crutch. Crutch? How exactly? Simple when there's a break in the scene, here comes Groot and then we say..."okay Groot, perform your thing and then maybe even add a homage to the Hulk?" Rocket Raccoon, what a mess isn't he? Both as a character and the fact that most of the emotion in this film came from the animated Raccoon. How many scenes will star him seething at the audience? As if his problems are towards everyone? What's even worse is the fact everyone is laughing at him in real life, there's no respect for him outside the film. Oh, and where's his real accent? Though I would have to say he's not the character that ruined the movie, what a surprised. In the fight of Man versus CGI, cgi wins in having a character outperform it's humanoid actors. And what of Quill, Gamora, and Draxx? David Bautista as Draxx was actually the better of the three, in the overall performance (if any) Why? Well, you'll be sharing this characters maniacal laughter once you've realized you wasted valuable devotion for a franchise whose focus is better spent on a festival of explosions rather than a film focusing on Quality. Oh, but wait! Quill and his quirks and Gamora as the feminism object! Dun, Dun, Dun! The perfect trio nowadays are the idiots and the friendly brutes and the threatening but soft spot woman! Chris Pratt and Zoe Saldana... WHAT COULD GO WRONG...oh I don't know... Let's start predicting before we start watching the film... Is there a sex scene? It's PG-13, so no, but is there a RomCom kiss scene? You BETCHA! Ah, what a romanticism of a film! Please let me just change my rating from 6 to ZEROIf you expect a disappointment, you're welcome. If you're an oblivious fanatic that just loves hearing and reading the same regurgitated lines, you're in for a whirlwind!Good Luck Marvel in your festival of delusion! May the farce be with you!
This film was like the story of " The Emperor's New Clothes", where the con artists create an invisible suit and just to fit in everyone in the village inducing the king say they like the suit. Parts of the film were enjoyable and the film BUT this film is not better than the 2001: A Space Odyssey, Bicycle Thief, Rashamon, Toy Story, Chinatown, Up, Pan's Labyrinth, The Hunt, Ikuru, Good Will Hunting, Blade Runner, Rebecca, Casino, V for Vendetta, Fargo, Trainspotting, Into the wild, Dial M for Murder, The Sixth Sense, The Thing, No Country for Old Men, Kill Bill: Vol. 1, Incendies, Network, Diabolique, There Will Be Blood, Amores Perros, The Wizard of Oz, Million Dollar Baby, The Avengers, he Bourne Ultimatum, Strangers on a Train, Twelve Monkeys, Notorious, The King's Speech, The Terminator, Rocky, Dog Day Afternoon, Monsters, Inc., Memories of Murder, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Die Hard, etc


                
So - my son and I went to watch GotG. After reading mixed reviews we were skeptical but curious. The bad reviews unfortunately were right. The movie has no story line, stupid characters (like a talking raccoon) and more bad language than most rated R films I have seen. The producers were trying to cover the lack of plot with senseless action scenes that all seemed random and disconnected. Do yourself a favor and save the money you spend - you will get more pleasure from a big cup of ice cream. I can't believe Glenn Close and Vin Diesel took even small roles in this.My sons' quote: " I totally agree with my dad. There was no point in making this movie. The movie is overly dramatic for instance; in the beginning of the movie Starlords mom dies from cancer and she asked him to hold her hand while she dies, and he looks away and cries. Then after she dies he runs out of the hospital and gets kidnapped by aliens. The characters are really badly made, like the evil blue dude who has a half robot daughter that just stands around him like an eavesdropping servant or the madman who just tries to kill Ronan - so a lot of this movie is stupid. We left the theater half way through.
I love good superhero films, Captain America, Superman, Iron Man. This is not one of them. If I"d been alone I would have walked out and the last time I did that in a cinema was for The Wedding Singer.It's not without merit but with $170 million spent, I would hope not. The design overall is very good, the effects also and unlike some I liked Chris Pratt and the Ronan actor. But the attempted humour in the dialog is supremely irritating and the racoon character's grating voice was enough on its own to make me hate the talking scenes.The film is so derivative it could have been assembled by cut and paste. But at least it does not take itself seriously, we are thankful for small mercies.Enough said, I will go out of my way to avoid James Gunn films in future.


                
Mindless entertainment usually has some charm to it if nothing else, Guardians delivers none of that. Throughout the whole film it provided maybe two sincerely funny moments while the rest of it came across mostly as unintentional comedy thanks to a gibberish script. I've never laughed at someone dying of cancer before but the prologue of Guardians is just so hilariously god-awful it had me in stitches all through the opening credits.Oh Christ, what a forgettable, uninteresting and pitifully bland mess of a film this was. I suppose it appeals to easily impressionable simpletons but I struggle to see how, there's hardly any character development, the plot is nonsense from start to finish, the antagonist is some bland and boring caricature who seemingly only exists as a vehicle to introduce Thanos (who is a big deal I'm assuming?) and it's all just so damn predictable. Perhaps worst of all the ending is just another anticlimactic retread of the old and tired "power of love" trope.I may have given Guardians at least one point if it had decent effects and camera work put into it, but none of that is to be found here.
I am struggling to understand why fans found this movie so good. Perhaps it's just recent yet and, in time, people will figure out their mistake.Let's face it, the plot is ridiculous, working around a music themed heroic saga through the galaxy, when the songs themselves are either plain bad or do not represent quite well the moment. Plot problems will also go by too many characters presented in a way that seems like we've seen them before but we don't really remember where from, well maybe another movie, like The Collector, Nova Prime or Korath. And many, many clichés.But the worse part for me was the cheesy dialogs and the absolutely ridiculous jokes. I couldn't laugh even once and I do tend to have a good sense of humor. The joke about slipping the finger on your neck - really?! And Rocket demanding a man's artificial leg for nothing, to say later that that was a joke - absolutely unnecessary. On top of its nonsense, the final scene: Ronan is about to finally get his revenge, has the power to do so, is about to do so, then, at the very last moment, he stops to watch Quill dancing (while others prepare to blast him). Oh, forget the fulfilling of my greatest desire, the one driving my whole life and existence, let's just stop and watch him dance... seriously? Was that supposed to be funny? Am I a ten-year-old boy watching Woodpecker? 2 min of thinking would have sufficed to come up with a not so childish way to do that scene. What a great plot indeed. Maybe I could be going too hard on a film supposed to just entertain, with lights and sound, but it bothers me how stupid they think we are when they treat us like children.One very good side though that saved this movie from total awfulness is the beautiful CGI images, not all, but many, specially those from space and star wars-like spaceship battles.Every single other Marvel movie was better than this - and not all were exactly good. If the sequence is going to be as good as the first one, please don't even start it, Marvel.And, not to forget, some one has to tell Nasa that, to prevent people from dying from a spacecraft falling down on earth, you just need to make a sphere shield made out of entangled branches and leaves... awesome!
Man oh Man, this movie was terrible, how this got an 8.6 is beyond me, and in fact that's what I went based off of and luckily never really go to movies now days because of all the crappy movies Hollywood pumps out.There is nothing to this movie, I went with a friend and I literally kept falling asleep every now and then looking at my watch hoping it will be over. Its just an empty movie, all action with no story nothing, just some shooting here and there and stupid jokes.All recent movies like this including the new Amazing Spiderman 2 are just terrible movies with nothing to them, Hollywood is just a cash cow now and this is why I refuse to pay for movies in theatres.


                
... are either ...1. getting bribed by the producers 2. friends or relatives of the producers 3. incredibly gullible and without any real points of reference as to what constitutes a good movie.The current IMDb of 8.1 is a huge insult to every great film out there.SPOILER: This film, with it's flat lifeless acting, non-plot, and terrible childish 'humour' will SPOIL YOUR BRAIN CELLS.DO NOT WATCH ... YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!P.S. this is a gratuitous line of text to enable me to reach the IMDb required 10 lines....... oh dear, looks like I need to add a few more gratuitous words because I still haven't driveled on enough..... are we there yet?okay ... we're done here!


                
Disappointing would be a massive understatement for this turkey. Chris Pratt falls flat in his attempt at movie stardom. It takes more than hiring a personal trainer to be an A-lister & this guy lacks the "It Factor". The lame one liner jokes are relentlessly fired off, all of which fail to hit the mark. The CGI is heavy handed and distracting, this film is the cinematic equivalent of Kim Kardashian: desperate for attention, and utterly empty on the inside. Setting this epic lack of substance to the hits of yesteryear only highlights how desperate the Marvel hacks are to conjure up some sort of hipster factor. Sadly, Zoe Saldana (in green face) is wasted as the token female character in this excruciating hot dog fest. This "movie" will only satisfy the most simplistic of audience members: those who mistake product placement for entertainment. If all you are seeking is an empty shell of film featuring a truck load of hideous special effects, you will no doubt be pleased.


                
The First paragraph of this review consists of exposition. If a potential reader wishes to read about my opinion on the movie, skipping to the second paragraph is advisable. It's been about two years since I saw this movie at the cinema - something is compelled me to organize my thoughts and write this now. Why? I'm not entirely sure, I guess "Guardians Of The Galaxy" was always kind of an enigma to me. How could a movie so inept in everything it tries to do be so praised? It's not your typical Michael Bay-esque Hollywood cookie-cutter garbage, so It's success can't be attributed to following the same, overused, cliché-infested formulas. It could be that I am insane in my own specific way, but outside of production value I found no redeeming qualities here. I know the movie is an adaptation (of sorts) of a comic book series. My knowledge of comics is incredibly limited, so I'm judging this thing on it's own merits."Guardians Of The Galaxy" reminded me of one of those sci-fi stories I would come up with when I was 10-13 years old. It was a favorite pastime of mine, coming up with characters, who were blatant rip-offs of others from franchises I enjoyed at the time, putting them in nonsensical situations (of course, to 12 year old me it all made perfect sense) and just admiring my creation as any narcissistic child would. Of course, my stories didn't have movie adaptations with astronomical budgets.I compared "Guardians Of The Galaxy" to a child's sci-fi story because of it's complete lack of direction - too many plot lines (more akin to plot doodles) that are individually unrefined and irrelevant to the overall story, which somehow manages to be even more undefinable. It's like a space opera chopped up and stitched together in some horribly messed up jigsaw puzzle. Now, some movies thrive on a lack of continuity and direction (Tarantino practically mastered that form of film-making), but this specimen is different. Again, it's as if the script was written by a child and the whole thing was directed by some individual who somehow had the skill of a top-notch director, but again possessed the mindset of a 12 year old.What's even more surreal about the whole thing is that it feels incredibly solid - it's not "The Room" where every seen is irrelevant, because of the writer/director's sheer incompetence. Somehow, "Guardians..." holds itself together quite well, again everything else is top notch: Excellent CGI, detailed land/spacescapes (albeit of unoriginal, uninspired design) and pretty good acting with some minor exceptions. As I said before, this movie doesn't play out like a typical Hollywood schlockfest would - there are too many plot lines and too much time is devoted to character development - if this was typical garbage, we would have had a lot more action scenes and female characters in suggestive positions. All these attempts at complexity feel sincere, again, it's like a child trying to do his best, but they have no purpose. To illustrate: why should it matter that the green chick and the blue chick (sorry, too lazy to look up names) are sisters - it could matter, but the movie makes no attempt to give some importance to this statement, they share some scenes, the talk about about each other, they fight, but nothing really comes out of it. It's the same with every single plot point you can think of. The Villain? Well, he's pale blue and angry and he has this massive spaceship fortress and wants to rule/destroy (not sure) the universe, but wait it turns out he's not the main villain, there's another guy and he's even...yeah a 12 year old might buy into this being legit character development, but I've grown far too old and cynical.In the end, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" feels like it starts from nowhere, goes nowhere and accomplishes nothing. A very empty, yet confusing (albeit visually spectacular) experience. But all the glitter in the world can't make this shine. Sorry.


                
Yeah, go and believe all the user reviews for this movie, and go the theater and waste the price of admission, whatever it is. Or, give me the benefit of the doubt, and trust what I am saying when I tell you that this movie stinks to high heaven. The CGI is top notch, but it ends there, and CGI by itself does not a movie make. There has to be a story, and this movie does not have any semblance of a story, at least not one that anyone could possibly follow or make any sense of, or one that, if published as a book, any sane and intelligent person would ever bother to read. The story told by a movie has to be good enough such that, if published as a book, it would be entertaining enough that people would bother to read it. This movie is nonstop action and fighting. In order to tell a story, it has to slow down a little here and there, but this movie never slows down at all. There is an orb, everyone wants it, and everyone fights over it. This really is all that there is to the story. I hated it so much that I wanted to walk out, but stayed, thinking that eventually it would have to get better, but it never did. This movie must have cost a lot to make, but the money they spent, however much it was, was spent manufacturing compost.


                
okay guys i gave this movie the lowest score possible. for good reason.so the movie is a revamp of the guardians franchise. some horrible American actor plays a human who was abducted and raised by space pirates that teams together with one of the worst female actors to date . her character is essentially a ninja wicked west of the west. let not forget to mention the other 3 main characters. a tree a raccoon and a meat head. who team up to defeat the strongest entity in the universe + a back and forward treasure hunt. the acting is crap. the story line is so obvious, within minutes of starting even the feeble minded could predict the outcome. As for the title "guardians of the galaxy" i would like to comment that while there is a lot of space flight. they only save one planet. sort of.i am so glad i downloaded a cam version of this movie and didn't waste a cent. i would like to say a big EFF you to whomever picked the cast. to this point marvel has had amazing casts. iron man, Thor , captain America? this movie taints marvel. in their pursuit of profit. they have created another flopDO NOT BOTHER WATCHING THIS MOVIE.
I had more or less low expectations for this film, but after being semi-forced to watch the whole thing (social obligations), I was met with the unfortunate end of "Low".The film had some interesting and novel ideas to play around with (a bandit raccoon and a walking tree? Perfect!), but the word that constantly came to mind while making it through to the end was "Overdone". Too much action (yes, I said it), paper-thin characters, a plot that made absolutely no sense at all, and weak attempts at humor - the combination of all these left me checking the time every few minutes waiting for the all-too-predictable ending to be over.Oh, and a constant irritation (at least to me), was the "soundtrack" -- songs from the 70's which grated on my nerves. I guess they were trying to be "original", or something.Simplify the plot, develop the characters a bit more, work up some *good* actions (not just random explosions and bits moving about) and there might have been something here to hold my interest. Unfortunately I'm not a teenage boy who might think all this overkill is a-w-e-s-o-m-e, but I was bored within 30 minutes.Sorry - I wanted to like it, but it didn't happen.


                
As the movie started I was excited to see a character wearing a mask with glowing red eyes. I thought the opening scene was promising and then suddenly some non-serious music started to play, the main character started to dance and everything went downhill from there. After that there was special effect after special effect. I love special effects, but it did sound like this movie was made "only" to showcase special effects such as explosions, explosions, explosions and did I forget to say explosions? The special effects were indeed magnificent, but it doesn't take long for you to realize it is all eye candy. It is there to help conceal the fact that this is a movie made for ten year old kids to gaze at and go wow. For everyone else, and by everyone else I mean adults with thinking brains, this extremely shallow and childish piece of work would be little more than a showcasing of special effects and cinematic techniques. Surprise, surprise, special effects do not make up for a shallow, childish, and extremely disjointed plot with performances that range from mediocre to downright terrible and they do not make a movie worth a mature person's time. I loved the Ghost Rider, Thor, and the Amazing Spider-Man 2. Even The Avengers was tolerable, but this one was simply a mess. Designing lots of weird looking characters with unpleasant colors and hair styles is like desperately asking the audience to love the movie just because it has some of the most weird looking characters ever seen in a movie (Men in Black anyone?). One of my biggest complaints and what really annoyed me throughout the movie is that while the special effects were great, the combination of colors in most of the scenes was really unpleasant. Remember how Thor had great colors in each and every scene? The colors actually went with one another. You don't see that here. A combination of light blue, orange, brown, grey and a lot of colors that create a really awful combination was present in nearly every scene. It was a huge letdown. Next time they should get a better art director so that they do not annoy the people who understand colors and art. In summary, this movie is not for adults. Take your kids to see it though. They will definitely love it, but since spending so much money only to entertain kids is not really justifiable, They'd better stop wasting such huge amounts of money on movies like this and spend it where it's really needed. Fighting Ebola to save the human race would be a much better use of such a huge amount of money.


                
There are people out there who can write a half decent script, and don't get the opportunity to ever have it heard. There are people out there who have serious acting skill and never get seen. There are sci-fi movies that have an original story that don't have a budget to be released at their full potential. Support people with talent and original ideas. Do not see Guardians of the Galaxy as it contains nothing that vaguely resembles any of those things. Congratulations on nailing the CGI though guys, that was great. If I felt like staring at great CGI for two and a half hours though, I'd play Call Of Duty.


                
I saw the rating of 8.3 at the IMDb and wanted to watch the movie. The movie started well but then it moved into the same lame side of the universe.The movie brings nothing new to us. It was like watching Avengers again(or any other superhero movie) where the superheroes fight with each other at the beginning but then unite to fight a common enemy. The movie was packed with inappropriate and lame humour. The acting was below average. Marvels should really consider the type of movies that they r making. I am still shocked that how on earth that this movie got an 8.3 ratings. This surely effects the CREDIBILITY of IMDb.


                
I wish Hollywood would donate the tremendous amount of money they spent on this film to one village in Africa. Complete and utter mediocre garbage. Even the special effects, which are supposed to be driving movies like that are mediocre. The landscapes, fight scenes are okay, but the CGI characters? Is it so hard to give some detail to expressions in this day and age?This looked like a cartoon (in a bad way) Boring, one dimensional characters and a bunch of people running around in crazy makeup and painted faces. Terrible, just terrible...


                
This movie just sucked. It was so damn juvenile that, as an adult, I felt as board and uninterested as listening to a 10 year old tell me how their day went at elementary school. There's a main underlying premise, but not much happens between the beginning of the movie and the end, and the damn thing is about 2 hours long. Chris Pratt's character was a rip-off Han Solo but extremely laid-back to the point of being annoying and too hip with a douche, bro-surfer attitude, Zoe Saldana's character was uninteresting and relatively weak in the story when she could have had a bigger part, and that damn raccoon voiced by Bradley Cooper was more annoying than Jar Jar Binks in Star Wars! This movie rips off Star Wars in many way, down to the retro-like scifi look of the movie. Half, and I mean it seemed like half...it was that boring, the movie took place in a prison, and nothing really happened besides their dumb escape...trust me it was stupid how they escaped. This movie is like watching an incoherent child's illogical dream. It is an orgy of impossible, child-like fantasy. There is nothing in it that made sense, and there is nothing that engaged the viewer. The antagonist is invincible, but wait no he's not...the protagonist is a fragile human, but wait no he's not...It's probably one of the most poorly written comic book adaptations in cinema history. Hell, or it's probably one of the best! Marvel comic books are pathetically stupid, anyway. I hate this movie with a passion, and I so regret seeing it. Do yourself a favor and skip this boring, extremely poorly written film.


                
