Guardians of the Galaxy is nothing short of an amazing movie. If there's anything I can say, it's that it is the best superhero movie I have seen. Not only does it have the impressive set pieces and enough action to last you a lifetime, it has an emotional core and you actually get to care about each and every single character. Overall this movie is filled with all the required thrills and spills and is a first class action movie. It also has a great mixture of comedic value and a deal of seriousness. The film's unlikely hero is Quill (Chris Pratt), an eccentric gunfighter in the Han Solo mould who we meet stealing a metal orb coveted by the evil warlord Ronan. When he dispatches his top assassin, the green- skinned Gamora (Zoe Saldana), to recover the artifact, the pair find themselves locked up, along with the galaxy's most unlikely bounty hunters – a gun-toting raccoon (Bradley Cooper) and his sidekick (Vin Diesel) who just happens to be a walking tree. All the actors do a great job at portraying there characters, they feel real beings. You get to know about them and their struggles and you become attached to them. Every character in the movie got their time to shine, especially Rocket Raccoon who is voiced perfectly by Bradley Cooper. Everyone is pitch perfect in their roles even Batista! For those that want specifics: effects were top notch, acting was excellent, story lines were compelling, the comedy was perfect 99.5% of the time and surprise there were a lot of one line typical superhero zingers that worked really well. What really can't be stressed enough is just how insanely fun and entertaining Guardians of the Galaxy is for literally its entire two-hour-plus run-time. I still have a hard time wrestling with who was my favorite actor in this. all in all, the film is brilliantly well done, action scenes are engrossing and genuinely done, you genuinely worry about certain characters and I for one was thrilled with it. Go see this.


                
I entitle my review A New Hope as I walk out of the cinema feeling like I have just watched the Star Wars of our generation!As a huge Marvel fan (both comics and film) I was delighted to hear this film was getting made with the perfect choice of Guardians and what a perfect cast to play them. The biggest surprise for me was Dave Bautista who I thought was only cast for his size but his delivery was spot on for Drax. Chris Pratt was hilarious whilst still excellent at delivering some of the films most emotional scenes.CGI in this film was super, there's nothing I hate more than too much CGI in a film but it was so good in Guardians that I was completely lost in it. Never have a seen space look so good, the battles were incredible and Groot and Rocket never looked out of place (aside from being a tree and raccoon).Gunn is the perfect director for this, his tone, his balance of comedy, action and emotion blended perfectly and directing GOTG would have been no easy job. DC are still trying hard to get Justice League going, Marvel just made a film with a talking tree and Raccoon and it was AWESOME!!!Not a bad performance all round and comic fans will be happy with certain nods and winks scattered throughout. Probably my top Marvel film yet, it has the fresh new feeling the first Iron Man had with all the action and humour of The Avengers. 10 stars from me, even if your not a comic book or sci-fi fan, this movie has something for everyone.


                
Great expectations before the film, definitely, and they really paid off. Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the best Marvel films to date, and a really good sci-fi at that too. The film is strong on so many levels, outstanding characters, great worlds, is emotional and humorous.Peter Quill, or Star Lord as he likes to call himself, is a quick-witted man of Earth thrown into the far reaches of galaxy, who has stolen an artifact that everyone seems to want. By accident he stumbles upon four other characters, Gamora the assassin, Drax the Destroyer, Rocket the enhanced raccoon and Groot the humanoid tree, and the five of them form an unlikely team. The characters are really well presented, their emotional core is strong and back stories engaging. In short, they're interesting and easy to like. All of them have great moments and keep us wanting for more and more. Rocket, in particular, steals the show with his anger management problems and bright one-liners. It was great to see a group of people each with their own agenda come together, this dynamic worked really well. Star-Lord carried a lot of this weight, and was very sympathetic.The film doesn't take itself very seriously, which was refreshing to see after also great yet darker themes of Thor and Captain America 2's. Guardians has a lot of laughs, witty dialogue, characters rub off on each other (and the audience), writing is perfect. The film is so entertaining, non-stop adventure but also knows when to balance with more dramatic themes. Scenery and worlds are spectacular, visual effects top notch. As a reader of the Guardians comics it was great to see some smaller motifs thrown in that may not be necessarily caught by regular viewers, but which the comic book readers will definitely be thankful for too.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy was an awesome watch. Amazing characters, vivid cinematography, great dialogue, lots of humor, soundtrack was nice, story exciting. This wonderful adventure and its captivating characters will be in mind for a long time.


                
(Rating: 12A, 121 mins) Written by Zen Terrelonge Starring – Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Bradley Cooper, Dave Bautista, Vin DieselIf you've seen the trailers for Guardians of the Galaxy, you'd be within your rights to think Marvel Studio execs have been hitting the bottle hard or taking LSD.The film revolves around a group of dysfunctional but goodhearted criminals – think Robin Hood's Merry Men of the future – comprising human thief Peter Quill aka Star-Lord (Pratt), green assassin Gamora (Saldana), talking raccoon Rocket (Cooper), knife-wielding Drax the Destroyer (Bautista), and walking tree Groot (Diesel).Like the Avengers, the Guardians get off to a false start but soon unite over a common cause, namely, the galaxy being obliterated by genocidal maniac, Ronan – not Keating – the Accuser.Ah yes, the old, let's-exterminate-everyone-for-the-mistakes-of-their-forefathers ploy.But unlike Avengers Assemble, Guardians of the Galaxy oozes offbeat originality and frankly, it's the most unique and delightful film Marvel has created to date.It's a hell of an achievement given the extensive movie library the company is building up and when you consider the characters aren't household names like 'big three' Iron Man, Thor and Captain America, but Marvel seems well aware of that fact with the final production risky to say the least.The film opens in 1988, which is when Quill is abducted from Earth, and 26 years later we see he's become a crooked intergalactic outlaw with a taste for all things shiny, valuable and not his.Given the distinct decade in which he was taken, his cassette player and mixtape of 70s and 80s tracks are laced throughout the film, which creates a quirky yet grounded quality in the midst of all of the dazzling interstellar warfare that takes place along the way.In addition to the soundtrack, jokes and comedy have never been more of a feature in a Marvel film – perhaps Iron Man 3 was the closest – as gags are thrown into the unlikeliest of scenarios to lessen the tension, and I would imagine, to really differentiate itself from Avengers Assemble, Star Wars and Star Trek, which by comparison are left looking very sombre.That said, if you were going to compare Pratt's Quill to someone, the character is quite reminiscent of Chris Pine's Captain James Kirk – smart, womanising, reckless leaders, who eventually find their feet.The editing is supreme and makes each bit of dialogue super-sharp and tight, so when the infamous five are bickering or talking generally, the repartee all feels really clean and natural without being awkward or forced.Thor can be stubborn, Iron Man can be arrogant and Captain America is considered too stiff, but all of the Guardians bring even more wildly different qualities to the table and offer some diversity that doesn't ever grate or bore, which wouldn't have been possible without such excellent casting.Meanwhile, the film is very much in the here and now, with Quill's backstory the only one that truly gets a look-in, which creates a sense of intrigue about his colleagues who only have their pasts hinted at, meaning sequel fodder.There's just no way of knowing where you're going and tonally the movie delivers a piece of everything and it's done big and without hesitation.Guardians may have been a gamble, but I'm Grooting for it to Rocket to the top.10/10


                
I know, I know. This will incontrovertibly attract a lot of hate from die-hard Dark Knight fans, but guess what? I'm one of those who thinks Nolan is the epitome of how to make a perfect superhero spectacle. Or at least, I was until tonight. This film will blow your mind. Quite literally, it is jam-packed with edge-of-your-seat action thrills and pure comedic gold. Don't be expecting a moody companion piece like that of Nolan's trilogy, or Man of Steel. It keeps more in touch with Avengers, although it's a lot funnier and really builds upon the upcoming Infinity Gauntlet arc. The actors are incredible, matching the character developments, the dialogue and action sequences are spectacular and the visual effects should surely earn a nod come Oscar time, as I'd personally put them on par with those seen in the recent Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. The run length compliments the well-scripted pacing of the movie itself, whilst plenty of interesting secondary characters litter Guardians with an ensemble cast that has exceeded anything yet seen in the Marvel/DC movie worlds. I don't pertain to the DC versus Marvel argument, but this masterpiece alone has certainly put Marvel on the front foot in terms of cinema outings, far surpassing the very enjoyable Man of Steel and, I believe, edging out Nolan's trilogy and then some. I thoroughly recommend this for any with a borderline sci-fi/superhero love, and advise you to remain for the tantalising post-credits scene, although many of the non-comic fans might not get the references. Easily a perfect ten out of ten for me.


                
They should really call themselves the best film of 2014, because that is what it is! Anyway as you can probably tell, this is my review for the new Marvel movie Guardians of the Galaxy. They're like the B-Rate Avengers and on a different planet. Xandar to be exact. Anywho's, the plot. The Plot: A human adventurer teams up with a band of alien misfits to save the galaxy.Now, first I wanna say this. The soundtrack was freaking awesome. You have songs from Hooked on a Feeling by Blue Swede, I Want You Back by The Jackson 5, and many awesome songs like that, these songs were on Peter Quill's mix tape. Next, the opening scene. Wow. One of the most emotional opening scenes in Marvel film history. Not gonna spoil it, but all I'm saying is that it has one of the most epic transitions from scene to film studio logo ever seen. I mean, the music is swelling, and then the Marvel Studios logo theme (thats a bit different) begins, and after it finishes, it starts up the awesomeness that is Guardians of the Galaxy.Now, onto the actors. First, Chris Pratt as Peter Quill a.k.a. Starlord. A big badass who has one of the best mixtapes I've ever heard and who is one of the most badass characters in the Marvel films. We also have Zoe Saldana playing a green woman named Gamora. And knowing Zoe Saldana, she's awesome in almost every role. And this one is no exception. She absolutely kills it as Gamora. Her fighting skills are awesome as always. Now, the next actor has to be one of the most muscled badasses in this film. His name is Dave Bautista a.k.a. Drax the Destroyer. He was a freaking badass fighter in this one! I know I keep saying badass, but there aren't anymore words to describe these characters. The final two characters I have to mention are also badass. First we have Groot. Voiced and sometimes played by Vin Diesel. He was really good as Groot, even though the only thing he could ever say was I Am Groot. And last but not least, I have to mention the badass that is Bradley Cooper as Rocket Racoon. Oh... my... god he was freaking awesome!! He had some witty one liners after every action. He was a very cocky character I must say. I'm serious, everything he says, he always has a witty remark to everything that goes on!The bad guy. Ronan the Accuser played by Lee Pace. People say that he wasn't as good as they hoped. But I gotta say, he was a massive menacing awesome villain. The backstory of Ronan includes him having a bit of a feud with Drax, because as heard in the trailer, Ronan killed Drax's family, and thus the feud was born. Drax, while focusing on being a Guardian of the Galaxy, has a major score to settle with Ronan. And for a fellow IMDBian smnam, I'm gonna talk about a certain character that goes by the name of The Collector. Played by Benicio Del Toro, he may only have about 1 or 2 scenes, but he is quite good in this. After his minor role in the end credits of THOR: The Dark World, in GotG, you see more of him and why he's called The Collector. He has a ton of stuff in his collection, including cosmonaut dog, and another item that is seen at the very end of the credits, I'm not gonna tell you. It's a surprise.Right, enough about the film before I give too much away, let's get onto the final score.The film was badass, director James Gunn did a fantastic job on bringing the B-Rate Avengers to life, the actors who played the Guardians were awesome, so I am giving this my biggest rating yet. Bigger than the rating I gave Dawn of the Planet of the Apes, Godzilla and How To Train Your Dragon 2 combined. I am giving the badass of awesomeness film, a 1000/10!!!Telling you now, this year has been a badass year of film. We've had awesome films like The LEGO Movie, Godzilla, Maleficent, X-Men: Days of Future Past, 22 Jump Street, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes, and now we have Guardians of the Galaxy. And it was awesome!!Hope you like my longest review I've ever written, I am Shane-O, and I approve this message.P.S. Stay for the end credits. You'll be in for the funniest and greatest end credit scenes in Marvel movie history. That's all I'm saying.
Well if the universe has the corner stone of idiots this is it. Guardians of the galaxy comprised of five dolts who come together in the face of total annihilation from what is known as the Infinifty stone. A relic of ancient past where its properties are made up of the building blocks that created the universe itself. It could be used to create or to destroy. Between planets is a man named Quill who at a younger age was abducted from earth by an alien trash race lead by Yondu Udonta (Micheal Rooker) after his mother died from severe cancer.Some fifteen years later he becomes a relic hunter and not always by legal means. During his last trek to an abandoned planet he comes across this stone housed in an orb but is confronted by a league of trackers lead by Korath (Djimon Hounsou) who works for Ronan (Lee Pace). Ronan is by no means a nice guy. In fact he only wants the stone for revenge against another race who used the stones power to alter the natural means of creation but was destroyed in doing so. Taking ronan's people with them he vowed revenge at any cost.Now with quill's group is Drax (Dave Bautista) Gamora (Zoe Saldana) Groot (Voiced By Vin Diesel) and last is the over emotional Rocket (Bradley Cooper) who looks like a raccoon. Together they put aside their differences... that is to stop trying to kill each other and put an end to ronan from destroying the entire universe in the process. In many ways this movie holds a great deal of emotions from beginning to end. Passionate, anger, betrayal, the kind of self centred pessimism one looks for in another in order to get their point across no matter the cost.It is a big universe where many alien life forms dwell including Quill's own father who had kept his identity a secret from his family. Quill only learnt his entire being is half Terran, and half earth. Knowing this he decides to change over a new leaf to become a guardian with his new found friends and try to get along without throwing a fit. I had a great time watching this with the new characters, new action, and wonderful retro music that just somehow fit to quill's character. What I also found interesting is seeing how the other half lives out there in the deepest parts of space. Come to think of it they are not all that dissimilar from anyone else.Each has a family, dreams, goals, even opportunities which presents themselves evil or not. I give it ten stars for originality, music, special effects, and wonderful actors including an Oscar winner Benicio Del Toro who plays the pawn master that appraises the stone's value. Guardians of the galaxy is much better than Galaxy Quest for its story line, and optimistic characters. You couldn't take your eyes off of any alien in this film it is that well made. Highly recommended to all ages above 14. Excellent addition to the summer.
Guardians of the Galaxy- Simply MarvellousYes it is a movie of cosmic proportions, an inter-planetary fantasy of epic scale. Yes it has a team of underdogs taking down a Goliath. Yes it has a talking raccoon and a tree as main characters. But what makes Guardians of the Galaxy the best Marvel movie of all times is the fact that it is the closest embodiment of the Marvel comic book ethos- full of wit and charm, spunk and fun, and of course, action.Sample this- somewhere in the universe, in a desolate planet with incessant water fountains, where a once proud culture reigned. A masked man lands in a spaceship, and charts out a path through the devastated surroundings. At one point, he puts on a Walkman, switches on Redbone's "Come and Get Your Love" and breaks into an impromptu jig. He is in some mood. On his way he encounters small dinosaur like creatures that he either footballs them or treats them as microphones, karoakaying his way and leaping across mortal dangers to steal an Infinity gem, as the credits start to roll. Marvel fans would be aware that the stone is one of the most powerful objects in the universe. This effortless boogey sets the tone for the movie- an irreverent take on universe shattering events.Unlike the Avengers, since the characters are all new, but even more bizarre, they do need a round of formal introductions-"Star-Lord, man, legendary outlaw. Forget it" - Peter QuillPlayed in zany style by Chris Pratt, Peter Quill was kidnapped from earth when he was a child by a gang of bounty hunters. Today he is a galaxy trotting thief and space scavenger who likes to call himself Star-Lord. Tremendously attached to his mother's music, Quill is a Romeo who has survived in this cutthroat profession so far solely because of his improvising skills."I am a warrior, an assassin. I don't dance" - GomoraActed by Zoe Saldana (this time in a shade of green), Gomora is an adopted daughter of Thanos, surgically enhanced into a killing weapon. Gomora is exactly what she says, but learn to dance, she does, courtesy Star-Lord."Nothing goes over my head! My reflexes are too fast, i would catch it"- Drax, the DestroyerPlayed by WWE star Dave Bautista, Drax is a naive to the point of stupidity, suicidal, tattooed mountain of a brute with a love for knifes matched only by his thirst for violence. He specifically seeks revenge on Thanos and Ronan, who he holds responsible for the death of his family. "Ain't no thing like me, except me"- Rocket RaccoonCouldn't be more true. Rocket is like no other thing. Motion captured and voiced in scene stealing style by Bradley Cooper, Rocket is a genetically altered, cybernetic-ally enhanced raccoon with a thing for sarcasm. Happiest when with a big gun and Groot by his side, he is also a master tactician and the technical whiz kid in the team."I am Groot" - GrootPerhaps the most emotive role ever essayed by Vin Diesel- Groot is an ever growing humanoid plant whose vocabulary is limited to three words. Serves as the muscle for Raccoon with whom he has kind of a telepathic connection.Also in the mix are even zanier characters- Xondu (Michael Rooker), the bounty hunter that trained Quill and was later double crossed by him, carries an arrow that would have changed the course of the Mahabharata battle, the super-villain Thanos (Josh Brolin) who we will see more of in future Marvel productions, Lee Pace as the fearsome, maniacal Ronan the Accuser- a Kree warlord with blind hatred for Xandarians, and Benicio Del Toro as The Collector- an ancient alien. "We are all standing, a bunch of idiots standing in a circle" The Guardians are an anonymous, friendless lot. They have all been scorned and have suffered loss. Till they come together as a team to defend the planet of Xandar and its 12 billion people against Ronan, they have never known a family. The movie is a VFX extravaganza with superlatively detailed action sequences, but at the same time director James Gunn draws effectively from established scifi franchises such as Star Trek and Star Wars to create an emotional and expressive tale, while at the same time endowing it with oodles of self deprecating humor. The script is a belly full of laughs, the soundtrack is as it claims- awesome, and the acting by all, though caricatured, is top class. The end product is a an amazingly imaginative, visually stunning, frothy, lively, light hearted "save the universe" romp that wows with its dazzling visual style and at the same time keeps tickling your funny bone. Cannot recommend enough- 11/10


                
Words cannot explain the thoughts I have on this movie. Unlike the new X-Men, I think the more you think about it, the more you like it, although both movies were equally good. Guardians has a good humor vibe throughout the movie with a compelling plot and an ultimately brilliant outcome of a movie. I may even see it again! I have read the comics before the movie was thought of and let me tell you, it was very true to the characters, and let me say, I had doubts about Vin Diesel's talent between Groot's small role in speech, but now I don't think anybody else could have matched how well he performed. Marvel can surely be at the top of greatness at the moment with it's movies, however I highly doubt that and I cannot wait for the next installment of superhero action brought to us by Marvel. Roll on Josh Brolin and his take on Thanos!


                
Warning for spoiler guys.I've never heard of this title before, neither read the comics and I was clueless about this when I watched the trailer. It looked like just some sort of space wars battling out like galaga and it was nothing special to me, until I went to the cinema and watched it. And after 2 hrs, I left the place totally mind blown and laughing and giggling with their lines, especially with "I am Groot" which I kept repeating with my nephew. Such fun times!The movie immediately caught my attention with it's opening. It was very emotional, really made me focus on the connection of the first character, and then just after the abduction here comes the most amazing intro of Marvel that is the most coolest intro in all of MCU movies. It moves towards Peter Quill now dancing and singing and it was like that moment is so fun that if I had this movie on DVD, I'd watch that dance a hundred times together with that song of Red Bone! The following scenarios would be epic and I must say the scene in the prison where they all met together is the best place for them to meet. It felt so cool that all 5 of them would work together on a similar cause despite them having different principles and perspective on their own.From then on everything was just interesting and fun. It never subsides and all of the characters were fun, emotional, interesting and enjoyable to watch. The plot and story is so amazingly cool to hook me up and there was no boring part, all pure action, laugh, awesomeness and touching scenes. Rocket, Groot and Drax are the most fun characters in the movie, especially Groot and Peter Quill winning the funniest acts that made the whole audience in that place laughed for like 15 seconds straight and clapped their hands in pure majestic resounding loudness.Rocket and Groot are one amazing tandem. I never recognized Bradley Cooper's voice actually. Their lines were epic and it digs deep into my mind. This movie is the only movie to establish and rig those movie lines inside my mind without forgetting them. They've kept on repeating inside my mind like I just won the lottery with magic numbers. The CGI of these 2 characters is flawless and just fit the mood of the whole movie.Peter Quill, Gamora and Drax really brought it up to top notch with their insane acting skills. Chris Pratt nailed the character and I felt that amusement again when I first watched Robert Downey Jr. as Tony Stark/Iron Man. He's now a movie blockbuster superstar I guarantee it, together with Zoe and Dave. Dave being one of the most funniest wrestler turned actor I've ever seen. He hooked the audiences with his line that "Nothing goes over his head", epic, just Epic.From start to finish this movie grabbed my butt rock steady on my seat with amusement and amazement. Definitely the best movie of Marvel in par with Avengers. Congratulations to the new stars of this movie, Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Dave Bautista, Bradley Cooper and Vin Diesel and to the wonderful works of Director James Gunn and company, thank you for this memorable and amazing movie of the decade!
Watched this today at the iMAX Manchester. I love watching movies at the cinema, and have felt slightly cheated on a few recent movies that disappointed and appeared to be more of a cash cow: Taken 2 springs to mind, but there are others. The premise to this film excited me, as did the cast involved: a Marvel movie with a raccoon, a tree-shaping humanoid and adorable bodyguard, the amazing Chris Pratt (watch it and be enchanted/amazed by his stellar performance), Vin Diesel as 'Groot' who you will *love* by the end (trust me) and the surprisingly excellent David Bautista, whose comic delivery is sublime. The action is well throttled and not OTT. The perfection lies between the tangible chemistry between the main players and the razor sharp comedic script - it just works, trust me. The icing on the cake is the soundtrack throughout, it was well judged and impeccable. We all left the cinema dabbing tears of laughter from one of the final 'Groot' scenes. Honestly, this movie ticked all the boxes and more - best movie ever.
Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the least known comic books of Marvel. The only reason why the whole world, aside of the fans of the source material, are going to see this because it's a Marvel production, but we should all admit that apart from the comic geek world, nobody knew who Rocket Racoon and Groot were before the film was announced, nobody heard of Starlord before Chris Pratt was attached to the project, and most people hardly knew what it is actually about. While many are still seeking for a Doctor Strange or an Ant-Man movie, we should first get to know something that haven't got enough attention before. And wondrously, these filmmakers introduce this mythology with huge love not only to its own, but also to the fantasy/adventure genre and its old classic form, which easily delivers the sheer fun. But even in the realm of explosions and zany worlds, the best parts of the journey ended up being the scenes with the characters interacting and often to engage a set of great humor and drama. That is already too much to ask for a ridiculously fun blockbuster.It is certainly a space adventure, it already offers a lot of strange alien designs and intergalactic action, but the big stuff aren't the only highlight of the movie. The film would mostly focus on its characters, nearly all of them may be aliens, but their pathos and personalities are down-to-earth. How the team was formed is the same way how The Avengers did. They aren't nice to each other, but they had to get along so they may save the world... or galaxy. But here their motivations are either for revenge or money instead of heroic pride. How they introduced themselves may be a little too over explained through their conversations. The exposition is so relied on the dialogue, but what keeps it from being exhausting is when those talks lead to a naturally clever punchline. The film is just best when the heroes are developing their sudden friendship, turning themselves from cold hearted thugs into a likable band of misfits. The film also has a big love for the seventies music, and it smartly uses it for Peter Quill's last earthly thing he'll ever possess in his otherworldly life.These parts with the characters make the action the secondary appeal of the film, but that doesn't always mean it's a bad thing. This is basically going back to the past blockbusters when rooting for the characters was more important than trying to advance the technical/style abilities. But then, it doesn't have any problem with the action, except sometimes the space battles can be hard to follow but again whenever there's a humor in it, the consistency goes back on track. It's simple fun, sometimes nostalgic piece of adventure that doesn't have to be over-serious to be outright compelling, but it also does have some drama, while it doesn't entirely embraces its sadness, it at least gives some hints behind the characters and manifests the heart and brutality of their backstories eventually. The actors are excellent indeed as they give plenty of shining and charismatic personalities to their awesome characters.The plot may not be too sharp or its villains may not be so memorable, but Guardians of the Galaxy still reaches its goal of lovingly introduces its universe to the ones who've never heard of it. Since everyone is aware that superhero movies are made for the mass more than its fans (let's have to be honest about this), this idea may not always be taken seriously, especially when comic book movies have gone to its dark and gritty era and yet this one offers us stuff like a talking tree and a gunslinging raccoon, but here it is: Guardians of the Galaxy, the movie that isn't meant to exist ending up being one of the greatest films that Marvel ever produced since Iron Man. Is it a bold choice for them? Probably, but it's really not hard having self-awareness. The triumph of the film is reliving the classic, somewhat campy space opera and marking its characters as its real deal, even when they are not as familiar as many of Marvel's heroes. In the end, it's just pure fun, the flaws are there but at some point it doesn't matter. Every moment of the film has the excitement and laugh that anyone would seek for a blockbuster, taking place in a fascinating new world that we are yet to fully explore.


                
I think it was a surprise to no one that Marvel's next big movie would be a good and profitable film considering the amazing track record of the past 10 superhero movies produced by their studio. Even as the first trailers began to grace movie theaters, fans and casual moviegoers were eager to see this film about a group of characters that even die-hard Marvel fans themselves had little knowledge of. Unlike other characters such as Thor, Capt. America, and Ironman the cosmic superhero team known as the Guardians of the Galaxy have very little notoriety, which presented a huge gamble for Marvel to bring to life. In fact, when one of the first trailers appeared I remember my father turned to me and asked, "What's with the giant tree man, the raccoon, green lady, and the Han Solo knockoff?" Nevertheless, Marvel not only adapted this comic series into a great movie but perhaps the best movie in their entire roster and by far the best summer film this year at a time where a great summer blockbuster was desperately needed. It resemble the classic action comedy from the 80s and early 90s with likable characters, great comedic timing, and action sequences that are fun and extremely entertaining in a way that remind me of the Indiana Jones series.Our Cosmic adventure follows Peter Quill (a.k.a. Star-Lord), a thief and outlaw abducted from Earth as a child, who finds and steals a mysterious orb which he intends to sell. Unbeknownst to him this orb is also wanted by a radical madman called Ronan the Accuser, who seeks the powerful artifact hidden within the orb in order to eradicate an entire planet to which he has sworn to destroy. As Peter tries to sell the orb he encounters the cybernetically enhanced assassin Gamora and bounty hunters Rocket and Groot who are all promptly arrested and sent to prison for previous crimes. While in prison they meet Drax the Destroyer, a brutish juggernaut who wants revenge against Ronan and his associates for the death of his family. Together they break out of prison with the intent to sell the orb for a vast amount of money and keep it out of the hands of Ronan and the even more powerful tyrant known as Thanos. From there they uncover the mystery behind the orb's true purpose and prevent Ronan from using its power to kill an entire planet full of innocent people.Unlike other movies which would take a situation like this seriously and with some sense of urgency, the characters in Guardians seem to show little concern or reference to the whole saving the world aspect that you expect to form the basis of every superhero movie. That's not to say that the characters or the writers themselves don't care about what is happening and what is at stake but rather they focus more on the quirky Cheers quality fun-time atmosphere the film creates. This can mostly be demonstrated in Chris Pratt's portrayal as Quill, who has a very laid- back attitude towards everything with a rather mocking cool guy persona which is how a child of the 80s may have believed a cool space superhero would have been like.Speaking of characters, everything single one of them is memorable, interesting, and well portrayed by their actors which by itself is the main selling point of this movie. I have already mentioned Chris Pratt amazing job as the lead, but Zoe Saldana as Gamora is by far one of the best female action heroine in any action movie since Black Widow and has a very commanding presence throughout the entire film. By far one of the biggest surprises is Batista's portrayal of Drax. Never has a wrestler turned actor so much believability and charisma since The Rock delivering both laughs and incredibly entertaining action sequences. However, not one performance can live up to the two characters that completely steal the entire show, Rocket and Groot voice by Bradley Cooper and Vin Diesel. Yes, the talking tree and the raccoon are by far the most entertaining and likable characters you'll find in pretty much any movie out there today and you often find yourself begging for another scene featuring them. They are also two of the funniest characters in the entire picture behaving like the classic straight and funny man routine of Abbott and Costello fame but twice as fun. Even though Groot pretty much only says the words "I am Groot", which you would figure could get quite annoying and repetitive, becomes funnier every time he says it.Aside from these characters the visual and special effects that are brought to the screen not only allow for some amazing eye candy and interesting creature design that brings the world to life. Everything seemed to have a purpose and meaning for their existence which makes you want to learn more about these environments and the history behind them.Music-wise this is one of the best soundtracks I've heard in a film in a long time thanks especially to Star-Lord's awesome mix filled with classic songs from the late 60s to the 70s and some early 80s. Not only are they fun but they fit quite well with the comedic and quirky atmosphere of the movie.Bottom line, if you have not seen this movie you're doing yourself a disservice and if you've reading this review stop now, buy a ticket, and see this movie if you have not already. It's funny, exciting, and you may even find yourself seeing it three or four times if not more just to experience it again.


                
No story spoilers, just a quick message to you that you must watch this movie.I watched the trailers so many times i have lost count. Really had high expectations and they really delivered, Guardians of the Galaxy is the best Marvel film yet. If you liked Avengers, you will like this even more. So happy this movie came.3D is not usually my choice of spending money, but this was totally worth it. This movie is just made for Imax, with 3D as a desert. The acting is superb from the main characters, soundtrack, editing and cinematography are also excellent. This is the type of movie that makes you beg for the sequel. I am probably going to watch it 2 or 3 more times. I wont say anything about story or the characters, just go and be surprised how the movie sucks you in its awesome world.


                
Star Wars for today's generation. And maybe even a little better than that because it is just packed with such fun that I haven't experienced in cinema for a long time. Marvel has outdone themselves once again. Marvel and Disney have been worried that this film will be a financial failure but I haven't been in such a crowded theater since the start of the year.This origin story of this band of misfits starts out with an emotional scene, then the tone changes into this Indiana Jones in Space adventure, then it deliberately makes fun of itself and at last all these tones merge into one and the film keeps this tone for the whole length of the film. When it needs to be emotional it is, when it needs an action scene peppered with humor you get and action scene you haven't seen before. Everzthing in this film works except maybe the main villain. He isn't very menacing but you have so much fun in all the other aspects of the film so you are happy to overlook these details. Plus Ronan The Accuser serves just as build-up for a much greater threat.Every character steals every scene they are in. There is no way you will be able to pick your favorite character because in every scene suddenly all of them become your favorite. Chris Pratt has turned over a night into a household name all thanks to Marvel and his charm and likability. Before he served as a professional goof ball but I don't think that will be the case anymore. He shows such a wide range -switching from comedy into action/adventure or a quick-witted scoundrel. Zoe Saldana has established herself a long time as the go-to-action actress and once she shows why she has earned that. She can be sexy, funny and kick ass all in one moment. Dave Bautista is a real surprise here as the warrior taking thins way too literal and therefore his actions and dialogue end up as some of the funniest in the entire film. Bradley Cooper has tried to make his voice unrecognisable as the Rocket Racoon and he has created not another CG animated character but a character from flesh, blood and fur. His cynical, gun-toting maniacal raccoon will surely end up as the fans favorite but as I have stated before all the characters get the same time to shine. Groot, a sentient tree with a limited vocabulary is the most innocent of all of the members of the team.James Gunn had to abandon his dark humor and frankly a little weird for the mainstream audience but what is more than obvious is the enthusiasm that this film was made with. In every shot you can see the filmmaker who finally got the budget to realize all his dreams and ideas and so he stuffs into this film, all those shots and camera angles of his dreams are all here. The film is therefore such an amazing ride which sucks you in for 2 hours and then spits you out and you will want to go and see it immediately. It's that kind of a movie.This is the film that all the teenagers are going to be talking about when they are 30 years old in the same way the Star Wars generation talks about that experience today. The whole Marvel Cinematic Universe is a history in the making which I am sure will be talking about for a long time. The choice is yours if you want to go and see heavy intense drama disguised as a summer blockbuster go see the Dawn of the Planet of the Apes . But if you want a self-referential light-hearted fun go see the Guardians of the Galaxy. It is one of the best films you will be able to see this year.


                
I must say this is an excellent movie! there was nothing that i didn't like, all was good. the story, the characters, the sound, the visuals and most importantly everything felt like i needed to see more! i even wish the movie was longer.it starts off when a boy gets abducted and later turns out to be a criminal of the galaxy looking for a ball that can destroy the galaxy.ronan the accuser is the bad guy, and i think they used some Egyptian mythology here when they made the theme for ronan clothing and so on.this movie is about to destroy the ball, or capture it from ronans the accusers evil hands. because he wants to destroy everything.this is a really fascinating work, i haven't seen anything like this in a long time!
This movie, Guardians of the Galaxy, is a Marvel movie about 5 space criminals who works together in order to stop Ronan the Accuser in destroying the entire galaxy. These comics were only known by few people. It became famous when the actors were announced to play each of their characters. It became more famous when the trailer and the movie was released. The movie was liked by everyone and this movie is very excellent. You will enjoy this movie for sure. Unlike other Marvel movies, there were jump scenes unlike here, there wasn't any. And this movie is also a funny movie and even the after end credit scenes. Don't miss all the fun in Guardians of the Galaxy!


                
It was strange how much I ended up enjoying this movie. The first time I saw the trailer I was not terrible impressed and it seemed cliché and tacky (Especially the music). As a longtime fan and collector of marvel comics I felt obliged to go see the movie on the opening night and so I did... The movie had everything you could want in a film; space opera, comedy, explosions and even Michael Rooker as blue space alien with a magical stick!The casting was amazing, the writing was excellent and the CGI and special effects were the best I've ever seen. I have no doubt that this movie will be considered the next Star Wars (The original one, not the Jar Jar Binks version) in a decade or so from now. At the end of the film everyone clapped (Except me because I'm cool) and even my girlfriend seemed to have enjoyed it (And she hates everything). I actually felt sad leaving the cinema because I enjoyed the film so much I didn't want it to end. If it isn't a better movie than than the Avengers, it is definitely on par with it.If you haven't seen this movie yet, go watch it now. 10/10.


                
As usual, the real review is on my website, at Burket.net/craig/reviews/review-movie-GuardiansOfTheGalaxy-2014.htm This, once again, is because IMDb's newly-fascist we're-going-to-MAKE-you- write-a-good-review-in-spite-of-yourself-you-stupid-git attitude is as execrable as ever, and so richly deserves to be slathered and covered in scorn that I just can't hold back. But what can you expect from a minion of that union-busting Amazon.com? There, assholes, is that enough text for you, or do you want another round? Feel free to call or write to discuss further -- all my contact info is available on my web page (see above).


                
The culmination of SFX, CGI, Props, Makeup, Costumes, Soundtrack, Casting and Marvel storyline with a very good dose of humor thrown in, make this unique new film an absolute masterpiece, over and above anything remotely similar thus far.The unrivaled beauty of Zoe Saldana, whom I was mesmerized by in Columbiana, simply shines in this role, what an asset to any production. A star studded cast provides a secure balance to the entertainment, with acting you've come to expect from a handful of the very best in the business.If you love Sci Fi, adore the seemingly endless array of futuristic gadgets, weapons and beings, while firmly grasping a reality check with retro objects such as the ever prominent 'walkman' then this film will not disappoint.Another highlight is definitely the soundtrack, whereby a multitude of well known songs are used in, some a little odd at first, though they do grow on you and are totally fitting.If I could, I'd rate this 11 out of 10, enjoy...


                
i love science fiction movies and i love 70's music too.but mixing those 2 elements here just doesn't work.it somehow makes it feel even less real.and for science fiction movies you want that real element.this movie seems more cartoon like and and adding the 70's music and humor and alien women acting like women on earth makes it even more corny and less authentic as a science fiction movie.not to mention seeing a raccoon in space.the list goes on and on.i think another reason for the 70's music is to appeal to the adults,because this movie is something the kids will probably enjoy.so to get adults to like it put in some old music.keep in mind this is coming from a guy who hates new music and only listens to 60's and 70's music.but like i said mixing that in a science fiction movie like this takes away the real element.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy(GotG) is easily the best comic book to film adaptation. It had the right level of action, inspired moments of humour and perfect bits of tenderness. The cast was fantastic, the script superb and the plot never went dull, from Chris Pratts opening dance to the final confrontation. Chris Pratt's star-lord was simple amazing. A superhero protagonist who didn't take himself to serious yet didn't slip into man-child cringe. Dave Bautista, who I had reserves about, as Drax was a big win. He fitted the role perfectly, managing to bring love and care to a psychopath. And finally Bradley Cooper as Rocket Racoon. The cockiness, yet emotion he gave Rocket was terrific, not to mention hilarious.Overall, best comic book film, best film of 2014 and my personal second best. I highly recommend it and implore anyone and everyone to see it.
For the first time in a long time, I have watched a movie and was really entertained. Guardians of the Galaxy beats the One-Comic-Relief, Overdramatic, Rehashed Action Movie format by a long shot. One more movie with the punchy sidekick, only there for the laughs as he accompanies the vanilla Boy Scout main man, and I will Hulk-smash the disc. It's either LOL Larry or Love Interest Lucy in these films. Many Group of Heroes (Avengers) movies fare no better, featuring literally thawed-over, stereotypical characters from older films in name or in spirit about to blast the baddies with the newest tech of the times. Yawn. Thankfully, the Guardians have actual odd and not contrived odd personalities. So does the movie. Oldies music infiltrates the film instead of overdramatic trumpet flourishes, the theme takes place in space instead of downtown Big American City (like Star Trek), and graphics are stellar. Punny, huh? Watch it on a big television screen. Yeah the Guardians film was funnier than most intentional comedies, but it had a heart. Bad guys without friends they may pretend to be, but the Guardians show that they care for each other and for other people, even if they don't say it. Insanely likable characters. Loyalties are a bit confusing at first, but it will be apparent after awhile, unlike some films, where it's painfully clear who's aligned with who from the title sequence. Also, the number of quotable lines within this action film is incredible, rare from a movie with a talking animal character, I know. Halfway through the movie, I wondered when the movie would be over. Except this time, I was hoping that it wouldn't ever end. Do yourself a big favor, crawl if you must to your local movie rental location, and watch this film.


                
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday MorningIn 1988, the young Peter Quill (Chris Pratt) has just seen his mother die of cancer and, after rushing out the hospital in a flurry of tears, finds himself abducted in to space. Twenty six years later, he's a space hopping, inter-galactic misfit, with a penchant for '70s soul and Motown and is in possession of a special orb, which is wanted by a distant relation of Jim Carrey's The Mask named Gamora (Zoe Saldana) who is planning to use it to betray her maniacal ruler Ronan (Lee Pace) who is planning to overtake the universe. But the orb is also wanted by desperate duo Rocket, a talking raccoon, and Groot, a rather monosyllabic talking tree. However, it turns out none of them are entitled to it and they all find themselves thrown in to the jail house, where they cross paths with the strong, silent Drax (Dave Bautista) who has a personal vendetta against Ronan. Together, they must unite together as one and stop his diabolical plan in it's tracks.Guardians of the Galaxy has undoubtedly been the box office hit of the summer. So much so, that even I, on the last day of it's release, have taken a trip out to give it a glance. While the fanfares had died down slightly, it's interesting to chart how over the course of two months, this grandiose offering has taken the film world by storm, a risky venture as well, in as much as there are no established Marvel characters in the lead roles. But simply from the publicity poster, it inflames the senses, with it's dazzling, colourful array of characters and effects. And this would be a real case of reliably judging a book by it's cover, since the film delivers what it promises, a jaw dropping visual spectacle in every sense of the word.Like the previous Marvel encounter, Avenger's Assemble, this doesn't make the mistake of becoming all style over substance, keeping the film flowing with an easy going humour throughout the film that is resplendent with the characters. Pratt's lead is a naturally buffoonish guy through-out the film, who has a wise cracking personality to match, while Cooper's talking raccoon is unavoidably crazy by it's very nature. As for Groot, he's voiced by Diesel, who just says the same line over and over again, which would probably suit his acting ability in more parts where he just appears as himself, although his character here, in the end reel (and throughout really), provides the film with it's more emotional, touching element. These characters are juxtaposed through-out with the more dynamic, forceful character's, in the shape of Saldana's lizard skinned female heroine and Bautista's hard, no nonsense presence. That's not to mention a supporting cast including the likes of Michael Rooker, Djimon Hounsou, John C. Reilly, Glenn Close and Benicio Del Toro.Word of mouth, at least in part, must spread to make something a hit, and in Guardians case it's that it ticks all the right boxes and there's something to appeal to everyone, a lot of effort has been put in to every part of it and it pays off brilliantly. *****


                
I loved watching guardians of the galaxy, I have already watched twice. It was funny, entertaining and wasn't boring, Yay. I loved how the song was an important part of the story and the only part I didn't like was when Groot died, but that problem was quickly resolved. Stan Lee was seen in this film and that made me laugh because he is in marvel films and it is always amusing to see him in the films. Rocket and Groot were a funny combo and I was always laughing when they were around. Everyone was so amusing and the plot line was entertaining. I really enjoyed watching this film and would happily watch again and again. 10/10, I recommend that people watch this film.
