Went to see this in the cinema after the good reviews from IMDb and my friends, some of whom went to see it twice. What a disappointment. It didn't appeal on any level. It was a complete pile of Groot! Humour was limited and shallow, plot gossamer thin and the action was not really worth the effort on the whole. It's not as if I took the film seriously either. I really enjoyed the ludicrous Lucy, despite its numerous flaws. Surely I can't be the only one who didn't like this film? If it had been directed by Uwe Boll it couldn't have been much worse. If I never see it again I will be OK. Glad I didn't waste more time and money watching it in an IMAX. A 12 inch portable black and white would suffice.


                
When I saw the trailer, I didn't think this film would be anything special. A few weeks later, a friend of mine who shared the same opinion at first, told me it was "awesome" after watching it. Since then, I held my expectations high, but I was greatly disappointed. To be honest, I don't even know where to start. The film is a huge cliché overall and a ridiculous mess. Starting with the characters and the actors that give them life, we have great names in the industry, which of course, grants the film some status. Still, my only thought about this was "What the hell are you guys doing in this film!? Seriously!?". Renowned actors mixed with bad acting and pseudo-funny acting, which doesn't turn out to be funny, isn't exactly the perfect recipe. I don't dislike Zoe Saldana but the roles she takes are more or less the same and she doesn't even bother to work on different mannerisms or whatsoever to create an interesting performance, to provide her character some individuality. Most of the plot holes (if not all of them) are found in the main characters, whose ambitions change like the wind and without making any sense. One minute, Gamora was trying to kill Peter Quill, and five minutes later Quill was saving her... because he's that good. Just like they are best friends forever after that. The love interest feels so, so forced (because<U+0085> plot!). Thankfully, we don't get to see them kissing or whatever, otherwise that would be a bigger face palm. The background stories are boring, with no consistence, and so cliché; there's nothing new about them. In Gamora's case, we step onto Mary- Sue's grounds; the usual wannabe badass, who's actually just a damaged girl who suffered a lot in the past. Not to speak about stupid lines which you wouldn't even see in films<U+0085> Oh, and of course, talking about footloose and a lizard fight, to extend the length of the film.I couldn't feel any empathy or whatsoever for these characters, so that means they are doing it wrong<U+0085> The sentimental scenes meant nothing and I couldn't care less if they died. Actually, scratch that; if they died, I could have left the cinema earlier.Everything is a huge cliché (frames, scenes, characters<U+0085>). It almost feels like you're watching a collage and you know EXACTLY what's going to happen every SINGLE time. This film doesn't surprise you in any way. The soundtrack was terribly chosen. It gives the impression that they just chose a couple of songs they like and said "let's use it" even though it doesn't fit. Moreover, and if I'm right, it's not supposed to fit. It's supposed to contrast with the scenes, to make it funny. It wasn't. That's where it gets ridiculous...If this film is supposed to be a parody, it's not funny at all. If it's supposed to be taken seriously, it fails miserably. It did manage to make me and my friend laugh in the final scenes at the absurdity of it all.Not everything is that bad though. Truth be said, the film has excellent special effects and that is the only reason I'm giving it two stars. I'm pretty sure most people get stunned with the effects and think it's great. Rocket was somehow nice and Groot was the one I sympathized more with, even though he said the same line over and over.For me, a film has to tell a story, even if doesn't follow convention. At the very least, it has to express something like every kind of art. I'm tired of going to the cinema and watching the same plot over and over without any consistence, of watching films that are 90% explosions, cities being destroyed and so on, and 10% plot. I just felt dumber after watching this. It's called mass stupidification.


                
The first five minutes of Guardians of the Galaxy is a hook and gets your teeth sunk in for what looks like a fun, creative, and quirky ride. Then after 10-15 minutes went by I couldn't help but feel I've seen this EXACT movie before. I had. It was a film entitled Raiders of the Lost Ark. You may of heard of it. If you were to watch the first 10 minutes of each of these films and overlay them you would pretty much be watching the same film. So they updated it with a LOT of CGI and super heroes because super heroes are the current trend right now. Of course pepper in a cameo with Stan Lee right? The movie gets worst from there on out. The CGI is over the top, the characters are thrown at us with no development at all but with the assumption we are to care about them. One minute they are trying to kill each other (or not kill each other for some reason... why put him in a bag? I don't get it. Just take the orb). Then about 60 minutes in the producers decide to blast us with a 20-30 minute CGI jack fest that looks just like another film. This time they decided to duplicate Star Wars Episode II (not a good film to replicate). A space chase with CGI only Lucas could love. Ten million things happening on the screen in the span of one chase scene all while blasting our eyes and our ears with brutally piercing effects. Your ears will be ringing for 48hrs after seeing this film. You might have an epileptic seizure if you try to follow all the action as well. This leaves us a little later on with Peter Quill mysteriously smitten over a girl that he has no connection with that has been established. Matter of fact he decides to risk his own life to save her and depend on the undesirable to save him. Sure. Cue more CGI and miraculous healing a minute later to his face.... after all he isn't mortal is he? Or is he? There is also a tree in the film that walks and conveniently regenerates limbs when handcuffs are needed to be placed on him. They have a prison suit that fits a 2' tall raccoon (who doesn't know what a raccoon is even though he speaks English) but not a prison suit that fits a 8' tree. I think this was a case of the CGI department having no problem rendering walking branches instead of a walking rodent. The tree has a case of the Hodors but not unlike Chewbacca he can be completely understood as he speaks articulated sentences. Except with Chewbacca we could infer Solo was guesstimating what Chewy was saying and having fun with it. This is not the case. The raccoon actually understands everything. The film got so bad that we saw a few people get up and leave about 90 minutes into it. We took their cue ten minutes later (the person I was with kept looking at me like... really??) and left as well. The film was an obnoxious capitalistic CGI jack fest that had no story (that wasn't stolen from three other high grossing films), no character development, and no creativity. To give you an example of how uncreative it is, after ripping off the entire intro to Raiders of the Lost Ark the director (I assume) tried to pull a song from the Reservoir Dogs soundtrack and use it to lighten the film. In this case "Hooked on a Feeling" was used. When? When the characters were entering prison of course, why of course they were hooked on the feeling of going to prison. Contrast this with the brilliant work of Tarantino's use of the same song in Reservoir Dogs. It's like the director never saw Reservoir Dogs or he had no say in the music used in the film. What happened to the clever 70s music to be sprinkled in for comic relief? It just disappeared midway thru the film and didn't return til later. They had to have the Episode II CGI jack fest scene to take up half the movie and the pretend romance scene. I could go on from there about how bad this movie was but I would have to go back and watch the last thirty minutes. Maybe after my ears stop ringing and they release the fifth special edition DVD (at which point 99 cents will be the going rate for all other versions) I might just do that. Until then I'll cross my fingers and hope JJ can save the Holy Trilogy that this film and so many others try to rip off while turning a blind eye. It's no coincidence that the poster looks exactly like the poster for Episode IV.


                
SPOILER? Just describing the first scene.I sit down with my ten year old, expecting to be entertained. Heard so much about this movie, it's this generation's Star Wars, right? First scene, a tragic heart-jerker that kills off the kid's mother. What the -- who asked for this? I hold my kid's hand and we plunge on. Then a bunch of running around and dumb violence. About the time somebody for some reason (who claims HIS father had been killed, AND his grandfather) takes a big hammer and smashes someone's head so "blood" can trickle down into this reservoir, my kid and I looked at each other and said Are You Enjoying This At All? Of course not. So we left.Maybe it gets fun and charming after half an hour. But honestly, this is today's "entertainment"???


                
I was really excited from seeing the review score on here, and all the hype I had heard from other people via social media. I eagerly pressed play. The initial opening scene was quite intense and moving, and I was quite taken aback by how that went. I wondered if this level of intensity would set the bar for character development throughout the film and I was immediately grasped. My illusions were soon dashed as the film fast forwards to when the boy is "grown up" and is stealing an item. He is most definitely not grown up, and a complete idiot. I guess this bit is meant to appeal to 6 yr olds? It is almost as bad as trump jokes. I cringed.I let it slide and hoped for better. It got exciting when the chase scene was happening. Then they went to prison, then they broke out, and then they tried to sell the item. That pretty much summarises the whole film. The main protagonist is a buffoon, who swears a few times for good measure (kids watch this film...), the only character that seemed to develop was Draxx as he reflects on his poor choices. The bad guy isn't even scary - he doesn't do that much. Compare the bad guy to Loki and the difference is infinite.No character development apart from a 1 minute scene with Draxx. The annoying Rocket character that had zero impact, a non entity villain, a weak weak weak plot line and the dialogue was so flimsy. In fact, most of the characters flip flopped around in reasons to do things that didn't really make logical sense. The only saving graces were the planet scenery and make up. I hesitate to say the cinematography as it was CGI. The worst bit (out of many) was where the Racoon decided he wanted a man's prosthetic limb to escape the prison, and then sniggered about how he wanted to see the guy hop about - I actually found this really offensive and don't want my children to think that is a) funny and b) OK. The best bit was the soundtrack. Overall a very disappointing, disjointed film. It felt as jarring as Star Trek: Into Darkness coupled with Star Wars "Jar Jar Binks" and a smidge of the Goonies (but nowhere near as good!).
I read some opinions from different users before watching the movie and even got excited about the idea of paying my entrance for Guardians of the Galaxy, but was absolutely disappointed because what I found was, once again -as many major blockbusters do-, a weak plot and lots of action scenes without an strong story behind. And when a movie lacks an story it feels like an amount of nonsense battles and a compendium of action heroes against bad guys. I really like the characters of the film, but the quality of a movie cannot rely on the strenght of undeveloped characters. Star Wars is still ligth years ahead from these Guardians. Sorry. Waste of money and time.


                
Sometimes I do not get the ratings at all on the site. This film was. without a doubt, the most overrated film I have ever seen, and that is saying a lot since I have been an avid film watcher for 60 years.I am used to comic based films as being somewhat thin on the depth of plot, lack of character development (I suppose one is expected to be a comic reader to fill in the gaps...I am not), and filled with a plenitude of special effects to wow the audience, taking their attention away from the actual film not being that good. That said, at least a newbie to the story line of the comic book being portrayed can get some minimal entertainment from the film genre. This film did not even provide that.I was embarrassed for the actors who apparently knew only two degrees of acting: recite the lines with no emotional involvement or overact every single line from the simplest to the more emotionally complex (of which there were few). It was painful for me to see the art so debased.The dialog itself was sophomoric and clichéd, requiring only a third grade education to comprehend. The film editing subtracted more than it added to the film. While there was much action in the film, the editing jumped too quickly between different shots of the action to get anything more than a vague sense that something was happening, with no real sense of the specifics of the action.All in all, at $170,000,000, Marvel could and should have done something to engage more than a superficial response in their audience , which began and ended with opening their wallets to pay to see this $170,000,000 travesty. I gave it 2 stars only because of the film's budget and took away 8 because it proves that spending that kind of money still cannot create a film with any redeeming social or intellectual value whatsoever.


                
another Hollywood flick with lots of boom boom and bang bang, thats it... there is no good story, no remember able characters or anything which hooked which i could remember off. the overwhelming special effects are cool for 5min, then it gets boring like everything which does not seem to end ! so i fell asleep after 30min, no kidding. i don't even remember the story of the movie... as i said, it was just one explosion after the other and washed up phrases every science fiction fan knows already.so, don't expect too much !


                
this movie is simply overrated the vote given here is just to neutralize the scoreIMO, this movie failed FEW aspects, 1. casting, why would they cast Bautista in the first place? because of his size? Cast Vin Diesel and Bradley Cooper for their voice? why don't they switch Bautista for Vin? I think that will be more awesome2. obsolete and laughable plot, a guy could hold the infinity stone and conduct the energy to his partner like he is a conductor? sister affairs? the 'destroyer' with no any ability but talk big?lastly, old music doesn't make a mediocre movie looks good, plot does, but the score of this movie simply indicate that some people are obsessed by the 80's music


                
I really had high hopes for this one after seeing the ratings and reading the reviews. However, this movie disappointed me big time.There was nothing new in this movie that we have not seen before, the plot was just too plain and familiar making it boring. The acting by both Starlord and Gamora (especially star lord) was pretty weak and in fact there were times that i wished he would just be killed and free me of boredom. The action although a lot was boring at times since it follows the same old pattern we have seen several times.The only saving grace for this movie was the acting and actions of Rocket raccoon, Ronan and Thanos and maybe Groot. These were the only people keeping the movie going.To sum it up, you can skip this movie (to CM winter soldier) and you wouldn't be missing a thing because it's nothing you haven't seen before.


                
First and foremost: The plot is virtually nonexistent. & Characters are bland and shallow.If that wasn't enough: Action scenes are poorly planned and performed. The gags, which are supposed to be an important part of the movie, are cringeworthy. And to top it all off: The weirdest part is the CGI, which is just bad - the sceneries are nice but the characters are designed and animated poorly, and sometimes barely lipsyched. I find it hard to believe MPC, Framestore, Luma Pictures and many other great companies worked on this.
I really wanted to like this film. I was looking forward to watching it after reading the rave reviews and seeing the trailer.Now having seen it: what an awful movie – although the film starts out promisingly enough except for the heartstrings-tugging opening in the hospital, it rapidly becomes the same old shoot 'em up that you have seen innumerable times.The special effects are good, but the fight/battle scenes are too frenetic to be able to follow the action clearly.I also found the plot torturous and difficult to follow due to:The proliferation of double crosses Unclear explanation of who the bad guys are and then the bad guys behind the bad guys Confusion with all the different places, empires etc and their interrelationships.Some of the dialogue was execrable with Chris Pratt talking like a dude from 2014; ironic considering he was abducted by aliens decades ago.


                
Every scene is for refilling purposes.The story is clichéd to death, and childish on every measure.I would not even care about that if the result were fun to watch, but I was bored along the entire movie.If you can recall the feeling of being bored on a too long scene of some movie, then you will get what I mean. I was bored on the entire movie. I spent my time wanting for each one to end.It haves generic heroes, joined together for no reason. They become friends just because.The entire movie is made of one liners. The CGI is generic at this point of time.The "heroes" are so annoying that you want all of them to die.Somebody got a lot of money to make a movie, and has no talent. The result is like the car designed by Homer Simpson: garbage pieces joined together by somebody really mediocre, which thinks is cool to add another bizarre honk, so he keeps adding stuff until a big ball of spit chewing gum is formed, with weird things pasted all around.This is what this movie is: a ball of garbage.


                
Convoluted dialogue, wooden performances and a surprise to see Zoe Saldana and particularly Glenn Close in such dross, I can only surmise they needed the money.No character development to speak of except for that of the raccoon, that CGI'd fellow actually showed more acting chops and skill than any of the human cast. I'm a huge fan of Marvel, and it's always a shame to see a thing done badly, there was no energy the pace was laboured staggered, it just lacked rhythm. As a side note, the rating this film has received is a travesty, I must assume people are not watching movies they are rating, i understand everyones tastes are different but really 8 stars! I wouldn't by the DVD, wait until it hits terrestrial if you must see it, but definitely don't pay good money to view this film.


                
Nice cast. Humorous quotes.Marvel's tradition.
How did they manage to bore me SO MUCH ???
I rate it with 2stars just for the Quill's dance to distract Ronan!
B o r i n g...
Peter Quill (Chris Pratt) grew up among thieves and steals an Orb coveted by all especially by Ronan, the Destroyer (Lee Pace) who will use it to rule the Galaxy. Quill gathers a team known as The Guardians of the Galaxy to fight Ronan and save the day.The Guardians: Gamora (Zoe Saldana), Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista), Rocket (the Racoon and voice of Bradley Cooper), and Groot (voice of Vin Diesel), and, of course, Peter Qulll.There is so much CGI in here with battles, battles, battles that I fell asleep for 20-minutes 2-times and woke up and missed nothing. This is like a pin ball machine gone berserk with 5-ball bearings going all over the place (I take it you didn't like it?). Yes, a CGI Tekkie's dream, I suppose. The CGI and the Editing should win some awards. They were very good. It's just that they went on for waaaaaaaayyyy too looooooooong, The dialogues at times, when I was awake, bordered on juvenile utterances. It was like the movie was made for 7-year olds. Notables: John C. Reilly, Benicio Del Toro, Glenn Close, Josh Brolin, Stan Lee And there's going to be another one? I'll pass. (2/10)Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: No.


                
This movie is a crock of garbage. It's confusing, boring and flat out stupid. I was confused through nearly every point in the entire film except for a miniature few. I'm not some jealous guy venting just because he's mad at people who can make good movies, this movie is actually bad. Some of the humor was okay, but the storyline just flat out confused me! This movie had me lost half-way through, and near the ending, I was trying to think in my brain what exactly I just watched. Some guy named Star Lord who lost his mother and there's some blue guy who had something to do with him and hours later he turns out to be one of the most important characters?! WHAT?!!!! This movie made no sense to me whatsoever. Thumbs down.The only redeemable quality about this movie, hence the reason I gave it 2 stars, is that the characters are well fleshed out. I like the characters. I like their personalities and quirks, and how they appear. They're well made characters! What else can I say? But the problem is that the storyline didn't do it for me. And for me, the most important part is a well thought out storyline that even though some things might not make total sense, the movie as a whole can get you to follow along with at least what the main thing going on is. But with me, I had no sense of lots of important parts in the plot. Some of the effects and characters are cool, but what's the point of a good character if it's not in a good story?For me, I suggest seeing Avengers: Infinity War. That's a good movie. And with Infinity War, as dark and depressing it was, at least Marvel finally made use of the Guardians characters. Like I said, I loved the characters in Guardians, but I hated the story. With Infinity War, I could watch it and understand for the most part what was going on, and the characters seemed so much more likable and understandable and just good and characters that worked very well with the plot! Infinity War uses the characters as they should've been used in Guardians of the Galaxy. That is all.


                
