There are very few movies, no matter how bad, where I come away personally disliking all those involved.  "Life is Beautiful" is one of those movies. Why because beneath the shiny, happy coating "Life is Beautiful" embodies a narcisstic and almost nihilistic view of the world; I say this because Begnini et al. are apparently willing to use genocide to infuse a poorly written, badly acted, and sloppily directed movie with dignity it doesn't deserve.  And make no mistake this movie is all three.  The drama is fake, the segments don't flow, the acting sophomoric, the history laughable, and the characters stereotypes at best.  Begnini can do slapstick and there is a funny bit or two, but these add up to nothing and seem positively grotesque in light of what comes later.  This movie is the most banal and manipulative sort of crowd pleaser, the sort that assumes the crowd is composed entirely of idiots, but because it nominally concerns the holocaust otherwise intelligent people are unwilling to call the movies cynical little game for what it is, fearing the -"What you didn't like 'Life is Beautiful?!'  No don't say anything else you don't have a soul," or the more common, "Well go back to your Jerry Bruckheimer movies."  Well in all honesty that's an insult to Mr. Bruckheimer.  His movies may insult my intelligence, but never to the level this movie did.  At the predictable and overdone ending I remember thinking, "I know what you want me to do movie, but there's no way I'm buying."  Worse this movie is an insult to anyone who had to suffer because of the Nazis and their fascist allies.  Watching this movie I'm reminded of how Salem, MA uses historical atrocity as a kitchy tourist draw (going so far as to put witches on broomsticks on the sides of police cars). Begnini uses the holocaust to draw in suckers in the same way.  Group Mr. Begnini with the all those in the holocaust industry who are willing to use the worst atrocity of the 20th century to open wallets and flatter their inflated egos. Beyond being an insult to the victims of National Socialism  this movie is terrible because it crowds out much better movies on the same subject. Everyone chalks in "Life is Beautiful" as their art movie of the month and ignores better movies on the holocaust like "The Ogre," "Invincible," or "Heimat."


                
When I rented this movie, about 2 years ago, I thought I was going to love it. It already had an Oscar and the ratings on IMDb were very high, so could it not be great? It was a BIG disappointment! I thought `Life Is Beautiful' lacked consistency most of all. It this movie was a Holocaust fairy tale (!?) for everyone to enjoy, it should have ended with the nazis and prisoners dancing and kissing each other, because `love conquers all'. If it was a comedy, I should have laughed more than twice. And if it was realistic, it would have ended sooner and tragically. Fortunately, my family didn't experience the Holocaust, but I have read enough about it and seen enough pictures, that I can never understand how you cannot be offended by this movie. I think a lot of people don't realize how wrong it is to trivialize the Holocaust, because it doesn't seem real to them. Can anybody even imagine a comedy about 9/11? I didn't think so. Maybe 50 years from now, when it doesn't seem so real and tragic.Last week, I watched `Train Of Life', an European co-production about the inhabitants of a small Jewish village in Central Europe who organize a fake deportation train so that they can escape the Nazis and flee to Palestine. The subject seems as unrealistic as LIB's, but the very surprising ending makes the movie brilliant! I absolutely loved `Train Of Life', the story, the acting, the music, the humor, everything about it!I wanted to learn more about Radu Mihaileanu, the Romanian director (a Jew himself) and found an article from "Le Nouveau Cinema" (feb.1999), entitled "Inferno Train". According to "Le Nouveau Cinema", director Radu Mihaileanu, who also wrote the script for "Train Of Life" wanted Roberto Benigni for the role of Shlomo, "the village foul". He sent the script to Benigni in 1996, but was refused politely. Strangely enough, less than a year later, Benigni was directing his own Holocaust comedy movie! Having trouble with finding financing for his movie in France (because of the delicate subject), Mihaileanu started filming a year later. This delay was more than enough for Benigni and his `La Vita E Bella'. His movie was out in theaters in Italy, during Christmas, while `Train Of Life' was still in editing. Because of the scandal surrounding the 2 movies, Gilles Jacob, the person in charge with the selections for Cannes, refused both. After Miramax bought the rights for `Life Is Beautiful' for 7 million dollars, the movie was finally selected for Cannes! In spite of everything, `Train Of Life' was nominated and won awards (about 9) all over the world. It even won the Audience Award at `Sundance' (tie with `Run Lola Run'). I recommend `Train Of Life' to everybody!


                
Admitively, I'm not a big fan of Benigni and I don't consider his kind of humour as even remotely funny, but what makes this exercise such a truly unbearable experience is that good old Roberto chooses the Holocaust of all things as a gloomy backdrop to make himself shine all the more.Its always a big risk if the same person directs, writes and plays the lead and to my knowledge only Charlie Chaplin, Orson Welles, Vincent Gallo and Woddy Allen can get away with it. But all of them have some kind of self-deprecating approach. A quality that is completely absent with Roberto Benigni. What makes it all the more annoying is, that most of the people fall for it, as was evident in the cinema when I watched the film.So in order to make himself look good he writes a script that places himself in the middle of some very mean and nasty Nazis. Thankfully he doesn't need to bother with characters as everyone knows that the Nazis are are the epitome of evil anyway. But portraying himself as the tireless adversary of the oppressors isn't quite enough for Benigni. In order to hammer it home to the everyone that he is the good guy, he puts himself in charge of a cute little child, that he has to protect from the trauma of concentration camps. Sometimes this is quite easily done. As the two of them wander aimlessly around the grounds, they happen to come across a huge pile of bodies. We haven't realized this at first cause there was some very spooky fog floating around. Protectively Benini shields the boy's eyes from the unappetizing sight while the music reaches a dramatic crescendo. What a nice guy. This might seem like nitpicking to you but as they were apparently deported to a labour camp and not to an extermination camp, they wouldn't have come across such a sight. But any historic accuracy is secondary to Benigni as long as something gives him another opportunity to make out what a emphatic, altruistic and considerate character he is. Its so unsubtly done, it has to insult anyone with a bit of intelligence.I know, coming up with a comedy set in the Third Reich is always a tricky business but Lubitsch and Chaplin have proved that it can be done. Benigni though fails on all fronts. Some scenes are shamelessly nicked from 'the Great Dictator', in another some raw eggs are placed in a hat and you think that this is so corny and predictable and he can't possible have the villain don the hat (ha ha) and yet he does, and even worse, the audience around me behaved as if this was the funniest thing they'd ever seen. Well, if this is your kind of humour you're in for a real treat.


                
I saw this movie soon after its American release, before the massive wave of buzz set in.  At the time, I remember thinking that America's intelligience level had to be much higher than the level this film speaks to.  I was wrong.  This movie might as well have been directed by Joel Schumacher (who, in my opinion is the worst director in Hollywood)  Pure schlock.  This movie is on the same level of Patch Adams:  cheesy, brainless and horrible.Everything in this film is weak: the script, the pacing, the cinematography, and especially the acting.  Roberto Benigni winning an Oscar is the equivalent of Danielle Steel winning a Nobel Prize in literature. The only point of this movie is to make the viewer cry.If you are interested in a foreign film that shows how the relationship between an doomed father and an unwitting child should be played, watch the Russian film Burnt by the Sun.  This film is just poor.


                
Despite its unusual approach (it's a holocaust comedy) this is at heart a fatally self-conscious, shamelessly lowest-common-denominator film with the subtlety of a brick to the head.  When he isn't straining to act 'lovable' (actually coming off as obnoxious), Benigni keeps busy pushing every easy emotional button he can think of.  But why should we care?  His romance is never made believable, and the horror of the holocaust is never made real, because the way he edgelessly films it, we might as well be watching a film set in a medium-security prison.  (The movie numbers a grand total of one effective dramatic moment, which is Benigni's artfully handled last scene.)The lowest point in recent Academy Awards history is when Roberto Benigni won best actor for this film (he was up against Nick Nolte, Ian McKellen, Edward Norton and Tom Hanks, all in career-best performances, for god's sake!).If you feel such a strong need to be manipulated that you don't care that the guy doing the manipulating is a shallow egotist, then this movie will suit you just fine.


                
Only the naive and ignorant will find this film charming. Those who know anything about the Holocaust will see it for what it is--a lie that desecrates the memory of six million dead.Under the Nazis, six million Jews died for no other reason than that they were Jewish. This invests the fact of their Jewishness with transcendent importance. In "Life Is Beautiful," however, Roberto Benigni's character Guido is Jewish only because the film announces that he is. His Jewishness has no other significance; it is not the affirmation of anything; it is a manipulative plot device. Guido's goodness is not attributed to his being Jewish--that is something to be dispensed with quickly, as if it were an embarrassment.And so Benigni ends up treating the Jews very little differently than the Nazis. For one thing, he shamefully misrepresents the reality of the Nazis' Konzentrationlagers. A Jew would have been murdered for any ONE of the acts of defiance that Guido gets away with. Benigni's film turns the real danger and real violence and real death of the Holocaust into something like a Roadrunner cartoon in which Wile E. Coyote never really suffers or dies. But this is a lie: under the Nazis, the Jews suffered and died. They did not get away with carefree acts of defiance.What is more, the mass of Jews in the camp in which Guido and his son are imprisoned are treated as nothing more than the faceless and nameless background to Benigni's disgusting clowning. They are given no more individuation--no more personhood and uniqueness--than they were by the Nazis themselves."Life Is Beautiful" is an obscene exploitation of enormity and sorrow.


                
La vita è bella sucks. The first half of the movie is mildly interesting and sometimes even funny, but from the moment daddy Guido and son Ferrucio are heading for the concentration camp, director Begnini's hideous master plan takes over. Guido explains to his son that an unforeseen and rather unpleasant truck ride is part of the kid's birthday present. Once they enter the concentration camp, Guido has a lot more of explaining to do. The reason they are here, he tells the bewildered kid, is that a huge game is going on. There are many different ways to score points, and the first contender to reach a thousand points will win the first prize, consisting of a real tank! In order to avoid a one way trip to the gas chamber, Guido orders his son to hide in his bed all day. Now that is real fun! Day after day the kid is running or hiding. All part of the game. Sometimes his father's romantic nature takes over. For instance, he makes an old gramophone blast his favorite love song all over the place, so that his wife in one of the other barracks will know that Guido is still alive and very much in love with her. Happily, at that moment there is obviously not a single German soldier in the camp to shoot this loving soul right through the head. Apart from the whole story being silly and incredible, one may wonder if on the long run it is a wise idea to frame a series of very unpleasant experiences in a kid's life as a game. If he gets out alive - and of course he does - how will he feel later when he discovers that he has witnessed one of the biggest crimes off all time, believing it was all just a game? The answer is: he will feel guilty as hell and, to make things worse, he will think of himself as a particularly stupid and trusting person. If I was a psychiatrist, I would try very hard to have this guy for a client. But Benigni is such a romantic and caring person, that he doesn't seem to realize that sometimes thinking can be a great asset.
Words fail me. How can Hollywood have duped by such a simpleton? Truly one of the most wretched films of the decade, this sentimental dreck insults its audience as much as it does its basic grasp of history. How dare Benigni think he's capable of pulling a trick like this? Except - gasp - he did and he won an Oscar in doing so.This film is cast iron proof that the Oscars are largely meaningless and occasionally just plain insulting. The final insult is that this film continues to occupy a place in the all-time top 250 movies on this site. Come on, guys, you're doing humanity a grave disservice. Let's drag it down to the gutter where it belongs.


                
How far will Benigni go for a few laughs and tears? Very,  VERY far. Here, after all, is a film which portrays  concentration camps as loosely structured playgrounds, Nazis as inept buffoons, and its hero as a lovable trickster, able to come and go as he pleases. It's "Hogan's Heroes" with a violin ending. But let's be fair. It's not the historical inaccuracies alone which make this movie such a shining example of cinematic bull****. Credit must also be given to its shameless sentimentality, bad jokes, shoddy plot, and the flagrant narcissism of its "creators".And to my fellow reviewers who maintain that this is not a film about the Holocaust but rather the importance of familial love, I should like to say two things:  One, you're confusing the film's theme with its subject, and two, if Benigni didn't want to make a movie about the Holocaust then perhaps he shouldn't have SITUATED HIS STORY IN A NAZI CONCENTRATION CAMP!!


                
I don't see any point in this film. Life IS beautiful, but in this film it's no life nor beautiful, just a boring slapstick.Simply the idea of putting comedy and holocaust together doesn't mean they are put together. Everything in this film is far-fetched and overdone, even without novelty. The scene the protagonist broadcasts to his wife in concentration camp -- It's a crude fake out of the real beautiful scene from The Shawshank Redemption (1994).And this guy, Roberto Benigni, this guy is a clown without a spirit. I've seen several movies he made, each and every one sucks. Somebody says he is "Italian Chaplin". Sorry, he's no par with Chaplin in an way. A clown with a spirit is with a crown, a clown without a spirit is just a clown.


                
Life is beautiful, but man is not. I felt strange as I left the theater for this movie, I was impressed by the imagination that poignantly proved that love and the human spirit could conquer all, even during the worst of times. The trouble was that the worst of times was the Holocaust in an Italian concentration camp, and I kept thinking - this is terrible! As time goes on and the Holocaust becomes a thing of history, and as less survivors are alive to remember the travesty that mankind let occur, Benigni is being praised for making a film that DOES trivialize some very serious subject matter. History that is only half a century old. I think the film itself is a noble and creative effort, much like the characters in the film, but the cartoonish depiction of genocide and desperation did not sit well with me. The audience I was with laughed and cried on cue. They were manipulated. Just like the Nazi's were manipulated in Germany. I'm sure Benigni's intentions were noble, but noble intentions don't merit unconditional praise and Academy Awards. Maybe we should feel good for the child that was saved form the horror of his situation, and then maybe we should pity him for his ignorance. I'm not so sure, but I'm not laughing and crying on cue. I didn't hate this film, but I don't understand how one could love it.


                
Words escape me!  Perhaps ludicrous, contrived, insulting come close. There is nothing factual about the depiction of the holocaust in this ridiculous, totally unbelievable mess.  Death camps were not nasty places where people toted weights around, got a little dirty but remained shaven, were able to keep their sons not only hidden but alive and well despite a starvation diet, had access to records, phonographs and loud speakers, could basically move about at will and suffer little more than the inconveniences of a run down boarding house.  This movie claims the camp where our heroes sojourn is a death camp, (not one of the thousands of concentration camps that were located throughout Nazi occupied territories) complete with gas chambers and ovens.  There were only six death camps, all in Poland, and all were dedicated, absolutely dedicated, to the dehumanization unto hideous death of their inmates.  Slow agonizing demise from Zyklon B was the easy part; twenty minutes of choking, while clawing at your throat and eyes and it was over.  The devastating removal of every vestige of humanity through constant beatings, lack of sleep, lack of food and water, lack of any semblance of medical care, torments that ate away at body and spirit over endless days, was the intolerable part.  No one ever spoke to a guard without being shot on the spot.  Guido would not have been taken around a bend to be killed, he would have been shot, or beaten to death, or hanged, publically to display for the other prisoners both his impotence and the Nazi's total control over life itself.  It is absolutely impossible for a boy to have been hidden for a day much less weeks in a death camp.  To depict this living hell as a Stalag full of Schultz's, largely ignoring at least one of the inmates, who gets to clean up and wait tables, with his son, no less, is an insult to every person who has been touched by the real horror of the holocaust. This would have been a great propaganda film for Goebbels to have shown to the Red Cross to show how humane the Nazis really were.  If this was meant to work as some laugh-your-way-through-life's-troubles allegory, then a vehicle more appropriate than the greatest genocide ever perpetrated by man against man should have been chosen as the vehicle.  As it stands this movie is a travesty.


                
This movie is possibly the most wretched abomination I've ever been forced to endure.  Never was I amused, stimulated, impassioned, engrossed, or even interested.  Divided into two independent halves (which in and of itself isn't necessarily bad), it proceeds to bore and insult the unfortunate viewer with two seperate stories.  The first of these unlikely tales involved a horribly contrived and utterly loathsome tale of a man and a woman falling in love.  Basically, he drags her around the city to various locations where he knows something specific will happen, such as a man tossing a set of keys down from a second story window to a locked-out friend, and she falls in love with him.  Whoopee.  Nothing is done here that hasn't been done a thousand times over in better movies.  The second half amazingly and deftly trumps even the first's diabolical drabness by continuing its utter bore-fest, but then contributing what may be the most insulting, degrading, and unholy storyline ever to grace (or in this case, curse) the screen.  The filmmakers evidently thought it appropriate and amusing to have a good chuckle at the expense of all of those sustained and killed in Nazi concentration camps, as the one in this film is depicted as more of an expensive resort than a death camp.  Of course, there were token scenes that showed a death or two, but never was the horror ever at the focus of the story.  (This may have worked if the picture had anything else going for it, such as a storyline, but sadly such amenities are absent from this stinker.)  I am shocked at the poorness of this movie, and I walked out asking myself something that years of exposure to the supposed decay of society, American pop culture, had never caused me to wonder: "Is nothing sacred anymore?"


                
I find it awfully strange that everyone is embracing a movie that strips the Holocaust of any of its meaning.  This movie asks us to laugh at the events transpiring on screen, but not to feel or understand any of the horrors.Benigni would have done his film a lot of good had he given us more of a feeling of how the people's lives were in terror.  Then, the message of the transcendence of love and life would have been so much more powerful. Instead, he merely laughs everything off, giving us the feeling that even he's not taking his subject matter too seriously.So, in the end we are left with a movie that trivializes the Holocaust - and people should be ashamed that they think so highly of it.


                
Unfortunately it wasn't the sick feeling that came from the tragedy of the Holocaust but the mockery Roberto made of it.  SPOILER ALERT!!  I will not be considerate of you who have not seen the film so read no further if you don't want to know what happens.The movie at best was Ace Ventura meets the Nazis.  The reason why? Because the whole world around the spastic lead character seems normal while he does absolutely insane actions.  Yet his actions, which would have him killed within a minute of being in the camps, don't get him killed until the very end when he could have actually avoided it.  It saddens me to have such soulful performances of the Holocaust victims and such realistic settings wasted on such terrible mess of a lead character.  Don't get me wrong, I think one is allowed to bring humor to such tragic times, but the juxtaposition of the realism and silliness was too much here.  Tragedy with humor deserves restraint.For those who want to know more about the Holocaust, I would recommend the Pianist or the Maus books or go to Dachau, but don't see this.
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Not only is it appallingly badly directed and boring; not only is the humor and so-called acting amateurish at best; this film is trying to make some points about the Holocaust that are utter lies!Anyone with even a minimal understanding of the Holocaust would have to first of all discount ANY movie which purports to make the subject into a comedy, of all things. I hated the Chaplin movie, "The Great Dictator," for the same reason.But that's not the only problem here. The distortion of reality presented in this movie is abominable. Concentration camps were not sleepaway camps where you could just hide your kids in safety if you were clever enough. I really don't want to go into the horrific details of what concentration camps were really like; I don't think that is appropriate in this forum.Even if it were possible to keep your child hidden away in a camp, I question the legitimacy of making an obviously murderous regime into a silly game of "points" to win a tank, just to shield your child from the cruel truth. I am sure that any child in a concentration camp (who would have survived, which was virtually impossible) would have been all too aware of what was really happening. I see the hero's attempt at shielding his child as lying, plain and simple.The thinly-veiled insult contained in this movie is: if only all those poor victims of the Holocaust had only had a sense of humor! Then of course many wouldn't have died, and there would have been so much less suffering. I really hope that anyone reading these lines gets my sarcasm here.But the worst thing about this atrocious movie is the way it has rewritten history. The only other people who are doing that on the subject of World War II are neo-Nazis, I'm afraid.


                
This movie is a disgrace; it tries to hide the collaboration of Italian fascists to the deportation of thousands of Jews and non-Jews to death camps during WWII in Italy. Believe me, Italian fascists were as obnoxiously criminal (and sometimes even more) as their German peers. In this fascist revisionist libel Italian fascists are depicted like harmless comical characters untouched by the crimes against humanity, they and their German associates were responsible for, crimes that live and will live in infamy until the end of times.Death camps according Roberto Benigni were some kind of poorly managed boot-camps in which you could mange to survive by means of being slightly more intelligent than the average prisoner. There's a moment of the movie when Benigni manages to reach the lowest <U+0096> an endeavour you had thought not possible after one hour and a half of the previous ordeal <U+0096> it is when he, very underhandedly, provides the viewers with a thick mist in order to veil, that is to hide, a pile of corpses of prisoners murdered by the Nazis.Let us suppose, just for the sake of the present argument, that a fascist movie can be funny <U+0096> this is arguably a fascist movie <U+0096> well there isn't a single funny scene in this poor excuse for a movie, the joke are trite and all of them can be predicted by someone who has seen at least one cheap comedy before.This thing has been unjustly compared to The Great Dictator, which is maybe the worst movie Charlie Chaplin did, but the the comparison is still unfair, The Great Dictator is an overrated sentimental bad movie, but it is not fascist propaganda like Roberto Benigni's.If you want to see an excellent Italian comedy dealing with the same subject try Lina Wermüller's Pasqualino Settebellezze (1975) http://imdb.com/title/tt0075040. You will not forget the sequence in which the great Giancarlo Giannini seduces a two tons whale-sized SS woman officer in order to save his life.
I'm sorry but I could not get beyond the fact that this was a comedy about the Holocaust. Is the World so screwed up that everything can be commercialised? I find it especially offensive when non-Jews make these comedies. Its hardly like the Italians have anything to be proud of in the way they treated the Jews during the war. If the film was a German comedy about the Holocaust would it have won an Oscar I wonder? I am sorry but making a comedy about the Holocaust or about Cambodia or some other genocide is just not a good idea. Making a slap-stick comedy about such an event is simply tasteless. No surprise it was so popular in the US.Its not that good comedies can't touch on these subjects - Cabaret is not only funny but a musical - and I think its excellent in lots of ways. Most importantly its respectful for those who died when the Nazis took Berlin. Life is Beautiful lacks respect. The fact it comes from a country that was an ally in with Germany in the Holocaust is unforgiveable.


                
The father character ruined it for me. The jokes are absolutely, bottom-low stupid. Nothing funny about it, there was nothing profound to the movie for its first 1 hour. Just painful middle-school level immature silly jokes. Did not find any charm in this movie, the father character made some inappropriate jokes, so it was definitely not a family watching. The movie was a mess.


                
This film is a total stink! Must all serious movies about the holocaust receive an Oscar? This is rather absurd, but seems to have become a rule. 'Schindler's List' was good, but this is an absolute stink! It is as good as any second-hand low quality italian vulgar and burlesque comedy - it's one of their country's specialties. So why not give an Oscar to any stupid italian comedy that is released? Why make Paolo Villagio and others that make films just like Benigni's feel bad because they didn't have the idea to insert in their films a serious (and incredibly stupid) part concerning the holocaust. The film is really very low quality. If you want to see a quality comedy about the holocaust, try Radu Mihaileanu's (a romanian director) 'Train of Life'('Train de Vie'), which is some million times better(it was written before Benigni's film(and filmed before, I think), and the script was read by Benigni's producer, who should have produced but didn't, and might as well have 'inspired' Benigni, if you see what I mean. But not in a good way.


                
I found this movie strangely unemotional, and to be honest, I wasn't sure if I was insulted or not.  By the end, I didn't care one way or another.  As long as I didn't have to listen to that man any longer..Benigni needs an editor on his dialogue. I did enjoy Horst Bucholz's small part, but it was lost in this movie.


                
It is difficult to watch this problem-ridden film.  The lead actor often mouths the dialog of the kid as the little kid speaks his lines.  Whenever the two speak with each other face to face, the man is mouthing the words as the little kid speaks.As the German officer and waiter attempt to secretly speak with each other in crowded rooms, their body language and darting over-the-shoulder glances REEK of guilty activity.  A flashing neon sign over two 6-year-olds as they try to steel mom's cookies as she is at the nearby stove stirring the soup. Come on, with a room full of high functioning adults, EVERYONE would notice their dumb behavior.The first half of the film contains little more than over-acted clowning. In the second half, nothing plays true.  What this movie needed was some self-aware sarcasm, some winking sign of intelligence.The camera work is all right.  However, the background music used seemed lifted from carnival rides.


                
