I am surprised about the negative comments that some people made on this web-page.  I can see how some people might not experience the same kind of uplift or joy that most of us lived through when seeing the movie.  But that some viewers felt insulted and betrayed because the movie did not depict "reality" as it really was or is, is not fair.I must concur with my fellow proponents of the movie -- it was a great and very satisfying movie.  It provided me with something that everyone in one or another shape or form needs -- Hope.  The movie showed the cruelty of life and yet managed to shed some light and insight into the beauty of love and life in general.I urge anyone who has not seen La Vita è bella to go out there and watch it. If we all take with us just little bit of that hope and love that this movie is trying to convey; this world would be a much better place.
Thank you for reading this and I hope you enjoyed or will enjoy the movie as much as I did.


                
I find it sad that so many people are so narrow-minded that they will not watch a movie that is black and white or, in this case, is subtitled. I feel sorry for people who refuse to watch a movie like Life Is Beautiful just because it is a foreign film. They have no idea what a beautifully acted and directed film this is, and they'll never know what an amazing experience they are missing. Life Is Beautiful manages to walk the extremely thin line between humor, fantasy, and tragedy. Sure, the film is clearly comedic, but nevertheless it manages to very effectively communicate the tremendous losses suffered in the Nazi concentration camps and has scenes at least as intense as any scene in Schindler's List. This is one of the best films that I have ever seen. It manages to be so encompassing that you hardly notice the subtitles are even there. I proudly cast my vote of 10.


                
The first time I saw the movie was when I was about seventeen or so, and I never forgot it. The incredibly human characters (such as the doctor who loved riddles), the fantastic script-writing, the amazing acting, and of course the heartwarming story. This movie proves once and for all how strong we are, as humans, that in the face of adversity we can make the best of things. There is so much love in the characters; Dora's love for her husband Guido is boundless, as well as Guido's love for his son. Sure, it's a slightly unrealistic movie, but hey, aren't they all a little unrealistic? I've also seen people review this movie and say that it made light of the Holocaust, which was of course a dark point in history. I don't think so; I think that it's only delicately handled, and because of that, the movie is one that a person can watch in one sitting without being thoroughly disgusted by mankind. I would say that those who think this movie is too "light" are cynical and bitter. The whole point to the movie is to show what love is capable of, and to provide encouragement and perhaps guidance. This movie changed my life from the first time I watched it. I came away with this feeling that no matter what I have to face in life, that I can overcome it. This is a movie that I would recommend to anyone over the age of eleven. The acting is superb (though Roberto Benigni is a little over-the-top, LOL), the story heartwarming and easy to understand. It's excellent!


                
Mixing humor and the Holocaust isn't anything new: Ernst Lubitsch's 'To Be Or Not To Be' is just one enduring classic; Mel Brooks' 'The Producers' is another; and 'Life Is Beautiful' has the small-town charm and ambiance of 'Amarcord,' and light-straight satire of 'The Great Dictator.'Set against the stark reality of World War II Europe, Roberto Benigni's sentimental fable is not a film about the Holocaust, it's a film about life and hope merely against the backdrop of the Holocaust... It's not a denial of the Holocaust, it is a manifestation that humor itself can be courage... It's not about betraying the experience of millions of Jews, it is about the great lengths a father will go to protect his family from the horrors of the Nazis... It's a demonstration of the power of cinema, it's art without claim, hope without fear, dreams without limitations... It's a motion picture about love, not a documentary about the Nazis... It delivers a powerful message that despite everything<U+0097>life is truly beautiful... The story begins in 1939 Italy, where a simple, free-spirited Italian Jew Guido Orefice (Benigni) and his poet friend Ferrucio (Sergio Bini Bustic) have dreams of owning their own bookstore... For now, however, Guido must be satisfied to wait tables, while Ferrucio is unable to get a job...Benigni's character is introduced during a long set of fast comedy scenes, particularly when he meets a cute gentile woman, Dora<U+0097>Nicoletta Braschi, Benigni's real-life wife... When she 'falls out of the sky,' and he quickly nicknames her 'Principessa'... When he rides, in a fascist ball, on a horse painted green... When he turns a gloomy rainy night into a red carpet event... When he is caught by the Nazis as he hurries about securing the safety of his wife and son.. When his car speeds, without brakes, through a village and is mistaken for a king... Guido falls hard for the radiant schoolteacher, daughter of a wealthy family, and pursues her with all the charm and imagination he can discharge... In one sequence he pretends to be a school inspector and gives an impromptu speech on racial superiority before the assembled students and teachers, ending with a striptease...That hilarious side of the film takes up the first half... Benigni (who also wrote and directed) borrows a bit of Chaplin's grace and a bit of Groucho Marx charm... All of the action is so neatly contrived that the film essentially ends when it's over, and then begins again with the introduction of Guido and Dora's cute five-year-old son Giosue (Giorgio Cantarini) few years later... There, in 1945, we catch a glimpse of their enchanting household, but things are soon shattered, and the Nazis take Guido, with his tolerant uncle (Giustino Durano) and little Giosue off to an unidentified concentration camp... Dora races to the train station and demands to be put also on the train... At the death camp, and in order to protect his son from the nightmare of the place, Guido uses his imagination by creating the illusion that everything that's happening is just a game, an epic game that will be exciting and fun...He convinces Giosue that by hiding from the Gestapo soldiers (whom he refers to simply as the "men who yell a lot") and maintaining silence, he can gain the necessary points to win a tank... Not a toy tank, but a full-size tank, which they'll be free to take home...As co-writer, Benigni (with Vincenzo Cerami), doesn't just mix drama and comedy, he often hides drama in the comedy... The film does not dwell on the horrors of the camp, nor does it ignore them... With a memorable score by Nicola Piovani, "Life Is Beautiful" is an important film, triumphant, timeless, and sublime... It manages to entertain, educate, and move with its potent combination of humor, poignancy, and dignity... Roberto Benigni has taken pure horror and turned it into a love story between a man and a woman, between a father and his son... As an actor, Benigni manages with his wise and simple performance to make us laugh in tragic situations... He was very realistic, natural, distant from great special effects, far from Hollywood style, only nice and beautiful cinema...The film won Academy Awards for Best Actor, Best Foreign Film and Best Dramatic Score...
I love La vita è bella/Life is beautiful. It's one of my favorite movies and Benigni is fantastic! I laughed until I cried when he translated the Nazi soldier´s threats to Italian. I was skeptic to non-English movies before, but after seeing this movie I can easily say that I'm not. I thought it would be a problem that I didn't understand the language, but Benigni isn't just a talking actor. He is an acting actor, and I don't think I missed a lot being dependable to the subtitles. I sure hope not, but I guess you always miss a bit.I have seen other movies about the Holocaust, but they have all been so dark. Not surprisingly since the the Holocaust is a dark chapter in our history. But it's painful to watch them. It's easier to watch La vita è bella, because it's not as dark, but it still succeeds in telling the story about the Holocaust.And Roberto Benigni doesn't joke about the Holocaust as some criticizers claimed. He simply puts some love and hope into it. And I get the message. Love is everywhere, even in the darkest of places.


                
There are a small handful of reviewers who are lambasting this film , crying phrases like "unrealistic and contrived" , "emotionally manipulative" and most risibly "an insult to the memory of the victims of the holocaust".Id like to address such interpretations.In the latter day audiences search for films bereft of cliché, derivativeness and lack of independence there seems to be a counterintuitive rationale that if a film cannot be explicated and stand up to analysis from every myriad aspect of possible critique, then it lacks worth or merit , taken as a piece of work in its own right.It should be suggested that the intent of the film is so clear,the aims of the film so evidently manifest, that to brand the film unrealistic and then carp on with minor details regarding obvious inconsistencies, is to not be able to see the film for what it very plainly proclaims itself to be.This film NEVER tries to be realistic in the modern sense of film critique, this film freely admits to being contrived, this film unashamedly focuses on the characters at the expense of portraying an historically accurate reality.For the whining reviewers to not see this, is either an example of disingenuous folly or plain hard-heartedness.The film is driven by ideals, of romance and of selflessness.This film clearly asks the watcher to suspend belief, to enter into its fantasy, to embrace the human emotion as elucidated through the characters.Not only is this film NOT an insult to anybody who has ever been persecuted (Jew,Chilean,African,Russian,Japanese,Chinese,Cambodian - the list of persecution goes on), rather it heightens empathy for such people in this plight ,through the use of poignancy.Its intent is NEVER to trivialise such.Yes the uniforms aren't dirty enough , yes Guido takes ridiculous risks,yes the likelihood that the German guards knew some Italian are apparent but the question is - given the context of the presentation - do those niggling details matter ? Surely the film is engaging the viewer on an emotive level,evoking empathy for the individual case,for the desperation that sees a father moved to unthinkable extremes in an attempt to prolong the life of his son.Thus - surely , Guido's actions should not and never were intended to be 'realistic' but rather he is - to our despairing eyes ,simply pathetic ie he is evoking pity.How any discerning fair minded person could honestly and objectively brand this film as disrespectful and hateful because of comedic elements, is missing the point by oceans.This film is about the individual circumstance and thus the slapstick and ingenious way we are drawn into knowing the characters and the way we are immersed in the burgeoning love story of the small boys' parents, necessitates the audience to empathise,to engage,to feel.The by-play between father and son is to look at innocence personified,the bitter sweet forgoing of self in a seemingly doomed essay at escaping the impending inevitable spiral into oblivion.I think Life is Beautiful is an important work that might demand a rethinking of priorities by hard hearted critiques , who may have to shed that veneer of bloody-minded nitpicking and, to wit, see the forest for the trees.Of course the film is flawed,what film attempting such a tight balancing act between comedy and poignancy isn't? But there is a certain state of mind and spirit that needs to be adopted to be receptive to its message and i fear perhaps that such vulnerability and innocence required seems too hard and bitter a pill for some.If only they dare taste - its sweetness and candour resonate persuasively,indelibly.


                
Contains Spoiler Every once in a while a movie comes along which makes you question the kind of man you are. How do you handle situations? If you were put in the same situation, Would you come out of it smiling? Do you have the courage? Guido (Benigni) did. Life is beautiful charms you right from the opening shot of the beautiful Italian countryside. It takes you into the life of Guido, a young Italian Jewish Waiter who has a beautiful way of looking at things. he never seems to look at anmything negatively, in fact, his frivolous view to life is what makes you sit riveted throughout. I don't think he's delusional, he is a very serious man, and he sees the gravity of situations in his life, but he doesn't want the people around him to feel it, hence his ever-smiling, effervescent demeanour. It all seems like a fairy tale. His landing into the school as the impostor school inspector and lecture on the virtues of the navel... His galloping down into the ballroom on the horse and whisking his bride away towards a happy life... His superspeed bike ride down the town square... things that we all dream of. An untouched innocence. The movie takes a dramatic turn when he finds himself in a concentration camp with his son... His made up story of how the camp is a game and the father-son team are the leading competitors... An unmatched courage. Not one to cry in movies as a rule, I found myself alone at home one day, and when the boy is hidden in the little box, looking at his father being led away at gun point, getting scared... and then, the father doing what he usually does to reassure the boy that the situation is not as serious as it looks... the clown march... I felt tears roll down my cheeks. And then, i started sniffing... after a while, the sniffs turn into sobs, and ultimately, when his father is dead, and the boy sees the American tank coming towards him, the elation in his eyes, the jubilation at winning first prize... it turned the sobs into a full fledged howl. Thats when i got the message... That's when the maginitude of the sacrifice made by the father in an effort to protect his son hit me like a thunderbolt and hasn't left me since. Thats when you realize that life is all about loving, and protecting and cherishiong your loved ones. and despite all the troubles, the despair and the danger that one may face, Life is... Beautiful.
I just watched this movie last week, and it really touched my heart. It was not about the Holocaust and how Jews were killed or tortured, but instead it was how love can keep the spirit alive to go through tough times. Roberto Benigni did a wonderful job playing the character of Guido. I was so impressed to see how nothing was impossible to Guido. His hyper personality got him in trouble all the time, but his spontaneous personality helped him to find quick solutions in a very intelligent way. Guido showed us how he devoted himself to his son, even though they were in a terrible situation. He used humor and jokes to protect his son from minimizing the horrible reality that him and his family were going through at the concentration camp. Even at the most bitter moment he sweetened everyone's and his son's life with a joke or a smile. It was really shocking to me that right before Guido was killed he made sure that his son was safe and he was still joking and smiling even though he knew that he was going to be killed. This movie was made so beautifully that I strongly recommend it to anyone to watch it.
I am in agreement that the story is implausible but utterly moving. I sit here and think about Captain's Courageous and would place it in the same category. It will make you cry. What a beautiful story of love and sacrifice. Children are always worth saving and any sacrifice for them is moving. I do not know why there is a minimum number of lines to submit a review of movies on IMDb. That is a change from the original rules. I'm not a film critic and barely find time to write this review. I was very happy to receive help from IMDb in identifying the movie and I am surprised that it was filmed so recently. It deserves 83 ranking and I hope it remains there so that others will get a chance to discover it.


                
Didn't really think that much about what to expect of this movie and expected a sort of "happy happy comedy" where life's a dance on flowers. But a positive surprise the film appeared to have deeper tones, the movie is set in Italy right before and during WW2. The main-person is a jew and that causes bad things to happen. But in spite of everything that happens Guido keeps his spirit up to the last and shows a wonderful and humorous perspective of life. A must see!Notice how everything in the movie has a purpose. Every little thing that happens will serve a purpose later on in the movie. For example the weird habit of swapping hats with this other person at any possible occasion will serve its purpose later on in the film :) I liked this intelligent and highly entertaining way of bonding the story together. This and many many other things makes this film well worthwhile watching. Go see it and make up your own meaning!


                
it is the best film that I have seen so far and i like to see it more and more.as matter of fact life is beautiful and we should know it is worthy and we should try for the best life.in my opinion the actor , actress and the child are the best and fantastic. I hope that I can see them again in another film.the thing that is very interesting genre of film Which is comedy,romantic,action and drama. Thanks for letting me share. and i also showed it to my friends and they liked it very much. i really recommend you to watch it as soon as possible.


                
i am amazed at how much people dislike this movie....some of the users have said that this movie is bad because it is just another movie about WW2 and it is considered to be dull....STOP!!!... this is not true. this movie is so much more than another war flick ... it is about life, the ups and downs that it brings, and most importantly it is about the existence of humanity. many have questioned this topic and to this day the answer is unsure. this topic is also questioned in Hamlet with the famous quote '"To be or not to be?" the relationship between the son and father proves this point of existence and shows Beginini's interpretation of the importance and beauty of life...


                
You betcha. But it's not as offensive as you think. In fact, it's not offensive at all. It's a powerful and moving film about the power of family and what one man will do when that family is threatened. The plot is as follows: after Germans attack Italy, Guido and his family are forced into a concentration camp. Guido spends most of the rest of the film desperately trying to convince his young son that the holocaust is nothing but a game- and that the child has to keep out of sight in order to win. He promises him that the winner will earn a full size tank- and the boy does get a tank at the end of the film, just not in the way he thinks he will. The first hour or so is pure slapstick/romantic comedy, and the second hour or so is moving and heartbreaking- with touches of humor to(I assume) keep the audience from becoming too depressed or disturbed. I was amazed at how it could dramatically shift from comedy to drama so quickly. Try to watch this film without crying. If you don't, even just a bit, there's something seriously wrong with you.
I have never in my life seen a movie that so truly symbolizes its name and its message. Roberto Benigni - 'The Italian Treasure House' has probably given to his viewers his best. The story, the performances, the entire theme of a person performing his duties as a husband, as a father is very 'moving' and inspiring.This may be one of the best films ever made. I've never seen a movie with such a balance of hysterical comedy and serious drama. Roberto Benigni totally deserved his Oscars. People on this site have said such negative things about him and this film. Mr. Benigni had a lot of guts to make this film, and there's not another film like it. He handled both the comedy and drama aspects beautifully. I loved the beautiful cinematography, scenery, and the characters.This is one of those movies that have a lasting effect on you. After watching it, I found that it has less to do with the Holocaust and more to do with the human feelings and the beautiful relationship of a father and his son. The holocaust provides the ultimate context, that brings and highlights the story and adds yet another deep dimension to the movie. No such piece of art has ever before combined laughter and tears of sadness in me before and that is the miracle of the movie. The realism of the movie is not its strong point, but then again it is not supposed to be; this helps in bringing the audiences to a state of mind away from reality, focusing on the feelings generated by forgetting about all external events and developments of the war. Despite that, the movie does not fail to point out an element of the nazi psychology demonstrated by the doctor who was obsessed with riddles. This portrayed the nazi 'state of mind' (if ever such an expression existed) as a sick mentally disturbed state. Life is really beautiful as you watch Guido's relentless efforts to make a lovely exciting experience of the concentration camp to his son. You get exhausted just watching him going through his painful day and yet you smile as he speaks to his son and makes him laugh. One can go on forever describing the creativity of this movie, but one will not be able to capture all its beauty in writing.


                
There are few words that can sum up the sheer beauty and perfection of this film without somehow sounding mediocre. In today's cynical and disbelieving world, Roberto Benigni has taken another cynical and disbelieving era and somehow, emerged with something triumphantly astounding. Never have I seen such an emotionally empowering film. You laugh, you mourn, and in the end, you cry from the overwhelming sense of love and hope that still seems attainable. After watching this movie, I went and hugged every member of my family. You really believe that life is beautiful. The hope and optimism you feel, your tear-streaked face- it's all beautiful. Roberto Benigni, you are beautiful.


                
La Vita e Bella (Life is Beautiful) is without a doubt one of the most incredible movies I have ever seen, in any language!  The trickery of Roberto Benigni's directing is his ability to make you laugh while you sit and watch horrified, and then manage to keep you from tears until the very end.  At the time I first saw this film, I had yet to see anything nearly as satisfying, and it still stands as one of my favorite films now.  I just need to remember to watch it with tissues.


                
This movie is not only about the Holocaust.It is about surviving in a hostile world, that goes past hostile into crazy, with only wit and humor as a weapon.It is about shielding the child you love more than life itself from realizing the unimaginable horrors surrounding it.It is about letting your child inside loose in "normal" life and protecting you children from hostility and harm in an "abnormal" life.It is about sacrificing oneself for the ones you love.Roberto Benigni made me laugh and cry at the same time.  This film touched me in many ways.  With endless optimism Guido takes on the task of living his own life in a hostile world to say the least. When in a concentration camp with his son he uses stories and games and smiles to keep the HOPE alive.We don't have to SEE the horror around them to FEEL it.  The only time when horror is really shown, it is during a foggy surroundings and looks more like a painting.  Knowing what is there is quite enough.This movie made me think about all the people who did not survive the Holocaust.  Maybe, and hopefully, some of them had their Guido to help them keep their HOPE alive till the end.Bravo Roberto!


                
Author Viktor E Frankl would have loved this film. His book "Man's Search for Meaning" (at least the second half of his book) came to life in Guido's character (Roberto Benigni). The film's segment in a concentration camp actualizes what Frankl attributes to his own survival in a Nazi concentration camp, i.e. his own choosing of the way that things affected him, rather than letting the Nazi's dictate that choice for him. What Guido (Roberto Benigni) did in the concentration camp is what Frankl would have have advised him to do and Guido did it very well. This strategy proved especially beneficial for his 5 year old son, Giorgio.The film is very upbeat and loving, especially in it's first hour which makes no mention of the holocaust or prison camps. Evenso, the uplifting spirit of Guido continues into the camp, with him continually finding ways to show his love there for his wife and son. He's always looking for ways to make things better, never giving into depression in what was clearly a depressing environment. He certainly made the best of a very bad situation.Frankl's memoir of survival (in the second half of his book) really came to life through Guido in a way that Frankl could never have imagined, but which was done very touchingly, none the less. Although Frankl's book is very serious material, I found it to be remarkably complemented by this film.


                
First of all, I thought this movie was excellent.  I loved every second of it. Second, I'd like to question the reasons behind any person that believed that this movie was a disgrace and portrayed the Holocaust falsely.  This movie was not about the Holocaust.  This movie showed what can happen when a person makes the best out of a terrible situation.  Any person who thought Life Is Beautiful was a misrepresentation of the Holocaust better rethink the whole point of the wonderful movie.


                
La vita è bella is the cinema masterwork of the nineties.  Beautifully scored, photographed, directed and acted, it manages to make you laugh without being ridiculous, it manages to make you cry without being corn.  It is so perfectly balanced, it does not indulge in any excesses.  It shows us at the same time the monstrosity and sweetness of man without having to fall in details we have seen a hundred times.  It deals with extremes, yet it is both subtle and true; that is where its magic lies, and that is what this movie is: pure magic. Roberto Benigni will forever be remembered for this magical moment in time.


                
Roberto Benigni created a ironic history of the worst event of the century or of the millenium. The best film to smile, the best film to cry, the best film about Holocaust. The best film of the year, don't forget this Mr. Academy Award


                
It's the first time of my life that I 've thought and cry at the same time.


                
I went to see this film, and I was really scared that I would be disappointed because my expectations was really high. I wasn't disappointed.This masterpiece made me laugh, cry and think, and that is after my opinion the main reason why we invented film 100 years ago.Gracias Roberto!


                
While writing the comment on this movie I was just wondering what kind of words I should use for the appraisal of this master piece. I am an Indian and I saw this movie in Hindi dubbing. But the language is not a matter of barrier for such piece of art to communicate the mass. The liveliness of Guido till the end of his life is really inspiring. And the depiction of scenario during 2nd world war is very realistic. The movie starts with fun, comedy along with his friend Feroccio and then his romance mix with fun with Dora. The scenario becomes darker when they are kept in jail but still Mr. Guido keeps the movie alive as well as his son from Nazis. The most touching part comes when Guido is taken by the soldiers to kill and he tries to make his son smile for the last time and his promise to his son for the tank is fulfilled when the US army comes. The movie is a comedy with a hidden tragedy. It's a story of a father, his love for his son and for his wife under the shadow of world and the activities of Nazi during the time. We should also thank Mr. Roberto Benigni for such a beautiful piece of art. The movie has a long lasting effect on the viewers who have to think about the movie and Mr. Guido, the character whom the movies run around. Life is always beautiful for such a person because he makes life beautiful.


                
No matter who you are, or what preferences you have in movie, I can almost assure you that this movie will stay with you. The first time I saw it, I was about four or five. For the longest time, I had no idea where to find it or even what it was called. I searched for years. Finally, about a week ago, I saw it on Stars, and I instantly knew what it was. I recorded it and watched it again. That movie, and it's message stayed with me for a very long time, and I think I'll remember it forever. Whether you are 4 or 40, I can say that you will most likely love this movie. It's got the perfect amount of tears, laughs, and adrenaline.I hope you love it as much as I did.Ps. This movie is REALLY sad, so don't watch it without tissues and some happy music to listen to afterward. :)


                
