Wonderful fable plenty of amazing fantasy, lively comedy and sad tragedy . This is a poignant and moving fable about a sacrifice to save a son and a wife . It's an unforgettable story formed by two halves that proves imagination, family and love conquer all ; as Benigni's focus is on the love between daddy , mummy and son . The first part results to be an Italian comedy style , the second is horror along with humor . It concerns upon Guido (Roberto Benigni, a magnificent rubber-faced funny man), a Jewish man who has a wonderful romance with the help of his humour, but must use that same quality to protect his son in a Nazi death camp . He's a madcap romantic man and women wish him . But he falls in love with Dora (Benigni's real-life sweetie Nicoletta Braschi). Every day Guido dreams of marrying her , under Nicola Piovani score . When the Second World War spontaneously breaks out , he and his family is imprisoned at concentration camp . Guido is determined to save his lover and son (Cantarini) from dangers around them . His effort sometimes is pure fantasy , though with ruse he pull off more impetus to keep his son and accomplishes feats no man could realistically execute . Guido fabricates an elaborated game to convince his child that the whole ordeal is an endurance proof to be won with prizes forthcoming , as it turns out to be a special contest to win a tank.This is a story about love , war and sacrifice , well starred and directed by Roberto Benigni who develops a fire-line between comedy and tragedy . Inventive gags and wacky humor are splendidly proceeded . At first consideration , the theme of a feel-good holocaust comedy war was a non-sense . However , Benigni doesn't describe a holocaust film but rather a tale of endurance of family love . Benigni tirelessly maintains the humorous ingenuity, even as the horror war escalates. Actor and director Benigni shapes simultaneously haunting and hilarious comedy out of the tragedy of Nazi concentration camp . In a especially humorous scene , Guido translates a guard's barking at the inmates as furthers clarification of the rules of game . The picture is divided into two parts , the first half deals with an entertaining boy-meets-girl tale , a light-weight comedy in which Guido relentlessly pursues Dora ; the second half shifts and depicts the horrors of the concentration camps . Good support cast formed by notorious secondaries as the Spanish Marisa Paredes , Lidia Alfonsi and Horst Buchhold as a Nazi doctor . The film displays an emotive musical score by Nicola Piovani, who deservedly had Oscar winner . Furthermore , it won Academy Award to Foreign film and of course to Benigni ; Roberto Benigni's Oscar for best actor marked only the second time that an actor had directed himself in an Academy Award winning performance , the other was Laurence Olivier for Hamlet . Colorful and glamorous cinematography by Tonino Delli Colli . Effective and appropriate production design by the veteran Danilo Donati . The motion picture was marvelously directed by Benigni. He's a good comedy director (Monster, Johnny Toothpick, Little devil) with some flop (Pinoccio) and usual actor for Jim Jarmusch (Coffee and cigarettes, Night of Earth, Down by law). Rating : Better than average . Well worth seeing .


                
I watched this movie last night as it was listed as a favourite by my partner. I left the movie with a greater appreciation for the love a parent has for their child and the sense that under extreme duress sometimes its humour that drags you through to the other side. Yes it wasn't accurate, yes it was a caffeine free Holocaust Lite, but its not Schindler's List - nor a documentary. No-one with half a brain would expect that, yet here amongst all these reviews are people lambasting the movie for not being 100% factual. Last night I felt a greater empathy for what the Jews, Gypsies, Intellectuals, Political Dissidents, Blacks, Gays and all the others went through in the atrocities of Nazi Germany, but once again the belligerent attitude that accompanies any mention of The Holocaust has soured it. No-one is discounting any of the horror, but that wasn't what this movie is about. I would have thought that a movie embracing the triumph of human spirit over adversity would have been embraced by those that didn't agree with the less than factual nature of the portrayal of the camp.
It is obvious from the first scenes that Guido played by Roberto Benigni is an over the top far fetched character. He uses his wits and lack of any thought of repercussion to get kicks out of the mundane aspects of life. Guido finds comedy his tool to gain anything he needs. He is the exaggerated personification of optimism never failing to find the best out of any situation. The first half of the film shows Guido win the love of Dora, a beautiful and engaged Italian woman. There is nothing realistic about his methods of gaining her attention. There are just perfectly played out coincidences that Guido takes advantage of. It is almost like an embellished story passed down through the years. Guido pulls one over the top antic after another and eventually runs off with Dora. It is pure fantasy.5 years later when the film picks up Guido and Dora have a little boy and are suddenly sent off to a Nazi death camp. This is where the film has received a large amount of praise and criticism. A Nazi death camp should not be taken lightly and I don't think it is in this movie. There are moments of over the top far-fetched humor by Benigni but they were not meant to gain laughs at the expense of the holocaust. It is simply Guido using the only thing he has at his disposal to protect his son. Sure he is cheerful and clownish to an unimaginable degree but that's what he needed to do to keep his son alive. Guido's uncle does die in the camp and so do many others. There is mention of children being taken to the showers to die and dead bodies are seen piled up. I don't think this film is a comedy at all. The "jokes" during the second half of the film are not funny to watch but painful to see a man desperately trying to stay strong in an unbearable circumstance. I'm not sure if the film lives up to all the hype to me but it is definitely effective. The performances are great all around and Benigni is convincing in both sections of the film. I don't believe it is disrespectful to the events of the holocaust although at most times obviously improbable. It is a film meant to celebrate the human spirit no matter what the situation is and it does that well.
I first saw this in a movie theater when it came out, and I discovered later it didn't remotely compare to watching it on DVD. The latter is a far better experience.It's spectacularly filmed, one of the better looking movies you will see on DVD: sharp as a tack and gorgeous, something a big screen kind of makes fuzzy. I found that more attractive than the story, even if it is a good one and one that you never forget.Few films have changed gears as dramatically as this one. The first half is a slapstick comedy-romance featuring the goofy Roberto Benigni, a hyperactive Italian who successfully woos a woman he accidentally meets one day. About 35 percent of this part in the film is clever and funny and the rest, kind of stupid....but not annoying. The only aspect that grows tiresome is Benigni's motormouth, which is always going and is just too much to bear after awhile. The guy wears you out, listening to him!The second half of the story jumps ahead to about 5-7 years later when Benigni and his girlfriend are now wed and have a little boy. Being Jewish, the man and his boy are then taken away from his little town to a concentration camp by the Nazis. The wife voluntarily goes, just to be with the other two. The rest of the movie shows how the father protects his son by pretending it's all a game. The second half, of course, is what most of us remember best and is very inspiring, a haunting tale with a few scenes that stay in your memory.On DVD you have the option of Italian with English subtitles or a dubbed version. Since the visuals are so good and the dubbing is expertly done, I would recommend that. It's a cliché but, this is an "unforgettable story."


                
Before I eventually saw this film, I was not sure whether I was going to like it or not. While in general it is very highly regarded, there have been those who have said it is overrated or whatever. Just for the record, I did like the movie very much. It is uneven, and there were parts that didn't work as well as intended, but this is a brave and affectionate realisation of life during the Holocaust. I asked myself after watching Life is Beautiful, is it really overrated. Well, maybe a tad, but I can really see why people like this movie.So what didn't make this film perfect? Well, as I have stated at least twice already, it is uneven. And in my humble opinion, the second half was better than the first. I just want to clarify that I didn't hate the first half. Some of it is very funny, but some of the slapstick humour didn't work as well as it should, namely eggs breaking on people's heads. It also works very hard, to provide charm. That is perfectly acceptable, but because there was a lot of charm in the performances and the production values it felt slightly overdone. Though I will say that Benigni's tribute to comedy greats like Charlie Chaplin and Groucho Marx was inspired.The film changes tone to a more poignant, compelling and harrowing second half, that I think was much needed. While the character of Guido "amusingly" tries to convince his son Giosue that life in the concentration isn't so bad, the second half's tone has a lot of poignancy. Most notably Guido and Giosue trying to communicate to Dora over the loudspeaker, and the ending did have me in tears.That said, there are a lot of truly good things about Life is Beautiful. For one thing, it is sumptuously filmed. The costumes look amazing and the Italian landscapes look breathtaking. (If there is one place that I would love, love, LOVE to go to it is Italy, not only for the food but for the opera as well.) The story is an effective and affectionate one, about a Jewish man who falls in love with the help of his humour, but has to do the same to protect his son in the Nazi concentration camp. The quality of the script, I saw the Italian version with English subtitles, is thoroughly decent, and hits more than it misses.The performances are excellent in general. Roberto Benigni, one of Italy's favourite funny men, gives a admirable performance. He does overact at times in the first half but he appears a lot more subdued in the second. And I also thought he did a better job acting than he did directing. His direction once or twice in this film was a tad stodgy. Nicoletta Braschi is just stunning as Dora, she looked amazing in this movie and was solid in terms of acting. Giorgio Cantarini didn't always convince as Giosue though, there were times when he comes across as whiny and maybe I am being unfair but I have seen better child performances.All in all, beautiful to watch, and a nice story. It is very pleasant to watch with a compelling and poignant second half, but there are flaws that bring it down from what could have been outstanding to just a film worth watching. 8/10 Bethany Cox


                
I've read all the previous comments. It's amazing to see someone advocating this is one of the best movies ever and someone else saying this is a very bad and offending show. Very few moderate comments...Usually a movie so much debated is at least interesting. I believe this is really valuable, first of all because making such a blend of humour and drama isn't easy at all. No other filmmaker did something like "Life is beautiful" in the past: the Holocaust, humour and a lovely story in the same film. Probably this is one of the best movies ever for bravery and originality, yes.Do you want a harsh, historically correct view of the Holocaust? Please read the books written by survivors, like Primo Levi's "Se questo è un uomo", and watch original footage filmed at the end of the war, for example by the Russians when they entered Auschwitz, if you absolutely need something visual too. Even "Schindler's list" doesn't show the worst of that tragedy, for I believe it's simply impossible to represent such an horror with a fiction work, with actors and special effects. "Life is beautiful" doesn't want to represent the Holocaust, and IMHO this is a Good Thing.BTW, I'm Italian and Benigni here is a superstar; you see him everywhere on TV. If you saw the Cannes ceremony you have a vague idea about what he's capable to do. I saw him live years ago and he's even completely different: much better!!


                
`Life is Beautiful' is a rarity <U+0096> a simply conceived and executed story about the strength of the human spirit in adversity. It is rare because it manages to deliver a message without beating you about the head with it and getting caught up in its own mission. Neither does it sternly point a finger at the audience which many Hollywood `message' films seem to do these days. Rather, it shows how, even in the conditions of Jewish persecution during the Second World War, people can rise above themselves for the sake of their loved ones. End of message.The film is a delicate balance of humour and pathos, and, unlike many other reviewers, I didn't feel the concentration camps were treated with levity or belittled. The horror is there, but understated. This was how many war victims and sufferers of other atrocities throughout the ages have managed to turn aside the terrible spirit-crushing events they endured <U+0096> with a gag or a laugh.Roberto Begnini is brilliant, and inhabits his character totally as though born to the part. The romance between him and his `Principesse' is touchingly romantic, and Giorgio Cantarini is terrific as little Joshua.I found this film very satisfying and moving, mostly because it said what it had to without moralizing, making its impact all the more effective.


                
Benigni makes the film. I believe if it had in someone else's hands, it would probably not work, but there is something about this man's facial features. Somehow he connects with you, and yet he's so different from everyone else. Most of us can't conjure fairy tales and magical moments like his protagonist. What we can do is feel fear, love, loyalty, and a lot of the emotions that he sometimes shows and tries to disguise in order not to cause more pain.The story takes us through the separation period of an Italian man from his wife when the Nazis arrest him and his young boy. The father has to create a scenario to protect his young kid from the horrors that surround them. He tells them they are playing a game, and that if they do it right, they will win and see their wife/mom again. It is not so easy to carry out, and with creative gestures and, bewildering, funny lines, we laugh in the middle of this tragedy. Still, we are sad because it's all a fantasy, and the odds are that this will not end well.The most heartbreaking part is the ignorance that is part of many of these characters' lives. His "friends" appear to be unaware of what is going on. Normal lives continue in an isolated oasis, away from imminent death. Guido tries hard, almost succeeding, and we get to the bittersweet ending, something that will remind many of those doubted this premise was going to work, that this is after the way life works. It's full of surprises, and some of them are not beautiful.There are many winning elements in this film. At the top are the performances of the main characters. We have a lovely score that underscores the extremes that co exist in the same universe. We have the evils of World War II and the beauty of the love between the various members of the family. This is a film that must have been difficult to sell, produce, and realize, but it succeeds and delivers another perspective about that horrible period in history.
A beautiful movie to learn beauty of the life regardless of any situationMovie starts with opening scene of arezzo Italy 1939,,first long shot that gives glimpse of arezzo Italy ,,viewer gets to know how that place would be----this is known as identification with the place,Follow in or plot is very interesting bcz organization of events is in shape ,,one by one scene that strengths that character and reveals character personality and here benigni encashes the Keaton and Chaplin ways,,,in silent era Chaplin did not create magic with dialogs but by the actions and comedy of errorsBengini used Stoic and deadpan elements, is a form of comic delivery in which humor is presented without a change in emotion or body language, usually speaking in a casual, monotone or very serious, solemn, matter- of-fact voice and expressing an unflappably calm, archly insincere or artificially grave demeanor.As bengini is co writer and a well known comic actor ,,he definitely worked hard to bring forth the situations more humorous this movie is the example of writing ability and perfect comic timing Main lead Guido is in relaxed position and his frnd is describing story breaks are gone and suddenly he feels that breaks are gone and that roller coaster ride happens that gives you pleasure of green scenery and comic situations followed by events where People are waiting for the prince and Guido emerges as prince Small comic dialogs and situations He meets with Dora and in that scenario ,,he says birds flying and women fall from sky and when he leaves he uses stick to raise his hat ,changing hat scene,,meets Dora's fiancé to open book store and his denial and pot falling on his head and in his hat eggs kept by Guido ,and Guido running and falling on Dora,,going for waiter job and description to hotel owner,,concentration and will power magicSnow white and 7 seconds,,fake identity of inspector and telling about our race is superior situation opera scene,,taking Dora in his frnd's car Red carpet for Dora and moving generates love and affection between both of them and and praying to Mary situation All the hotel scenes till Guido elopes DoraSecond half Second half belongs to miserable condition of Jews and other people during world war -2 ,,the holocaust situation and gas chamber killings and forced labour ..but Guido with his charisma to deal with the situation with spontaneity that is the main highlighted quality of Guido from start to finish in the moviePerson beside Guido--They are looking for someone who speaks German, to translate their instructions. Guido: Me! I'll do it, I'll translate! Person beside Guido--- Do you speak German? Guido: No. Guido's interpretations fro German to English that has two elements humour and pity And as Guido describes to his son that they are gonna play a game ,,to earn more an more points and to win a tank and then again a lot of situations and finally Guido got shot in order to find his wife but he wins to save his child and eventually Dora meets her son Josue,,Comedy and tragedy two genres and one movie ,,I personally feel that mixing comedy with tragedy isn't easy but bengini's grip on comedy is so strong that he manages to coordinate with comedy and tragedy Well I love this movie ,,I feel very much emotional and happy at the same time when I watch this movie ,,Hats off to director ,co writer ,actor (Robert bengini)


                
Very strange...not the film but how I feel after seeing it.  There are two or three scenes/sequences that I would consider some of the greatest shots on film ever!  I really don't know what to write now, I'm sorry.


                
To be honest, I almost left the theatre when I saw the sub titles speeding along at a great rate of knots.  Thank goodness I decided to stay because I would have missed the most moving film I have seen in a long long time. This film is a mixture of a love story, comedy and drama, all put together magnificently.  I enjoyed it immensely and highly recommend it. If you haven't seen it yet, then go and see it now or you will miss one of the best films of the decade.


                
'La Vite è Belle' touches very deeply into the concept of meaning of life. It's a study about seeing the beautiful side of the things, doesn't matter the nature of that thing. It looks like a hard theme to put in film, because it's not that easy to convince the viewer to buy such theme. So director Roberto Benigni picked a very controversial and somewhat extreme subject to put this idea in: The Holocaust. Hardly someone would think in a good side of the Holocaust, and certainly it hasn't any. But we can only cheer and appreciate what Benigni tried to do. He dared a lot doing that.And Benigni seems to be really the star in all aspects of this film. His acting was very impressive, it reminded me a bit of the Jerry Lewis performances, but it obviously has much more serious tons than the latter. Being said, the entire cast did a very satisfying performance.The film score(and the soundtrack in general) is perhaps one of the most beautiful that i've heard in a film. Really impressive. And so are the beautiful takes of the city. The scene where it's raining at night and Vito is escorting his 'princess' to her home is a highlight.So, if you are planing to watch this film, do it. 8.4/10


                
...."When the game's over." The year is 1939. Guido Orefice (Roberto Benigni) is a cocky Italian waiter of Jewish descent, and is bent on winning the heart of Dora (Nicoletta Braschi), a beautiful schoolteacher. To do this he uses his talent for turning up in unexpected places and his witty humour and charm. The entire first part of the film is based along Guido winning over Dora and is played with a comedic feel. It isn't until the latter half where the film becomes truly beautiful.Five years on, Guido and Dora have Giosué (an adorable Giorgio Cantarini), their only son. Their life is peaceful but disturbance arrives when Nazis take away Guido, Giosué and Guido's softly spoken Jewish uncle, Eliseo (Giustino Durano). It is only with difficulty that Dora succeeds in convincing the Nazis to take her, too (even though she still ends up separated from Guido and Giosué). Desperate to shield his son's fragile young mind from the horrors of the Nazi camps, Guido creates a game for Giosué: you gather points for things like staying hidden and following orders. The first person to reach 1,000 points is the winner and receives his very own tank. Naturally, Giosué is happy to play along.However, the illusion becomes harder to maintain as the camp conditions worsen. Giosué's faith in his father sometimes wavers and Guido must be strong for the sake of his son.I'm not going to reveal what happens, but I will say that it will probably stir up a mixture of emotions.When I first heard about this film, I found it hard believe a "Holocaust comedy" could be believable or enjoyable. But this film displays a level of dignity and heart which strikes a chord with the viewer. The beautiful chemistry between the three leads is touching, especially that between Guido and Giosué.Benigni's acting strength comes not only from his comedy talents but also the powerful love he is able to show as an actor. Braschi also is wonderful as Dora. After her family is taken away, Dora says to the Nazi officer in a voice both frail and strong: "My husband and son are on that train. I want to get on that train. Did you hear me? I want to get on that train." Her gently unrelenting character lends a motherly side to the film But best of all is Cantarini as little Giosué. His wide eyes and expressive face give a different touch to film with a kind of brutal honesty. It is so, so hard to describe the way the film *feels* when he is on screen. You are seeing it from the perspective of both the father, the mother and the innocent and painfully unsuspecting child.Wonderful film---8/10


                
"Life is beautiful",is a film about that brief period of Nazi rule in Italy due to which many ordinary Jewish people had to endure enormous hardships.Although it is a film about Nazism,it is quite different from other films of the Nazi film genre like Schindler's list.It is more of a film about comic romance,laughter,optimism and how to keep one's sanity intact when one finds oneself in a difficult close to death kind of situation. This film ran into trouble as many leading filmmakers protested against what they called "making mockery of a serious issue like holocaust".According to Godard it is hard to believe that life could have been beautiful for anyone in a concentration camp.Life is beautiful is divided into 3 parts:carefree life,period of hardships and a harmless game with a kid.Roberto Benigni and his wife excel in all these parts.It is the star kid Giorgio Cantarini who shines in the last part.In a way,it can be said that the film succeeds because of his innocent behavior with which he carries himself through his entire stay with his father.


                
Drama/Comedy... although in a way contradictory this is the way to describe the movie. Where humour at first is a way of live, in the end it becomes a necessity to stay alive. The smile is the red thread but the humour becomes cynical. Love conquers everything.


                
Touching... When the lights were turned on, it seemed like there was something suffocating me. This film really let me down... I couldn´t believe when Guido arrived at a pile of bodies with the boy sleeping in his arms.How could two governants produce such disgrace ? Why did a people consider themselves superior to another ? This film makes us reflect more and more about questions like these.Reading other comments, I saw that some people think this film made a joke with such subject. But Benigni brought this matter in such way that he didn´t produce only a film, but poetry too. Go see it !


                
Life is Beautiful has often been criticized for its lighthearted portrayal of the Holocaust, poking comedy at some of the most significant events in modern history. It fails to express the conditions of life in Italy and in the concentration camps during the war, and it can be (rightfully) said that Benigni's character, Guido, is an embodiment of many of the Jewish stereotypes that were central to the antisemitism of this period. Taking this into account, I cannot say that this movie is flawless, but I do believe that it has some merit. Holocaust Remembrance often presents the statistics and evidence of atrocities perpetrated by the Germans during WWII to hammer home the importance of the saying "Never Again." Growing up in the Jewish faith, and learning from a young age the importance of remembrance education, I can attest to the fact that it is both important, but overwhelming work. Among all of the depressing historical facts, it can be easier to become desensitized or jaded than to cope with the reality, but this defeats the purpose of the exercise. Rather than harping constantly on the emotionally charged and overwhelming truth of events, I believe it is also important to celebrate the lives of survivors and undertake a mission to humanize statistics. To me, the merit in Life is Beautiful comes from its effort to do so. It shows a (fictional) story of a man who sacrifices to save his family, even while he is, himself, suffering. It shows the love that people feel and the power this love can have. It shows that real people lived through this period of history, and for this, I believe the film deserves at least some praise. Benigni shows the importance of remembering the humanity of survivors and victims alike, which is often lost when looking at mere statistics and death tolls. While this representation is flawed in more than one way, I believe that it still deserves some credit for its homage to these events. And even despite its fantastic story, keeping this period of history fresh in people's minds is a major contribution in and of itself.


                
The story is magnificent and remarkable. The first half shows us a funny part of Guido's story, already a highly witted person with no shortage of optimism, in getting by his life and reaching for his love Dora. The second half displays how Guido, now a father, shields his son from the grieve of a concentration camp, all while always incorporating his wits to get by things, his optimism and enthusiasm to get by with his son's curiosity, and having a fair share of luck that eventually saves his son's life. I rarely see such a movie that can turn its mood from the happy tone into one of a sad tone so drastically, yet the happiness is still there even in the sad moments. The background is of course the classic and usual set of World War II's Europe, but again the developed story takes us to see the war from a very touching angle. Of course there are pot holes and things that don't really make sense, But the story itself is so touching that it belittles the shortcomings. Benigni, Braschi, and even the little Cantarini act well and can make us us fell the mood of the movie and connect to it.


                
During WWII, a Jewish couple and its young son are sent to a concentration camp. Benigni won an Oscar for his wonderful portrayal of an eternal optimist. The film effectively blends humor with the atrocities of war, eventually proving to be a touching story. It is not necessarily believable but the sheer force of Benigni's personality is enough to allow one to go along for the ride. Braschi, Benigni's real-life wife, plays his wife while little Cantarini does well as the five-year old son who Benigni tries to shield from the horrors of the concentration camp. Buchholz, best remembered as an impetuous young member of "The Magnificent Seven," has one of his final roles here as an eccentric German.


                
Overall, I loved this motion picture to the fullest extent, especially for one that we would watch educationally in English class. The 1940's holocaust survival theme was truly interesting to watch, as it portrayed an accurate account of an average Jewish family's struggles at that time in history. Much can be related between this movie and the recent book our English class read earlier called "Maus" by Art Spiegelman. Both have the same elements of danger and survival amongst family members against the Nazi's. A key factor that also connects the two tales is the bond between father and son. In "Maus", the father named Vladek, who is a post P.O.W. is set by his son art to tell the story of the family, this in which Art then creates into an award winning graphic novel. Relatively, in the movie "Life is Beautiful" the main character named "Guido Orefice" must save his wife and son and himself from the Nazi gas chambers at one of the infamous death camps. His tale of survival is truly courageous and the end products are lessons learned and the proof that a father must do what needs to be done to save his family.


                
Life Is Beautiful (1997) Directed by Roberto Benigni and Rod Dean Main characters: Roberto Benigni, Nicoletta Braschi, Giorgio Cantarini Genre: Comedy, Drama and RomanceThe movie takes place in the Italy of the 1930's and follows the life of Guido, a Jewish server. Along the movie Guido uses his humor to get the love of his future wife, and when his family is captured by the Nazis, he uses his humor to protect his child from knowing the ugly truth. The movie gives a first person perspective of how Jewish people were treated in these years. While providing a crude view of the things the Jewish suffered the main character Guido makes a game out of everything. This gives the movie a general theme of remaining hopeful even in the worst cases. For an English assignment in my high- school I recently had to read the novel Maus by Art Spiegelman. This novel compares with the movie by both giving a first person perspective of real Jewish people that survived the concentration camps. The difference between how Benigni (director of the movie) and Spiegelman approached the theme of the Jewish concentration camps made me appreciate even more the job done by Benigni in his movie. In Maus Spiegelman portrays suffering and harmful effects of the post holocaust. In the other hand Benigni uses humor to give a bright side to every bad thing that happens in the movie.


                
Life is Beautiful (1997)Cast: Roberto Benigni, Nicoletta Braschi, Giorgio Cantarini Directors: Roberto Benigni, Rod DeanSynopsis: Roberto Benigni stars as a father of Joshua (Giorgio Cantarini) and husband of Dora (Nicoletta Brashchi) in Life is Beautiful. As he and his family are sent to concentration camps, he makes a game out of the Holocaust to cover it up for his son. He realizes that there isn't a way to get out of this and so he sacrifices a lot to save his family.Review: Roberto Benigni and Rod Dean directed a comical, inspiring and romantic movie. As seeing it for the first time, we see all sorts of different actors in this foreign film.When crisis enters his family, Roberto sacrifices his own life to save his family. Instead of telling his son Joshua (Giorgio Cantarini) what's going to happen during their time at the concentration camp, he makes up a game of it and tells his son that he is going to win a tank if they make it through the game.This film served as a good attention getter with its beautiful scenery and plots. Roberto used actors that had good intentions and that fit their character very well. Nicoletta Brashchi was an incredible "princess" that acted out her emotions pretty well, while Roberto Benigni and Giorgio Cantarini were both excellent and obviously content with Roberto and Rod's directing style and the movie's dramatic tone. The one actor that gave people suspension was Roberto Benigni. Throughout the movie, he acted as a comedian towards people and was laid back. It was a shock to watch him make a game out of the words that the Germans were saying and fight his way through the Holocaust for his family. He was a smart man who got out of deathly situations quickly. After a few scenes, however, we were surprised that he went through with letting the Germans kill him.Life is Beautiful relates to the book Maus because it took place during the Holocaust. Roberto made sacrifices to save his son and wife while in Maus, Vladek made sacrifices for his wife during the Holocaust. Vladek and Roberto have the same mental ability to get out of deathly situations quickly. While making underground tunnels under garbage cans, Vladek makes it safely out of getting caught by the Germans and their dogs. In Life is Beautiful, Roberto hides his son in a metal box and uses his "magic" to get the barking dog away from his son. Life is Beautiful is exciting, creative and romantic—and worth a few hours of your time to watch.


                
Life is Beautiful tells the story of a humorous man named Guido who is a waiter in Italy during the 1930s. He quickly runs into the love of his life Dora and becomes enemies with her fiancé. While waiting at the hotel he becomes friends with a German doctor who shares riddles with Guido throughout their friendship. Fast forward 5 years later and Guido and Dora have been married and have a son Joshua. Eventually the Nazis come into play by rounding up the Jews including Guido and Joshua, but until this point in the movie there is hardly any sign that the holocaust is around the corner. Dora isn't forced to go, but instead chooses to board the train out of love and loyalty of her family. Throughout the rest of the movie Guido fools Joshua into thinking they are playing a game and the winner gets a real live tank for themselves. He does this to shelter him from the horrors around him and it makes for some very humorous and sweet moments that lighten up the mood during such a depressing time.Despite taking place during the holocaust, this movie for the most part has a lighter almost humorous atmosphere at times. This has a positive effect on the movie, but makes it seem a little fictional at times. Some of the things Guido does such as speaking into the loud speaker are funny, but seem a little to implausible considering the way the Jews were actually treated. I don't mind the change in atmosphere as it makes the movie stick out from most holocaust driven movies. In some ways this movie uses the same techniques as in the book I recently read called Maus, which tells of a man's journey through the holocaust in the form of a graphic novel. One in particular is when Joshua comes out of his hiding spot and everyone is gone it shows a form of isolation by a long shot of a desolate place except for Joshua who has nowhere to go. This technique is also used in the book Maus on page 125, frame 5 shows Vladek and Anja walking away from trouble and the author uses a long shot to show that they don't really have anywhere to go and are all alone. All in all I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see an above average comedy that shows a less intense view of the holocaust.


                
A car with no brakes, mistaken identity, and a woman falling from a barn are all a part of the opening scene in the movie "Life is Beautiful". The main character, Guido (Roberto Benigni), has a very humorous side and serious side at the same time. The movie takes place in Italy in the late 1930's when Guido is working as a waiter for his uncle at his hotel.Guido starts off as driving with his friend and then they realize they have no breaks until they eventually stop at a house and barn. Then Guido is walking around while his friend fixes the car. Next thing he's walking by the barn and this girl, Dora, falls right into his arms. Guido then calls her "Princess" because he falls in love with her right then and there. When they get into town he has a trouble with Dora's fiancé who he did not know about at the time who threatens to kill him if he sees him again. Many times he runs into Dora all by mistake and she starts to feel a love connection for him. The first half of the whole movie is about them falling in love.The last half of the movie fast forwards to near the end of World War II when Guido, who is a Jew, and his son are forced to go into a Nazi concentration camp. In order to keep his son, Joshua, from being scared he makes him feel like the whole thing is a game. Since Joshua loves tanks, Guido tells him that the grand prize is a tank if they win.The movie is like the book Maus I: My Father Bleed History since it has to do with life before and during the holocaust. In the book Maus the main character was doing well with business until Germans came and forced them out of the business. There are also instances where signs were saying that no Jews were allowed to come into the store. Also the movie and book are related by having the main character or the character's family has some lucky breaks to keep them from getting killed.The movie overall is well written and Roberto Benigni did well as Guido. The first half of the movie may have been a little draw out but did not distract from making the movie good. It was also good for the movie to make the Holocaust not seem so bad with not much killing and Guido's humor on top of it. The movie helped show hope even during the worst times and to never give up.


                
The film is the best display of willpower. Many famous lines by people are visually depicted in it. The most important thing in life, to continue with what you are doing is to never lose HOPE. Hope is the soul of this film. It teaches you a very important thing. The story is about a jolly person who lives in a way that is sure to impress you. The second part deals with Jews Holocaust. It has been dealt with in a gentle manner, without making too much fun but still does not make you feel depressed all day.PROS:Whenever this film is again coming into my mind, the consistent talks and laughter of Roberto Benigni is sure to come. He owns every space in the film. The success of the film owes the most to his acting and then the direction. The story is simple but its representation is amazing. Soundtrack is good. It is neither too cold because of holocaust nor is too much comic. The acting by the supporting cast is satisfactory and they are mostly overshadowed by the performance of Roberto. Just after 15 minutes, you might get so much involved that you will lose track of time.CONS:The first half presents the comedy in a subtle manner. But for some scenes, I felt it to be too juvenile. But the second part of the film takes over at an appropriate time.MESSAGE: "Keep up your spirits at all times."VERDICT: "A recommended watch."


                
