Mary & Max sets out to be a thought-provoking film that inspires with its originality, but it is ultimately an unsatisfying production. The opening scenes establish the film's nonlinearity and its willingness to be blunt and grim with its protagonists' struggles--once you notice these features, you grasp the film's entire hook. The movie constantly maintains this tone but never leads it to a payoff or a twist; I appreciate the filmmakers' decision to make something so unconventional, but the fact remains that these few original elements cannot support an entire 90-minute movie. The creative animation is definitely the best part. The film is in large part a dark comedy, but all the comedic elements are tepidly clever at best but never truly funny. The quirky concepts have potential, but they are intended to be funny in & of themselves, never building to any new surprising result. Max's descriptions of his jobs, for instance, aren't poignant or charming, they're just "zany" with some angst thrown in. The film relies obnoxiously on scatological humor--even though this is usually deadpan, the sheer number of butt jokes gets old very fast. Through the events in Mary's life, the movie sets up what could have been a moving message about accepting your own flaws, but the impact is spoiled when they hit you over the head with the message, via narration by both Damien and Max. Towards the end, Max's lengthy letter about being happy with yourself is so heavy-handed that it eliminates any possibility of thought-provoking subtlety. The very end of the film was also cheesily melodramatic and unsubtle. I didn't feel moved by the characters' suffering along the way, either, because we meet Mary as a lonely, bullied kid... and then the movie describes over and over how she's lonely & bullied, which has no impact on us because we understood that from early on. The same goes for Max being lonely and awkward.There is obviously great effort behind the animation, with impressive, detailed sets, and the art style is engaging. The "Que Sera Sera" sequence in which Mary reaches the depths of depression is artistic and very nicely-done, but the film's successes in terms of visual presentation do not compensate for its story or hamfisted theme, which fall flat in the end. If you just want something out of the ordinary, you can enjoy Mary & Max, but if you expect true depth (not phony depth where the filmmakers comment "oh, loneliness sure is sad!") or richness of writing, you will come away disappointed.


                
The concept of this film was without a doubt very unique. It explored a pen pal relationship between a lonely little girl from Australia and a mentally unstable man living in New York City. The story is narrated almost like a children's book, but it is quickly revealed that this is no movie for kids as it's subjects include very mature themes including a very serious main topic of mental health and Asperger syndrome. While I usually find stop-motion animation very impressive, I wasn't taken aback by the quality. Maybe it was the dull tones, or maybe it was simply an odd choice of medium for a movie about such subject matter. The beginning half, even though dark and gloomy, seemed whimsical and funny in a strange sort of way. As the story went along it became more lifeless and uninteresting, and as Mary grew up she became even more of a psycho than our deranged friend Max. The film seemed to reach too far for an emotion filled tale of gloom which made it lose a lot of its impact. Near the middle I was enjoying myself, but by the end it seemed like a drag and overrated disappointment.


                
Its my individual opinion with due apologies to all those who loved it.i am sorry to say but director Adam Elliot has tried to make an animation movie, which is usually for kids and fragile minds, very depressing. non happy ending and a story more like a romance or long distance friendships which doesn't work. A topic more of an adult mind not of kids whose major aim is just innocent and innocuous fun . He should have casted Mila Kunis with Mel Gibson as Max and Mary combination and should not have been an animation.92 minutes were like an odyssey i thought my watch is broken why the hell is this movie not finishing.And you know why and when it happens when it bores the crap out of you.Only good thing about the movie was that the guy was presented as a good representative of the symptoms of Asperger's disease.Animations are supposed to be kept light and interesting and some thing to imprint a smile on face after watching it. And its really not worth 8.1 of IMDb rating. I would have loved a prostate exam by Edward scissor hand instead of watching this crap if i knew. :(
