I wasn't even sure I wanted to watch this film when it came on at 11:20 pm. I was tired and a little let down after having just finished watching Clear and Present Danger (had heard great things about it). But I decided to watch the first 5 minutes or so as the listing description claimed it to be an "Adult Claymation". I was intrigued as I do have quite an interest in claymation myself. The minutes rolled on by and soon half an hour had been and gone already. Within that half hour I had felt happy, sad, sympathetic, uncomfortable, frustrated, confused the list goes on. This film has a marvellous ability to switch between moods in the blink of an eye in a way that doesn't seem obnoxious or intrusive. The subject matter made me squirm a little at first, however that is quickly accounted for and you are eventually put at ease. All I can say is give this film a chance. It drags on a little in places, well, it drags on throughout the entire film really. There is no action, only one particularly intense scene I can recall and due to the story there is very little character to character to dialogue. Yet somehow it is so gloriously intriguing you can get past that. It's a bitter-sweet film that may leave some with a bit of a bad taste in their mouth having finished watching it. But to those willing to put a little effort in I can guarantee an enjoyable and incredibly deep watch. It get's a 7 from me. Whilst there were no major issues there was also nothing that really stood out about this film other than the story. Animation was somewhat lacklustre even despite the gloomy setting of the plot, acting was a little frayed round the edges at times and I did find myself rolling my eyes to a few parts that were seemingly supposed to be emotional. However, it's a good all-rounder on all fronts bar the outstanding writing. If you are going to give this a go, make sure to have some tissues handy. You have been warned


                
An Australian stop-motion animated film about a dumpy little girl (voiced by Toni Collette) who randomly chooses a name in a New York phone book and writes him a letter. The man on the other side (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is an obese, middle-aged Jew with Asperger's Syndrome. Neither of these people have friends in real life, and they soon become each other's only friends. This is a rather sad story, filmed in a very muted color scheme. The New York sequences, in particular, are almost black and white. The Australian sequences have a lot of brown in them. Writer/director Elliot (claiming he based it on a true story) injects a lot of quirky humor into the picture, almost making it seem like an Aardman product at times. The big difference between this and Aardman: the animators of Mary & Max go out of their way to make everything hideously ugly. There's a big mental disconnect between all of these elements. It wants to be depressing, it wants to be charming, it wants to be hilarious, it wants to be freakish. Fortunately, it does succeed enough of the time where it's well worth watching. At its heart, there's a very touching story. I do not think this deserves to be mentioned alongside the slew of wonderful animated films of the year, except maybe for a footnote.


                
Touching, original, funny and full of surprises - highly recommended, not only for claymation fans like me. The visual gags are good and often surprising, and the story enters areas usually left untrodden by animation.The technical aspects themselves are below Aardman or Laika standard, but efficient; what keeps this film from getting a better grade from me is the drab colour palette and overall depressing tone - don't get me wrong, those are parts of life, too - but you can overdo everything and nearly 90 minutes are a bit much for my taste. So the re-watch value is not that high, for me at least.


                
This movie, like most things, had good and bad aspects. I will first enumerate the bad things, then the good ones.One of the more off-putting things about this movie, for me, was its art style. People and animals are depicted in grotesquely distorted forms. I'm not sure what the purpose was for doing this. Another problem with the film was its tendency towards crude humor, lame visual gags, and slapstick comedy. As with the distorted figures, this aspect of the film did not seem to contribute positively to the work as a whole and I'm not sure why these moments of silliness were included. Perhaps the filmmakers were trying to avoid idealizing their subjects, but I think they went too far in the other direction. In general, I thought the film's explicit attempts at humor tended to misfire. For me, the humor in the film came from the characters themselves and not from things like watching goldfish be killed in a series of unlikely accidents. Another problem with the film is that its secondary characters tended to be one- dimensional, and most of them were killed off by the end of the film, either to provide "humor", advance the plot, or both. It seemed contradictory to me that the film explored the main characters' lives with such understanding and sympathy, yet treated the secondary characters as little more than moving scenery pieces.Despite the complaints I have listed above, this film moved me deeply and I was actually in tears by the end. That's not something that happens often. So what about this film was so powerful? Its main characters. The letters the two characters write are extremely believable and yield so much information about each character. In fact, it didn't take long before I stopped thinking about Mary and Max as characters, and started thinking of them as real people. I felt that I could personally relate to both of them, and that was why the film had such a strong emotional impact on me. But the movie goes further than just creating convincing characters. Through the lives of the characters and the evolving relationship between them, the movie touches delicately on topics like loneliness, friendship, depression, disability, and what it really means to be human. (I think the film also tried to capture something of the scope of life's journey and the passage of time, but it was less successful at addressing this.)Overall, I think the movie tried to do many things, but it really only succeeded at one thing, which was depicting the evolution of the relationship between Max and Mary. But where it succeeded, it really succeeded. 7/10 stars.
There was a small mention of this cartoon film on Film 2009 with Jonathan Ross, obviously it didn't have wide release, but hearing enough about it I was very interested to try it. Basically starting in the 1970's, eight year old Mary (Bethany Whitmore) is the little girl living in Melbourne, Australia with a terrible brown birthmark on her forehead, no friends, a mean alcoholic mother who has kleptomania (the frequent urge to steal) and a love for a children's television show which she makes models of the characters. One day, desperate to find a friend she decides to flick through the phone book and find a random name and write them a letter accompanied with a chocolate bar, and she chooses a guy from New York City. The reader who receives her letter is obese Max Jerry Horovitz (Philip Seymour Hoffman) who has a tragic past, a history of mental illness and lives with the disability Aspergers Syndrome, and feeling lonely himself he is very happy to write back to Mary. So begins a pen pal friendship where they send each other letters about their thoughts, feelings and something (object, food) that represents them-self or where they are living. Years later an older Mary (Toni Collette) still tries to keep in touch with Max, who has become bigger and more depressed over time, she has got married to Damien (Eric Bana) and graduated university, he has won the New York lottery, and that's about it. Max is infuriated when Mary tells him that she is writing a psychological book detailing Aspergers Syndrome, and in anger he removes the M letter from his typewriter, and in response she develops chronic depression. She becomes an alcoholic and attempts suicide by hanging, and her husband Damien leaves her for his own pen pal in New Zealand, but she didn't realise she was pregnant, she is saved by the man who feared going outside, agoraphobic neighbour Len Hislop. Mary receives a forgiveness letter from Max, and with her newborn baby she decides they should meet in person, but when she arrives he is dead, but she cries with happiness seeing all the letters saved on the wall. With wonderful narration from Dame Edna Everage actor Barry Humphries, the voices of Collette, Hoffman and Whitmore really bring the characters to life, the use of colour, black and white for New York and sepia for Australia is really good, and of course the stop motion clay animation is lovable, I can relate to Max living with Apsergers Syndrome myself, and Mary is lovable, it may be dark for children, but a most watchable animated comedy drama. Very good!
Mary and Max is a story of two lonely people residing miles away from each other and become unlikely friends through constant letter writing. The kids may not find this animated movie nice as there are dark and realistic portrayals of what we encounter in our lives. The movie is mostly black and white clay animation with slight shades of red. I haven't seen many stop-motion animated movies but the best I recall was 'Coraline' also released in 2009. Well as much as Coraline was filled with fantasy this one far realistic.The script is very good, giving us lessons we need to learn in life like moving on no matter what happens. The voice-actors also did fine job especially Philip Hoffman as Max. I liked the movie but it felt kind of repetitive after 1-2 conversations though the letters between Mary and Max. Also it tries to pity its characters a bit too much. What I did like is there were humorous moments popping up here and there despite the theme of the whole film being sad. If you don't like stop-motion animation or realistic films with not much excitement unlike what you see in your day to day animation films I suggest you keep away from this one.RATING: [3.5/5]


                
It is different with animation made by Pixar & Dreamworks or Japanese. So I should honestly say that the people is not so good-looking, which gives the plot a lot of pressure. The movie also reminds me the "Chicken Run" several years ago.As an animation fan for many years, I am very picky in animation movies. Good ones should either have fantastic picture or surprising story. At the first 1 hour, I seriously think it is boring cause the movie is just telling you that a shy Australia girl and a timid American man writing each other. Although not even talked, they exchanged their confuzzles by letter.I feel emotional touched by the end of the movie. A wall full of letter! Max once said, "Hopefully, one day our sidewalks will meet and we can share a can of condensed milk." When the day came, you accidentally go ahead.I think max die happily without regrets by looking back his whole life. He got Mary, his best friend and only friend.When I think back and second thought about the movie, I am astonished to find myself have the same experience. I have been laughed at for something I didn't even remember. I used to be alone walking in the empty playground. However, even if I don't remember why, I still remember the feelings I had at that time. I should say that these incidents changed my life, forced me to change and turned me into a new "ME".As time pass by, friends became less and less. God gave us relatives. Thank god we can choose friend. Long last the friendship!
"Mary and Max" is an animation movie in we watch two pen friends Mary who is a lonely girl living in the suburbs of Melbourne and Max who is an obese man living in New York. We watch how they are creating their relationship and also how this relationship affect their lives.I liked this movie very much because it was not a simple animation movie, it gives people many things to think of and raise many issues that we have nowadays. One more thing that I liked in this movie was the beautiful voice of Philip Seymour Hoffman as Max Jerry Horovitz who I believe that his voice fit so well in this character. One more thing that it had to being mentioned is about the direction made by Adam Elliot and it was really good.Finally I have to say that "Mary and Max" is a must see animation movie from which I believe everyone can gain something because after watching this movie you reconsider many things about life in general and not only.


                
"Mary and Max" (2009) is a stop motion animated film about two pen pals writing from two different countries. Mary is a nervous and embarrassed girl who wants nothing but to have a friend. She lives in Australia. Max is an obese man living in New York and has a disorder called Asperger's. Their friendship begins in the most random way. Mary finds a phone book, writes down a name and then decides to write to the name. What ensues is an odyssey of growing up and realism of life in excruciating detail and humor.Now I went into this movie not knowing what it was or how it was going to play out. All I knew was that it was a random animated short film on Netflix but when the movie began we had a change in character from other such animated films. The jokes were very adult and themes that the film covers is very mature. Now all of this doesn't drown out the movie, however, it has heart. The film displays friendship between two different but utterly the same people. Some of the letters are funny, sad and informative and that leads to the character of Max having an anxiety attack. The film also goes as far to display suicide though the act never follows through. Overall this is a film for mature audiences.I loved animation. Stop motion was something I loved when I was younger and that art seems to be lost except for the works of Tim Burton. The story telling was top notch and there are times when you laugh out loud. The ending was touching and basically put the icing on the cake. I guess my gripe would be the overwhelming amount of adult jokes and mature themes though this can be perceived as a good thing. There are parts you'd think would never make it into an animated film and there are many shocking moments.
I wouldn't necessarily regard this as a great movie but for the most part I think it's pretty good. The clay animation is superb--which I swear they're using CG because the stop motion is so damn good--the voice acting is pretty decent although they could have just taken it easy on the narration but it does a little to let the moment sink in when needed but only narrate in the beginning and the end and let the emotions do all the talking. The environment looks depressing and a bit dark but that's a positive for me. I love dark movies. It doesn't push the darkness too far, it has some funny moments to lighten the depressing mood that the characters are going through and has some touching elements that cannot be ignored, in my opinion. This looks like another Tim Burton clay animation but for adults which I was hoping it would be but it's not. I wouldn't recommend this to children but I would say chance it for yourself. Oh, I almost forgot. It has a moral for everyone that we can all learn in life. About choosing the right friends even if there is only one in life, and that person could also be your best friend because he/she is your only friend. It tells you to choose and appreciate the friends you have even if there are few. Thank you for that, movie. Thank you.


                
A homely, friendless Australian girl picks a name out of a phone book and writes to him, and sends a chocolate bar.She's Mary, the only child of an alcoholic mother and a distracted father. He's Max, living alone in New York, overweight, subject to anxiety attacks.He writes back, with chocolate. Thus begins a 20-year correspondence, interrupted by a stay in an asylum and a few misunderstandings.Mary falls in love, saves money to have a birthmark removed and deals with loss.Max has a friendship, and tries to control his weight....This is an oddity of a film. At first glance, I didn't think I was going to enjoy it. The animation is thoroughly depressive throughout, and Humphries narration grates a little.But as the film progresses, you find yourself falling in love with the titular characters, and really hope that they meet come the end.You feel Marys desperation when she upsets the Aspergers suffering Max, and hop all seems lost, when he sends her the typewriter letter.Believe me, come the end of the film, you will be crying like a baby, because its probably the saddest ending to a film I have seen in a very long time.So all in all, it's a wonderfully written film, which starts off a little slow, but all of a sudden, you really get lost into the two characters.
I don't recall why I looked up this particular movie, it is now 10 years old, but I found the DVD at my public library. My wife and I watched it at home.It is a fantasy story told with claymation. It is 1976 and a little girl in Australia named Mary is depressed and has no friends. One day she is in a library and decides to look into a phone book from the USA, as her mother pulls her away she accidentally tears off a section of one page. Later she notices one name in particular and in her 8-yr-old way writes him a letter.The man who gets the letter is 40-something Max, he too has no friends. He is obese, loves chocolate bar hot dogs, and sometimes little things upset him greatly. Eventually it becomes clear he has Aspergers and seldom knows how to interact with others. But he gets to his old typewriter and writes back to little Mary.Toni Collette voices the growing up Mary Daisy Dinkle and now deceased Philip Seymour Hoffman voices Max Jerry Horovitz. Both are very good, particularly so Hoffman. The story continues for at least 15 to 20 years for Mary to grow up, go to college, write a thesis on Max's affliction, and publish a book.The movie is not all fun, in fact it has some dark aspects to it, but in the end is a statement on relationships and how two strangers can often reach out to each other and something good can come of it.I enjoyed it more than I thought I would.


                
It's a fine line, the one between sanity and insanity. Take 84 CHARING CROSS ROAD, for instance: a beautiful story, beautifully told. Charter a ship to the other side of the ocean and you might very well find yourself in the Claymation world of THE PJs (The ProJects)- a very different milieu, indeed. Now, combine the two very disparate elements and flavor it all with just a touch of David Lynch and you get... MARY AND MAX. It's not a bad mix, really, though a bit on the slow side (not that there's anything wrong with Slow: some of my best friends are Slow...). It'll do until somebody bootlegs some episodes of THE NOBLETS. (I have to confess I greatly preferred the alternate ending to the one they used.)
This is a hard movie to rate. I do remember seeing posters, I think,  which stated that this movie was based on a true story. That wasn't  enough to make me want to watch this movie. So, when the TV show "At  the movies" reviewed it, and I saw some funny things, I decided to  watch it.  Watching this claymation movie, I had forgotten about the claims to  truth of this movie, which made me think that this was a very strange  movie indeed. It concerns the titular characters: Mary (voiced by  Bethany Whitmore for the child, and by "The sixth sense"'s Toni  Collette for the adult), a young Australian girl, and Max, an  American middle-aged man (voiced by Philip Seymour Hoffman). Feeling  bored one day, Mary randomly picks a name out of a phone book and  writes to them...which is how she sends Max a letter. The movie airs  the contents of their letters over many years, and displays each  character's psychological state. Barry Humphries provides the narration  in the movie. That element doesn't work particularly well in this  movie, I don't think, as the story-book format can drag at times.  The clip I saw on "At the movies" was indicative of the quality of the  film...there are some genuinely funny exchanges between Mary and  Max...laugh out loud funny at times. However, forgetting that this  movie was supposedly based on a true story, I would think that the  content of the movie was very odd. It was quite dark at times. For that  reason, I don't think that this movie is appropriate for pre-teen  children, even though it is made with claymation (plasticine figurines  which are moved and photoed, to create the illusion of life in cinema).  So, as I said, this movie is hard to rate. It is genuinely funny at  times, but sometimes gloomily overwrought, which pegs it back a little.  If this movie bares no relation to reality, then I'd give it 6/10. If  there truth to it, I'd give it a score closer to 7/10. Did read an  interview with the movie's maker, Adam Elliott, in a local suburban  paper where I live (The Monash Leader, 14/04/2009, i.e. ten days ago),  where Elliott admits that the movie is based on his penfriend-ship with  an American when he, Elliott, was a child. On that basis, the high  melodrama that you see in this movie with Mary doesn't really seem to  be based on anything that Elliott himself experienced. On that basis  I'd mark this movie down a bit...it's gloom seems unmotivated. I'll  give it around 65/100.


                
In essence the movie is about Mary a young girl with a cruel life becoming a penpal to Max a middle age man with diagnosed aspergers. In a movie like this you would expect there to be some kind of resolution, some glimpse of hope but the film just seems to get worse and worse. Tragedy after tragedy befall the hopeless pair. Even brief glimpses of happiness are marred by tragedy until in the end we are left with only tears, death and the half hearted sentiment that friendship no matter how intangible is maybe enough to salve deep scarring wounds.To put it bluntly this movie is a downer. I think that the subject matter may not be suitable to claymation. Claymation usually offers something distracting, madcap, surreal.... but tragic? It's like the forms do not mix very well. It's as if it is a lie or somehow betraying the truth. I do not dislike the film, it is unique and extremely well crafted I just feel like maybe the next one will be better.
Adam Elliot's first full-length animated feature continues in the stylistic footsteps of his short films, on a larger, more ambitious scope, though the focus is still around similar motifs of loneliness and alienation. The quality of animation has improved, though, and the story is sweet and even moving; if you still need proof that animation isn't just for kids, Mary and Max is solid evidence. It could have easily been an independent tragicomedy by a director like Todd Solondz or Gus Van Sant, but the animation compliments the imaginative story and the colorful characters.The movie doesn't quite do well with the long format, though; when compared to Elliot's Oscar-winning Harvie Krumpet (2003) it's easy to see why. The characters of Mary and Max are both too flawed, and they both do very little growth for this long a movie, and the viewer gets a feeling of treading water. Despite the fact that the movie keeps inventing throughout, it get dull, and I couldn't help but feel that it would have been better with a 40 minute runtime. For that reason it feels very fresh at first, but it can't maintain the feeling of surprise and originality that Harvie Krumpet had, but it's still recommended for animation lovers.


                
This feature is an off-beat, extremely sad and joyful elegy and an incarnation of the unlived life and an account of the failed encounter with the other.Here I deliberately draw on the theories of Jacques Lacan, the french psychoanalyst, who said that every achieved encounter of two persons, is a failed one. This does not mean that they do not happen, just that a disastrous moment occurs, and amends are, or not, made.In the film, after almost twenty years of pen-friendship, the two, at first by a perfect whim of chance-choice and then by a perfect giving-and-misgiving course of things, where the two protagonists are never mischievous between them, even when things go bad and hilarious for them and for their relationship, finally meet in person, and Max is found dead by Mary. It sounds grim, but in the end it's, not quite uplifting, unless it is for the gaze which reads Mary's letters on the ceiling. That is the moment amends are made, even if they involve just Mary.Attention to the whimsy of detail is intimate, almost saturating. As with the constant field of reality we encounter every day with its seams of unabashed humor and unapologetic banality. The choice of stop-motion is dead on, as if the clayness of the matter was the best vehicle of their, and, as it goes, our situation.
