To say it short, this movie is about a friendless 8 year old girl in Australia who befriends an obese 44 year old male in New York by writing mails to each other.I'm not a big animation fan, so I wasn't looking forward to see this movie. I am currently working on the IMDb Top 250 list and Mary and Max just entered the IMDb top 250, so I took a look at it.I watched it with a small screen on my computer while chatting with someone on Facebook. But then I logged out because I got hooked by the fantastic but sad narration mixed with humor by Barry Humphries, so I watched it with a big screen. Thank God that I did that, because this is an unforgettable and heartbreaking cinematic experience! It got fantastic narration and dialogue that will make you laugh and cry!PS.There are many scenes that will choke you up, so bring some tissues.PSS.Don't watch this movie with your kids!I hope this review was useful!


                
In 1976, in Australia, the misfit and outcast eight-year old girl Mary Daisy Dinkle lives in Mount Waverley with her alcoholic shoplifter mother Vera Lorraine Dinkle that is addicted in Sherry and her absent father Noel Norman Dinkle that works in the Earl Grey Factory attaching strings in the teabag and spends his leisure time in his hobby - taxidermy. Mary has absolutely no friends and is teased by her schoolmate Benny Clifford. She has a complex because of her brown birthmark in the forehead and she adores her favorite cartoon The Noblets that she watches with her rooster Ethel and condensed milk. Meanwhile, in New York, the lonely forty-four year-old Max Jerry Horowitz has Asperge Syndrome and trouble to sleep and is obese since he eats chocolate hot-dogs to compensate his anxiety. He frequently goes to the Overeaters Anonymous Meeting. Max does not have any friend, only the invisible Mr. Ravioli, and also loves The Noblets. His life goals are to have a friend, Noblets and chocolate. One day, Mary picks Max address out of an American phone-book and she decides to write to him to ask from where babies come in America. Along their lives, they become pen pals and their unusual friendship oscillates due to the anxiety attacks of the unstable Max."Mary and Max" is an unforgettable and heartbreaking bleak tale of friendship and loneliness. The story is bittersweet and witty, with an ironic black humor and provokes the most conflictive emotions in the viewers, funny in a moment, and depressive in the other. The excellent animation follows the dark style of Tim Burton and the screenplay is a profound insight in human behavior. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Mary and Max – Uma Amizade Diferente" ("Mary and Max – A Different Friendship")


                
A couple of claymation misfits who are worlds apart, form an unlikely dialog, in a pre-Internet age where it takes weeks to get a reply.There is a growing trend amongst publishers and in Hollywood, where the writer is strongly urged to rather show the story rather than tell it. This is fine for certain works, especially action films, but I personally believe that the aforementioned edict is a steaming pile of moronic dribble. People are more than intelligent enough to garner rich satisfaction from being provided a story in any form as long as the story itself holds interest. Its worked fine for all the classics in literature, most of which are still being read in droves, but many believe that audiences are stupid and need to shown everything and must capture their attention in the first five seconds. Indeed, most manuscripts are rejected based upon their first page, a ridiculous scenario.In this case, there is much in the way of telling via the voice-over of the wondrous Barry Humphries and yet the visuals provide us with an extra layer on information, working with the voice-over rather than being hindered by it. Occasionally it goes on too long, but Adam Elliot is incredibly brave in wanting to tell this story his way. Aside from stylistic similarities to his earlier shorts, he has remained true to himself. He thanks a lot of people in regards to his script; its clear he has made the effort to get it right, proving the basic notion in screen writing, is to get right on the page first folks. The script is a gem, finding the humor in a rather grim tale, without ever being patronizing to the characters or their plight. If anything, he manages to reinforce their humanity.The choice of music is ideal, setting a tone that is complimentary and yet as though these classical pieces were designed specifically for this wide, but often claustrophobic gray universe. I hope audiences embrace it on the big screen as there is glorious detail lurking in the background, providing an extra chuckle or irony for the keen eye. If there was ever a reason to leave the home theater, this is it. Mary and Max is a brilliant, entertaining work of visual art combined with depth and grace.There was a couple of moments when I raised eyebrows at certain things that didn't fit correctly for the late seventies, such as the mention of Stephen Hawking as well as cigarette patches (which debuted in the early 90's) but otherwise this laugh out loud, tear to the eye unique celluloid experience is one of the standouts of the year.


                
In this cinematic era of computer animation, the art of claymation (for which hand-moulded figurines are painstakingly photographed one frame at a time) is slowly dissolving. Aardman Studios (the guys behind Wallace and Gromit) seem to be the only ones who still possess the patience required to continue the practise into the 21st Century. It's therefore refreshing to witness the Australian film Mary and Max (the feature film debut of Adam Elliot, who won an Oscar for his short film Harvie Krumpet), which was created using this claymation method to tell a bizarre, sweet and mature story. Tremendously inventive, clever, hilarious and wise, Mary and Max is a sublime movie of warmth and compassion about life's dissonances. The animation is superb, the characters are endearing, the humour is abundant, and it honestly and thoroughly explores several topical themes. If American Beauty director Sam Mendes collaborated with Aardman Animations, the product would be something like Mary and Max.Based partly on Elliot's own life experiences, Mary and Max is a feature about two people leading a mundane existence on the fringe of society; finding solace only in their heartfelt pen-pal letters to each other. Mary Daisy Dinkle (voiced by Bethany Whitmore and Toni Collette) is a chubby, friendless 8-year-old living in the suburbs of Melbourne with her neglectful parents. One day, Mary randomly selects a name from the Manhattan phone book and writes a letter to him. She chooses Max Horovitz (Hoffman); a severely obese 44-year-old Jewish man with Asperger's Syndrome living in the chaos of New York City. It turns out they have a lot in common - beyond loneliness and a complete lack of friends, they share a love of chocolate and a TV show called The Noblets. Thus begins a 20-year correspondence, with their friendship surviving more than the average diet of life's ups and downs.There's plenty of playful narration (almost constant) courtesy of Aussie legend Barry Humphries which gives the film the feel of a children's tale, but Mary and Max is not for kids. The movie doesn't shy away from covering an array of mature, confronting issues, such as depression, sexuality, suicide, obesity and mental illness. Unlike most mainstream movies in which friendship saves the day and everybody is happy, Mary and Max is unmistakably dark - both physically dark, and dark in its depiction of reality. Max is never able to lose weight, and Mary can never escape the shadow of her parents. Mary eternally resides in her brown-tinged Melbourne suburb, while Max's New York City is depicted as a grey metropolis whose only bright colours are those that come from Mary (a red pompom, for instance). The predominantly colourless and ominous cityscape of NYC is clearly symbolic of Max's melancholy, mental distress and isolation. The ending in particular underlines the film's dark disposition; showing that in real life there may be happy middles, but happy endings are almost non-existent. But despite this, Mary and Max is by no means a highly depressing venture; it's a cinematic delight, with its downbeat content matched by constant laughs, a super- abundance of heart, and several deeply moving moments. Somehow, all of this is squeezed into an 85-minute timeframe, which at times feels longer due narrative simplicity and the occasional pacing issues. This is probably to be expected, however, as Elliot has only previously worked on shorts.Even though a mere claymation short could take up to a year to create, old-school animators such as Adam Elliot and his team display a palpable affection for this approach. Mary and Max spent a total of five years in the making, with six dedicated animation teams working under Elliot's direction in a converted factory in Melbourne, and each team creating an average of 4 seconds of footage per day. A huge kudos to Adam Elliot and his claymation team for creating such a vivid, picturesque world here, with the grim landscape evoking a film-noir feel. Every one of the characters, created from plasticine, is intricately and lovingly detailed. The detail does generate the illusion that we're watching a computer-animated movie, yet the painstaking claymation process affords a look, feel and soul that has yet to be replicated through computers. One must have patience and passion to undertake a stop-motion feature of such scale, and these are two qualities Adam Elliot infinitely exerts.Another tremendous pleasure of Mary and Max is the voice cast; a cornucopia of vocal talent from across the globe. Without a doubt, Philip Seymour Hoffman has proved one of the most versatile actors of recent years with his exceptional vocal work (Capote, anyone?), and he's virtually unrecognisable here. This is, of course, the true essence of voice acting - a viewer should not be given the chance to focus on the actor providing the voice, but instead the character they are voicing. Meanwhile Bethany Whitmore is effortlessly endearing as the young Mary, and Toni Collette is pitch-perfect as Mary in her later years.Through an immense artistry as well as an evident maturity emanated by the makers, Mary and Max affirmatively and genuinely answers a potent question: is there someone for everyone? In adulthood, we understand that we're born into our families but choose our friends, and the 20- year friendship between these two vastly different yet curiously similar individuals proves the theory. Adam Elliot's ambitious first feature- length claymation movie is an absolute delight, merging witty laughs with heartfelt emotion to generate this genuinely moving slice of animation. Mary and Max is, at least for this reviewer's money, the best animated motion picture of 2009 (yes, better than Up). After the terrific Harvie Krumpet and now this, it's clear Elliot is a highly talented filmmaker one should keep an eye on in future years.


                
"Mary and Max" is not your typical animation. The audience for it is not the children but instead very mature cinephiles! With themes like death, mental illness, friendship, parenthood, society structures and so on, it's an amazing experience that you must watch immediately!Watch out for the exceptional score and songs of the Picture!


                
Mary Daisy Dinkle (Bethany Whitmore/ Toni Collette) is an unfortunate 8-year old living in Mount Waverly Australia in 1976. Her mother is an alcoholic, chain-smoking kleptomaniac and her father is a reclusive blue collar worker who attaches the strings to tea packets. Mary has no friends. Despite having an unfortunate birthmark on her forehead and generally being teased and bullied by the other children at school, Mary is an incredibly curious child that is keen on learning everything she can about the world.One day while her mother is out 'borrowing' supplies from the local post-office, Mary hits upon the idea of writing someone on the other side of the world to ask whether or not babies come from the same place as they do in Australia. According to her grandfather, who has recently passed away at the start of the film, babies come from the bottom of beer glasses, a fact that Mary is utterly intrigued by and one she is compelled to explore further. After randomly selecting a prospective pen-pal in New York City, she sends her crudely scribbled inquiries to a Mr. Max Jerry Horowitz (Phillip Seymour Hoffman), as well as a bar of chocolate. Max is a morbidly obese, middle-aged Jew-turned-Athiest that lives alone at the top of a decaying domicile. He attends Overeaters Anonymous meetings and is prone to severe anxiety attacks. Plagued by his eccentricities and his inability to form meaningful relationships with anyone, Max is gripped by a sudden uncontrollable panic attack after reading Mary's letter. Eventually he responds to his new pen-pal and the two begin a correspondent friendship that last several decades.I believe Mary and Max to be one of those rare treasures you stumble upon accidentally and never quite forget. Its an absolutely beautiful story rich in both the mastery and detail of the animation and also memorable character development. Elliot does a superb job of crafting characters that are ultimately shaped by their idiosyncrasies. Also the atmospheres he create for both Mary and Max make you fully appreciate the respective isolation felt by each title character. In one realm you have Max's noirish New York that represents his inherent pessimism and distrust. With Mary you have a muted Sepia feeling that represents parental neglect and abandonment.It's a clever black comedy that left me incredibly refreshed and pleased with my Saturday Night.Read this and other reviews on the DriveInZeppelin website


                
It's interesting to see how a friendship can be so deep and so well outlined, without the actual meeting of the two main characters. Even though pen friends, the bound between Mary and Max takes shape quickly, due to the lack of friends that both of them struggle with. But we can easily understand that this is not because of them, but because of the society: they are both caring and willing to give their advice to whoever wants or needs it.Brief, this is a story of two underrated members of two superficial communities who have the luck to find each other. The plot is sad and the ending is even sadder - but it makes you smile in the end, thinking that anyone can find a friend, exactly when they less expect.


                
Gosh, another Australian project that knows what it is and successfully escapes itself.The story is about a girl with structural limits: appearance, family, attitude.The media is stop motion, which brings its own structural limits. These are severe limits, because they straddle what we know as real and what we accept as fantasy. How to work with this? The choices a filmmaker makes in this medium are fascinating.Jan Svankmajer presents the result as moving museum art, dynamic dioramas. He can be too precious in that Eastern European way that produces needlework that frightens. Tim Burton, and Henry Selick ("Coraline," "James and the Giant Peach") pretend we are looking at illustrated books the way a child would. Nick Park treats the medium the way Walt Disney would, as a simple extrapolation from Donald Duck via way of Pixar. These guys decide not to tackle the simple fact that it is near impossible to elicit real emotion via this form.Only the Quay Brothers and Christiane Cegavske ("Blood Tea and Red String") make the commitment to create worlds by allowing the characters to inhabit them in a way that inhabitants are worldcreators. They affect a bizarre Victorian metaphors but this is because Lewis Carroll is the genius of this technique and not because the era has any intrinsic advantage. There are powerful and worldchanging moments in these works. But the viewer is asked to make a commitment that few will.All lucid stop-motion filmmakers face this set of decisions about how to overcome the limits of the medium. If you are writing a story while struggling with this, what is foremost in your mind? Especially if you are Australian, is a society that for some reason is introspective in art? You will produce a "folded" story: one where the subject of the story reflects the form of the story. We have a girl in Australia who is obsessed with a successful TeeVee show, also stop motion. It is her fantasy world, the movie within the movie. She faces many challenges in simply surviving. She has a pen pal, and successfully writes her way out her limits, first by writing a book about her viewer's physiological limits. (More about this in a minute.) And then by getting a genuine expression of emotion from him in the form of a complete set of figures from the inner film. She triumphs, has child (all this is pretty overt folding) and finally visits the world of her pen pal to discover that she not only affected him, but was effectively his whole emotional life. The medium is mastered.The two actors chosen are among our very few who understand folded characterization.This half of the project is fascinating in the normal way that these nested, introspective things are, and is worthwhile. But it is the other half that is amazing.Mary is our filmmaker, and Max our viewer. Us.Half of the problem a filmmaker faces is the limits of her medium, and the other half the limits of the viewer. Most of us are emotional cripples, not inclined to work with an artist in a contract of world-building. We are afraid. Max is a citizen of the most urban and sophisticated city on the planet (in contrast to Mary's remote outpost). But he has Asberger Syndrome and is incapable of reading and processing emotion. This characterizes us viewers pretty well; our movie experiences are often exercises in avoiding truth. I found it rare and thrilling to see it explicit in this nested work, which is superficially sweet but essentially damning.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
Although the clay animation it was, the shining spot of the film would never be underestimated, at least in my mind. It was really a unique, personal and wonderful animation film this year and later! For Adults, the more stuffs will be conveyed if the more life experience watchers had been passed through. It shows how irreplaceable and constant is the friendship of our human being, and shows how far-reaching is our relationship to us. The aside of the film keeps great appealing to the watchers, and some scripts are also full of ironic humour and sensibility. I recommended this animation strongly! Thanks for the producers giving us such a great moving film!


                
I suppose, as I have never written a review before, I don't know if any of you will find this useful. I think this movie deserves a review.So Mary and Max left one of the sweetest, but also painful marks on my chest I have ever come by. The characters were bought to life using stop-motion. Where did stop-motion go? It really adds to a film. Everything was very detailed and you grew to love the characters, because they weren't perfect. They were imperfect. And the imperfection, even though the story was narrated the whole time, was what really made me fall in love with the characters.So much hurt happens throughout their 20 years of friendship, and a lot of it seems relevant even today. But the movie also shows that there are always things to live for. Even if it is only one person.Australia has always made great movies and television shows. Most of them are always pushing the boundaries, and a bit of that humor shines though in this movie also.I highly recommend this movie to anyone that will watch. It is certainly not a kids movie so don't get it for your kids! This movie will make you laugh, cry and give you all the warm fuzzies.9/10


                
Do not let yourself get thrown off by the brilliant, but rather cutesy animation; this is not a movie for children. It is, however, the perfect movie for a teenager or adult ready for an exploration into solitude, loneliness, and simply being completely misunderstood by everyone around you. It made me reminisce about times in my childhood - putting a new perspective on events and emotional states that confused me when I was young. The animation is detailed, yet often appears drab and dark much like a rainy day (this does fit with the emotions put forth by the film). Mary's world in Australia appears in mostly shades of brown whereas Max's world in New York City appears in shades of grey. Do not be expecting a cheery film, but be ready for an amazing piece of film making.


                
I was tempted to give this film ten stars, but "Mary and Max" seems to give the message that Aspies and Autistic people shouldn't be "cured" in any way, which is not the case. I was lucky enough to watch this at a pre-release screening in Scotland and I must say I am very glad I watched "Mary and Max". Not only is it well-animated, but the ideas presented, the ironic, black humour and the storyline are simply spectacular. When I saw an advert for this film the animation reminded me of Tim Burton animations such as "The Nightmare Before Christmas", but it is a totally different from anything like that. There are many adult themes and black jokes presented in this film, meaning I would not recommend it for anyone under the age of twelve, simply because it is too good to misunderstand. I will continue this review by commenting on each of the aspects in turn.Dialogue and storyline: This film is very well written. The idea of a young girl writing to a 40 year old man with Asperger's is one which is not only very unexpected, but very clever. It allows not only an intelligent, at times funny script, but it also allows the viewer to understand more about Aspies and the world in general. Some of the humour included is very funny, but at the same time this film also has very sad parts. Overall, this film is not to be taken lightly.Animation and filming: This film is almost solely plasticine animation, which gives it an appropriately nostalgic style, along with the sepia and black and white filming. The life of the Australian girl is sepia, in browns like her birthmark and eyes. The life of the American is black and white, reflecting how gloomy most of his experiences are.Themes: The themes presented include: Asperger's Syndrome, Depression, Alcoholism, Homophobia, Communism, Psychology, Processed foods, Sweet foods, Blindness and Suicide, among many others. Some of these may not be apparent to younger or even very Aspie viewers, to truly understand this view one needs quite a wide knowledge of the world. The themes are either dealt with in a comic or melancholy way, each leaving its own imprint on the film and making it more entertaining.As I mentioned above, the only thing that I disliked about this film is how the makers hint that people with Asperger's should be left pretty much as they are. Some Aspies can do with therapy or guidance in life to make sure they cope with normal people. The therapist that Max has in this film is shown to be a bad therapist, but now there are many different methods for teaching Aspies and Autistic people how to become more normal, while still appreciating many of their Aspie traits.Overall I recommend this to anyone who wants more of an idea of people with Asperger's, Aspies themselves, or pretty much anyone over the age of 12 who can deal with a rather depressing film. I hope you find "Mary and Max" worth watching! :-)


                
Mary and Max is one of the darkest animated films I have ever seen. It deals with certain issues that are rarely dealt with in films, let alone animated ones. This is certainly not a kid's film, but it is a learning film. It tells the story of a lonely girl named Mary who lives with her problematic parents and who creates a friendship with a man named Max who lives across the world from her. The writing is incredible and it gives us so much insight into each of these characters' worlds. Thanks to the narration and the visually-amazing stop-motion animation, we are able to care deeply for these characters. By the time the final 30 minutes roll around, it begins to get darker and more sinister, simply because it shows us that it is the way the world gets as you grow up. The ending is very, very sad, but it rings a chord in every viewers' hearts I am sure. All in all, this is an honest and very true animated film about the life of two uncertain people. It is better than most animated films hope to be, and it is better than Pixar's Up. See this film, but not simply for entertainment or humor because you will get more than what you bargained for.


                
I used this movie in an addictions treatment program and the positive feedback after the men viewed this movie was staggering. A typical comment would run along the lines of: "I got more out of this movie than a month of therapy", or "This movie opened my eyes to what I needed". The long and the short of it is that this movie is very, very well done. I have watched it more times than I can count and I get something new from it on every watch.


                
Mary and Max never lets the viewer settle into a preconceived idea of how the story and characters will act based on the rotund and plump clay figurines who waddle about in the gorgeous and painstakingly detailed world of Adam Elliot's. It's not as smooth as a bigger budgeted animation piece like Wallace & Gromit is but the clay- mation is nevertheless enchanting. The depiction of two worlds apart in New York City and Lamington Drive, Australia consists of hundreds of miniature props and set pieces and even a fully functional tiny typewriter in which Max composes his letters to. The character and set design is whimsical and the film's voice-over, which dictates the majority of the plot points and exposition, is punctuated with absurdities, dark humour and bits of everyday questioning. At surface level, the premise of a middle aged, obese and lonely atheist with Aspergers syndrome being penpals with an equally lonely and bullied eight year girl is simple and easily dissected. The film, unlike many animations, is not bursting with colours or rainbows, instead washed in black and white or a murky brown, with the odd bit of red in the tongues or pom-poms or hair-clips. So that it itself hints at the darker nature of the film. Part of the charm and authenticity of the premise comes from the excellent voice acting from Max and Young Mary, by Philip Seymour Hoffman and Bethany Whitmore respectively. Hoffman's raspy, matter-of-fact voice over is carefully punctuated by pauses in his speech that indicate a simple, if not, curious mind. It's simultaneously a man who feels like time is running out in his life yet has all the time in the world for his only friend in the world. This makes him a perfect correspondence for Mary, where Whitmore's voice feels like a genuine child's not riddled with clichés and over-age understanding. She stumbles on the spelling of certain words and adds grammatical mannerisms of her own to the characterisation of her innocence and curiosity. Much like Max, she also experiences loneliness, and it is through this common emotion they find their connection. The soundtrack lends itself to both humour and drama throughout the film. Insignificant deaths like a mime being crushed by a air-conditioning unit or a careless father drowned at sea might be morbid in other films but become an eventuality in Mary and Max. The dark humour is created by the reactions of the characters, not by dialogue, but by clever sound design and facial animation which adds an air of absurdity to the scene. See the irony in the cuts between a whooshing falling air-conditioner unit and the soundless mime bracing for impact, or the outrageous cry of Max upon seeing cigarette butt littering, or the matter-of-fact way in which he admits guilt after farting in a public elevator. Penguin Cafe Orchestra's Perpetuum Mobile is the perfect theme for the film, introducing us to the setting as well as chiming in here and there again to remind us of a moment of character growth or determined action. It's a beautiful composition which gives a sense of time passing, and of the juxtaposition between sad and happy moments. Another strong and emotionally resonant moment uses musical cues to great effect, being Mary's attempted suicide. It's one of the few instances in the film where the camera actually moves away from it's rather pedestrian positioning and where digital effects are used to portray the last moments of Mary's life and the surreal experience of the old cliché where your life flashes before your eyes. Doras Day's old classic Que Sera, Sera (Whatever Will Be, Will Be) adds emotional depth and subtext to the moment, linking back to Mary's negligent upbringing and conjuring ideas of adulthood failure and lost friendship. Mary and Max's friendship is never face to face but shines throughout the brilliant screenplay which creates a connection through the bizarre, witty and oddities that they share. It's two remarkably curious perspectives of life and loneliness which bring them together. It's heartfelt and funny in it's dark humour (When I was young, I invented an invisible friend called Mr Ravioli. My psychiatrist says I don't need him anymore, so he just sits in the corner and reads); there's as much emotional resonance as there is comic relief. It treats it's darker topics of mental illness and suicide with maturity that often goes amiss in animation features. One might wonder how rapidly paced a friendship this might be had the film be set in more modern times with the accessibility of instant messaging and emails. Mary and Max however delivers a delightful little tale that's more than evenly paced.
In the tiny town of Mount Waverley in Australia, Mary Daisy Dinkle (Toni Collette) is a poor 8 years old friendless confused picked-on girl with an alcoholic mother and a cold father. She writes a letter to a complete stranger Max Jerry Horovitz (Philip Seymour Hoffman) in a Manhattan phone book. He's an overweight man who finds interacting with people confusing. He likes to eat chocolate hot dogs despite overeating anonymous. They begin a lifelong correspondent friendship as they struggle through their life.The dry off-center humor is quite effective. It does get some getting used to and this is not everybody's idea of comedy. The same goes for the beautiful ugliness of the black and white claymation. The story is so poignant and so touching. It gets to be quite heartbreaking and that song Perpetuum Mobile will always remind me of 'Mary and Max'.


                
Meet Mary, a shy, imaginative and sweet girl from Australia. She seems quite lonely and cannot depend on her parents for company as her father is a routined worker in a tea bag factory and her mother is an alcoholic. Mary owns a pet rooster and continues to live her life, when one day she gets the idea of writing to someone in New York for an answer to a question. Meet Max, a middle aged man, suffering from Aspergers' syndrome and has poor social skills and difficulty trusting people. His neighbour, his fish, and his imaginary friend are the only ones there for him. He lives a fulfilling life but does visit his doctor for moral support frequently. He receives Mary's letter and the two start to exchange gifts and letters and thus begins a great friendship. The two rely on each other for comfort and understanding. They help each other with their problems and many years pass on. Please watch this movie and you will understand that this is not just an animation but a reflection of the insecurities, guilt, grief that we all feel and want to share with someone to help us with. It is a tale of 2 unlikely friends and is worth a watch. You may interpret it differently but for me, it has a special place in my heart forever.


                
We live in an age of cookie cutter movies: action, romantic comedy, drama, thriller, you know what you're getting - it may be comforting both for the movie goer and the producers, but boy this decade stinks when it comes to original outstanding film - rather than a copy of a copy of a copy.Max and Mary is for those who admire the effort of originality. Telling with great humor, warmth, insight, and a certain darkness, and above all a unique style, it is the story of a small girl in suburban Australia, who is desperately lonely and an outsider, who, by random chance, befriends as a penpal a middle-aged Jewish Asperger: Max.This is not a charming film (though it has heart) it is a film about radical honestly, and a stark reminder that contact is what makes us human.The fact that it is also a true story just tops off a truly original piece of work. It should win awards for both style and content.


                
IMDb is great site. I was bored just looking at random movies I like and I get recommended to watch this movie and it's exactly a movie I deserved to watch. It's about two different people with similar depressing lives pen paling one another. A 44 year old man and a 8 year old girl. Sounds creepy right? Well why there is some weird type of humor that may be creepy to some for the most part you feel a wonderful bond between these two characters. I hardly ever cry in movies but this movie made me cry I suggest anybody who likes a good sad movie to see then watch this. You won't regret it. Brilliant writing. This movie is not for children. Not even sure teens can handle its depressing nature. Even as adult I could barely handle it but I still loved it.P.S.: Sorry for my bad grammar. P.P.S: Sorry for making you notice my bad grammar. P.P.P.S: I have never used a condom.


                
I knew very little about this film before seeing it; I knew it was animated and that it was an Australian film. Someone had mentioned it online, stating it was pretty good and so I added it to 'The List' and waited for it to appear. It finally did and I duly recorded it expecting some strange Aussie humour. To be honest, I wasn't quite sure what I was going to see when I hit the play button. Imagine my surprise when I found a wonderful, funny and deeply touching story, beautifully animated with such great characters. I would even go so far as to say I loved it! (And I don't say that often!). Rather than give a summary, I'll give you a very brief outline of what the film is about.Mary is a lonely eight year old girl who lives in the suburbs of Melbourne (Australia). One day she randomly picks a name from an American phone book she finds in the local post office. She writes to one Max Horovitz, a forty four year old man who lives in New York (USA<U+0085> that's just for balance). The unlikely pair strike up a friendship and write to each other on and off over the next twenty years. I really don't want to say too much more, but the film covers issues like loneliness, mental health, love and hate, it's all quite grown up, so not really one for the kids. I think I stopped just before the Spoiler Police wrapped me up and sent me to their pen pal<U+0085> in Alaska.The two main characters are fully rounded and you get a great sense of what they are feeling due to an excellent script and also to the voice talents of the actors playing their parts. So I must give praise to the voice talents of both Toni Collette as Mary Daisy Dinkle and Philip Seymour Hoffman as Max Jerry Horovitz. Also, the narrator, voiced by Barry Humphries had a great part to play, so a big chunk of praise going his way too.Made in the 'claymation' style favoured by the Ardman studio here in the UK (responsible for the likes of 'Wallace and Gromit' amongst others), I thought it was really well done. Lots of little visual gags in amongst the rather serious story that unfolds. It's witty, intelligent, charming, but there are also some serious messages in there. I found it quite touching at the end, but I can't really talk about the ending here. Over all<U+0085> HIGHLY Recommended.My score: 9.2/10.IMDb Score: 8.2/10 (based on 31,658 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score: 94/100 (based on 54 reviews counted at the time of going to press). Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score: 90/100 (based on 17,282 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).


                
This is a movie with a lot of themes and social issues. It has abuse, drug issues, rejection, bullying, divorce, death, people who are "disabled", and many others. This means this movie can move just about anyone, because it reaches out to so many subjects. Of course this means that the movie is very depressing, and can leave you really upset at times.On a note: this is not a kids movie. Just because it is clay animated, and has a mildly friendly title does not mean it is a kids movie. It has many mature themes in it, and has some nudity. So just kind of saying that. There are some jokes that are very subtle, but are pretty mature. Especially how Mary's dad gets "all the Teabags he wants". At first I didn't think it was a joke, but they put a lot of emphasis on it.The movie has a great soundtrack, while the main theme may be overused a little bit, it is still nice. This movie has a very nice visual appeal. Mary's world in Australia is shades of brown, white, red, and gray. While Max's world in New York is shades of black, white, and red. The movie keeps these colors except for only a couple of scenes. And the one scene in the movie that is in full color is arguably one of the saddest and most depressing scenes.The movie is about a young girl who has no friends, her father isn't paid much and he spends no time with his daughter. Her mom is a bit abusive, smokes a lot, drinks a lot and is really not nice at all. Mary decides to make a pen pal with some random person, and meets Max who lives in New York. He is obese and has Aspergers. It is interesting seeing his view on the world, and sort of how he thinks. Kind of an eye opener. The plot revolves around their notes to each other and how their lives change because of their friendship with each other, so the movie does have slower parts about halfway through and can get a bit boring.Either way Mary and Max is a beautiful film that will most likely depress you after watching it. The ending could be seen a mile away, but it was still good.


                
Their friendship begins with a random letter and evolves to a close relation. Although it has some depressing scenes everyone can watch it. Because of it's emotional intensity it makes you feel different. The animation that has a pessimist atmosphere but the theme of Friendship can be worked up quite successfully. Sometimeswe can become entangled in contradictions just like Max. Director wanted to mention about this situation. Depressing scenes affected me too much. I was surprised at the animation because it was like real life. Musics between the scenes are really good and on time and well-advised. I noticed that there was little comedy item but it is considerably important for me because when we are extremely sad and in depression we need all of them because they help me. Mary lives in her own world and own designed toys that I really admired. She has desserts and cream and his own life that in loneliness. Max is really interesting man because of chocolate in the bread etc. Our characteristics can be changed and sometimes come to a halt and This situation can cause bad experiences in our lives. It is good to see this examples in animations. LOVE YOURSELF FIRST Mary and Max's common point was it. The thing that strengthen their friendship is that. They accepted themselves with their defects. Nothing is excellent in the life because life is defective. To be happy we must learn how to live with our faults.The film's themes including childhood neglect, teasing, loneliness, autism, obesity, depression and anxiety. The funniest scene is that eating chocolate with bread and Max was the most suitable type and I really liked it beside this Mary's mother is an other fascinating character on the other hand her red lips and cigarettes support each other's features. I really recommend it everybody. My vote is 10/9 You won't be bored while watching it.


                
Take one disillusioned Australian child called Mary and one mentally deficient New York adult called Max add to that a script that manages to be poignant, humorous and moving all at the same time and animate it as if Robert Crumb worked for Aardman making Wallace and Gromit for adults and you have 'Mary and Max'. A film so special and made with so much care and attention that not only is it one of my films of the year it has instantly become one of my favourite films of all time. Its not very often you feel such a strong attachment to characters in a film that spending an hour and half with them just isn't enough, its even stranger when they are not even real. But in that is where the genius of this film shines through, by taking two opposite ends of the spectrum on two opposite sides of the world it shows that space, age, distance and time actually don't make us all that different and problems are problems no matter who or where you are. In the accidental blossoming of their pen pal friendship the two main characters teach each other so much and show us the viewer the powerful nature of the human spirit. Bursting with ideas and an attention to detail that even extends to the colouring you can't fail to fall in love with this movie. In a sea of blockbuster dirge it's amazing to actually see a film this good could make it to the surface, my advice if you see one film this year make it this one, you will not be disappointed.


                
I'm sure why this film was never popular or well-recognized. It's just so good. I accidentally found it and felt like discovering treasure. It's so original. Totally in love with it and wonder why haven't they make more like it.


                
Imagine a full moon night soft sand under your feet, waves gently lapping the shoreline, that's what this movie is. Just finished watching it, eyes swelling and kleenex out..won't bore you with words besides just watch.


                
