Dexter will never disappoint. Each and every episode is a work of art, and it never gets boring or old. To start, we have excellent deliveries from Michael C. Hall as the serial killer (yet a like-able one) known as Dexter Morgan. Add "The Excorcism Of Emily Rose" star Jennifer Carpenter, who plays Dexter's sometimes moody sister, Deb.It's a hard accomplishment to get someone to actually love a serial killer. But Dexter is one of those few attempts that works. It's not forced upon you- the show doesn't shove the whole "well this serial killer had a terrible childhood..." in your face. And it doesn't need to in order to get you to love its main character. You just do.Michael C. Hall can play any emotion he's handed. Jennifer Carpenter fits her character perfectly, as does everyone else in the cast.Then there's the actual story lines. It's not cliché. It's actually scary and chilling. It keeps you guessing. It's one of those mysteries that is very difficult to solve, but it still keeps your interest.'Dexter' can also be hilarious when it wants to be, depressing when it wants to be and especially thrilling when it wants to be. And it doesn't come across as trying too hard.Strong writing, clever dialogue, talented stars. It all makes for a wonderful TV show. Definitely the best new show of the season and will become one of the best shows of all time.


                
Dexter is the show I have been waiting for my whole television watching life! The complex and damaged characters, the twisted plot line and Dexter's foster dad grooming him, educating him, to make him the perfect avenger,its all so intoxicating! I am breathlessly anticipating the next episode. This show is not only well acted, with each and every main character holding my full attention, but written with such deep intensity that I find it absolutely irresistible! I really find it difficult to wait and see more of how Dex was traumatized as a child, more of Harry's lessons, more of the growing relationship with Rita, more of the ice truck killer, more forensics...More of this great show period. Kudos to all involved...this show will surely be a huge hit!


                
I read Lindsay's excellent books - Darkly Dreaming Dexter and Dearly Devoted Dexter - some time ago, and when I heard that there was to be a series based on the books, I was extremely excited. So much so, in fact, that I feared disappointment merely because my standards were so high.Thankfully, "Dexter" absolutely delivers. The show maintains the uncomfortable atmosphere of the novels with better fidelity than one could ever have expected, and Dexter (played by Hall) is all there.The visual elements from the show are stunning, to say the least. Disturbing, certainly, but more than that - fascinating. Watching the show, it's impossible to keep from finding a certain agreement in oneself for Dexter. He's a monster, and yet it's completely possible to identify with him.10 out of 10. This one has a permanent spot on my DVR.


                
Absolutely brilliant. True to Jeff Lindsay's books. The visual contrast between the darkness of Dexter's secret life and and the gloss of Miami adds an almost surreal quality. Character development is right on the money, bringing out the background slowly so one can see the development of Dexter's sociopath personality and his confusion of human behavior compared to his own. Dexter is an actor in his own life; his relationships between co-workers and his personal life are well shown in the video media. The fact that he is a blood splatter expert This is a dark work, but set in the bizarre world of life in Miami is almost believable. Developers of this series should also look to Andrew Vachss's books.


                
Dexter, a forensics expert at day, serial killer with a touch of vigilantism at night. Dexter is creating a believable and very detailed portrait of a, lets say troubled, sociopath. One of the parts about the show I like best is the emotions that normal people exhibit, thus forcing Dexter to mimic them. Good laugh when the emotions Dexter fake get real, and he is scared out of his mind, like in the relationship with his "girlfriend" Rita, mother of two and victim of her abusive ex-boyfriend. Also liked the acting of Jennifer Carpenter as Dexter's sister Debra, adds a nice touch colour to the show, without drifting into clichés.Thrilling story, many details, and one of the best opening sequences ever.


                
HBO Actors, HBO Directors, HBO Writers, and Showtime's willingness to take risks that HBO might not see as profitable these days (Carnivale + Deadwood R.I.P.) make for a killer combination in "Dexter," the new Sho Comedy/Drama about a Serial Killer Killing Serial Killer (you read right). In my opinion, Showtime has always had a hard time producing an original series that's truly original and good, so it's incredibly refreshing to see the network pull such a "Hail Mary" move and come out on top. "Dexter" is, without spoiling anything, an excellent vehicle for Michael C. Hall, and explores the inner monologue of a Serial Killer in a way that has never been approached before without seeming too predictable or hokey. Watch it and you will not be disappointed. You'll even want to watch the next episode, which says a lot considering the network. I just hope they don't screw it up.


                
Although I am not a regular proponent of serial television shows, the eclectic, in-depth storyline and character development in Dexter are far beyond what I expected from Showtime or any network other than HBO. Dexter is a unique insight into the mind of a serial killer protected by his occupation as well as the lessons derived from his father's teachings. By having a resounding premise of catching a notorious serial killer while trying to conceal his own identity, Dexter enters each week with a new sociological dilemma as well as a new criminal to dispatch. What is best about Dexter is his own personal facade of trying to be normal. While other characters in the show are obviously dysfunctional, the audience are privileged to see the flaws of Dexter while people within his own world cannot. Darkly humorous, well-paced, and morbidly addictive Dexter is the best show of 2006, without a doubt.


                
Dexter is hilarious; it is easily the best new show on TV! Dark, dry humor crops up in the most unexpected places, and the settings and dialogue are laced with CSI's pseudo-scientific appeal. While the show may appear to treat standard morality as irreverent, it is actually an excellent study of humanity at its best -- and worse.The character of Dexter, a disassociated, psychopathic serial killer, is somewhat reminiscent of Data, the android in the Star Trek series. Dexter is devoid of normal, human emotion, and has to learn behaviors by rote. Seeing the world through his eyes enables us to closely examine what is "right" and what is "wrong." We have to pause and wonder about our own perception of reality.Overall, the show is a side-splitting outlet for the vigilante/serial killer/dysfunctional being in all of us. Well done!


                
This is going to be my first ever review on IMDb, there is not a day when I do not visit IMDb to check the reviews about movies or TV series that I watch, I watch lots of movies and series.For the first time in my life it happened to me that I could not sleep after watching a series. I have seen prison break, heroes and a lot other. Prison break and heroes first season was awesome. They inspired me so much that I got some tattoo's done on my body. However both these series cut loose as soon they go to the next season. Heroes was big disappointment but DEXTER.. OMG series after series it starts to make me so curious about the next episode.. damn the season 4. I just could not sleep the whole night after watching it. I spent my weekend watching the episodes back to back.To start with Dexter (Michael C. Hall) his darkness was off the edge he played the role so well that sometimes I wonder if he is the same in his real life but then I found that Debra Morgan (Jennifer Carpenter) is his real wife who is playing his sister in this series. Damn Debra is one character who is so confused and mostly been controlled by the people around her, she always end up doing something wrong but always gets credit for the good things too.I love the part when you get to know what is going on in Dexters mind when he thinks about something or when someone is talking to him also the part when he talks to his dead father Harry. (he just thinks what his dad would say in that situation). All the episodes/characters and all the seasons are written and played so well that you can hardly find any flaw in it.My favorite characters are Dexter (Quite obvious), Rita and Vince Masuka damn Vince is so funny, he just utter one word in his entire episode and comes out to be damn funny.I just cant wait for the Season 5 and I am sure whosoever watched dexter feels the same way just like I did.(Apologizes in case my first review has some mistakes and offends somebody's feelings)


                
I've just seen the finale of season 5 of Dexter and man...! What a series! This is writing at his best! I just love Michael C. Hall plays his part. His does it so well, it completely let you forget that he played the role of David in Six Feet Under (my favorite of all time-series!). And all the characters in the five seasons are really wonderful, but I especially liked Julia Stiles. She's playing her part very nice!! Lithgow in season 4 does his part only as he can do and it works fine for me! Can't wait 'till he returns! (he must return!!) Here in Holland "Dexter" airs on a non-commercial canal en mostly about 23.00 h. at night. Nobody in Holland heard of this series, unless they watch in online or on DVD. And that's a pity... I can't wait until season 6.... Keep on the good work!


                
I recently bought Season 1 of Dexter in an attempt to finally find a show worthy of replacing The Sopranos as my number one TV drama obsession. Boy, did I find it. Despite taking a few episodes to really get going, Dexter unfolds superbly, bringing its many plot twists together to form a tightly woven package with highly skilled performances and excellent writing.The central performance of Michael C. Hall is always riveting, as this compelling actor enables us to understand, and even sympathize with, his many predicaments. His attempts to juggle his carefully-constructed, idyllic domestic life with his code-driven nightly stalkings and executions form the central interest of this enthralling series. This is one of the great many reasons why The Sopranos was so impressive; watching Tony struggle with the demands of fulfilling his dual familial role of father and mob boss was the essence of the series, and from this, other strands were allowed to develop. Dexter also has this quality, one of many qualities, it must be added.The writing, as has been mentioned, is razor-sharp. The characters are rich and alive with personality, and as the first series develops so too do the character arcs. Lieutenant LaGuerta and Dexter's sister Deborah, in particular, are well-rounded, multi-dimensional creations, and they are played to perfection by Lauren Velez and Jennifer Carpenter, respectively. There is a palpable sense of tension and excitement as the walls begin to close in on Dexter, and this reaches boiling point in Season 2. The plot is never less than intriguing, and careful and intelligent use of flashbacks allow us to gradually learn more and more about the monster(?) that is Dexter. The editing and camera-work keep a good pace to proceedings, and the lighting is always excellent, especially in the disturbing night scenes.The impressive opening sequence is particularly noteworthy in its use of extreme close-ups that show a man doing seemingly normal, everyday tasks to put himself together, but if one looks beyond these mundanities a much darker picture will be revealed. The music is eerily effective here, and maintains a high level of quality throughout - always tense, and evocative of the given situation.So: uniformly excellent acting, sharp dialogue, well-developed characters, intelligent plotting, creative and absorbing camera-work, and a deliciously dark humour make Dexter one of the best shows on TV right now, and further proof that the last 10 years has been the golden age for dramatic television.


                
All my friends kept telling me how great this show was, but I never made time to watch it.Finally started watching it from the beginning, and was hooked immediately - GREAT writing, GREAT acting, great storyline. Never expected to find a cable show about a serial killer that actually had any depth.Never watched "six feet under" but Michael C. Hall is so good in Dexter that I'm thinking of watching SFU just to see if he was as good in that series.Kudos to all the folks involved. Can't wait for season 4!


                
I'm just going to break this down by season, keep it simple.Season 1 / 9/10: Brilliant opening season. Awkward Dexter is best Dexter, and you're really inside the characters head. The second best antagonist throughout the series is also featured here, with strong performances all round. The writing is great, the humour is even better, and the whole season fits together. I honestly can't pick one quote for this incredible season, but if I had to... ''You can't be a killer and a hero... it doesn't work that way!''Season 2 / 9/10: The premise of the BHB investigation is solid, and the investigation ran by Doakes on Dexter is even better. The way the season unravels is great, besides the slight deus ex Lila in the finale. Unfortunately, the finale isn't as good as the episodes before it in terms of tension. Besides that, another brilliant season. ''I just know there's something dark in me and I hide it. I certainly don't talk about it, but it's there always, this Dark Passenger. And when he's driving, I feel alive.''Season 3 / 8/10: I love this season, though it was never going to live up to Season 1/2. It's very important in terms of the character development of Dexter Morgan. Jimmy Smits is great, but the side plot and antagonist were only good, and not great, unlike in past seasons. ''I killed my brother... I killed yours too.''Season 4 / 10/10: This is the final season in my eyes, and it has a fitting enough ending for me to be satisfied with to call a series finale. John Lithgow is terrifying. The writing is sharp. Lundy's death is shocking. Rita's death is beyond shocking. Everything about Season 4 is on point. ''I thought I could change who I am, keep my family safe. But it doesn't matter what I do, what I choose... I'm whats wrong. This is fate.''I really don't feel like reviewing Seasons 5-8. It's not that 5,6 and 7 are bad, it's just that they completely destroy the character of Dexter. They give a psychopath feelings, and that's a MAJOR misstep. This is all the result of Clyde Phillips leaving the show, and he being replaced by incompetent writers.Season 5 / 7/10: Straight up bad ending. Characters forgetting they have evidence against a serial killer. Terrible villains. Writing is still surprisingly good.Season 6 / 6/10: Writing is straight up bad. The protagonist is terribly portrayed and written. Terrible twist in episode 9. Great ending, but that's about it.Season 7 / 7/10: It would be higher rated, but it is ruined by Hannah's inclusion, and the death of Isaak way too early.Season 8 / 2/10: Terrible. Treadmills. Dumping loved one's in the ocean. Standing outside a cafe, stalking a serial killer, and wondering why he saw you when you stood in one place for AN ENTIRE HOUR. TERRIBLE SEASON. SCOTT BUCK SHOULD NEVER GET WORK AGAIN. Utterly atrocious.It's a great ride watching all 8 seasons, but if you really love the show and really respect the character, you'll probably only watch seasons 1-4 if you decide to rewatch.
First of all, I would like to note that I'm not really the guy who likes to write comments on TV-shows, movies or anything like that. I prefer to watch a particular movie or show and move on. However, I find my self writing this comment and while doing that I realize that it is only a show like Dexter, or these few that are equally of quality to this one.To see Michal C. Hall return on the screen every episode is just something I'm totally looking out for. This is from the moment when I first watched the show. Now I'm going to be honest, I live in the Netherlands and so Showtime is not available here. One of our national networks told us that they have plans to broadcast Dexter this year starting with season one. I keep following Dexter on the net through the so inevitable but unfortunately called "illegal" ways. This I'm doing since the end of season two when my brother told me about the show. By that time, no one of my friends ever heard of this show. At the end of season three, we kind of where making appointments with my friends to specifically watch a particular episode of Dexter. Me myself most of the times am getting up at 4 am just to be first to download it when ever it is released. Then later on the day, have some good time with my friends enjoying this magnificent show. Even two of my girlfriends love the show, and these are not really the girls where you would expect it from. Embrace the effect of Dexter on my life, my friends their lives all our lives. Or like the tag line says, "Takes life. Seriously" It sure as hell took my life, seriously!To go a little deeper on why I think it is such a great show has the following reasons. Personally I just like crime and police shows. As long as it is no where like CSI Miami, CSI NY or CSI season 258. That I don't like. I like a show to be original, a show with a sick twist even better. For instance, "Californication" in my opinion, Original, nice and has in a way that same sick twist like Dexter has. (alright both made by Showtime, true) If you like the show in a way I do then you might agree that after a few episodes you connect with Dexter in way like it is normal. Some regular guy from two blocks further who has a good job at where ever that maybe.It is the possibility that it could be your friend, your neighbour or maybe a family member. Of course, this has all to do with the personal view you get from Dexter. Any other serial killer in any other show most of the times only share there motives for slaughtering there number of people. For instance, there are not many nice serial killers in the show "Criminal Minds".So I guess it is his lovely wife Rita, played far beyond excellent by Julie Benz or his "damaged-in-her-own-way" sister Debra played by his real life wife, Jennifer Carpenter. The smaller but surely not lesser roles like Vince Masuka, Angel Batista and his other colleagues which make the series so complete. It is that doing his all day routines with out really pulling attention of anyone in his surroundings of who he really is. The idea that it actually could be possible to kill bad people, slaughter them, enjoy it and still get away with it. The series are original, one of a kind... "A Showtime masterpiece"


                
When I watched the first few episodes of Dexter, I was not impressed to say the least. But boredom pushed me into watching the rest of season one; and my god, it was the best decision I have ever made.The show is full with surprises and unexpected twists, you never know what will happen next, or how it will happen. It keeps you on the edge of your seat. And to spice it up, throw in a couple of a dark humor here and there, and you got yourself one of the best TV shows ever.Dexter is a brilliant character, portrayed beautifully by Michael Hall. It's not easy to like a serial killer, it's even immoral; but he has this sort of attraction that you can't dodge. You'll immediately fall in love with the character as he is one of a kind.Debra is perfect for a secondary role, she's somewhat the complete opposite of Dexter, and her outgoing, not-afraid-to-say anything personality makes her character shine.In the end, Dexter is a terrific TV show, and I urge everybody to go watch it.


                
I don't really give the perfect 10/10 rating to a lot of titles unless they really blow me away. This blew me away and still continues to do so.I am new to Dexter (only watched a couple seasons so far) and I didn't know what to expect when I first watched the show. I was hoping for something I could watch weekly on TV without worries at all. I decided to buy the show on DVD so I bought the first two seasons and wow. In case you don't know what Dexter is, Dexter is about a Miami blood splatter analyst named Dexter Morgan (who is played by Michael C. Hall from Six Feet Under and Gamer). By day, he is, like I said already, a charming, funny and quite popular blood splatter analyst with the Miami Metro Police Department. At night, he's a serial killer murdering the criminals that got away. He also hangs out with his girlfriend, Rita (played by Julie Benz from Rambo (2008) and that No Ordinary Family show) and her two kids, Astor and Cody. His only family is his sister Deb (played by Jennifer Carpenter from Quarantine) who works at the Miami Police Department like Dexter as a cop.This show is fantastic! The acting all around is great! Michael C. Hall is phenomenal as Dexter. The way he portrays Dexter is the way any serial killer should be portrayed anywhere. The supporting actors are amazing as well. Jennifer Carpenter is great as foul mouthed Deb. Julie Benz is great as Rita making her a real 3 dimensional character. David Zayas and CS Lee (Zayas plays Batista and Lee plays Masuka)are great as well. They are great comic reliefs, especially CS Lee. The narration in the show is also great! I've never heard a narration that great in my life! The way Michael C Hall delivers his lines during the narration is, at times funny and terrifying. Each episode is really well written and keeps me attached the entire time. The dialogue is really good and seems like these are normal people having a normal discussion and it's not unrealistic at all!I think the only flaw I have with this is the beginning of season 2. It's really slow in the beginning but it picks up very quickly which I loved.Overall, there is nothing I can say that I haven't said already. The show is really dark, funny and addictive! I hope the next seasons are just as good or even better!
I'm based in the UK and just love this show.When they stopped NYPD Blue (and also stopped showing re-runs of this series in the UK), I just got very angry, it was as though something really good in life was taken away and not replaced by something equally as good. I must admit that there are probably some really good US drama series out there and I could get into them if I followed them from the beginning.I felt the same way when 24 stopped.Dexter fills the gap as far as I am concerned. It has humour, side soap opera type stories about the other characters in the series as well as the great Dexter storyline.I wait until the series comes out in a box set and then just watch them all in one go over 2 days (I did the same with 24 but over 3 days), it's great entertainment and totally addictive.When I saw how they manage to finish each of the Dexter seasons with an amazing final episode, I just thought "you can't write this stuff"!Full marks to the story writers.I have a few criticisms which don't deter me at all from watching future seasons (I just pray to God that they don't stop this series). These are:1. Dexter needs to go out in disguise each time he sets out to kill someone (there always seem to be people out there with camcorders), also he could do with having a secret unregistered boat for when he dispenses with the bodies.2. Jennifer Carpenter is a bit of a ladette, with her swearing and manner, I don't think it would be the end of the world if her character is written off. Julie Benz was eye candy and we could do with someone as nice to look at and feminine in her manner.3. It was a shame Sergeant Doakes was written off in Season 2 but it did make sense, in that with his obsession with Dexter, there was bound to be a showdown eventually, if only they could have retained his character for a while longer. Detective Quinn is interesting though and replaces Doakes well.These are the only things I can think of at the moment.I love this show, God bless the writers and producers, please keep it going on forever.
First of all, I really want to say that I didnt get to watch this show because my friends wouldn't stop telling me how good it is like other people on here. I never even seen anyone on the internet saying it is a MUST watch. I just knew its a good show but never was interested. One night I finished Fargo and then I just browsed on hbogo and found this.Really good story, good acting, good production. The character of Dexter was really thrilling, fascinating, dark but at the same time very confident, friendly, happy and caring. I liked most seasons but I really hated season 6. All other seasons were great.Now, about the ending. It was horrible. One of the worst endings ever. But I want a spinoff definetly.


                
Very well wrote, very well played. Best in it's genre. Thank you for your genius acting, Michael C. Hall.


                
Dexter is the singular most addictive show ever. I stumbled upon it at the library last October and once I started just had to watch all five seasons straight through. When I finished I was so happily in awe of finding Michael C. Hall in another show of the caliber of Six Feet Under that I had to watch the entire five seasons through again.The balance of comedy, drama and thrill ride makes for a good show but the writing and acting are what makes this show beyond great. It did not surprise me to come on IMDb and see that it was rated 9.3 out of 10 with over 13,000 votes. This show truly takes you on a thrill ride one moment, has you laughing your ass off the next and then crushes you when Dexter experiences a serious loss.Jennifer Carpenter's character Deb is really wonderful as well. I've seen people criticize her interpretation of Deb but I feel like she's created a character that is truly one of a kind.I was blown away by John Lithgow's performance on the fourth season, he is such a spectacular and versatile actor. Getting to see Dexter experience coming face to face with the life that he thought no other serial killer lived, the life he is trying to live, one that includes a family despite his dark passenger, was bound to happen. It had to be written. But casting John Lithgow and watching him bounce between being a monster of insane strength and a cowering simp was brilliant.I cannot wait to see what season six holds in store and whether they will incorporate Lumen again. If the writers just let her disappear as though she can live through all of that and reintegrate into regular life then I think it will be a large disservice to her part of the story.
Michael C. Hall and Jennifer Carpenter are the absolute gems of this series. Both are incredibly accomplished thespians. They command every scene they are in. The writing and direction are 5 stars. As it is with practically every long running series, the ending is always difficult to portray effectively. We will never know what was going thru the minds of the producers and writers with respect to the last two seasons. Suffice to say, something drastic ensued. Not the same level of outstanding, dynamic writing of seasons 1 - 6. Someone in charge dropped the ball.
However, the first 6 are the very best it gets, up there in the stratosphere.


                
I have never reviewed a series yet and this series changes that, i also never got to see this until 2018 and binge watched it from start to finish and i am so glad i discovered and watched this and just hugely gutted its ended.SO many on the cast list to mention but obviously the main character Dexter played by Micheal C Hall is just super and exceptional in his role as a friendly serial killer we all hate to love.Dexter is a Blood Splatter Analyst for Miami police and as a young child witnessed the murder of his mother and this has turned his mind, made him what he is, made him hate the bad and punish using the code he's father taught him. Well its almost a perfect follow of that code as the odd mistake can and does happen. Dexter has a close relationship with his sister Debra played by Jennifer Carpenter. Both play their roles out and with other Miami Metro police officers as their friends the stories are great.Dexter has a main killing code, to rid the world of murderers that have slipped the net of the justice system. sometimes Dexter has to change course, change his mind, abort and admit that he has got it wrong either with who he has just killed or who he should have killed, either way its a bloody end for most.We move from season to season with a different subject but all around the introduction and goodbyes from each seedy character and its never boring. I found some of it so frustrating as i was half on the edge of my seat egging Dexter on to just finish the bad character off, and finally getting my just desserts as another one bit the dust.i really wish it didn't have to end as it really was the best TV series i have watched, it has excitement, suspense, grit, anger, love, joy, mystery and fulfilment in the entire 8 seasons. i was never bored and loved each of the 96 episodes individually for different reasons. well acted, well worth the watch.


                
How can I explain Dexter thrilling, riveting exciting one of the greatest TV shows of all time that is Dexter. Please make a season 9


                
Want to erase my memory and watch it again,,,,,,,,


                
I have seen the whole show now and I think it's amazing. So when i discovered there were even bad reviews i couldn't believe what i saw. Did they even watched the same show I did? And I read something about Dexter being a sociopath, that's also just completely rubbish. For people who only watched the first season or just a couple of episodes of that season might think that but if you watch the whole show then you would know that isn't true at all or otherwise you don't know what the word sociopath means. He's a psychopath but if anyone saw his/her mother get murdered in front of him/her then i think that some other people would completely snap too. And for people who complain every time there is some violence in a show, just don't watch crime series. And it's just a show, it's not reality, so don't even start by saying that it says something about a person if they like this show.Anyway, back to "Dexter". I think this is a show that has a great concept that has never been used before. That's probably one of the reasons that this show made it to be so big. An other reason is that Michael C. Hall is a one of the best actors in the world, and he's also the perfect man to play Dexter Morgan. It's also a lot different from a lot of other crime series and that's a very good thing. Things like CSI or NCIS are complete garbage if you ask me. But Dexter is the opposite. It's inventive, has a great story, has also some funny moments and it's just not always the same thing like the most other crime series. I have to say i liked season 1,2 and 7 the most. Season 1 was just the best with Dexter's brother as the Ice-Truck Killer and season 2 with sergeant Doakes constantly on his ass. Season 7 i just liked because there are so much aspects in this season that make it good. First you have the Ukrainian mob, then you have the poisoner Hannah McKay who falls in love with Dexter and then you have also LaGuerta who still investigates the Bay Harbor Butcher case. It has enough ingredients to make it one of the best seasons of Dexter.So if you want to see a show that is interesting, innovative, funny and smart, you have to see this show! And if you don't like any violence in a show or just crime series , then just don't see them and don't review them. If it would be a bad show, then it deserves to have bad reviews, but this show deserves none.
