My biggest problem with this is that the entire show revolves around the audience having a sympathy for the main character Dexter and being absorbed with the mind-numbing "hooks" the show uses to interest the audience.The first episode opens to Dexter finding a bloodless body, and he has a feeling of awe toward the killer. For this show to be enjoyable, the audience also needs to have this awe at the "mystique" of watching a serial killer and seeing him go about his life and also enjoy the "clever" evasive answers the show consistently revolves the dialog around setting up. Another part similar to this is that they almost ruined the character "Sergeant Dokes" by claiming that he was something along the lines of an "elite super saiyan delta force black-ops CIA assassin terrorist" which was completely unnecessary and was only put in because they didn't want the audience to think that the 'amazing' Dexter would be challenged by any cop other than an ex-black ops superagent..The audience also needs to be appreciative of the similarities that Dexter pulls between his psychotic life and other people's life (you can usually spot these as he almost always says some corny one-liner narrative to himself when they occur) It's really hard to enjoy these when you can see right through them.I may be alone here but I have absolutely no sympathy for Dexter even though he kills criminals he is still a violent psychopath and a complete sadist, torturing his victims, through the speeches and the anticipation of death, before killing them, making him a disgusting person. In addition to this, all of the characters are remarkably shallow and unlikeable, and every time there is an office ego battle ala the ones that made me fast-forward through half of "24" I want to gauge my eyes out with an ice pick.Another nitpick is that in season 3 episode 2 I believe they jumped on the anti-pedo bandwagon which was one of the lamest sell-outs to revolve an entire episode around in the history of TV..If you can't see yourself becoming absorbed in the aforementioned 3 qualities that this show has to offer, avoid it at all costs.
I cannot believe this terrible series is rated as high as it is and so many people praise it to the skies. 9.1? Should ideally be 1.9.Dexter is one of those classic "American-American" TV shows that celebrates serial killers and the knife/gun wielding American hero. It is a propaganda piece that has unfortunately been accepted by some intelligent people as well.I confess I watched only the first season but even giving time for a whole season to this crappy show meant I just had too much time in my hands. But it was more than enough for me to asses it as a very pseudo- intellectual show that only deserves brickbats. The plot is very unpleasant and stupid at the same time, the story moves slowly and one feels no attraction to any of the characters. Dexter is just...there. The writers try so hard to make his love interest Rita come across as the tortured poor woman that it just looks pathetic. And the other characters are just STUPID. On that note, a dialogue that comes to mind for me is Dexter saying "If I had a heart, it would be breaking right now." PUKE-WORTHY. Talk about lack of subtlety. I have seen some seriously dumb shows in my life, but not all of them take themselves as seriously as Dexter. These guys have this misguided sense that they are creating a masterpiece. And that only makes it worse because they are so NOT.


                
The basic premise of the show, a serial killer killing serial killers is fine. It's the rest of it that really is a let down. As I hate spoilers, I'll just say that the basic problem with the show is the writing. Aside from Dexter himself the rest is just filler. So overall a show let down by the "extra's" and each season could have been done with a 2-hour movie. And here is an idea they might play with. Instead of his sister trying to "do" everyone including you-know-who why not have her chief suspect for one of Dexter's murders (and remember all of them are unsolved) and they only way to save her from the chair is for Dexter to come clean at the expense of losing his son for ever. Just a thought.
Dexter is yet another one of those shows that has so much hype spread over it, it can but fail to deliver.Dexter is devoted to getting good press and good reviews, not to getting good audience numbers or subscribers to Showtime.In other words, it's pretentious, forced, silly and more than a little annoying for anyone not into trying to appear "cool" to their friends in the media.Dexter is also failing miserably to build an audience, despite Showtime's repeated efforts at promoting it.Maybe it's not getting audiences because it's really not a good show.


                
Dexter kills bad people and then works as a forensics investigator. I asked a fan what happens if he murders someone who is evil but actually it turns out they were completely innocent. They said "He never does that." Well maybe the writers should explore that one, though judging from what I've seen, it would not bother him at all. Dexter lacks the charm, wit and humor of "Kind Hearts and Coronets" (a classic British comedy about a serial killer). Maybe this is because the Dexter character abuses and tortures his victims which would only please a sadist, but no matter how bad the characters are, I hope the series ends somewhat akin to the cleverness of "Kind Hearts and Coronets", with the Dexter character caught and sentenced but a twist sets him free only until a final twist of fate outwits him. Dexter also lacks the goal, crazy as it may be, of the British character.
I usually go by IMDb ratings to pick what to watch. When something has a score of 9+, it tends to be really good. But this.. well, it isn't. There is no suspense, no intrigue, no clever plot. Worst of all the main character is completely unbelievable as someone who at the same time is a sociopath that feels no emotions whatsoever, and yet only tries to do the "right thing" by killing "bad guys". It doesn't make a lot of sense and the constant and tiresome voice over acting tries to sell this as layered somehow, but it just doesn't work; its not a intriguing multi faceted character, its an obvious and transparent attempt by the script writers to make an empty emotionless sociopath somehow more "likable". Well, I didn't like him. And not because he is a sociopath killer, there are plenty of sociopath movie characters I did like.The other characters are better described as caricatures.Perhaps its unfair to judge this series after seeing all 5 seasons of "the wire", which did live up to its score; the concept of Dexter had promise; a serial killer leading a double life could have made for a very interesting series, but this is just boring. Don't be fooled by the score. I know I was.


                
How can anyone (other than the psychopathic) enjoy watching someone who likes to kill animals and humans? I understand that he kills only the "bad" people but that doesn't change the fact that you are enjoying a TV series for the killing. I am not religious and I actually do read quite a lot about serial killers I think just to try to understand the psyche but this show is horrible. You get hooked into a show because you like the characters of the show but how can you like someone who has no emotional connections, responses or ties and who could easily kill his siblings/parents if it weren't for his "rules". How on earth would a cop be accepting of a son who is a young Ted Bundy in the making? You wouldn't. No way would that happen. Uh uh, no way. You certainly can't connect emotionally to such a character so I am at a loss as to why this show is still ongoing unless it is the violence that enthralls the viewers and in which case, we need to take a look at our society if this is the case. Wow ... lol


                
Warning...Spoilers...Seasons 6-8 kind of sucked. What would have been an excellent 5-6 season series, gets totally ruined by stretching it out to 8. Don't know if the writers got replaced or they just ran out of ideas, but the writing really stared to suffer after RIta was killed off. And, although I liked season 5, plot holes became more and more frequent and far too obvious.What really was disappointing was the total destruction of Dexter and Deb's characters. Dexter became a lot less likable when he planned to kill Lt LaGuerta, braking his own code. Also, his relationship with Hanna was quite annoying. I'm sorry, but Hanna was not a likable character. At most annoying of all was turning Debra into a murder and then killing her off in the end. That was just down right awful. I won't even go into how Dexter abandons his son and step children. What would Rita think. Boo.... Dexter writers....Boo!!!The finale would have been a little less annoying, if Dexter died instead of Deb.This is how the series should have played out...Season 1: The Ice Truck Killer Season 2: Lumen ( Dexter maybe cheats on Rita ) Season 3: Trinity killer ( Rita Survives ) Season 4: Lila ( Doakes at least makes it to season 4 ) Season 5: Jimmy Smits Rita and Dexter get married, and Dexter loses his Dark Passenger. The End of a great TV series.Alternative Season 6: Lt LaGuerta or maybe even Doakes (Never should have killed him off) hunts down Dexter and arrests him. Dexter goes to mental institution where he belongs and gets the help he so obviously needs. The End :)
i don't know how people see these things i cant't even call it a TV show i don't remember a single time watching this thing without falling asleep over my laptop. no action no drama no comedy the music is awful (if there is one in one season) even the cast, there is no one i can even think is pretty i actually can not mention a single good thing how do you people stand it ? thank god i can realize how bad this is. its just some boring guy who furls his eyebrows people. honestly this show is for paeans, the upper crust under educated or slightly educated( i blame our school systems) looking for something that makes them feel edgy and unique example: bunch of coffee and cigarette fags sitting in a diner " hey do you see dexter furl his brow last night?" "oh yeah he furled me a good one" " rabble rabble rabble". basically the smart kids in school who managed to get very good grades is who watches this, they may have gotten straight a's but by no means are they smart. people like Einstein, Tesla, Edison all would have scoffed at this.


                
I've watched this show through three times now and it's interesting but so many things about it are stupid.The first couple of seasons were pretty good but my issues are these:1. There is not one normal woman in this series, IMHO. Every women is represented as an emotional train wreck just dying to find a man and do anything to please them. Even the women who should be above that because of their jobs.2. Deb's character is the most ridiculous. Whining, crying, cursing. Not realistic.3. Every "cop" in Dexter's precinct has some ridiculous personal issue that is unrealistic.Other than the killing, I found this show pretty lame. IMHO.


                
This started out well, has some great elements. Michael C. Hall is great, , Rita is great, his nemesis is great, Doakes is great, his dad is great. But this whole thing quickly switches from being a stylish study of a serial killer living both sides of the coin into this weird feminist diatribe about grown women throwing temper tantrums to get their own way and men, including the serial killers mind, apologising to validate their bad behaviour. If you're gonna tell the serial killer story do that, if you want to make a series about women throwing tantrums and hating on men then make that, but why start out doing one then shoe-horn this silly nonsense into it and wreck it. You just end up with a ridiculous mess and it wastes people's time. The writer should be shot for this excuse for a story. Is anything in Hollywood immune from this disease? Can anyone just write a story without saturating it with some kind of agenda?
