The plot lines are ridiculous. The acting is mostly pathetic (Debra, ugh). Many of the characters are annoying (Debra, ugh), and I am glad when one gets culled from the herd. I have watched through season six, and my opinion has not changed (although, Debra's acting has improved somewhat). It is more of an assessment of the obvious than an opinion. But I keep watching. Why? I love the character (and actor) of Dexter. It is worth watching just for him. And since there is only about six to eight episodes per year (as opposed to Lost, for instance, which had 20-30 episodes a year), I am willing to waste that amount of time. I watch an entire season (either by renting or streaming)in a couple of sittings, which makes it more bearable.


                
I don't know why everyone is singing the praises of this show. I just started watching it and I gotta say, it's pretty lame. Way too many ridiculous repeated events (how can someone repeatedly kill people and carry them out their car trunks, unseen). How can you beat someone to within inches of their life, basically tell them who you are and then just walk away, with zero repercussions? Really bad acting, mostly from the supporting actors (his sister for one is brutal, so is Dexter's nemesis the police sergeant) and equally bad writing.This show is a joke. This passes for really good television?! There are no likable characters, terrible dialogue and a ridiculous story line. How long can they drag this nonsense out?
I'll keep this a little short. Dexter was my absolute favorite show.....until the end. I was so into it, that I would feel ill with anticipation and literally have to force myself to keep watching. THEN.....season 8 came and the plot careened out of control and the series started,(even more than before), to make little sense. They disrespected Batista, who was on the show for years and ultimately got little screen time, and many actors were brought in for a Hollywood incest fest. They also cheaply used the season as a cash-cow advertisement vehicle, BLATANTLY placing Pepsi into one of the shots. THAT'S one of the reasons how you know the show crapped out so bad. They also played dress-up too much in the season by wearing bright colors and saturated many of the scenes with red. Also, they zoomed onto characters too closely with the camera and forgot to involve a broader audience for the story. It was this aspect that truly made the story feel shallow and unrealistic, like a really crappy comic book with one or two people in each frame. Yeah, the show went down when they tried to be too Hollywood and also, at the same time, went too meta, meaning that they tried to convey too much deep meaning on screen. If you're not careful in doing that, the show can easily lose viewers along the way. Also, the plot just had too many holes and refused to circle back onto its own storyline by bringing up the past seasons and events. Not only did they refuse to close this gap by filming certain scenes, but the dialogue was also crappy and really, honestly, could have been better written by a monkey......with disabilities and no hands. It's like that South Park episode with the manatees in the tank randomly picking out words for a Family Guy episode by choosing a random ball. Horrendous. And offensive. I don't want to really throw out the entire series, but I am in FULL agreement that Dexter was really meant to be a package-deal series. The story was so centered on Dexter that to let the series crap out in the end LITERALLY made the entire series lose value. I literally cannot watch Dexter anymore. It's like being punched in the gut while having your brain sucked out of your head, and a black hole start in your heart with your soul being vanquished forever to Satan by Jesus Christ. Which is to say, you'll wish you never watched it all to begin with. Remembering only hurts.So, the stars? Dexter gave me some really, really good times, so I can't give it one star just because of the last season. However, the last season is a travesty to the series overall and blights the honorable name of Dexter Morgan. Just end the series on season four or five, and you'll be good.


                
After seeing the pilot it is clear that the writing is bad. Voice overs are hard and these writers don't have the chops for it. Just listening to this show makes me want to carve out my ear drums. I adore Mike Hall and loved Six Feet Under, but that was compelling, well-crafted drama. This show is just empirically bad. Dexter needs to shut up and stop trying to be profound about his life like a 14 year-old angst-ridden poet. Let us learn about Dex by what happens on screen--not god-awful, campy voice overs.Interesting premise, poorly written screenplays. Maybe I'll try the books.


                
Its at its best funny and interesting story but surprisingly infrequent ! the script is bad and not surprising - it makes me depressed most off the times and worst is that the actors are so horrible that i could cry. I'v seen halfway through 2. season and i feel I've given it a fear chance, now i rather see skins, shameless or Chuck - this shows are in another league!! Dexter is meant to be a feeling less human so how come hes such a pussy? And i thou th he was supposed to be smart , why do i feel i could do better than him? and all the actors and those senile writers. I promise that u can find something better to do than watch this.


                
Oh Gosh !!!! I received this garbage TV show as a gift, but what the hell can I do with this? First, I don't particularely crave for serial killers. Unless...
See for instance HANNIBAL series, THAT'S A REAL KILLING. You have in this latest TV show, an outstanding aesthetics work, unbearable scenes, very unpredictable story, a never seen before scheme, and above all a real fascinating evil hero - or mayI say anti-hero - that makes you puke and bewitches the audiences in the same time...
But HERE, this good looking, handsome, pretty face GOOD serial killer killing EVIL serial killers, a guy always smiling, a dude whom you know in advance that he will make it whatever the situation he may be glued in....
I could definitely NOT resume ONLY to the end of the first episode !!!
So, imagine nearly ONE HUNDRED épisodes !!!!
I am a human being after all. 
And a colleague of mine, who knows each of my tastes, told me after I received this poisoned gift, that the end was not for me. So, no regret to get rid of it.
The first six seasons were great. Season seven was okay but I got the feeling it was a new and less talented team of writers or the original team was out of ideas. Season eight I think they fired the writers and just made it up as they went and when they got to the last episode they ran out of time to give it a descent ending so they just quit. In reality that probably would have been better than the ending they gave it. I came away feeling like I had wasted eight seasons and wished I could recapture that time and use it to stick bamboo under my fingernails. If you don't want to read the spoiler stop here.The real problem was that they spend so much time looking as if they are developing the human side of Dexter and then in the end treat it as though that side doesn't exist. It was a major disappointment. If this is the way Showtime develops shows I'll not bother with their sows anymore.
