Between Dexter and Weeds, Showtime has a corner on the original new shows market. Not only are both of these shows completely original and innovative, but they are REALLY good.Dexter, in particular, should not be reviewed by anyone who hasn't seen more than three episodes. I almost feel as if the first episode in the series is a tad-bit melodramatic (note Dexter screaming in the face of his first victim) just to pull in viewers that otherwise need something more visceral than a great screenplay.By two more episodes the viewer should be absolutely intoxicated by the complexity of the character Dexter and the acting of Michael C. Hall. His own co-stars admit to being almost "scared" by how well Hall absorbs his character. Personally, I think that without Hall's mastery of Dexter there would be nothing to watch. Don't get me wrong, the plot of this show is extremely intriguing (and original, to be redundant), but the excitement lies purely in the way Dexter/Hall responds to A) his girlfriend, B) blood, and C) other serial killers.I think that it is very reasonable to chuckle at Dexter's attempts to "fit in" social situations and I believe the writers of this show planned on it. What I am still stuck on, however, is whether or not to cheer Dexter on in his methodology (serial killing serial killers). This had better be the first of many seasons, so spread the word......Edit: I watched this series finale last night and come back to this review (which I wrote after the conclusion of Season 1) with my hat in hand to say: "I'm kind of sorry for the hype."If my review was the impetus for your 'Dexter' obsession (I, too, was obsessed) then I owe you an apology for the way it all ended. Sure, sure, I couldn't have known how poorly written the resolution of this once-magnificent series would be. But, you see, I shouted praises for this show from roof-tops...telling every friend who would engage me in discussion about pop-culture that they NEEDED TO WATCH DEXTER, it's the greatest drama on television!Alas, I will not leave any spoilers here and if you've come along the journey with me then you will undoubtedly watch how it all ends, but I write this edit in vain so that you, internet friend, cannot say that I didn't warn you: 'Dexter' leaves me wanting a real ending.


                
Season 1 (10/10): Great.Season 2 (9/10): Great.Season 3 (6/10): Boring. That... Manuel, Miguel... Something Prado is awful. He's just not interesting AT ALL. I didn't like Laila in season 2, but she seemed like a goddess after M. Prado. The whole storyline it's just ZzzZZZz.Season 4 (10/10): Awesome. Great villain and dialogs, great plot twists, great season. There's not much more to say.Season 5 (8/10): Good. I understand why so many people didn't like this season, the fact that Dexter was confused about so much and that is not something very believable considering his psychopathy. However, I love Lumen and I love the villains (which is also not a popular opinion). I was more interested in Lumen and her story than I was in Dexter's affairs and contradictions, so maybe that's why I do like the season.Season 6 (6/10): Good. However... This one is a little tricky... I did like the characters, I did like the villain and all, I didn't mind Dexter's doubts and questions about religion and all as much as other people did. BUT, there is a major flaw in this season even for people who didn't bother by the theme: It leads NOWHERE. The only thing that does lead to something happened at the end of the last episode AND it could have happened in any other episode of any other season. The storyline has no purpose and adds nothing for the character of Dexter. I guess the best word for it is pointless.Season 7 (8/10): I'm only giving an 8 for this one because of Isaak Sirko. I loved the guy and I think he went away waaay too soon. This season - because of Isaak - had a great potential. Good character, good story, great involvement with Dexter, great development of both of them. They could've explored these two and made season 7 as great as the first or fourth. But instead, they gave us Hannah... Boring, boring character (even more than Miguel Prado), dumb storyline, terrible writing... Never understood why she didn't die in Dexter's table. Sure as hell didn't understand why they ended up having sex and... liking each other? Really? Whenever she was on screen, I felt like turning off the TV or skipping the scene. Which would lead me to not watch most of the season. Sirko would have been so much more interesting to develop and to watch... It's just a frustrating season.Season 8 (3/10): And if you didn't get enough of Hannah, here comes some more! Except this time, she is not the only thing wrong with the season. I'll try to be short here because if you watch this season the reasons of why it's terrible just pops up in front of you.About Dexter during the season: It seems like Disney was right all along and that true love conquers all. Even cures psychopathy!Debra: Really? After everything? After SO MUCH has happened to her, all the good development of character in every possible way... That's how she ends up? Her ending seems forced and untrue. I just don't buy it at all.About Dexter in the last episode: So... Because of Debra's oh-so-convincing-ending he decides that he will pretend to be dead so no one else gets hurt because of him, huh?... But he stopped killing hence not making enemies, which would make it almost impossible for something bad to happen to anyone else because of him... Plus every enemy he had before is already dead... Huh... Why is that clever again? He ends up alone Wolverine-Origins style for no good reason whatsoever. Hannah is a freaking fugitive and he thinks Harrison is better off with her? I just don't see why he thought he would put them in danger if he went away with them since he wouldn't kill anymore and that was what put people in danger before.Another major flaw is that NO ONE ELSE GETS AN ENDING. Quinn and Batista and how they were after the Morgan's death, how they handle the fact that Debra's body just went missing, if Batista ever retired after all that and kept his restaurant. How Queen got over the loss of someone he loved so much and if he was okay or I don't know, got depressed and started drinking and stuff. Just give us something! At least La Guerta got an ending. Those two were just ignored, like they weren't an important part of the story considering they were there almost always.Plus, ever since season one those "very common huge storms" from Miami were mentioned, what? Once? And all of a sudden it's there the day Dexter was suppose to leave also giving him the best opportunity to grab his sister's bed off of the hospital without grabbing anyone's attention (Seriously?).It's just bad.
While I admit that I do have the average morbid fascination, and have the same attraction to Hannibal Lecter as everyone else, I actually found myself chuckling at some of Dexter's situations and emotions much to my dismay. I found the first episode to be promising. It shows the same anti-heroic essence that Showtime is famous for however there is a hint of Hollywood drivel about it as well.Michael C. Hall does an excellent job at being likable. He has no other expectations to fill now. In one episode he proved he can take a character from boringly evil to someone I'd invite over to watch the Sunday game.Julie Benz provided a chillingly accurate portrayal of Dexter's scarred and fragile girlfriend as well. One would almost expect to see her on Oprah in fact.Along with the actors, proper credit must be given to the writers as well. These two characters, along with Dexter's adoptive father, are incredibly well created and nurtured to the point that I was willing to cheer them through their respective faults. On the other hand, the writers should be flogged for the remaining characters. In order to build sympathy with Dexter, he has been surrounded by THE most annoying people possible. For example, while I have absolutely no desire to commit any crimes outside of tax evasion, if Dexter doesn't kill his whiny, gutless, how-the-f***-did-she-become-a-cop sister, I will.With that in mind, the promise of the recurring bad-guy killer (Dexter is the good-guy killer) will keep me tuned in as this show desperately needs a third point of interest.


                
When I saw season 1 of Dexter I thought that it was the best show ever created. I do still believe that season 1 was a masterpiece. I also loved season 2 (my husband didn't) and season 3. After season 3 it started to flail. I kept watching, hoping that it would get back whatever magic it had those first few seasons. My husband loved season 5 though I did not like it. The last season was one of the worst. I felt that through the years Deb just kept getting whinier and whinier. I never loved her but I felt that her character had some depth (the insecure, unlucky in love, foulmouthed, tough female cop) in the beginning. By season 6 I was just sick of seeing her on screen. I don't want to spoil anything in case you've been living under a rock and have never seen Dexter, but I do understand that she went through some things and those things had a profound impact on her. Even so I hate what they did to her character. After season 3 I would watch each season and hope that the next season would be better...but it never was. The show started out so strong and great but it couldn't hold onto the magic.


                
I did not mark this as containing spoilers, because I am not talking about any particular episode or plotline or character, other than Dexter. But I do mention general situations found in the show.All these people giving the show a 10 are extremely generous. Dexter never encounters a lock he can't pick in seconds. There never seem to be alarm systems or video systems and he does a lot of things in daylight, yet his activities often go completely unnoticed. One of my favorite episodes in terms of ridiculous writing is one where he leaves a crime scene saying he's going straight back to the lab to do some work related to a death that the police are very, very interested in, but actually goes somewhere else for a long period of time. The detectives go back to their offices - the ones Dexter shares - soon after Dexter leaves, but not a single detective ever asks where Dexter is. That one was totally unbelievable. As the seasons go on, his ability to move around unencumbered by the requirements of his job just grows and grows.I'd say give this show a chance. It's not without its own (hey, let's face it - warped) attraction. Just know that sometimes you have to completely suspend your understanding of reality.


                
The show is about a serial killer, who is gunning only for other killers. It's based on the Dexter books by Jeff Lindsay, but only loosely. The first season is fairly close to the first Dexter book, but after season one it derails into something quite different.One thing you have to realize about the show is, that while the story revolves around Dexter's extracurricular activities, he is only barely the main character. The show tries to diversify by showing the lives of the other characters as well. Considering these characters are everyday cops working in the homicide department of the Miami police force, they had to spice up their lives a tiny bit. The result is basically a soap opera with lot's of romance, angst, about 10 times as extreme as anything you're bound to see in real life. Dexter's life is also spiced up, as if that was necessary, as the show tries to humanize him over the course of the series. My personal preference is for inhuman Dexter.Of course, pretty much everything you see on TV is like that these days. Unrealistic relationships, and attempts to throw every single movie cliché into one show are hardly a strange concept. So, coupled with the originality of the premise, this is in fact one of the best shows out there, right now. I personally enjoyed it very much, but I recommend anyone to record the show before you watch it, so you can skip through the all the boring parts.Also if you're like me and you watch this show mostly for the Dexter character, you might want to try out the books. The books are in fact so different from the series, you can read them and watch the series without noticing much overlap.


                
I'm going to write a lot here because I loved this show for a long time. The lead characters were distinctive and fun and strangely likable (Deb is probably one of my favourite characters ever on TV); the central plot was really out there; the acting was excellent; the surrounding drama was strong.It went so well for so long. In season one Dexter is isolated and his life revolves around his need to kill, but over time he develops meaningful relationships and has to work the killing around an increasingly full life.It all made sense up until season six. The direction the show seemed to be going in up to that point was that Dexter was actually not a psychopath and that he had been brainwashed from an early age by a jaded dirty cop. Vigilantism by proxy I thought. The flashbacks of his foster father explaining his condition even started to feel like manipulation.My belief that the show was going in that direction made it all internally consistent. It made sense that Dexter was able to make connections with others, get married, and have children. It all seemed to point to a suppressed humanity coming to the surface.Anyway. So it didn't go where I expected and instead it increasingly reinforced the idea that Dexter was indeed a psychopath. I think that's where the show began to lose me. It meant that none of what had gone before really made sense or meant anything.So the first thing to go was internal consistency. The next was probably the humour. It didn't occur to me until well into season six that Dexter hadn't made me laugh since season five. I mean it was never laugh out loud hilarious but it was kind of a dark comedy. Then the writing nosedived. I know even the best TV shows will have highs and lows, and at first I thought season six was just an ill conceived plot, but then came a rapid descent into lunacy.I feel like I should mention that I'm not religious. I am aware that some people of faith found season six very offensive. I did too, just not on religious grounds.The writing in the first five seasons was fairly consistent, but from season six on it became increasingly incoherent and eventually just plain silly. Dexter's internal monologues began to reveal extraordinary gaps in his memory, most strikingly the belief that he had never been in love before even though his admission that he genuinely loved Rita appeared to be a landmark event at the time.Then Deb began falling in love with everyone, and then out of love again, the lowest and most ridiculous point being when her therapist explained to her that she was in love with Dexter.Dexter then unlearned everything he had come to understand. Repeatedly.Hannah was probably the worst thing about the last seasons. She wasn't very likable and it was difficult to see why Dexter liked her (other than that she was smoking hot obviously). Apparently she was the only one who ever accepted him for who he was. This was another enormous hole in Dexter's increasingly poor memory because Hannah wasn't the first. There was Lila and Lumen before her. I really hoped Dexter would kill Hannah. He should have. It would have made more sense than immediately falling in love with a serial prisoner and continuing to love her after she tried to kill his sister. I like to think a thing like that would put me off just about anyone. Still, it's just the sort of thing that happens when the writing on a show goes down the toilet.In the end it became so schizophrenic it was like that game where you pass round a sheet of paper and each person writes a sentence of a story.Dexter is going to kill Hannah – Pass it on – Then he falls in love with her. Deb gets shot but recovers – Pass it on – Then she dies.I think Dexter probably just ran too long. It happens all the time now. A show gets really popular and the makers wring every last drop of blood out of it before it dies. I often find now that if I do make it to the end of a show I feel cheated. A lot of the time I just give up but I liked Dexter so much that I felt I had to see it through. I suppose that's what the makers rely on.I actually liked the end of the last season. Possibly because by that stage the poor writing had blurred the lines of Dexter's character to the point where I no longer knew who he was and so I didn't care enough about him to want a happy ending. Having said that, it was always on the cards that it would end badly for him and I was cool with that side of it.Bizarrely, the final episode actually felt a lot like the ending to the story that I wanted the show to tell. In the end he gives up everything he has to protect his son and the serial poisoner that he inexplicably loves, the ultimate proof that he is not a psychopath. The issue of why Dexter killed people as he began to realise he was not what he had always been told would have been a strong story, but in the end it drowned in a quagmire of repetitive melodrama.I think I need to work out an average here because 1 – 5 were 10s, 6 was maybe a 5 or a 6, and 7 and 8 were about 3 a piece.I'm rounding it down to 7. 8 is just too high given the awfulness of the last two seasons.
Dexter, A show that has been out for quite some time now. I decided to do a review now since the final season is upon us to get a good understanding as a whole about the show. You are probably wondering, Is Dexter a good show? Short hand answer, Yes. 1. The acting is good (Jennifer Carpenter is very good at portraying different emotions. All characters are believable except Dexter to a certain extent.) 2. The production is not Top notch but its still quite pretty to watch. 3. The storyline is good (Though I do have a problem with it, that I will explain later) and 4. Do a great job of showing the morbidity of serial killers while keeping it comical and not too depressing. However, The one thing I can say about Dexter that made me give it a 7/10 was the fact that All the seasons didn't necessarily need to happen. I feel the people who watched Dexter, blindly loved the characters and story to see that the bigger picture was nothing but fodder to keep the show going on. I had a hard time getting pass season 3 cause of the rinse wash and repeat type of Episodes that they had. You could Probably even get away with watching seasons 1-5 and still have a perfect Idea of whats going on in the story. I feel 1-5 did nothing but show petty characters that came and left as the story went on that didn't even need to happen. Season 6-7 the story was considered "not the best season" from Dexter fan. However, season 6-7 is when the good stuff hits the fan and the Show really starts to snowball very fast. If you are a Big fan of story all together and love watching progression go right ahead, but if you want to cut the crap out and start when things actually start to happen. I would recommend watching it at season 6. For that I give Dexter a 7/10


                
I really loved the concept. There was no other series in which you could love the bad guy! Very nice plot! Nice cast and interesting characters! Dexter is a amazing character, well played by Michael C. Hall, who seemed to have a "normal" life in general! And that is the best on the plot.. that if I didn't know that he's a serial killer I could never imagine it. In addition, another thing I liked in this series was that there was a connection to the plot between the episodes. However, in my opinion, Dexter was a unique character and he deserved a better end in his story! That's actually the only reason why I voted 7 out of 10!


                
I Have rated this Series overall as a 7!! However the reason that it didn't get higher was because the last episode was a bit of a let down!!I have tagged spoilers.... But there aren't any!! I just didn't want people to read that the last episode was such a let down! The ride through this series was amazing the highs and lows were heartfelt and well acted by everyone in the show!! However I just felt that the last episode and in particular the last 10/15 minutes were a really let down!! Thats all I am going to say on that! Overall I LOVED this show and enjoyed the ride! :-)
That's precisely what I wanted to yell after Season 6. Again, knowing when to pull the plug is a art and a science. It was fairly obvious earlier in the show that Dexter's writers were running out of steam, but they still managed to put together probably one of the most cohesive shows on premium TV during it's run. Dexter, buddy, you have a deserved place in the pantheon of pop culture. But I'm with a lot of people when I say that you dropped the ball.I can go right to the ending and give that hell, but what's the point to that when I already saw the tide back in, say, Season 5? I liked this show to what I would say is it's perceived peak, until the last interesting ancillary character in the series (Brother Sam) is no longer integral to the plot. It's like someone came along and said "Too risky, we need familiarity for ratings." (You really should hear these stupid TV people talk.) The fact of the matter is, this is Dexter's world, the show could've done a better job of straying from him to establish the sub plots throughout the show, but in the end, the monster this show is, is Dexter, plain and simple. That leaves several sub-plots that fold in the wake of keeping the focus on Dexter. I also find interesting just how efficient the Miami Metro Homocide Unit is in this show, it's like the perfect camaraderie to really get things done kinda just disintegrates with Dexter's ability to control his world.The whole Debra being in love with him thing really came at a perfect time for crapping out the show into what it became (I'm thinking this was the point when Micheal C. Hall and Jennifer Carpenter got married) a melodrama involving Dexter's and Debra's relationship. However, better writing would've put this conflict earlier in the show, rather than using it as a gimmick for a wind down.I liked the progession of wimmin Dexter has in his life, the Demeter-like wounded animal of Rita, the reckless abandon of Lila, the redemption in blood of Lumen and the perfect compliment to Dexter's butchery, a Poison Ivy archetype of Hannah McKay. His relationships seem to bring him full circle to himself. And then we get the male figures as well, his brother (they really should've took chances with Brian as his consciousness to remark the dissolute nature of the later seasons.) Miguel Prada as his first kill-buddy and a shining example of his sociopathic nature possibly outgrowing him. Arthur Mitchell as the father figure who understood the monster Dexter was, and then Brother Sam, the man who could transcend the evil his existence was enveloped by.But ultimately, this is all Dexter, a show wrapped up in a cult of personality that's strong, but you can't throw in extras that don't serve the central theme if you're not gonna explore them thoroughly, especially a show that pride's itself on the meticulous nature of it's protagonist. I liked the risks this show took, but I can't reward a lack of follow through (Batista's character comes to mind.) I wish the fact that there was an obvious number of people who realized who he was and allowed him to continue living as he did would've been explored better, but I'm not one to hold much against what was a daring and heart-felt foray into something as cold and clinical as the world of a serial killer. ***1/2
Definitely an effective show. It manages to make the viewer empathize with an unlikely hero. The series does drag on a bit and the subplots start to become a bit absurd, but definitely binge-worthy.


                
A great series with intrigue and dark depravity that just dragged on too long with strange plots (including bizarrely, possibly incest). It clearly extended longer to milk the fan base. I was ready for it to end after season 3. In any case, it doesn't take away from the fact that Dexter will go down in history as being a unique, binge-worthy and majorly suspenseful drama.


                
The premise behind Dexter was definitely interesting enough for me to start watching from 2006 (the year it came out). Dexter Morgan is your somewhat-boring mild-mannered blood spatter analyst at Miami Metropolitan Police Dept. He moonlights as a serial killer, but channels his homicidal urges to rid Miami of its' remorseless criminals (serial killers, serial rapists etc). Dexter had many pluses. A catchy theme tune, symbolic/arty opening, great camera work, and brilliant actors. Michael C Hall will probably be best known for this role for years to come. Jennifer Carpenter was probably the most stand-out actress as Dexter's foul- mouthed sister Deborah and Laura Luna Velez is perfect as the annoying Lt LaGuerta. The weakest link in the cast is definitely Desmond Harrington's wooden performance as plastic spray-tan pretty boy Quinn, however if this was intentional then the man nailed it. I found him to be the blandest supporting character, often forgetting he exists in between seasons.As for the series 8 year run, the first four series were the strongest. The best season was definitely the fourth, boasting the best villain; those of you who -like me- grew up watching '3rd Rock from the Sun' will be BLOWN AWAY by John Lithgow's performance. The man is truly a GREAT and UNDERRATED actor. The season 4 finale is truly a shocker, one of the most shocking TV moments I encountered.Season 5 was by far the weakest season, and I HATED the supporting character in that season (the highly annoying and pointless LUMEN, who I was ever so glad to see gone). The rest of the seasons picked up, and continued to improve (great supporting roles from Colin Hanks, Edward James Olmos, Yassin Bey, and Charlotte Rampling). Season 8 seemed to be heading towards a satisfying ending ( I will not spoil it) but managed to destroy it all in the last two episodes.This series truly deserves a better rating, but the ending was THAT disappointing, and as a fan I felt cheated having invested so much in the show. Despite all that, it was a great show, never boring, with a lot of highs and some great characters.
Dexter is a near-perfect schizoid for the first half of the show, which is what I enjoyed about it. His relationship with Rita was annoying, but it made sense. Even his protective nature over his children and his mostly hidden feelings for the barrel girl after Rita's death are played out nicely in his cold, logical, matter-of-fact style.In the second half, however, they decided to fill him with all the annoying emotions I enjoyed him NOT having, making him care far more about his son than a schizoid of his level ever would, and introducing the most irritating and highly unlikable love interest for him (the poison girl) to get extra feelingsy with, and that ruined it for me. He lost everything that made him unique as a personality. Contrary to popular opinion, the ending wasn't the worst. It was just the turn the show started to take in season 6 onward that made it insufferable.If you enjoy the schizoidal logical side of Dexter, stop watching after season 5. If you enjoy watching the cold unemotional type become a soft bunny who feels all the feels and acts irrationally on them, you'll enjoy the second half. I spit on it.
I started watching this show last year. The show was intriguing. A story about a serial killer who worked as a forensics expert was such an amazing plot line and seeing what sort of adventures Dexter got into was great. I was instantly hooked from season 1. However, unfortunately, the writing slowly disintegrated as the series continued. If you want to see the best of Dexter, I suggest watching up to season 4. After season 4, the writing gets poor, and the plot line becomes pretty terrible. I will say that season 4 is definitely the best season of the show, and has the best villain of the entire show, and quite possibly, one of the greatest television villains of all time. Season 1 was great because it was the origin of Dexter and introducing us to him. Season 2 was also really great as well. Seasons 3 and 5 were OK but I wasn't super fond of the villains. Season 6 was pretty bad. The writing was just awful, and you could tell that the writers didn't really care nearly as much as before. Season 7 was also quite terrible all culminating to the all too famous Dexter ending that made many fans angry. The ending provided absolutely no closure, and made no sense. It felt like the writers just gave up on the show and threw something together at the last minute. This was definitely disappointing.As for acting, it was pretty good for the most part. However, I still think Deb is the most annoying TV character of all time. She was just so annoying and stupid so many times in the show. Laguerta was also really annoying and moronic as well. Other than those two, the acting was great all around. The sex scenes were also awesome. There were some real hotties on the show like Aimee Garcia and Yvonne Strahovski.Overall, this was a decent show. However, up till season 4, this show was definitely a 9 stars. However, seasons 5-7 kinda lowered the rating, and made this show a 7.


                
I gotta start off by saying the first season of this show is one of the best first seasons I have ever seen in any show. Dexter starts off with a bang. I mean we all like the vigilante superheroes. And when that superhero is a nut like Dexter it makes it much better. So like I said that first season was awesome and the second season was not far behind. This show will get you hooked from the start no doubt. But like with most other reviewers have said it does go downhill. As the show progresses and the characters evolve Dexter turns more humanLike. His sister which at the beginning her character was great but after a few seasons her character ias eratic and goes all over the place I'm talking all over the board here. To make a long story short the beginning of the show is amazing, it will get you hooked no doubt about it. The problem is this show definitely goes downhill. Every next season is not as good as the one before and by the time you get to the last season you just want to finish to show off, you're t not even looking forward to the next episode you just want the show to end already and each episode is harder and harder to watch. It turns into a chore. My opinion is do not watch the season 1 or any of this show whatsoever. Just not worth it in the end. Great first season though. My opinion is you get stoned as hell and watch the first two seasons and then u should dump the show. Peace out fellow stoners...


                
"Remember the Monsters?" was the last episode for this TV Show.
It's a 9 stars series but for that end.. Lumberjack?
It's a binge-worthy series that ultimately loses its momentum through the series. I feel like each season was trying to better the next and failed. Either way, worth the watch


                
I started watching Dexter on Netflix with my dad about a year ago. My dad is an absolute fan of this series, this is his 2nd to 3rd time watching it. The first two season (about) would be the most exciting ones where you just can't stop watching and go overnight. The seasons after that, however, made me lose interest. They were just the same as season two but changing the bad guy and adding or removing a few things. Season 3 and 4, in my opinion, would be the most boring (and annoying). Dexter would just be jumping around EVERYWHERE, getting involved with EVERYTHING in seasons 3 and 4. 
Season 5, 6 and 7 were also the same. I would frequently join my dad every few episodes, he would watch the whole thing whereas I would jump in and out often. I would most of the time watch the first one or two episodes, then in the middle, then in the end. Hate me all you want, but it was just very boring.
Season 8, however, I watched the whole thing. Introducing a new character (Dr. Vogel) which I loved very much made it more interesting. That is all I am going to say about the final season, and that the finale is a great and unexpected ending to the long-running series.Because of how long the series is, the viewer would feel like there is a connection between themselves and Dexter and its cast. When Dexter ended, I now feel empty and I miss the show very much.Overall, it is a GREAT series for if you have time. I would suggest you watch the first few episodes and decide if you like the character "Dexter" or not. If not, I wouldn't suggest you continue to the next season.


                
warning spoiler don't read last lines if you didn't watch Dexter one best crime TV shows i ever seen the plot is very different were the serial killer is the killer who kills other serial killers Micheal C hall who is Dexter character played very well and i became fan of him some episodes are highly thrilling and this show has great twists and turns and the best season are 1,2,4 and 7 negative things to be said about this show is the plot gets repeated and due to repeated plot .the seasons like 3,5 ,6 gets boring i wish the director should have made new plots to make it interesting and season 8 is watchable and i was hopping the ending would be better but it turned out be worst because of Debra death and abandoning his sons and i think if Dexter died at final episode would have been better
First of all, I know that there is books and so I'm well aware of how the real story looks like so that's just a simple opinion not an eulogy or a destruction. I want to start with the good point.To begin with, let just say that the concept his really good, following a serial killer that work with the police, seeing how he is killing, the back story with the fact that his mother die in front of him, it's really good, I won't speak to much about the story only that in the global, it's good.Furthermore, The actor playing his great, the actor are well chosen, the personalities are really good, the characters are appealing and some of the family story are funny to follow. The character of Dexter is not the only one that his great but let's be honest, it's not just because it's the principal, he is the best.Now, let's go with the bad, starting with the end of season four and I talk about it with knowledge of the book, it's real bullshit, they used scenaristic shortcut and because of that the Rita's Character died without scenaristic justification, the sequel of the series would have not change that much without her death so to me it's just non sense but you know we can't rewrite it so I accept it and so it' going from the first place to the third place of my favorite TV Show. After all, at least, even if the death of Rita his a shortcut that make his dead a non sense, the following of the TV show is Coherent.The Biggest problem is the season 8 that is just incoherent, first of all, something that doesn't exist in the book is debra's death which is useless, the series could have and without it and the most WTF of all is the Doctor Vogel which come out of nowhere and said that she maid the code... Bullshit !!! Why, the series where going just fine even after the end of season 4 so why did they made an incoherent season 8, I watched it and honestly is just non sense follow with non sense, it's lame on the scenaristic side and on the characters evolution side. This season has no reason to exist, in the book, Dexter Morgan doesn't end well either but at least, is coherent, logic and it has sense, this season 8 is just... WTF, in comparison it's like if J.R.R Tolkien had decided to kill Aragorn in the 2nde book for... No reason at all, I don't said that Dexter's "death" is wrong just that the justification for it is bullshit. The way this last season has been made his like if Leonardo Da Vinci had not finish : "La Joconde". For me, Dexter is a freaking peace of art unfinished.
Dexter was such a sleeper it that when I watched it, after hearing the buzz from the US, I expected it to be pretty OK, but nothing spectacular, especially since crime dramas (csi,24, etc.) aren't my favourite. As well as that I don't really like Lost and I've grown tired of heroes. But as soon as I heard the twisted monologues of Dexter, I knew this show was interesting to say the least. And not only that, I was really produced well, the plot was flawless and the acting amazing with superb comic timing from the cast when it's needed.I must say, Dexter is the best show on TV at the moment along with Entourage and South Park. Just don't take it too seriously, and get engripped in the story. Brilliant, bring on season 2!


                
You know how it is when you're making a snowman and you start out really ambitious and excited, and you roll out the best lower body snow ball you can imagine, and it looks so good, but you've used up most of the good snow, so each subsequent portion of the snowman gets weaker and weaker until the head is a bunch of muddy snow interspersed with sticks and rocks, and you decide you're just getting too cold and wet for all this nonsense and you are getting more and more bored with it all and you want to go inside and you you skimp out on the face by just sticking a couple rocks for the eyes and a bigger rock for the nose (since you've eaten the carrot long ago in frustration), and a stick you broke off off one of the arms for a mouth, and so now the arms are mismatched and the whole thing just looks bad and you really don't care anymore because you're just glad that the stupid process is over? I think that's how the writers of the final season of Dexter felt.


                
I just finished binge-watching all 8 seasons of Dexter. The show is a unique look into a psychopath killer, Dexter, that was raised and groomed by a cop father to kill serial killers. He tries to balance his "normal life" (a facade, in the beginning) that the outside world sees, with his "Dark Passenger", the need to kill. Dexter provides the best character development of any series I have watched. Michael C. Hall as Dexter was perfect. Jennifer Carpenter as Debra, his cop sister, was perfect. Each episode/season was tense, dramatic and hilarious without being forced. There were times when it became redundant and predictable, but those feelings never lasted. Although the finale was on the lame side, it sat well with me now that I have had time to absorb it. If you want a different kind of show to watch, Dexter is it.


                
