After four episodes, I'm ready to proclaim this the best show currently on TV, one that may someday rank with the likes of _The Sopranos_ and the first season of _Twin Peaks_ as a contender for the second best TV show ever (after the incomparable _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_; one of the show's producers and writers is former Buffy writer Drew Z. Greenberg, and the cast includes Buffy / Angel mainstay Julie Benz).Dexter is a sociopath, someone with no human feelings and hence no natural, inner moral compass, and he has an unquenchable blood lust that drives him to kill. But he had the great grace to have been the adopted child of a police officer, who (as we see in terrific flashbacks) successfully instilled in him a complete moral code, which he adheres to on a strictly intellectual level. This is an utterly brilliant concept (which I assume derives from the novels it's based on), one that allows the writers to explore the nature of moral behavior and of what it means to be human (Dexter is, in a sense, an alien).Another thing the show is doing brilliantly is moving at different speeds in parallel. There is a primary apparent season-long story arc (concerning a cat-and-mouse game between Dexter and a serial killer), and a a secondary arc involving Dexter's sister's police career. The first handful of episodes include a very powerful completed arc concerning one of Dexter's police colleagues and a local crime lord, while two of the four episodes so far have also included a self-contained story spliced among (and playing off) the ongoing ones. I've seen the future of TV season structuring, and this is it.While the writing isn't quite up to the brilliance of the best of _House_, it's been excellent. The cast and production are terrific. The only reason you wouldn't want to watch this utterly brilliant show is the frequent use of extremely graphic images: there have probably been more severed body parts shown in these first four episodes than in the first four episodes of every other TV show on the air combined. If you can stomach that, tune it for a mesmerizing look at what makes us human -- or inhuman.


                
It's been a long time since The Showtime Network served as HBO's b!tch thanks to a trinity of fantastic shows like Weeds or Californication, but Dexter is the perhaps the king of Showtime's programming hill.I am currently mid-season 2, but this show seems to just be getting better. There are moments when I find Dexter, the mass serial killer, absolutely adorable. Yet he is tainting my view of the other characters. I constantly find myself wondering which character is rotten to the core - I just haven't seen that one moment that reveals them yet. I find myself wondering if it's the brilliant writing that makes it seem as if evil people gravitate towards one another seamlessly, while good seems to scare people away.Are there other good characters? No, not really. But somehow the cast supports the massive weight of Dexter as he lives by Harry's code and only succumbs to his inner monster for the purpose of ridding the world of people just like him, except his killing "Them" is somehow innocent.This show has great plot potential and story development because Dexter is still somehow childlike. When the show begins Dexter is unable to handle intimacy with his shattered girlfriend Rita. In Season 2 the sex scenes are so steamy they should only be watched while sitting on vinyl sofacovers (the kind Grandma has in the good sitting room).I'm just a new fan to the series, but if you're looking up Dexter maybe you haven't had the experience of watching this yet. It's worth every minute. Especially when you realize that Dexter is not only becoming more human as he starts to really "feel" for the first time, but he's also becoming a more cunning and less "innocent" killer.
Two reasons propelled me to write this review. One is the excitement to tell how great this show was, and the second is the disappointment to scream how the 8th season miserably failed and letdown the entire 7 seasons of great work. Usually i don't like the serial killers but this show made me do that with its great direction, brilliant acting. I should say Micheal is absolutely magnificent. If you are in a state of deciding whether to watch or not I strongly recommend to watch. Don't decide by just watching the first episode you should see at least 3 episodes to really get in to the show.I really liked the show, I would say on of the best show in the TV history if only they had stopped with the 7th season. The 8th season drastically altered my opinion on this show with its no excitement, worst writing, bad direction and worst story. In my opinion, season ratings are 1 --> 9/10 2 --> 10/10 3 --> 8/10 4 --> 10/10 5 --> 8/10 6 --> 6/10 7 --> 10/10 8 --> 0/10


                
Never in my memory has there been a television protagonist like Dexter Morgan. Played with stunning grace and charisma, Michael C. Hall (of Six Feet Under fame) brings us a unique kind of monster -- one who relishes in killing but is trained to only kill other serial killers.Based on the books "Darkly Dreaming Dexter" and "Dearly Devoted Dexter" by Jeff Lindsay, Dexter Morgan works as a Miami forensics analyst where blood splatters are his specialty. By day he pretends to be like everyone else, and by night he stalks and brutally murders serial killers who have escaped justice.Dexter may be enacting a sort of vigilante justice, but justice isn't his reason for killing. He kills for the same reasons his victims do -- he's compelled to. He only chooses other serial killers because when he was a child his murderous leanings were discovered by his police officer father, who then taught him to channel his urges for good rather than evil.He understands that he's different than everyone else, so he takes pains to fit in, such as dating a woman even though he seems to be asexual. But what would happen if a co-worker -- a police officer who's trained to sniff out bad guys -- or his vice cop foster sister catches on to him? And what if his urges get out of hand and he can't help but prey on an innocent victim? The story is told from Dexter's point of view, and you identify with him very quickly. He's intelligent and insightful and despite his sociopathy, unexpectedly charming. Michael C. Hall captures the character with astonishing perfection. There are echoes of American Psycho's Patrick Bateman and Profit's Jim Profit, but Dexter is a completely different kind of psychopath. You may not want to like him, and you may or may not agree with his methods, but as frightening as he is, I bet you'll end up loving him despite it all.This is probably the most morally ambiguous show in television history, and it raises a lot of debate. It's very dark, and in some ways reminds me of Nip/Tuck, only with serial killers instead of plastic surgery. It's definitely not for the squeamish, and also not for those who like their heroes stalwart and true. If you like your protagonists very dark, this could be the show for you.
I see many comments of hate and disappointment. Some fans are convinced the producers came up with a poor conclusion. I believe the fans did not give it enough thoughts.To my mind, Dexter has attempted to commit suicide by joining all those he left in the darkest depths of the waters. There were simply no chances he could survive the storm and deliberately fake his death this way. Despite being emotional, he was also logical. He knew what he was doing, and he found it to be the only way to pay for what he took responsibility for and to spare the persevered ones all the pain and misery. Subsequently, he has waken up to be depressed by the fact that he was still alive. Suddenly, he has realized that a more meaningful way to atonement is not death, which shuts all the systems off, but living the life away from the two of the closest people in his life, people he truly loved: Hannah and Harrison, leaving aside the fact that Harrison will be raised by a lone foster mother who, if it was not enough, was still a serial killer.Dexter has ended up working physically, in the shade of his unknown past, finding what he deserved in plain four walls of his hut. I figure it was worse than death, to live in an awareness that he has left his beloved son and woman who was first to give him light after all these years of living in the darkness. Death is said to be devastating not for the deceased, but for those who remain. He has said that all his life, all he truly wanted was to feel like others did. And when he finally could feel, he quickly realized how unbearable life can be from the viewpoint of a human being.Another possibility of what could have happened in the finale is an idea of Dexter's post-traumatic amnesia... The fact that we no longer hear the narrative could point to the fact that he had lost his memory due to the mysterious incident in the storm... I find this possibility very interesting as well... I really hope we will find out someday since Michael C. Hall has suggested that it is not the time for bringing the subject back on the table, but it is definitely something he is looking forward to.His decision to take away Deb's life came out of his experience, although I could not withstand the fact that he did not give her a chance of recovery... The deed appeared to be a quick call, while the doctors could have been wrong... But, as we remember, he has been asked by his friend, Camilla, to help her pass away. She referred to him as a friend, to help a friend in need. I may be wrong, but, as far as I can remember, Deb once told Dexter that she would prefer to die instead of being trapped in her own body... One way or another, I believe he could have taken care of her somewhere safe and see if there was really nothing left to do to help her get well...I really miss this show. I like the way Michael C. Hall has put it: "I think (Dexter)'s more a meditation on the nature of morality, family, love and the male psyche." Who Dexter Morgan was? With Deb, Hannah, Rita, Lumen, Lila... His deliberate plan to kill LaGuerta... His deeds have consumed several innocent lives as well... Despite the antihero kind of protagonist, we all have somehow fallen for empathy and sympathy for a serial killer... Controversial, yet innovative way to provide contemplation, philosophy, knowledge, morality, and, at the same time, great action, music, and even humour!One of the greatest shows, even after all these years.
Uptil today, I have seen many prime time and cable series. From Fringe, CSI, The Practice to more recently, Breaking Bad, Damages, Boardwalk Empire, The Event, The Walking Dead. And of course Dexter. I must say - my favourite of them all is still - ALL HAIL DEXTER! I won't even bother with Mad men, although i know they are a multi-award winning show, but i saw snippets of it and boy, snoooooozzzefest! So after all that guilty pleasure in my TV junkie binge, I still give Dexter the most stars as it is something that is morbid, dark and conflicted at the same time, pure, exciting and twisted! And you will definitely get reeled into the character of Dexter. However, i must point out to SHOWTIME and producers and writers of Dexter SEASON 5 - there were too many loopholes and were at some parts, unrealistic. So please - FIX IT for SEASON 6!


                
Ladies, are you single and looking for the perfect guy? Well, your search might be over...Meet Dexter Morgan. He's handsome, fit, intelligent and has a great job. He's a forensics tech for the Miami P.D., specializing in blood-spatter analysis.Oh, did I happen to mention he's also a deranged serial killer? The smartest thing (well, third smartest) that Showtime could've ever done is to premiere the very first episode of their new series DEXTER, online at their website. What were the first two smartest things? Well, in no particular order: they gave the green light for this series, based mostly on the crime novel DREAMING DARKLY DEXTER by Jeff Lindsay, and they cast SIX FEET UNDER'S brilliant Michael C. Hall in the lead role.Dexter Morgan is about as far away from gay mortician David Fisher as you can possibly get. Or maybe not. Dexter is more like David turned inside out - where the uptightest member of the Fisher clan tended to internalize his angst and his neurotic behaviors, at least Dexter has a great outlet for his. Being a CSU investigator by day, serial killer by night does have its advantages.Oh, but he's no ordinary serial killer, this Mr. Morgan. You see, Dex has a special code of ethics. He only kills...OTHER serial killers. The ones who got away: on technicalities, on the expensively billed efforts of some very slick lawyers, or simply because the cops couldn't catch them, for whatever reason. And against the sensual, steamy backdrop of the city of Miami, Dexter maintains his good-buddy, guy-next-door persona with the same skill and precision he uses to "take out the trash" hidden in the town's seamy underbelly. Hot town; cool customer.There is SO much I want to tell you about this fascinating monster, who is malign AND benign all at once, but if you've already read the books, then you already know. All I have to say is prepare yourself for a great ride, as the series probably stays as true to the source material as possible.And if you're like me and you knew nothing about this going in, stop reading this right NOW. Get your butt over to the website and catch the pilot episode, or watch it when it premieres on Showtime.Don't keep DEXTER waiting...
I remember seeing a preview for Dexter. I then tried to tell a friend about a new show on Showtime. Before I could get the description out, he said, "Who really cares what it's about? Everything is recycled at this point anyway." I responded with, "It's a show about a serial killer...except he only hunts other serial killers, and works at the police department trying to catch him."My friend replied, "...Well, that's a new one."Dexter, in my opinion, is one of the absolute top running shows on television. I can't get enough of it--I've never bought a DVD for a television show in my life, but I know I'll be snagging this series as soon as it's released. Dexter is brilliantly written and nearly perfectly cast. Michael C. Hall is a breath of fresh air--huge control over his character and 100% believable. The rest of the cast gets the job done well, especially Erik King as Dexter's half-rival, Sergeant Doakes. If you liked Hall from Six Feet Under, give this a shot, but don't expect a similar performance at all--watching these two shows back to back is mostly a testament to his range.The show makes you feel morbid--you find yourself cheering on the natural villain. There are horror elements to the show, but the only thing I really found myself fearing while watching was the possibility of Dexter getting caught.I won't go into detail, but I will add that it would be a major disservice to yourself to read the books which the series is based on--half of the genius of the show is not only its dialogue, but its ability to genuinely surprise the viewer. There were a few cliff hangers this season which I honestly did not know what would happen either way.All in all, I'd suggest that just about everyone should try this show. It has a very fresh feel, and will probably appeal to some people who don't even like murder investigation or horror programming. The only group I would not recommend it to are the squeamish, as there are plenty of graphic scenes (though it is never excessively gory). All in all, my favorite current show on television.
Tonight's the night. And it's going to happen, again and again. It has to happen.Jeffry P. Freundlich better known by the pen name Jeff Lindsay created a complex character called Dexter Morgan through his novels, of which Darkly Dreaming Dexter was the first. I read on Wikipedia that Jeff wanted to name the novel "Pinocchio Bleeds" but his publisher disagreed. I wonder how it would have turned out as a TV series. I started watching Dexter in early 2011. I don't know why I took so long to fall deeply in love with this epic of a show. The pilot episode sets the stage for an intense, nail-biting thriller that follows in the remaining episodes of Season 1 focused around the main antagonist "The Ice Truck Killer" played brilliantly by Chris Camargo. I do not want to ruin the show for someone who hasn't watched the series yet, so no story or plot spoilers here.James Manos, Jr. who co-produced and wrote the first season of The Sopranos developed the series that is exceptionally well executed and designed. The writing is top notch and in most episodes keeps you guessing on what's coming next. Although, only Season 1 is based on the novel and the other 5 seasons are original, I have to appreciate the effort Jeff Lindsay put in creating the characters in the story and the plot.The characters of the series will be etched in your memory for a very long time. Jennifer Carpenter as Dexter's foster sister, David Zayas as Batista, Erik King as Doakes, Lauren Velez as LaGuerta play recurring characters through Season 6 and have done a commendable job of staying in character since Oct 2006. There are many others in the show including the antagonists in each season that need a special mention here. Chris Camargo, Julie Benz, Jimmy Smits, John Lithgow, Colin Hanks to name a few. All the other actors including extras do a phenomenal job which makes the show, for lack of a better word, real.Although the series is about a serial killer and his vigilante ways, there is something so likable about Dexter's character that you will root for him every time he is trouble. The reason is his "code" which he adheres to 99.9997% of the time. He kills people who kill people. The kill room, the modus operandi and the act of taking lives are shown consistently flawless, after all this is fiction and makes for a great TV show. Michael C. Hall epitomized the character remarkably. His first person narration, diction and quips combined with unique facial expressions make you fall in love with the character instantly. Michael's method acting and certain subtle nuances in characterization resulted in a more lifelike performance.Some of the episodes show a lot of blood and gore(Season 6) which may be a huge turn off for most people. Blood plays an integral part of the story right from the beginning of Season 1 as Dexter has a love-hate relationship with blood.This review is as layered as the series. There is no beginning and end to such a multi-layered, open for more plot lines and new characters, type of story. Personally, I don't want the series to ever end and I am not even sure about a logical end to Dexter's character.Please make "tonight the night" to start watching Dexter, if you haven't watched this show yet. The title credits theme is beautifully composed and shot and will slowly begin haunting you. Dexter and his dark passenger....the journey continues.
Dexter is one of those shows that is instantly addictive. I know I am late in the game but I recently got Showtime at home and have been watching the episodes from the start. While it is a shame that such a good show must be relegated to a premium cable channel, it wouldn't be as good on basic cable. It is a show that needs to push the envelope a little and therefore must be on a network such as Showtime. The show is full of excellent actors and they each portray their respective characters in a way that makes the whole story very believable. A show like Dexter comes along once in a while, in the same vein as The Sopranos, where you subscribe to a premium channel just so you can watch this one show, it is that good (in my humble opinion).


                
When you read that a show is about a serial killer it is (IMHO) natural to question how you could identify and like the main character and show. But in the case of Dexter I had the benefit of the ratings being exceptionally high on IMDb to peak my interest enough to give it a try. I'm very glad I did as they come up with a somewhat far fetched back story, but having it based on an orphaned child under horrific circumstances of seeing his family chainsawed to death causing a cop to adopt him and raise him anticipating problems based on his sick tendencies who responds by setting up the Dexter with a "code" to kill bad guys who slip through the system making him a "lovable vigilante serial killer" who gets rid of disgusting people the system doesn't punish. So Dexter is a human scavenger focusing his desires on scum of the earth people the audience sees as deserving, making him a good guy not a psycho.So while a serial killer, they have a fairly good back story that allows us to grow to like the serial killer and root for him because while he is sticking big knives in people's chest and cutting them up to dump into the Atlantic from his boat, they are the kind of people you wanted Dirty Harry to shoot in all those Clint Eastwood movies where (especially in the first) when he gets the chance to blow them away with that big 44 magnum at which time you now want him to blow the bad guy away (and make it hurt if possible).That leaves us with a base story that allows for some interesting season and episode level stories. Dexter is pretty consistent in the season having a story that they did a good job of building to a climax at the end that was intense. Some I liked more than others, and while I hated when they let Rita get killed because Dexter dragged his feet killing the bad guy for the season. But as the show progressed it did open the coming seasons for more interesting developments in the show, stories and in Dexter as a human being.That leaves the end of the show that I was not pleased with at all. They dragged us through all the evolution to see Dexter set free from his "dark passenger" finally at the series finale (or last few shows). But they just couldn't let a serial killer go off happy and in love. They took care of Harrison as he told Dexter he loved his new girlfriend soon to be wife as they prepared to leave. I could even accept them taking out Deb. But why leave her a vegetable that Dexter couldn't leave? I understand need for closure on that end, but why not just let her get shot and die a hero so he could go on? I liked that he wouldn't let her live a veggie as we all know after all those seasons that wasn't his sisters way, she wouldn't want to burden anyone and was brain dead. She would have wanted to have Dexter pull the plug on her. But why couldn't he have simply gone on to meet up with the new girlfriend whose love healed his heart so he could feel emotion? I could have even accepted him dying in the storm better than what they did. Having him wind up out west as a logger was a horrible end. He cleaned up everything and could and should have had him connect with his love and let them end the show living happily ever after in Argentina. But having him battle his demons, win, and then just live alone in a shack heart broke when he simply had to go marry his love and father Harrison was a maddening ending that lowered my opinion of the show a great deal. I'm a romantic, even in a serial killer main character I wanted Dexter to wind up with his cute serial killer wife and raise Harrison living off their riches as their love healed each others need to whack innocents or anyone else.Given the way they dodged and wrote around the other obstacles for the rest of the major stumbling blocks in the story why not let our main character come out happy? I gave myself weeks to allow the initial anger dissipate so I could write this without the initial anger laced through. Dexter is unique and would be a 10, but after finding a way for him to dump his darkness, heal his heart and live with real feelings deeply in love with his new wife and son having him wind up alone in a logging camp was a crappy way to end the series. With so much that I adored about the show and characters I've never been so disappointed in the ending of a show. One of those times when I think the writers gave the viewers a very poor ending when there was a spectrum of endings they could have given us from him dead or in jail and would have rated them higher than the 1 star ending they gave us. After all those hours of good entertainment and in 8 minutes the writers stuck it to the audience with a 1 star ending that could have been a 10. 8 minutes; Guess Breaking Bad endings are just really rare where we get it all.
One of the best, if not the best, series I have ever watched. Engaging, thrilling, psychological, Dexter has it all. Seeing Dexter develop as a person throughout the seasons on a fast pace while still covering about 12 hours of TV was an awesome experience.Although seeing a lot of criticism on the 5th to 8th season of the series I think Dexter as a series didn't fall off at all. The seasons were needed in order to develop the character and were as thrilling as seasons 1 to 4.The thing about this series I love most are the quotes like: "I consume the people I love." (After the cannibal) "I destroy everyone I love." (End of the series)It's these short but powerful quotes that give this series (for me) the irresistible charm it possesses, and character to the characterless Dexter.Speaking of the end though, I have to say seeing the real ending for the first time almost got me to tears. It shouldn't have been that way in my opinion, and to be honest gave a real bitter taste to the whole series. The set-up for suicide was perfect with Dexter realizing he is a danger to everyone he knows, with him ending the life of his sister, with these quotes, with his emotionless self experiencing his first emotions like regret and sorrow. So when a few months later I decided to watch the whole series again I tried to skip the real end as much as possible. I always read criticism on the end where Deb gets paralyzed, although I myself think it contributes nicely to the realization of Dexter. This is the first time I have written a review and I know it slacks and isn't really clearly at all, but I enjoyed writing it, especially for this awesome series.
To me, Dexter was a show about a serial killer; it wasn't a show about an emotionally stunted family man striving to achieve a more domesticated life... I feel like, in deliberately trying not to be 'obvious', the writers lost some of the fundamentals of the show's core identity... I get what they were going for; to show that being mixed up in killing - even when trying to distance himself from it - has always harmed the people in his life, and that the way to demonstrate his love for his son was to sacrifice their relationship in order that he be better cared for, and not become tainted... That ending might have worked if they'd kept Rita alive, but not when the 'new family' consists of a character that I didn't care about, beyond the fact that she was hot... (Hannah) Michael C Hall is a good actor, though, so I will say that he made the goodbye to Harrison work...I don't think that many people wanted to see Dexter become 'human', as much as they wanted to see him be uncovered, and try to evade capture... (whether he succeeded or not would have been irrelevant, either way could have been justified) The writers are on record as saying that doing things this way would have felt 'predictable'... Well - you know what? Sometimes predictability can at least be satisfying, if you write it well enough... The conclusion that was decided upon just felt too far away from the show that I'd elected to stick with, all the way back in Season One...
Who would have thought that waiting to see what a serial killer is going to do next can be so engrossing. Well, it always sounded very interesting but for me after watching Dexter, it has become an addiction. Nevertheless, I strongly think that Dexter is kind of loosing its charm, esp. in the last 2 seasons. The first 4/5 seasons, each episode had more depth and intensity, whereas now more often than not things are getting a bit more predictable. Even after all being said, the concept & its execution by the entire cast is still praiseworthy. One thing for sure, no one could have done Dexter without Michael C. Hall. A must see for all the people who love to see the good guy taking down the bad ones, and YES at times things can also go wrong..


                
There are some things that are just disturbing to watch. Whether it's a disturbing image like from news of a tragic event like a shooting or a video set up on YouTube like a recent serial killer did or a more fictional depiction of tragedy like the Saw films, Scream or a television depiction like Law & Order, Bones, or Jersey Shore. However there are some things which are hard to understand why exactly you're disturbed by them. For me that show is Dexter. You can always look at a show like this and say that what is disturbing about it is the graphic depictions of sex, language and death that are disturbing, and yes it can be tough to watch the way in which people are both killed by the main character and kill other people but often that's the least of what disturbs me.What usually bothers me about the show is the way in which the characters evolve over time. Most disturbing of all is Dexter who struggles to deal with who he is versus how he was raised. Each season deals with the reality of his life as both a forensic blood spatter analyst and a serial killer. Living with such a contradiction alone would be difficult enough, but trying to relate to people without revealing this contradiction is even harder for him. He does manage to make some connections to people, though they are pretty basic at first over time they evolve and grow much like Dexter himself. The thing that disturbs me most about Dexter is how much people connect with the character. And not just in the sense of the insane ones who try to reenact or mirror his crimes.My own connection is quite a strange one. I know what it's like to feel disconnected from the world and other people, trying to find a way to connect to people when you don't feel connected to anyone or anything. It's hard to care about others or have a conversation that you find meaningful when you don't care about what other people are saying. But you keep trying because you see the people around you talking and caring about each other and you want to understand what they feel like. You want to know so bad that you start to feel something just from that itself.Ultimately, I think that's what Dexter is all about, a man trying to connect to others without really knowing how. He tries to connect with his girlfriend, his co-workers as well as his family and friends. Yet no matter how many times he fails he keeps trying, despite the fact that doing so is against his nature. The main reason he fails is because his natural instinct is to shy away from people and do his own thing. But he was taught to spend time with people and to at least appear like everyone else so that he can try to fit in. This creates a tragic battle within the main character that is often played out within the inner monologue/voice over of the episodes and seasons as a whole.As the seasons progress, he learns how to manage between his nature and the way he was nurtured to embrace in life. Watching him try to live up to both perceptions of himself that he has while dealing with the people around him and keeping them from learning the truth can be both tragic and disturbing at the same time.So is Dexter the ultimate nature versus nurture? I think it is.To check out more of my reviews, go here: http://andrew-heard.blogspot.ca/


                
(This is the second part of my dexter review. If you want to read the first part, check my IMDb profile for the first part of this review)Season 5Season 5 is a little odd for me. This is another really good Dexter season, but again I feel like there was a lot of missed potential. This season we get introduced to Lumen, a rape victim, who becomes Dexter's partner somewhat like Miguel. There's actually a group of villains, the barrel girl gang, this season, but none of them are really developed except for the main villain, Jordan Chase, and even then he wasn't that developed. He was a pretty interesting villain, basically motivating people with their primal urges. I also like the watch gimmick, but apart from that, we just don't get enough of him. He did have a great scene with Dexter, where he breaks him down. I actually really hated Lumen's character at first. I mean when we first meet her, she escaped from the gang, after being raped and tortured, and she's a mess, who would do anything to survive, but they did a great job of developing her character. I actually really liked her near the end of the season. This season we also get even more development for Debra, and some great moments with Quinn, but also La Guerta really starts to become annoying. To give even more intensity to this season we get Stan Liddy who's another one of the characters who gets close to discovering Dexter, he was honestly really annoying, but in a good way. The only real complaint I have with this season, apart from what I've already mentioned, is how quickly Dexter gets over Season's 4 aftermath. I don't know, I just felt like he should've had more time to deal with it. Overall I think this is the middle section of Dexter's Seasons in terms of quality. A really solid season overall, with mostly above average episodes, but it never really teaches "amazing" level for me.
8.3/10Season 6Season 6 is one of the worst seasons of Dexter. I don't think it's bad necessarily, but it's just kinda okay. This season has Dexter learning about religion for some reason. I felt like it could've gone some interesting ways, but nothing really comes from it. I feel like this season as a whole is kind of a waste. I mean the entire season is basically build up to the last episode, with a big reveal, but that reveal could've easily been done last season. This season is just weird, but not in a good way. The villain just keeps going back and forth, and while he had potential, he was uninteresting. Most of this season was just not engaging. There were some really obvious and stupid reveals. the writers seemed to have gotten lazy, leaving a bunch of plot holes. There's this episode which should've easily been one of Dexter's best episode. It could've been an arc for the character even, but it's wasted in one episode, and brings up a bunch of plot holes, and really stupid things. Up until this season that was the worst episode in the series. It's just odd. Again I don't think this season is bad, I think it's just kinda okay. It does have some redeeming qualities. The finale was actually great, and the twist was fantastic. Also Quinn's and Batista's sub plot was entertaining for some reason. There was a new character, Brother Sam, he wasn't that important, but I liked him. It's just an okay season, with the finale saving it from really completely failing.
6.5/10Season 7Fortunately after one of Dexter's worst season we get one of Dexter's better seasons. Season 7 deals a lot with the repercussions of Season 6's finale. We get some seriously fantastic scenes with Jeniffer Carpenter, who plays Debra. This is when we really see her even more broken character. Dexter also has an interesting arc of actually feeling more and more. We get quite a few antagonists this season. We have Hannah McKay, Isaak Sirko, and La Guerta, with some other smaller villains. They were all surprisingly good. First I have to praise Ray Stevenson, who plays Isaak Sirko. Woah, he's another one of my favorite villains. He was so great. He's got the physical presence, and he's could probably kill Dexter with his bare hands, but he's also only doing this for love. He was one of my favorite Dexter villains. It just really disappoints me how early they got rid of him. He could've easily been the main villain of the season. This season also has a lot of missed opportunities. Last season we get introduced to Greene, who's another one of those characters who gets close to discovering Dexter's secret, and he had the potential to be a great villain, but he's wasted pretty early on. I do have to say this season also has some of the best side villains. Usually Dexter would have a weekly villain, but instead of having them for one episode, they use them for a few more, which really made these smaller villains much better. This season has a lot going on. Most of the characters have something to do which is great. It just feels like the writers really tried their hardest to give us one last great seasons before the completely ruin it in the final season. Once again this season had some really intense moments especially near the finale, when LaGuerta starts to suspect Dexter as the bay harbor butcher. I think she was built up really well, because she really becomes unlikeable in the last few seasons, and this makes her a great antagonist. The finale was another intense episode, and again Jeniffer Carpenter gives an amazing performance. This is probably the season with the most sub plots, and missed opportunities unfortunately, but it is one of my favorites nonetheless. I do have to say, while Dexter's arc is interesting, some things that happened with Hannah McKay really started to annoy me. Overall though this is one of my favorite seasons. There were a lot of missed opportunities unfortunately. It had so much more potential, but at the same it brought us a lot of great moments. Isaak Sirko is amazing, Debra is amazing. Most of the characters have something to do, which was a little bit of an issue in previous seasons. I just really enjoyed this season despite some disappointments.
8.6/10Season 8The final season, and unfortunately the worst. I think what really annoyed me is that it actually had a pretty good start. It introduced some new concepts, but they're all wasted. The big twists from the finale are resolved so easily. Characters have nothing to do Anymore. We have this weird sub plot with Masuka that doesn't go anywhere. The villain had a lot of potential, but he's forgotten for many episodes. Dexter has done a great job of not relying on filler, but this season is basically mostly filler. It's just so disappointing. Like Season 6 I don't think this is a bad season either. In fact despite all the complaints I just mentioned it does have a lot of redeeming qualities, but it's just so disappointing for the final season, and the finale is really stupid. I really liked this sub plot with a potential apprentice for Dexter, but it was wasted. Dr. Evelyn was a good addition to the cast, and I enjoyed a lot of the scenes with her, but she becomes a little dumb later on. I liked the sub plot with Elway and the private investigators. Dexter's cinematography has been mostly average, but this season suddenly gets some really good cinematography to be honest. Also the music has been solid for the entire series, but I think this season gets some of the better tracks. Unfortunately it keeps getting worse as the season continues, until it reaches its worst episode yet in the finale. Like the season overall I think the finale started off pretty well too. I wasn't liking the direction it was going, but I was willing to accept it. For most of the episodes I was thinking to myself "this isn't as bad as everyone says" but then it seriously becomes stupid. How could such a great show just fade away in such a lame way. It ruins the character development that Dexter has had, and it tries to make it feel like it's a genius ending, when it makes no sense, and is filled with plot holes. It's just bad and disappointing.
5.9/10
To sum my thoughts on the overall series. Dexter is a seriously great, and viciously entertaining show. It's just so good and I really recommend it. The start is definitely better than the end. It stumbles more on the second half of the show, but most of the cast is so great even the more disappointing seasons are still quite entertaining. I wish this series went on longer because there were still a lot of things they could've done. It really disappoints me how badly it ended, but I'm still glad I watched the entire show because it's truly great.The average score of the seasons is about an 8/10, but I'd personally give the overall show an 8.5/10.


                
(This is part 1 of 2 of my Dexter Review. If you want to read the whole thing, check my IMDb profile for the other part.)I finally watched Dexter after many people recommending it. I have to say I really loved it.
I'm gonna go through each season and give it my thoughts without any big spoilers, and in the bottom give a rating for the season, and the overall rating of the show will be based on the averages of every season.
Season 1Season 1 introduces us to our surprisingly lovable and charismatic serial killer. I was instantly drawn Michael C Hall's great performance as the psychopathic protagonist, Dexter Morgan. All of the cast was really good too, however I wish they gave the side characters a little more development. They're all really well written and acted. Debra Morgan, Dexter's sister, was actually one of the best characters in the series. At first I thought she was a superficial character, but we soon see how broken she is. All the characters have their distinct personality and function. Even the least developed character, Masuka, just brings some needed comedy to the series. I really like how we see the transformation of Dexter through flashbacks, and visions of his father, Harry, James Remar, who does a great job. The mystery of the identity of the ice truck killer is engaging. The identity was also pretty unpredictable in my opinion. I genuinely didn't see coming who it was. If I have any gripes with this season it would be that the villain could've maybe been a bit more developed, and had more of a distinct personality. I found his reveal a bit odd and even somewhat cliche. In fact like I mentioned earlier, most of the side characters aren't developed enough. I do love how focused the initial season of Dexter is, but we really don't know much of these side characters. Overall though this season was great. It gives us a feel for the dark, violent and even funny at times, but surprisingly well thought out series. A lot of sub plots are set up, and they all come together in the finale really well to set up the next season. This is one of Dexter's better seasons.
8.8/10Season 2Season 2 continues to improve after Dexter's first season, bringing us a genuinely exciting and even more intense season. We've been introduced to most of the main cast now, so we're able to just jump into the story. Instead of having a traditional villain, this season has Dexter as the bay harbor butcher, who's being investigated by the Miami Police Department, and FBI. I have to praise Erik King as James Doakes. He was seriously fantastic. He was set up last season as one of the only people to suspect Dexter, and he's still one of my favorite characters after 6 seasons. He brought some serious intensity to the show. I was on the edge of my seat multiple times with Dexter's and Doakes' interactions. They're also supported by another antagonist Lila. While she isn't one of Dexter's greatest villains, she was pretty solid, and she was genuinely annoying at times, which I'm sure was the intention. Also she brought together Dexter's family sub plots with Rita and the kids, which greatly improved from last season. They were basically introduced last season, but this season we really see that Dexter really starts to care about this family, and all the characters improve. There's also another character, Frank Lundy, who's another character who gets close to discovering Dexter's secret. He was another great addition to the show. I will admit that the season finale was a little disappointing. It all gets resolved a little too convenient. The sub plots, and arcs of the story and characters don't all culminate. Some of them end earlier. Also coming off of Doakes' storyline they had too much to live up to, but it was still a solid finale, and it excites you for the next season. I do wish this season was later on in the show. It could've easily been the final season, but because of it only being the second season it had to wrap up so simply. Overall this was just an improvement over the first season in almost every way. We got more development for the characters, one of the most intense episodes of Dexter ever, and just more of what I came to love from the first season.
9.1/10Season 3Unfortunately Season 3 of Dexter is one of Dexter's weaker season. Its solid nonetheless, but coming from the really great Seasons 1 and 2 they stumbled a bit with this season. This season we see Dexter kill someone by accident, and get introduced to Miguel Prada, who becomes his partner of sorts. I think Miguel Prado's interactions with Dexter were the highlight of this season. This new dynamic with the characters was fresh, and really interesting. However I feel like there was a lot of missed potential here. There was another villain, the skinner, but we barely see anything with him. He's by far the most underdeveloped villain. However it Miguel Prada was pretty great, even though if he could've been better. We also get introduced to Joey Quinn this season. He doesn't do much this season, but he becomes one of my favorite characters later on. We also get even more of Dexter's family, and we soon find out he's going to become a father. I wasn't really a fan of the family at first, but they keep improving, and I think the family sub plot really came together this season. This season doesn't really feel like it ever takes off though. It's a lot of back and forth, and while this back and forth is usually good, it just never really hits the levels of "Amazing" like Seasons 1 and 2.
8.1/10Season 4The best season (In my opinion). This season we get introduced to John Lithgow as The Trinity Killer... WOAH He was so great. My favorite villain in the entire series, and one of my favorite villains in any series. He brings Dexter's biggest twist, more intensity, and I was just left speechless by him. He was just amazing. I can't praise him enough. This is the best season of Dexter in my opinion. Definitely my favorite. This season really focuses more on Dexter's family, and how he balances both of his lives. We get to see the contrast between Dexter and Trinity even though they live 2 lives in a similar way. We get Dexter's Son. We get Lundy back, which was nice. We really get a feel of Debra's broken character. We just get Dexter's best villain, and we really get to see his struggles with his double life. I just can't praise this season enough, I just loved it. The only real complaint I have with this season, is some stupid things Dexter does near the middle of the season, but I think that also adds to the series on a whole. This is when we really see Dexter's mistakes, and their consequences. Also this has the biggest collection of "Amazing" episodes in any other season for me. I want to talk more about it, but I don't want to spoil it for anyone, I just absolutely loved this season.
9.4/10


                
First two seasons were truly masterpieces, i would say they were one of the best seasons from every series. Third season was average- not bad, not good either. Fourth season was great because of Trinity, not that good as first two seasons but still very enjoyable. Now it's getting only worse. Fifth season was totally crap. Boring killers, boring plot, nothing interesting. Sixth season had a good serial killer(s), really creative kills, and that all's pros of this season. Seventh season was cool for like 2 episodes because of Debra's realization about Dexter, but then it was just boring. And the worst one- season eight. Jesus Christ it isn't even worth mentiong. Ending had soooo much potential but they screwed it really hard. Exambles:
-Dexter's friends didn't realise that he was a serial killer
-Debra death
-Zach death (he had so much potential to replace Dexter)
-Dexter abandoning his son and becoming a lumberjack(???)From seasons 1-4 Dexter is one of my favourite shows. But seasons 5-8 are just crap. I don't recommend watching it after season 4.
I loved everything about this series. Dexter is a likeable character, it made me question the morality of his actions. I viewed him as a vigilante. I found it very easy to be emersed in the story.Dexter is a blood splatter analyst but he's also a serial killer. He only kills other serial killers, hard criminals and those who commit serious crimes. He won't kill people who are innocent civilians.Throughout the story you find out more information about his family, his upbringing, his childhood etc and the plot thickens.He was adopted as a child and got very close with his step sister who he keeps at arms length. She starts to get suspicious regarding dexter and his secrets.I don't want to give too much away or give any spoilers but it's definitely worth a watch. It's a fast moving series with lots of twists. If you enjoy crime, suspense, plot twists and TV shows about serial killers this is definitely a binge worthy option.


                
I began watching Dexter in high school. Sophomore year to be exact. As someone who is not a fan of crime dramas like NCIS or Law and Order, Dexter puts an incredible twist on the tale. A daytime blood splatter analyst turned vigilante killer by night. No longer are you blocked to the views of the good guys, you're behind the eyes of an anti-hero. You get to view the crimes from all sides. The story lulls you in and you realize you're sympathizing with a murderer. But you can always fall back on the fact that he's only killing other murderers.Each character breathes an incredible life into the show. Be it his sister Deb, who is off the cuff and has the mouth of a sailor. Batista who is a guiding light for the team, and brings a sense of comfort in such a dark show. I could continue listing characters, but these are the main 3 that the show highlights throughout its long seasons.Dexter is a one of a kind show that can't really be replicated unless they bring it back. The only reason I dropped a star is because of Seasons 5,7 and 8. These seasons really put a bad taste in your mouth for the great content you were watching before.The good part is they didn't end the series with a dead end. There is still room to revive the series under new conditions. This show really helped get me interested in Television in general and without it, I'm not sure I'd have cared as much about Television History.
Dexter Morgan is a blood-spatter analyst for the Miami Police Department. He is good at his job and gets along well with his colleagues. Little do they know, however, that he is also fighting crime in his spare time - killing murderers who escape justice.Superb series. Solid plot, with every season bringing a fresh nemesis for Dexter and new reasons to look over his shoulder. It is a very intriguing and tension-filled drama. The fact that even his sister, who is a detective in the police department, doesn't know about his double-life makes for very entertaining television, as she could be his Achilles heel.Not perfect though. The writing did become weaker towards the end, with the final season being quite a disappointment. The final episode has to be one of the worst, especially considering the quality that came before it, in TV history. The conclusion is ridiculous.


                
Dexter is a wild thrill ride that I strongly recommend you buy a ticket & get aboard.
Great overall story arcs to each season & main storyline flow very well through the 8 seasons of this showtime great. 
It has a great cast & great writing & u don't have to sit through 5 episodes to know what's what, you'll either like it or won't, so after a few episodes you'll know whether your a Dexter fan.
Sure some seasons are worse than others but it never gets to a point where its not enjoyable to watch.Basically Dexter is a serial killer & we get to follow his life & how it affects him & those around him. It's tense & violent & funny & upsetting, all while being a drama. I know you think the whole serial killer thing has been done before but not like this. This is a stand alone series & has its own merits. You invest a lot into dexter & the characters & you'll be glued to the tv if you binge watch this.
I've rewatched the seasons I think about 4 times & I still enjoy watching it. Even after knowing what happens to who & when & why, my love for the show kept me entertained. My personal order of my favourite seasons from best to worse is
4,2,1,7,3,5,8,6. Just because I picked some seasons lesser doesn't justify the whole season as there's great episodes in every season it's just my preference, however I highly recommend you start from the beginning as you'll enjoy the show that much more & you'll also miss out on characters & crucial plot twists if you jump seasons, therefore not understanding or appreciating the show to its full extent.FUN FACT:Michael C Hall who plays Dexter & Jennifer Carpenter who plays Dexter sister Debra were married in real life & seperated during the show, ummm #awkardfilming 
It's a tremendous asset to them that you won't even notice & C Hall suffered a form of cancer through the show & kept filming with a wig. So what are you waiting for ? If you haven't seen it jump aboard the dexter train.


                
Well written I can't remember the last time I Click next episode with such purpose to know what will happen next and yaa it delvers every time. Michael delver such extraordinary performance not to take anything away from the other cast specially Julie Benz. IT IS AWESOME..))


                
Dexter is one of the best movie I have ever observed. This show is fantastic! The acting all around is awesome! Michael C. Hall is incredible as Dexter. The way he depicts Dexter is the way any serial killer ought to be depicted anyplace. The supporting performing actors are amazing as well.I can never truly get into an series that truly interested me as much as Dexter has. Dexter is AWESOME!!!


                
I can not give enough praise to this TV series. It is beautifully plotted, and executed even better.Never have I seen a series whose music has been used so well. To depict lightness even while something horrific is happening on screen, to want to look away from the screen but being captivated by the horror and the music is sheer talent.Highlights of the show would be the superb acting by the leads. At times, it is easy to forget Michael C. Hall is even acting. His presence on screen is so powerful, so commanding, it is hard to look away. Indeed, at times I even wondered at just how many roles Mr. Hall has to portray on screen. From playing the part of a bumbling redneck to a ruthless sharp witted killer, few actors have displayed such a finesse for the arts on screen.
Jennifer Carpenter as the sister is one of the most foul mouthed loved characters to ever grace the screen.
Many a time, the bad guys from this show are the crowd pleasers, right from Season 1.This series gets a 9 on 10, the one point it missed is due to the last season. I still seem to be a bit undecided on how this series ended but nonetheless, as the series and its ending still continues to haunt me and the fact that it probably will for a long time, warrants the 9 on 10.


                
