I'd seen "Wild Strawberries" as a college freshman when it was first released, and knew right away I'd be a Bergman fan from then on. 
I watched it again just last night, January 2004, at age 63, and needless to say got a whole different perspective on the film.  Where the surrealist touches, moody photography, and incredibly smooth direction had made the big hit with me as a near boy, as an aging man I found myself--I hesitate to say painfully, but...well, closely--identifying with old Isak Borg in his strange pilgrimage, both interior and exterior, the day he receives his honorary degree at the cathedral in Lund.In the last twenty minutes or so of the movie, I found tears running down my face, not from any thrilling sentimental browbeating (I doubt if Mr. Bergman shot five seconds' worth of sentimentality in his whole long career!) but simply from the cumulative emotional impact of this simple, powerful story and its probing revelation of human character, desire, and chagrin. 
By the time the film ended, I felt wrung out, disoriented, happy and deeply sad at the same time: it's the experience the Greeks wanted their tragedies to convey to the spectator; they spoke of "katharsis."  I experienced it firsthand when I had the great good fortune to see a production (in English) of "Medea."  I walked away in tears and scarcely able to think straight for an hour or so.  The same thing happened with "Wild Strawberries."  This is one of the handful of films I unhesitatingly rate a "ten."A side note: I watched the Criterion Collection DVD.  Before the film itself, I watched the hour-long interview conducted in 1998 by Jorn Donner included on the disc.  It was remarkable to see how the film Bergman shot ca. 1957 contains many elements that were to be present in his later life--like a foreshadowing of his own old age.


                
In this symbolic tale of an old man's journey from emotional isolation to a kind of personal renaissance, Ingmar Bergman explores in part his own past, and in doing so rewards us all with a tale of redemption and love.Victor Sjostrom, then 80 years old, stars as Professor Isak Borg whose self-indulgent cynicism has left him isolated from others. Sjostrom, whose work goes back to the very beginning of the Swedish cinema in the silent film era, both as an actor and as a director, gives a brilliant and compelling performance. All the action of the film takes place in a single day with flashbacks and dream sequences to Borg's past as Borg wakes and goes on a journey to receive a "Jubilee Doctor" degree from the University of Lund. Bergman wrote that the idea for the film came upon him when he asked the question, "What if I could suddenly walk into my childhood?" He then imagined a film "about suddenly opening a door, emerging in reality, then turning a corner and entering another period of one's existence, and all the time the past is going on, alive."Bibi Andersson plays both the Sara from Borg's childhood, the cousin he was to marry, and the hitchhiker Sara who with her two companions befriends him with warmth and affection. The key scene is when the ancient Borg in dreamscape comes upon the Sara of his childhood out gathering wild strawberries. Borg looks on (unnoticed of course) as his brother, the young Sigfrid, ravishes her with a kiss which she returns passionately; and, as the wild strawberries fall from her bowl onto her apron, staining it red, Borg experiences the pain of infidelity and heartbreak once again. Note that in English we speak of losing one's "cherry"; here the strawberries symbolize emotionally much the same thing for Sara. Later on in the film as the redemption comes, the present day Sara calls out to Borg that it is he that she really loves, always and forever. Borg waves her away from the balcony, yet we are greatly moved by her love, and we know how touched he is.The two young men accompanying Sara can be seen as reincarnations of the serious and careful Isak Borg and the more carefree and daring Sigfrid. It is as though his life has returned to him as a theater in which the characters resemble those of his past; yet we are not clear in realizing whether the resemblance properly belongs in the old man's mind or is a synchronicity of time returned.Memorable is Ingrid Thulin who plays Mariana, the wife of Borg's son who accompanies him on the auto trip to Lund. She begins with frank bitterness toward the old man but ends with love for him; and again we are emotionally moved at the transformation. What Bergman does so very well in this film is to make us experience forgiveness and the transformation of the human spirit from the negative emotions of jealousy and a cold indifference that is close to hate, to the redemption that comes with love and a renewal of the human spirit. In quiet agreement with this, but with the edge of realism fully intact, is the scene near the end when Borg asks his long time housekeeper and cook if they might not call one another by their first names. She responses that even at her age, a woman has her reputation to consider. Such a gentle comeuppance meshes well with, and serves as a foil for, all that has gone on before on this magical day in an old man's life.See this for Bergman who was just then realizing his genius (The Seventh Seal was produced immediately before this film) and for Sjostrom who had the rare opportunity to return to film as an actor in a leading role many decades past him prime, and made the most of it with a flawless performance, his last major performance as he was to die three years later.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
I first saw "Wild Strawberries" many years ago at one of the special screenings in the small theater in Moscow. It was the first Bergman's film I ever saw. This picture is amazing in its emotional impact and in my opinion is one of Bergman's most optimistic, profound, and warm films."Wild Strawberries" provides sincere, intelligent, and emotional contemplations of life's disappointment, regrets, and losses. The main character, seventy-eight-year-old Professor Isak Borg is forced to see his life in a true and painful light, but he also would learn that there is hope.Sparkling cinematography by Gunnar Fisher and superb acting of Bergman's regulars <U+0096> Ingrid Thulin, Bibi Anderson, Gunnar Bjornstrand, Max von Sydow and especially, the great silent film director, Victor Sjostrom as Professor Borg add to many delights of "Wild Strawberries" which also include Bergman's writing/directing with his famous mixing of conscious and unconscious, dreams and reality, the past and the present in the same scene.


                
We trace the journey of an elderly professor who is traveling to receive an honor for a life of accomplishment and service. Along the way he confronts the lack of success in his human relationships as opposed to the success he has enjoyed professionally. A string of encounters with the past and with iconic people he meets gradually bring the contrast into focus for the viewer.I particularly liked the subtle and intelligent storytelling in this film. He tells us before the credits that he is just a boring pedant. We realize as he comes to realize what this has really meant to him. We slowly receive hints of the emotional truths that frame the man's life. He is confronted by traces of how things could have been different.Important points are hinted at without being said--the viewer is left to sort them out. For example, the couple at the gas station convince us in a short and seemingly banal exchange that the Professor was a great healer whose service to those outside his family was anything but sterile. Yet speaking to his daughter-in-law, his smug insistence that a debt must be paid gives us a glimpse at what it must have been like for his son to have been held at emotional bay by bloodless, cold rationalism.This film deserves NOT to be remade, in order to preserve its artistic integrity. It affirms that film can be an art form that touches the soul as opposed to merely a product to be sold.
Wild Strawberries can be praised for so many reasons, but chief among them in my own mind is the way in which the film so perfectly conveys its themes of self-examination and the contemplation of one's own mortality (particularly through its stunning use of flashbacks).  Bergman's autobiographical story also benefits from the brilliant casting of Swedish film legend Victor Sjostrom as Isak Borg, whose towering performance is essential to the success of Wild Strawberries.  I read that Bergman based the coffin dream sequence on a frequent nightmare that he had -- and it never ceases to amaze me just how effective it remains even after all these years.  Wild Strawberries seems like a quiet, thoughtful, introsepective movie -- and it is; it is also one of world cinema's most impressive motion pictures.


                
During the first scene of "Wild Strawberries," I didn't think I'd be able to get through it -- the Swedish was so alien to me it sounded almost comical; it seemed as if every word ended with an "eer" sound. But quickly the beautiful black and white photography caught my eye and I was drawn into Isak Borg's story, or rather, his self-examination.The progression of the film is fantastic. Early in the film, Isak has an apparition within a dream and the small events leading up to it, within the dream, are quite brilliant. Throughout the rest of the film there are dreams and recollections; newly discovered secrets of the past that Isak sees for the first time. As he says in the film, "Dreams, as if I must tell myself something I won't listen to when I'm awake."How Bergman shows us the characters is terrific. It's a like a relaxed puzzle that doesn't emphasize any sort of urgency to figure things out. The story unfolds beautifully as we get a deeper sense of Isak, who I assume is an alter ago of Ingmar Bergman at that stage of his life (he was thirty-nine when the film was released).It pains me to know that the majority of people my age would rather watch an Adam Sandler movie or "The Rock" than something like this. Hey, I liked "Big Daddy" and I love Nicolas Cage, but "Wild Strawberries" is one of the few films I've seen that could possibly change the way I live my life. I'm always interested in listening to what aged people have to say about their own life because, well, it can only give me tips about my own, and that's what this film does in a way.There is one sequence in the film that is frightening and "arty," and I don't completely grasp what it means beyond Isak's deterioration and his realization of how people actually feel towards him (he's told earlier in the film as well, but he seems to accept this "verdict" more readily), but it doesn't take away from the film; rather, it's an interesting addition to an otherwise satisfying experience. In fact, it's probably the most vital part of the movie -- Isak may not like it, bbut once he gets past it, he has the option to develop.I don't know if the film is a masterpiece -- it's my introduction to Bergman, so once I see "Cries and Whispers," "Fanny and Alexander," "Persona" and "The Seventh Seal" (if I can get through it, this time) I'll come back to this film with a new perspective, or at least see it as a part of Bergman's whole. I do think this is a great film of its type. It's the kind of film that may require viewings every five or so years, as a sort of reminder.Pauline Kael once said that she didn't think much of Bergman because she'd done her share of soul-wrestling and it wasn't that difficult. The film isn't as challenging as I was expecting it to be, in fact, it's a walk in the park. It's pleasant and rich and beautiful, and the title seems perfect after you've seen the film. It's all about wild strawberries.****


                
"Wild Strawberries" profoundly moved me. The theme -- an old man coming up fast on death and wondering if his life has had any meaning -- is an old one for Bergman, and one which he explored ad nauseum throughout the subsequent decades. But here Bergman approaches the question with an uncharacteristic optimism and sense of hope. For once, he seems to come close to finding some peace with the unknowns of life that obviously preoccupied him as an artist, and the movie he gives us is sad but immensely warm; resigned but calm and reflective.An unequivocal masterpiece, and only one of a handful of Bergman films ("Persona" and "Cries and Whispers" being two others) that don't drive me over the edge when I watch them now.Grade: A+


                
A gorgeous movie about memory and hope. A trip and a form of catharsis. It is not a story of an old man who discovers images of his past, about a marital crisis or some teenagers. It is not a confession. It is a mirror. The same crisis is the "gift" of everybody. The same silence, fear and desire are the refuge of a man, a woman, a n American or Irakian. At a moment, at a single moment, you discover your past like only reality. Like your real skin, your only voice, your essential eye. It is not strange. We are the fruits of some experiences. Some books, some people, a family, a child or a wife are the Ganymedes of our hours, our evolution, our death. Our freedom, our gestures, our smile are the trees of their presence. Isak Borg is the image of a age. Our age who grow-up in the noise of every day. The isolation is only way to be yourself. The way to Lund, the relation with Agda, the empty attitude, the projection in Evald, the words are the symbols of a clock who is seed of our conscience. Childhood is only reality of our life.


                
This is a film school movie; one of the greatest ever made, or so say the experts. I was told to read the play (The English title is "Wild Strawberries") in a lit class in college and then we were given the chance to see the film. I watched both showings and it changed my thinking about what makes a good movie. This was in the stone age back in '75. I was a wild boy about campus who's taste for films was more action/adventure, western and mystery/suspense. The funny thing about Wild Strawberries is there's a little of all those genre's in it (if you understand what a cowboy Bergmann was at this point in his career).This is the story about the late-life introspection of an elderly physician. It really appears on the surface to be about as dull a concept for a film as one could ever want to suffer through. But this is a story about facing reality, and reality is rarely dull. The plot moves seamlessly through many phases, but much of it involves a road trip through the Swedish countryside.I recently bought a DVD of the 70's cult car-chase flick "Vanishing Point"; I hadn't seen it since the drive-in in my college years. I also own a Criterion Collection copy of Wild Strawberries and I've watched both recently. I realized that Wild Strawberries is a car chase flick as well. But Bergmann's Isak is not running from war weariness but from a life of nihilism cloaked in the old-world respectability of a family doctor. The chase is his lifetime of self-certainty, agnosticism and increasing isolation finally catching up to him. He realizes that he has been a walking dead man for much of his life (something he partially inherited from his mother). Getting too far into the details may fall into the category of being a spoiler, although there is enough complexity in this plot to keep literature classes struggling for an A for a long time (note: the stage play script is exactly the same as the screenplay script).There are a number of notable scenes in the movie that make this day a turning point in the life of the doctor. The ground-breaking dream sequences in the beginning is Hitchcock-like and terrifyingly surreal (or is Hitch being Bergmannesque?). Of great beauty is the reverie scene, where Isak relives some of his childhood while making a stop at his families' deserted summer lake house. The dialog scenes between Isak and his daughter-in-law, and later with the Almans (including another disturbing dream sequence) and with the "children" (hitchhiking college-age kids) are all filled with symbols and conversation pointing to Isak's living-dead existence.It's interesting that Bergmann himself, at this point in his young career, was much like Isak; agnostic, distant, self-absorbed, incapable of intimacy. Yet his conclusion to Wild Strawberries is much more hopeful than what Bergmann's own life has been.The turning point of the movie, easy to miss if you're not paying close attention, is the love-promise from the young hitchhiker Sara; a moment of incredible sweetness and innocent passion that is a regeneration, a salvation experience for Isak. Unlike Bergmann, Isak closes his eyes that night with the hope of a life of meaning, of love in service, not just service for maintaining personal dignity and image. Unlike Bergmann, Isak has a hope of seeing God when his death does arrive, and has demonstrated a new life has begun. This is Isak's Today; his day of repentance, of stopping the tortuous task of hardening his heart against the call of life, yielding in submission to love, mercy and grace.Watch this one several times. Bergmann's troupe of actors are incredible, his cinematography is spartan and overwhelmingly effective; his location shooting in the beautiful Swedish summer is fascinatingly effective in giving a foreign yet "down-home" feeling that's almost Mayberry like, if that's not too extreme a comparison.This movie shows the dichotomy of living for self versus living for the service of others. Isak thought he lived to serve but discovered that service is only of meaning to the server if it is from the heart. It is ultimately a hopeful picture that we can all learn from if we watch with an open heart. Otherwise, we see the wasted tragedy of existential living with no greater good than one's own dead image. Does YOUR watch have any hands?
Quite simply one of the very, very best movies I have ever seen.  Saw it recently for the second time, some 15 to 20 years after seeing it for the first time.  First time round I was the age and stage of the traveling youngsters and saw the world through their eyes.  This time I could identify more with the son and daughter-in-law characters with just as much conviction.  The subtlety and sophistication of this movie defy description. It simply has to be seen to be believed.  If you've never seen it, don't just sit there, go see the movie.


                
Ingmer Bergman's films are usually about what's happening inside the mind of a character, rather than in the outside world, and Wild Strawberries is a classic of the genre. The story in the conventional sense is almost nonexistent, and I have no qualms about spilling whatever there is. In any case, it's only my version of the story. A 78-year old doctor is to be honored on the 50th anniversary of his graduation from the university. The old man's day is normally filled either recalling his dreams while asleep, most of them he is unable to comprehend, or day-dreaming about the girl he loved in his youth, who ditched him to marry his brother. It's no different on the day of coronation, when he is traveling to the university accompanied by his daughter-in-law, estranged from his son. Significantly, he never day-dreams about his wife he lived with till her death. Occasionally, when she does appear in his dreams, he is guilt-ridden to find himself devoid of any feelings for her other than lust. During the journey, his daughter-in-law confides in him, that his 38-year old son is cold, detached, selfish and vainly principled - traits she observes in him as well as his 95-year old mother they meet on the way. The old man has loaned an undisclosed sum of money to his son, and in spite of son desperately needing money, and old man having no use for it, both father and son insist on returning the money as a matter of principle. Although feeling sorry for his son not enjoying life in his prime, just like himself, he feels himself absolved of any guilt feelings - it's in the genes - and goes back to day-dreaming of the girl he loved but lost. It's a film pleasing to the senses - B&W cinematography is exceptionally beautiful, the background score is haunting and nostalgic. As a character study of old age, it's pioneering. Ingmer Bergman is one of the purists of the cinema, who has not compromised the least bit in any of his movies. He, along with few others notably Robert Bresson and Werner Herzog, has made cinema the art form within 100 years of its origin. Bergman's Wild Strawberries (and Seventh Seal) are among the gems.
Grim Drama deals with an old man (Victor Sjostrom) who is on his way to get an honorary doctorate degree after 50 years as a doctor. He is accompanied by his daughter-in-law (Ingrid Thulin). The trip becomes a relicing of the old man's life as he realizes he led an empty life due to his stuffiness , egotism and inability to really love and feel. Nightmares, dreams and reminiscences are expertly blended as space and time are broken to work on the various levels on the man's thoughts.Picture sometimes talks too much in philosophical asides, but it remains a searching pictorial analysis of a man's life. Expert directorial touches and notations of director Ingmar Bergman, and the dignified miming of oldtime director Sjostrom, plus other fine thespic additions, make this an offbeater. It's a personal and profound work.


                
What a pleasant surprise after seeing the dark 'The Seventh Seal', 'Autumn Sonata' and 'Fanny and Alexander'.  Maybe I'm just not a fan of Sven Nykvist.  Surrealist instances and magic realism make 'Wild Strawberries' lighter and at least as memorable as 'the Seventh Seal', which was made in the same year.  As a fan of Luis Bunuel I think I can say that Bunuel must have liked these two masterpieces, although here is less humour and less shocking moments than in any of his own films and Bunuel hated family values.  But we already knew from Swedish people that they have less temperament than the Spanish.Victor Sjostrom and 'The Wind' (1928) have been mentioned, so I will not do that again here, but cinematographer Gunnar Fischer was a also a crucial mind behind the success of this film which is at least visually unforgettable and a directorial milestone.  The screenplay of the Seventh Seal is obviously superior, but also a bit more heavy-handed than this eclectic film.Is a honorary degree more important than family memories or family values? What do you learn from life if you spend it studying it?  These are the questions that I would like to ask many academics by recommending to them this film.  After all, questions are more important than answers.  Sokrates said it, and a certain Ingmar Bergman too.10 points out of 10 :-)


                
Ingmar Bergman's WILD STRAWBERRIES, on the Criterion DVD version, is nothing short of stunning. Picture, sound and English Subtitles have never been as fine as seen here. Having viewed this 1957 film during its first U.S. release in 1959, when I was 21 years-old, it was quite involving to return to it 43 years later. Like the Professor of the story, I too often reflect upon choice made along lifes path and wonder what might have been if different choices had been made. Victor Sjostron as Proffesor Isak Borg gives the performance of a life-time! What a magnificent face this man had! Bergman films can be quite dark and depressing, but his THE SEVENTH SEAL and WILD STRAWBERRIES are marvelous, thought-provoking dramas that lift the spirit. BEWARE: There are two other DVD releases, one from Asia and one from Brazil -- but neither of these have been cleaned up like the Criterion version. The sound for instance -- I have seen the dream sequence at the beginning of the film when the Professor walks through empty streets, sees handless clocks, a carriage carrying a casket with his body -- a scene with almost complete silence,BUT prints on 16mm, VHS and even Laser Disc all contain a great deal of surface noise. In the Criterion version, the silence is almost complete. And the picture is perfection -- blacks & whites that sparkle and no film blemishes or dirt-- a picture that is a wonder to behold. Peter Cowie's Commentary is outstanding and very worth while. The 90 Documentary from Swedish Television, INGMAR BERGMAN ON LIFE AND WORK is quite fascinating. Bergman, then in his early 80's, is very articulate and thoughtful in his discussion. Over the years Bergman has come to the conclusion that when we die we are no more -- and he has stated that conclusion gives him great peace. BUT his conversation in this documentary puts a wrinkle in his conclusion. He speaks of his final marriage to a woman for over 20 years and of her passing. He can not believe that SHE does not exist anymore. He often has the feeling that she is near him and that she still influences decisions he makes. He can accept not being for himself but not for her. Bergman is getting closer to the truth then he realizes. . . death is not the end -- but only the beginning. When he finally passes from this early life and finds that he still "is" -- I wonder if he'll wish he could change the focus of his later film work. Be that as it may -- WILD STRAWBERRIES and THE SEVENTH SEAL are two of the finest films of the last century -- in my humble opinion.


                
In "Smultronstallet", the elderly professor Isak Borg, on his way to receive an honorary degree, uses the journey to discover and understand himself and the effect he has had on others. The action converts past and present, reality and fantasy, the present harshly and starkly lit, the earlier memories more relaxed and lyrical as if, for an old man, the past - that other country - was better than the time and place he inhabits now. Each new character, each reminiscence as it springs up in the mind of professor reveals something new about him - his failings, his shortcomings, the reasons why, in his apparently successful and honored old age, he is alone and lonely. This is, admittedly, an uneven film, verbally over explicit, but it is packed with vivid imagery - an early dream sequence, both mysterious and yet significant; a disenchanted couple squabbling fiercely in a car; the sad beauty of Marianne, unhappy daughter-in-law; the words, memories and gestures of professor's mother; the distancing effect produced by the device of having the professor visiting his own past unseen by those who shared it with him; the meeting with Akerman. It is a sombre, striking work, uncompromising in its examination of the protagonist and Victor Sjostrom, in his last screen role, is splendid. For me, this film is the proof for to believe Ingmar Bergman the best best European director of the last century.


                
Ostensibly simple on first analysis, Wild Strawberries, alongside the work of Bresson, Dreyers Le Passion De Jeanne D'Arc and Murnau's Sunrise, is one of those very special, transcendent assets of cinema able to inspire us in a deep and spiritual way. Bergman's achievement to tell a heartfelt story with a very human message juxtaposed with image after image of stunning beauty is something so rare and so very remarkable. I wont go into a deep analysis of this beautiful masterpiece, as many other users on here have done so. All I will do is simply describe one of the films most lyrically sublime scenes. Near the end of the film, as Isak Borg lies in bed, his son asks him how his heart is (meaning his physical health). Being a doctor of considerable talent and having a tradition of being practical and sensible in his work, you would expect him to tell his son of his failing health. However after his subsequent journey, both physical and spiritual, his attentions are now turned toward his emotional and spiritual well being, a part of himself he has neglected for many years. He simply replies that his heart is fine, and that he is happy and content. In this single moment, we understand that Isak has reached a moment of catharsis, but it also tells us something about every one of us. We strive constantly for physical wealth and materialistic products of our lives and jobs, but we must remember the simple but extremely rewarding pleasures that determine the happiest of individuals.


                
I watched this film for a class, and virtually everyone groaned over the development. I was the only one with an open mind, and I was thankful for such a condition of spirit. While this film was at times slow, the morphing of different worlds created quite an experience, one which was spiritual and eerie. The dream sequences were amazing, examining the doctor's state of mind through the use of imagery and allegorical conventions. A good film for anyone to experience, and you get to Max von Sydow as a young man.


                
Bergman himself says that he got the idea for this film when he walked in his grandmothers house and suddenly he saw a lot of memories from his own childhood.Just as Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane" Victor Sjöström gives an magnificent performance.The superb use of flashbacks and Gunnar Fisher´s cinematography is some of the best I have seen.The film has many masterful dream sequence and I think that it´s one of the best films ever made.5/5


                
This is still one of Bergman’s finest and, actually, it seems to me that the film improves with each viewing. It was certainly an inspired choice to cast elderly ex-director Victor Sjostrom in the lead, while the main female roles are filled by the luscious Ingrid Thulin (here in one of her best showcases) and a radiant Bibi Andersson (in two roles no less, both named Sara!). Other important members of Bergman’s stock company of actors appear in bit-parts: even Gunnar Bjornstrand in the pivotal role of Sjostrom’s son and Thulin’s husband is only in a couple of scenes; a blonde Gunnel Lindblom plays Andersson’s sister (during Sjostrom’s recollections); and, most incongruously, Max von Sydow turns up as a gas-station owner grateful to doctor Sjostrom for services rendered in the past!WILD STRAWBERRIES also features two of cinema’s most unforgettable dream sequences – Sjostrom’s character meeting his own corpse while walking a deserted city street and, later, his humiliating exam for a doctor’s degree (by and in front of the people he met during the day’s journey on the way to picking up an award for his distinguished career). The film presents a simple but eventful, episodic narrative that is brimming with reflections and insights about family, love and duty; invariably, these have marked the personality of the protagonist (rendered somewhat cold by regrets and disappointments) and now lead to either reconciliation or resignation on his part with his earlier life – it’s as if Bergman was doing his own version of “A Christmas Carol”!As usual, spirituality (the eternal debate on the existence of God) is touched upon here via semi-humorous incidents – a bickering middle-aged couple and two young students (both in love with the second character played by Andersson) who determine to settle the argument with a fistfight! By the way, in earlier viewings of WILD STRAWBERRIES, I used to resent Bergman’s rather contemptuous depiction of the twins (being one myself, I can attest to the fact that such siblings don’t speak in unison as depicted here – though it happens on occasion, for instance, that my brother and I discover to have shared parallel thoughts!); thankfully, however, the two characters’ participation in the film doesn’t last for very long.


                
I remember when a see it first time. the images. the impressions. the feeling than it is a total film. because its virtue is a delicate manner to reflect the feelings of an age and the build of hope. because Bergman does the best choice for the lead role as homage and as reflection of a great career. because the image of empty clock is the most powerful metaphor for define the time and the run against it. because it is a film about each of its viewers. the regrets and the old age. the memories as way to survive and the fear of death. the strange links with the others. the sense of life and the need to have second chances. a masterpiece in a special form. because it has the gentle grace to be not only optimistic but wise support for reflection.


                
I could never hope to do justice to this film in writing. I could ramble on and on about it, spouting adjectives like "warm", "funny", "honest", "chilling", "captivating", "intelligent" and "poignant", but what would be the point of that? Other, more eloquent reviewers have already said it better than me. I'd just like to say that it's a shame many dismiss Bergman's work as the epitome of pretentious, incomprehensible, depressing foreign cinema for art-house snobs, when it really is anything but. Unlike the stereotypical Bergman film, Smultronstället is all at once terrifyingly honest and beautifully uplifting. The performances by Victor Sjöström, Ingrid Thulin and Gunnar Björnstrand are beyond description, and the script by Bergman himself has to rank among the best ever written. Not to mention the direction, which is by turns spine-tingling and heartbreaking, and the unforgettable cinematography by Gunnar Fischer. Smultronstället manages to combine flawless and impressive technical aspects with an understandable story that is timeless and easy to relate to. No other film does this as well as this one, which is why I don't hesitate to call it the greatest film ever made.


                
I was a junior in college when I came down to NYC for a day and saw WILD STRAWBERRIES in its first run at the Beekman Theater.  From that day to today it has been in my top five films of all time and one that I watch over and over again.Everything works in what I consider to be director Ingmar Bergman's masterpiece.  The story is simple, though so loaded with meaning and symbolism that it can be dissected frame by frame.  Isak Borg, an old doctor and teacher living in Stockholm, Sweden is to be honored for a lifetime of work, in Lund, a Cathedral town many miles away.  After waking from a terrible nightmare in which he envisions his own mortality, Borg decided to drive to Lund, taking his daughter in law, who has been staying with him, as she is estranged from Borg's son Evald, with him.  The journey, which takes up the major part of the film, is one of self revelation as Borg slips back and forth in time in his dreams, and faces the stark reality of the cold, impersonal person he has become. Only at the end of his journey, is there redemption.The cast is flawless with the luminous Ingrid Thulin as the daughter in law, and Bibi Anderson in a dual role as Sara, the girl Borg wanted to marry and Sara, a hitchhiking youngster, who helps in Borg dealing with understanding his loss.  But is famed director Victor Sjostrom as Borg that stays forever in your mind. (Indeed, the second to last close up of him in the film, has to be one of film's all time most memorable moments.   In an astounding bit of acting, Sjostrom, like a Swedish Scrooge, turns from an old, icy pedant, into a human being right before our eyes.  What a magnificent performance.The direction of Ingmar Bergman, the crystal clear black and white photography of Gunnar Fischer and the music by Erik Nordgren meld together into a seamless work of art that stays with you long after the final frame.If you have never seen WILD STRAWBERRIES, now is the perfect time as it has been released on a beautiful DVD by Criterion.  If you have seen it, watch it again, as you will be amazed at all the new things you find with every viewing.WILD STRAWBERRIES is a magnificent achievement!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
I haft to say that I am not normally a huge fan of the "beautiful" movies, at top I can get through American Beauty and after that its dead to me. But I saw that this was going to be on the TV that night I thought that I should at least see ONE of Ingmar Bergmans movies since he is, arguably, the best Swedish director ever.I cried several times during this movie and I was just so touched by how beautiful everything can be or how horrible.This is one of those "Haft to see before you die" movies according to me so go see it!(By the way I am Swedish and this isn't like how we normally speak... Even I didn't pick up every single word he he.)


                
The Swedish Professor Isak Borg (Victor Sjöström) embarks on a journey to Lund in order to receive an award for lifelong achievement in the medical field. After his house maid refuses to go with him ("We're not married!") he finds his daughter-in-law (Bibi Andersson) inviting herself along. Little does he know that she holds a great contempt for her father-in-law and is only accompanying him as a way of easily confronting him and expressing her true feelings.Painfully wounded by the prospect of his own daughter-in-law hating him, Borg begins to reflect upon his life in a series of visions, flashbacks and hazy dream sequences.This is my favorite Ingmar Bergman film. Although it's a close call, I'd say this is his overall best movie and is wonderfully, beautifully shot. It's tasteful, just the right running length (short enough not to contain any unnecessary scenes and long enough to feel satisfied when it's over).The point here -- underneath all the layers -- is that we don't have a very long time on earth, and we should make the most out of it. Borg realizes as a frail old man that he has ruined his own life and has no happy memories.It is Bergman's "Citizen Kane" or "Ikiru" -- a poignant reflection on humanity and a film that, ultimately, can change the way you look at life -- if you open up enough to let it.


                
A surefire cure for the blues (works for me anyway, I need to see this film once a year or so). One of the few Bergman films that are positive and life-affirming. Easily in my top three list of all time favourites.


                
