Bergman has been seen by many as being a depressing film makes, who speaks above the heads of most people.  Thank God someone does! In this piece of genius, we are asked to consider who God is; what makes a life worthwhile; and whether human nature alters through the generations, or is it just the costumes that change?  As usual, the answers are to be provided by the audience.  We must chose for ourselves what we think is 'right' or 'just'. Bergman uses the usual pattern for him - a man is on a journey (life) and meets people who are going along the same road (friends and family), and they all head toward the end of their trip (death).  They stop in for obligatory visits with relatives and for food (as we all do), receive an honourary degree (fame & success?), and then send the children off to a party held in our honour that we do not attend (funeral).  What happens along the way is important, but we always end up in the same place - the end. Wonderful editing techniques, good story, good images, fantastic acting, and more ideas and questions to ponder than one film can hold - or so you thought.  It's only after the film ends that these ponderings come to you. During the film, you simply watch a man travel from his home to another city, but this is far from what the film is about. See this film once, think about the questions it poses, then rewind and see it again.  You will be rewarded for doing so.


                
(Slight Spoilers) A man's life journey is all seen through a number of dreams and hallucinations on his trip, some 400 miles, to the town of Lund where he's to receive a lifetime achievement award for his 50 or so years of service to his fellow man as a doctor and a professor of medicine at his alma mater the Cathedral of Lund.Disturbed by a dream he had the night before Isak Borg decides to take a ride by car, not plane, to Lund for a ceremony thats to be in his honor for his work as a man of medicine. Isak's maid for some 40 years Agda is very upset with her boss' and good friends decision and decides to stay at home, she'll eventually show up at the ceremony, feeling that the old man has somehow lost control of his senses. It turns out that the long car trip together with his daughter-in-law Marianne was one of the best decision that he made in his long life, Isak is 78 years old. The trip that Isak takes will bring back past memories that he so desperately tried to hide from himself. That past will in effect make him not only a better person but bring back the feeling of humanity that he lost not only for himself over these long and empty years. Not only for Isak but for those close to him whom he more or less also lost contact with. Isak,in both his dreams and memories, is seen as a man who is unable to show any real feelings for those around and close to him in the fear of either being rejected as well as showing himself to be hurt by their negative responses.This defect in Isak personality has cost him the love of his life Sara when he was a young man who rejected him for his handsome and openly aggressive older brother Sigfried. We also see that Isak's marriage to his wife, who had long since passed away, Karin was anything but happy with her disgusted with his inability to show her any real feelings and emotions as a husband. Were also shown, in one of Isak's dreams, that she had an affair with another man Ake Fridell, who was anything but passive with her like her husband Isak was, some 40 years ago behind his back. That may have possibly resulted in the birth of his only child his son, who's also a doctor, Evald Marriane's husband.Seeing his 96 year-old mother on his way to Lund we see in her the same human defect that he has in that all of her ten children, who with the exception of Isak are now deceased, never bothered to visit her in her old age. The only time that they had anything to do with her was when they wanted money from the old lady. This coldness and inability to have any attachment to her children is shown not only in both Isak and his mother but in his son Evald who's so disgusted with life and what it had to offer him, like a beautiful and caring wife like Marianne. Evald threatened to walk out on Marianne when after he found out of her being pregnant, I guess by him, she refused his demand of her getting an abortion.Isak is helped on his long trip to Lund not only by Marianne but a number of people they meet and in some cases give a ride along the way. This included a young girl and two of her friend going on a trip to Italy ironically named Sara, a virtual twin of the Sara that he loved and lost as a young man. Later Sara together with Anders and Victor who later as a singing group serenade a surprised and grateful, to the point of tears, Isak after he received his award. Meeting among others along the way to far flung Lund a bickering couple Mr. & Mrs. Alman, who almost had Isak and his passengers killed in a head-on car crash. Isak also met a gas station attendant, Henrik, who was so impressed and grateful by what he did for him and his wife in the past , delivered their first child, that he refused to get paid for filling up Isak's gas-tank.By the time Isak got to Lund and received his lifetime achievement award to the attendance and cheering of the entire town he not only realized all the good that he did as a man of medicine all these years but also all the hurt that he gave to others, if unintentional. With the little time that he has left, Isak was to pass away three years later at the age of 81, Isak is determined to make up for it.Sweet touching yet simple little film about one man's journey back in time who sees how he missed out on the many wonderful things that life had to offer him by being blind to them. Now given a second chance Isak would try as best as he can to both re-live and at the same time correct his past mistakes.


                
Thoughtful and thought-provoking, this Ingmar Bergman classic will probably mean different things to different viewers.  The deceptively simple story introduces you to characters who are not wholly sympathetic, yet whom you cannot help but care about.  It shows their lives to be rather drab for the most part, yet it also brings out how important the events in their lives are to the characters themselves.The story of old Professor Borg driving across Sweden to attend a ceremony in his honor is complemented by just the right measure of dream sequences and flashbacks to his youth, which put the doctor's life into perspective and raise the questions that Bergman wants his viewers to think about.  The youthful memories, and the symbols they use, often strike an immediate chord whether you can personally relate to them or not.  The dreams are suitably weird without being overblown, and they are always pertinent.  All of this is a difficult balance to maintain, and Bergman had a masterful restraint that most film-makers lack, especially today.  He trusts his viewers to pay attention, and he wants the emphasis to remain on the important themes, where it should be, and not on cinematic artifice.  Of course, "Wild Strawberries" also benefits enormously from Victor Sjöström's excellent lead performance, with considerable help from the rest of the cast as well.Since it has little action and little pretense, but much substance, this is the kind of movie that might never be widely popular.  But it is a worthwhile experience that will mean something - not always the same thing - to anyone who gives it the attention that it deserves.


                
Wild StrawberriesWild Strawberries, written and directed by Ingmar Bergman is an interesting film in the mere fact that it is difficult to predict the conclusion before film's end. Bergman's use of light and dark scenes to create a sense of the character and atmosphere is wonderfully achieved in this outstanding film of the late 1950s. The opening scene of the movie provides the viewer an excellent synopsis of Dr. Isak Borg's life and family. The scene acquaints the viewer with his son, mother, house keeper, deceased wife and the doctor himself. The first dream by Dr. Borg is dark and puzzling due mainly to its unclear meaning and uncanny nature. The street is deserted and clear. Dr. Borg approaches a clock and looks, but it is without hands. He looks at his pocket watch and it is also without hands. The black and white scene is subdued and calm, but draws the viewer in all the while guessing what's next. The scene is without music and progresses with the sound of a heart beat that quickens with each step taken as he walks along the desolate boulevard. When Dr. Borg approaches a man, the man turns and lacks a face. Shortly after, a cart-drawn casket passes and knocks its wheel off after colliding with a lamp post. The casket falls, opens, and a hand hangs exposed. Dr. Borg approaches the casket preparing to look inside when the hand reaches and clutches his hand. Surprised and frightened, he struggles to free the grip and soon recognizes that the face of the man in the casket is his own.The movie was filled with Dr. Borg's puzzling dreams and remembrances of his early life, but much of the charm and warmth that is contained throughout the movie is owed to the secondary characters. Dr. Borg's daughter-in-law, Marianne is a delight to watch because she can smile like an angle and can be bluntly frank, all at the same time. Her stunning classic looks and assured mannerism helps the movie in a great way. Agda has lived with the doctor as his housekeeper for forty years. She and Dr. Borg hysterically argues as if man and wife. She knows the doctor well and understands him like the other people in his life do not. Sara, the young girl who wakes the doctor as he lay near the wild strawberries is a joy to watch. She shows the doctor new ways to look at the world by not taking anything too seriously. She takes in all that life has to offer and brings out the joy. Her slight touch to the doctor's face while they drove is one of the warmest scenes in the film and defines her loving character. There are many warm moments in the film, and many moments of darkness. The beginning of the film was dark, puzzling, and melancholy, and the end of the film was warm, bright and full of life and tenderness. The movie brought to mind, Charles Dickens' Scrooge, from A Christmas Carol. Although Professor Borg was not nearly as cold and unpleasant as Mr. Scrooge, he did however isolate and distance himself from his wife, friends, and family. His cruelty was hidden by his charm, but affected people quite similar to Mr. Scrooge's nasty mannerisms. On several occasions, in dreams and reality, Dr. Borg had to endure scrutiny from family members about his coldness. While driving to Lund, Marianne charmingly reminded him of his lack of warmth, love, and understanding and how she only knows him as a father-in-law. Marianne also lets on to Dr. Borg that his own son hates him; words that rang in the doctor's head. The doctor's dreams pointed out to him how he isolated the important parts of life and the people who cared for him. During one of Dr. Borg's dreams, he was taken by a teacher to see his dead wife. She was in a grassy field where she was making love to another man. Afterwards, she sat there talking to the man about her husband not caring, not giving her the attention she needed and how he would dismiss the entire event as his fault, but she says he does not mean any of it, because "he is cold as ice." Dr. Borg also became puzzled by a pocket watch that once belonged to his father. His mother showed him the watch and had wanted to give it to her grandson. The watch was missing the hands, just as the one in his dream. Throughout the movie, Dr. Borg let more and more of his old ways die and by the end of the day he was beginning to live and be happy. The crabby old coot that emerged at the beginning of the movie, softened and begin to see how happy he could be if he allowed himself. The Drive with the good people that Dr. Borg was fortunate to have accompany him, allowed him to experience the love and joy of others.


                
Bergman's films, to state the blindingly obvious, are the complete antithesis of the mindcandy (A Beautiful Mind) presented to cinemagoers in sterile multiplexes. They are almost like cinematic art forms, meditations on life and its meanings but, like many works of art, they can be obscure, challenging and demand patience to understand their underlying subtexts. Even after a 2nd viewing!<U+0091>Wild Strawberries' deals with the past, memories & regrets.  It's about an inner journey about one man's subjective state of mind as he sees nostalgic memories of childhood & lost love (regret), surreal visions of denial (mortality) and unsettling weird dreams which hint at a self-awareness and truth that he cannot face in reality.I was touched by Victor Sjostrom's performance as the elderly Prof. Isak Borg reflecting upon his life, and moved by the final emotional scenes where he achieves an inner peace.  Is it slightly deceiving, a cop-out that Borg finds peace at the sight of his father and mother, <U+0091>the point before betrayal, before the messiness of life' intervenes as another reviewer stated?  Well, I think it's commonly accepted that most people, as they grow older, tend to remember more from their past & childhoods.  Why?  Perhaps because it reminds them of a time of lost innocence.What I found quite difficult to understand was how Isak is supposed to be this cold-hearted rationalist; Sjostrom's touching depiction makes this troubled old man quite endearing (viz the young travelling companions affection for him).  Perhaps, as the opening suggests, this is a man who has shied away from intimate contact, whose coldness drove his unhappy late wife into the arms of another and who has approached life solely on his own (egotistic) terms leading to loneliness.  This is where the allusion to wild strawberries becomes significant as it is the symbol of regeneration: through his inner journey, mixing dream & reality, Borg sees the truth about his life and its emptiness.  The film charts his growing intimacy with his daughter-in-law and an eventual inner peace.The film sounds typically Scandinavian in its gloom but it is also a celebration of youth as well as a study of mortality and one man's mind. It's also not without comedy, particularly the old Prof's relationship with his housekeeper Agfa and the absurd boxing match about 'God'(Bergman parodying himself) between the two young hitchhikers.What makes the film so intriguing is how characters/situations often reflect one another (Borg & his son, their coldness and attitude to life); these parallels extend to the point where characters even play dual roles: Bibi Andersson as Sara (the lost love & then the young vivacious traveller) and a cruel husband who later appears as the stern examiner in an unsettling dream.  It's a highly complex pattern of subtle connections (stream of consciousness)that, as Borg states at the end, forms some sort of logical order.


                
An old professor goes to the University in which we teach, they're gonna honor him after 50 years teaching. During the journey this old man that's kind and cold, generous and unable to express any feelings, he'll get into some dreaming that will make him face some ghosts of the past.Reflections about life and death, about the youth and its holy innocence.As you may know Bergman's movies are not for any kind of audiences, if you0're gonna watch "Wild strawberries" you have to know what you're getting in to. There are many people that thinks that in Ingmar Bergman's stories never happens anything<U+0085> poor devils.*My rate: 8/10


                
A metaphoric road film full of symbolism, this film has gained the status as one of Ingmar Bergman's best films. It is uneven, with gaps between the most spectacular and meaningful sequences, however the film certainly has enough in it to rate as a great film. Victor Sjöström is excellent as the old man reflecting on his past and trying to sort out his emotions, and the camera-work is simply beautiful. The (too few) nightmarish dream segments are very well done: surreal and quite frightening to a degree. The film pushes the boundaries with some aspects though, such as how the protagonist is able to remember events that he never witnessed himself, and a time factor that can only be discussed in light of events that happen towards the end of the film. There a small number of things that one can quibble about here, but the overall film stands up strong. It is relatively pleasant, quite well acted, and the bits that are done well are done very well.


                
'Wild Strawberries' was my second film from Swedish master director Ingmar Bergman, and it couldn't have come at a more appropriate time, just one month after the director's death, age 89. After 'The Seventh Seal' left me in absolute awe of its flawless beauty, 'Wild Strawberries,' released in the same year, did little to disappoint. Each and every frame is utterly perfect, and Bergman's hand so incredibly assured. Even in the most common situations <U+0096> a close-up of Dr. Isak Borg's face, for example <U+0096> the images on the screen seem to exude beauty; we see the character's aging, withered features and a sense of irreconcilable sadness lurking behind his eyes, and we, too, are crestfallen.'Wild Strawberries' stars Victor Sjöström, then 78, as Dr. Isak Borg, an aging professor who travels across the country from Stockholm to Lund to receive an honorary university degree. Sjöström himself was one of Sweden's greatest directors, no doubt a great influence upon Bergman, and he also directed 'Körkarlen {The Phantom Chariot} (1921),' among my favourite films of the silent era. As he makes the day-long car journey, Isak begins to re-evaluate his entire life, prompted by memories, daydreams and unsettling nightmares. His wife has passed away some years ago, the end to a somewhat frictional marriage, and now Isak is fully aware that his own minutes are slowly ticking away. In the truly frightening opening dream sequence, he finds himself in a deserted city, with an ominous blackness looming ominously over his lonely form, and the complete and utter silence leaving him only too aware of the frantic beating of his failing heart. Approaching a coffin that has toppled from a carriage into the street, Isak finds within it his own expressionless corpse.Accompanying Isak on his journey to Lund is his daughter-in-law, Marianne (Ingrid Thulin), who is currently facing marital problems with her husband and possesses a certain bitterness towards his father. The marriage between Marianne and Evald (Gunnar Björnstrand) is very much like that between Isak and his long-deceased wife, and one of Isak's final wishes is that he can convince his son not to make the very same mistakes that he did. Also along for the trip is young hitchhiker Sara (Bibi Andersson), who reminds Isak of his lost childhood love, and her two friends Anders and Viktor, who both love her. A bickering married couple whom they pick up after a car accident (played by Gunnel Broström and Gunnar Sjöberg) act as a cold reminder of Isak's many unhappy years with his wife, Karin (Gertrud Fridh).Considering the solemn subject matter, Bergman includes quite a few amusing moments in his film, many arising from Anders and Victor's childlike bickering over the existence of God. There is a genuine air of optimism infused throughout the story, and the ending <U+0096> though I thought it came all too soon <U+0096> is both gratifying and heartwarming. 'Wild Strawberries' is a beautiful tale of life, death and redemption, and nobody tells it more beautifully than Ingmar Bergman.
The vast majority of films are artless. But just because we encounter a real artist -- and real art -- is no reason to welcome it into our breast. I can trust some artists to work their magic to change me in ways that I admire or even like. But I have to be very careful with Bergman: his primary concern is often himself, which immediately worries me. And his method is extreme in the engineering of the presentation, with the focus being an exploration of that very compulsion. The art is more than earnest, it is obsessive in attention to detail, and that obsession is possibly near the brink of madness -- the kind of madness that is contagious.I do not accept this film, but warmly embrace 'The Seventh Seal,' made at the same time, with many of the same sensibilities. But 'Seal' was about the nature of constructed memory in the context of film and general myth. 'Strawberries' substitutes personal experience for the fabric of art and myth, so the constructed memories all have emotional consequence. Odd how he swings. Be careful with this one.The DVD contains an interview with Bergman. Unlike nearly all such filler, this one is valuable.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.


                
This movie takes the audience through life, it makes us reflect on ourselves, it forces to reconsider our path. We see Isak, an old doctor who, on his way of receiving a honorary award, is confronted with his entire life, and the way that life changed him. He realizes that he aid his selfishness with loneliness, and that time took away his joy to live. The characters of Isak's mother, on one side, and Marianne and Evald on the other, remind us that this drama is recurrent in every human life, like a self-repeating prophecy that haunts all generations: Is it worth living? Should we even bother bringing new creatures to this meaningless world? How can we avoid falling into the trap of loneliness eventually?On their trip to Lund, Isak and Marianne pick up two very different groups of people. First, there's Sara, Viktor and Anders; young, happy, and cheerful. They are still innocent and worried about the existence of God and the beauty of art. Then, they pick up a bitter married couple that are constantly arguing with each other. These passengers mirror Isak's stages in life, from his cheerful youth to an already cynical marriage, the path that Marianne and Evald also seem to be taking. It is meaningful, then, that Marianne forces the married couple to leave the car. In the end, what prevails is the desire to live happily.Though, like all Bergman's movies, the plot moves a bit too slowly for modern audiences' taste, this should not overshadow the depth of this movie, so rarely found in today's cinema. Wild Strawberries is an insightful movie that brings us all to the bottom of human existence.


                
Smultronstället is not a movie about a plot with many twists and great tragedies. It is a story about an aging man and his journey spiced with the memories and the dreams he witnesses about himself. Ingmar Bergman creates the tension and the feelings from minimum amount of events, from which non remain unnecessary and from a small amount of characters that all have their own personality and place in the movie. The gorgeous Swedish summer gives a life full background and a great contrast to the old professor preparing for his end.Although the movie is definitely not made for everyone's taste due to its minimal action and the very slow storytelling, it is an indescribable strong and wise movie about the aging, youth and the life itself. journey that will help us to gaze back into the past and help us to remember our own wild strawberry patch.


                
During the 1960s, it was quite fashionable to overanalyze Bergman films. Some of his films were good, others were boring, and a few are really gems of cinema. Not every film from any director is good; they all have ones they would like to forget. This film is actually quite simple; if you are arrogant and self-righteous, you have a good chance of being lonely when you enter old age. This is really a cautionary tale; a bit like A Christmas Carol, but without the Future. I can identify with the professor, because I am one as well. I have been arrogant and self-righteous in the past as well. And I have suffered the consequences of my poor behavior as a result. Luckily, I am a half dozen years younger than the professor in the film, which gives me a little time to recover, but not a lot. Bibi Anderson is excellent as well as Skostrom in the lead role. Bergman films always have an excellent supporting cast; especially the housekeeper. Honors like an honorary doctoral degree mean very little in comparison to fostering your personal relationships with other people; particularly family. That is the cautionary aspect of this film.


                
I guess my problem with it is that I found the story to be too conventional and I wasn't as emotionally impacted at the film's end as I should have been. The wonderfully surreal dreams and nightmares and flashbacks do a terrific job of outlining Isak's character and his empty life, but I felt that the story in the present didn't accurately reflect what the stories of the past implied. The elder Isak wasn't cold, wasn't harsh, and didn't deserve the loneliness which had crept over him. And, as such, I felt like his character didn't really grow over the course of the narrative, as I didn't think he was that distant to begin with. There's some redemption to be found with his son, of course, but why was that redemption required? I just thought Isak's character didn't fit within the context of the flashbacks.I suppose I'll probably like it better once I understand Bergman more and watch it again, but for now, I'll just have to be disappointed.


                
An old doctor (a magnificent performance by Victor Sjostrom) takes a car trip to receive an award for 50 years in medicine, accompanied by his daughter in law, and some teenage hitchhikers they pick up. He is tormented by highly symbolic dreams (beautifully done), and by the realization he has kept himself at an emotional distance from others and the world, and now his life is racing towards it's end. Quite moving in spots, but somehow never ended up with as much power as I expected. Two critics' notes made sense to me. One said that, for as great and transparent as Sjostrom's performance is, he is so sweet and likable a presence it's hard to reconcile him with a man his daughter in law openly admits she doesn't like because of his cold nature. The other point – which could also be applied to 'The Seventh Seal' is that the film seems less special today because the stylistic barriers it broke and the doors it opened (an almost totally subjective film, dream sequences of depth and meaning, etc) have since become a familiar part of film grammar. But at the time, this was something new and brave. Another to re-see.


                
To compare "Wild Strawberries" to a story that's a bit more grounded (yet still part fantasy), what instantly comes to mind is "A Christmas Carol." Though that classic is much more exaggerated, it shares that reflective spirit, sense of personal regret and un-fulfillment and the desire to make amends. The difference is that in "Wild Strawberries" we need no ghosts - - only Ingmar Bergman as our guide.Isak is a very old professor on his way to Lund, Sweden with his daughter-in-law to receive an honorary award, when in his aging state he's confronted by dreams of his childhood and consequent past regrets. On the trip, he also meets some vivacious young people and a bickering couple who continue to steer him toward a path of using his last days/months/years to bring meaning into his life.Released at the same time as Bergman classic "The Seventh Seal," "Strawberries" is also incredibly contemplative and full of incredibly philosophical dialogue. Both films confront themes of mortality, but "Strawberries" is the more hopeful of the two. Although we pity Isak and the film's other characters who seem to have failed miserably to suck any joy or positive meaning from life, there's nothing imminently bad or unavoidable -- there is great capacity for betterment.Bergman's excellence as a director resonates throughout the film through its opening scene with ticking clocks and first major dream sequence on the barren streets to the final zoom-ins and close-ups. His every shot is a portrait of an emotion or at the least of a man caught somewhere between the past and death. Like all great classic/black and white directors, Bergman understands the powerful moments of his story and reserves his best just for them.Although Bergman creates more pity than empathy (though it could be my fault I've always struggled to really find personal epiphany in viewing his stories) and his language more intentionally mystical at times than intrinsically inspired, he manages to capture the uncertainty he's trying to address better than anyone else; His portrait of emotion brings us closer to life's toughest questions than any other director has ever dared.It's the hopeful ending, however, that really makes "Wild Strawberries" a great film. Despite Bergman showing us a mirror that's very tough to look at for an extended period of time, he never suggests that we can't look into it and change whatever it is we don't like. It's that outlet that makes the thematic difficulty of the film all that much easier to bear.~Steven CVisit my site http://moviemusereviews.com


                
I,like many others became aware of Bergman through the films of Woody Allen.And on seeing this film I could see not only scenes that have influenced him,but also the style of his direction.I found the scenes when the professor goes back to see his past,i would say reminiscent,but this was obviously from years before,of 'Annie Hall' & 'Crimes & Misdemeanors',among others.I saw 'Wild strawberries' as part of a season of Bergman films at my local cinema and it surprised me how great the film was.I had previously seen 'Smiles of a summer night',and I knew that this was going to be a far bleaker film.The opening dream sequence is as alarming & frightening as anything I have seen.And I find the scenes between the proffesor and his daughter in law to be very moving.The film was also comical,when we see the twins in the flash backs to his past.I became interested in film only a few years ago and through Woody Allen,I have found that there is great talent beyond Hollywood,not only talent but 'Wild Strawberries','The virgin spring' & 'Smiles of a summer night' would be classed as some of the best films I have seen,and  seeing them at the cinema is certainly a welcome relief from the usual fluff that is released in the summer.


                
From writer/director Ingmar Bergman (Smiles of a Summer Night, Persona), this was the film that apparently cemented his career overseas, I would have thought The Seventh Seal did that, oh well. Basically seventy-eight year old physician and professor of medicine Dr. Isak Borg (BAFTA nominated Victor Sjöström) is travelling from Stockholm to Lund to receive an honorary award for fifty years in medical practice. He is joined on the journey by his daughter-in-law Marianne (Ingrid Thulin), and along the way he tells how he has been having strange dreams, nightmares and hallucinations, and this returns again. These nightmares include clocks with faces but no hands, runaway hearses, an open coffin with his own body coming out, and of course the meaningful summers he spent with cousin Sara (Bibi Andersson) and stuff. Slipping back and forth, in and out of these questionable places, he realises choices he made int he past involving him, his love life and ultimately his family have created a lonely life. He finds he has no real purpose for living without his children and love in his life (family and passionate together), thankfully he achieves redemption, and the forgiveness and love from his children. Also starring Gunnar Björnstrand as Dr. Evald Borg, Jullan Kindahl as Agda, Folke Sundquist as Anders, Björn Bjelfvenstam as Viktor, Naima Wifstrand as Isak's Mother and a brief Max Von Sydow as Henrik Åkerman. This Swedish film has many weird and wonderful moments, especially during the dream sequences, Sjöström is a good choice for the leading character, and even though it was hard to keep up with the dream and reality placings, it is certainly a must see foreign drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay - Written Directly for the Screen, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Very good!
Wild Strawberries should be considered essential viewing for anyone, who wants to get in touch with Ingmar Bergman's great directorial career. It's one of those movies, along with The Seventh Seal, that discuss the theme of a meaningful journey, covered with existential dilemmas and spiritual moralities. Dr. Isaak Borg, an old and very acclaimed professor, is about to travel from Stockholm to Lund in order to receive an honorary degree. Normally he would've taken the plane, but due to a eerie dream that haunted him the previous night he starts to reminisce about his whole life, and finally decides to ride there by car, just to have some time for himself and those piercing thoughts of various matters. Yet, along with him comes his daughter-in-law Marianne. In a series of honest exchange of views Isaak realizes how meaningless and full of void his life has been up to this point. He shut out all of the relationship that he had and concentrated only on his selfish life made up of hard work and materialistic needs. Even though he achieved respect in the scientific world, in the humanity's entity he has been dead for a long time now. Emotionless and cold- as-ice, he wasn't able to take care of any person that longed for his attention.Somewhere along the road they stop at the house where Isaak grew up. His hazy memory shows him a few scenes from his early life, and how really bitter and depressing it has been. Without love and warmth, even from the girl he wanted to marry, he blocked his deepest emotions and became as ruthless as the people he was surrounded by. And it all passes down in the family, as it seems that his son is as heartless and dismal as his father. Thoughts of death occur on a daily basis, as if the pain of being alive was too hard to bear. It's really paradoxical, that the only people that ever thought of him as a nice and friendly man were those, who didn't know him one bit: the family at the gas station, and the three young people he took along on the ride.Bergman placed them fantastically in the story to present a sharp contrast between the cheerful young fellows and a sorrowful, nearly dead, old man contemplating his empty life. There is also a notion of the existence of God that those three characters bring onto the screen.It's as if Bergman wanted to evaluate Borg's fatalism with contradicting it with the possibilities of an afterlife. His body is still functioning, but in the spiritual meaning he is long gone.On the side of cinematography, this divine problem is also brilliantly shown by the nightmare that haunted Borg that night. He stands on a street, in a place devoid of time, where people melt and die. Then comes the metaphorical black stagecoach carrying a coffin with Borg inside. Is he still alive, or is he dead? An image that would scary anyone, I suppose.In the end apart from deep empathy I somehow felt happy, as the final scenes provide some kind of a reprieve for Borg. Even though he lead a life of emptiness and was never kind to anyone, and valued death over life itself, at the end of the day he finally caught a glimpse of what real remorse may feel like.


                
