Although I'm not the biggest Ingmar Bergman fan, I have really enjoyed some of his movies--especially the one that are not so pessimistic. Although the underlying theme of this movie is aging and impending death, the movie is NOT all pessimism. If it had been, it would have lost my interest early on. Instead, I really enjoyed the film--particularly the fine acting by Victor Sjöström as Professor Borg.The professor is well-respected for his work as a doctor. However, despite his success in his career, he is a failure in his personal relationships. His emotional baggage over the years has prevented him from allowing himself to be close to those he truly loves. This theme mirrors one of the subplots of Through a Glass Darkly, where a father is being destroyed inside by his daughter's mental illness but he CANNOT allow himself to show his anguish--choosing instead to hide in his room with his tears. It is interesting that the same man playing Borg's son (Gunnar Björnstrand) plays the father only a few years later in Through a Glass Darkly.Fortunately, unlike Through a Glass Darkly, there IS evidence that the professor is willing to change his persona, as he begins to open up more through the course of the movie. This appears to be assisted through extensive soul searching and dreams the professor has concerning his past and his own mortality--along with experiences he has during a long drive down the coast of Sweden. Because of this, even his extremely strained relationship with his son appears to hold some hope of improvement by the film's end. This hope for change lifts this movie above some Bergman films that only wallow in hopelessness.FYI--The Criterion version of this DVD is nice due to its running commentary as well as the accompanying documentary. Get this version if you have the chance.Also FYI--After watching many Bergman films and reading about his life, I detect quite a bit of autobiography in this film and his own stuggles with intimacy.


                
There are moments in Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries where you become so enthralled by an image that you want to dwell on it, until you realize that there are so many such moments that to do so would be to stop at practically every scene in the film. The sheer technical and visual skill that Bergman shows here is unsurprising, insofar as we ought to expect this from him, but it is dazzling, even when it is displayed in a film that, on the surface, has a rather tame premise. An old man, Professor Isak Borg (played to perfection by Victor Sjöström), is driving to Lund, where he is to be honoured. His son's wife, and three spirited young people, two men and a woman, accompany him. They also pick up an utterly depressed couple along the way, only to drop them off when they begin to fight. Interspersed with the present actions are the old man's dreams, and flashbacks to his youth.Out of this material, Bergman crafts a wonderful and touching film about redemption. There is always a tendency to marvel at how an atheist like Bergman can be so deeply involved with religious issues, but many atheists, of course, are atheists precisely as a result of such deep involvement. I don't know enough about Bergman's views on religion to comment on his attitude towards God and religion beyond the basics. What is important, at any rate, is that this film is one in which an old man is redeemed from a miserably lonely and empty existence through contact with others. This is a deeply humanistic view of redemption, and one which is firmly grounded in reality.The film begins with the professor telling us that he has distanced himself from others, because he has shunned human relationships. This has left him feeling empty and alone. The man we see seems nice enough, until we learn from his son's wife, who speaks frankly to him, how this self-imposed exilic state has rendered him selfish and aloof. Through flashbacks and the dream sequences, we learn enough about his life to chart his progress: when young, the girl he loved, Sara, chose his brother over him. The professor married, but the marriage was a bad one; his wife cheated on him, but it apparently did nothing for him. To her, as she states in one of the dream sequences, he was " cold as ice". The professor, therefore, is old, lonely, and has an empty existence.How does one find oneself out of that miserable situation? There are three means through which the old man is redeemed. Firstly, the dream sequences serve to warn him of death, which, considering that the man is 78, could come any day. The dream sequences also point out to him just how detached he is from other human beings. In a fantastic scene, he is given a test, which he fails. The point is clear enough: he might be a professor and doctor, but that is nothing if he does not have an understanding of human beings, their emotions and feelings. Secondly, the flashbacks serve to remind him of a time when he was connected with others, as well as of times when he was disconnected from his wife and others. The beautiful scenes of his childhood are marvelously retold, with everyone well dressed in white, and the entire family engaging with each other. Only he is absent, standing in the dark at the threshold, an old man staring at the happy ghosts of the past mingling before him. Lastly, the three young people the professor meets, especially the wonderful Sonia, connect with him on a deeply emotional and innocent level. The girl looks like, and has the same name as, the Sonia who rejected the professor in favour of his brother when he was young. You can interpret this in any way you like, but I think it's obvious that we see here a kind of second chance. In the car, the professor asks Sonia which of the two young men she likes the most. She does not answer firmly. At the end of the film, as the three bid him goodbye, she tells the professor that she loves him the most of all. He brushes it off, but once he gets in bed, there is a great smile on his face. The smile no doubt is a reaction to the whole day's events, but I'm certain that one big reason for his happiness at the end is that Sonia finally chose him, after having rejected him so long ago.What is the overall message of this film? As with all great films, there is no one right answer. What is certain, however, is that Bergman gives us a view of the world that is neither wholly pessimistic nor wholly optimistic, because it is so painfully real. The characters in this film have been bruised. They are broken, and seek a way out of their situation. There is no indication in the film that Bergman suggests that a solution will solve all the problems. Rather, any change for the better can only come once we engage with the past. Through an understanding of our past and our self, we can add a new sense of our self to what the past given. If we can achieve that, through whatever means necessary, then we can be redeemed. In fact, that understanding of ourselves is itself a kind of redemption. Bergman's world is one in which hope is always possible. It can happen to an unsuspecting 78 year old man, and it can happen to us. It is never too late. Every day in our life is a new chance to make something better of ourselves.A+
...and having said that I can say this might be one of Bergman's critically over-rated pictures. Of course there is much to look for, admire, and saturate with his tale of an old professor/doctor on his way to get a degree who looks back on his life, but the road trip scenes, while somewhat fascinating, can't hold a candle to the work that is displayed in the first dream. We see clocks with no hands (no time left for the old timer), a man with a very tightened face, and a coffin that falls right in front of the old man with himself inside of it, reflecting him. That this is one of Bergman's most evocative and powerful scenes goes to show why the film is so praised, and with the other dreams we see much insight into his fears and doubts on his life and what it's meant. But a number of the scenes go nowhere or ponder on events that slow the film down. Wild Strawberries is a film that can be judged as a display of perfect sorrow or longish observation, you decide. Plenty of beautiful outdoor scenery shots though; Max Von Sydow has a cameo as a gas station attendant. Grade: A.


                
Although I have only seen it once, I can safely say that I was taken aback by this film. Ingmar Bergman is a master of self-exploration and takes a beautiful, sometimes haunting, look at the emptiness in an elderly man's life. Professor Isak Borg is on his way to Lund to receive and honorary award from the college at which he used to teach. Now seventy-eight years old, Borg is cantankerous, cold and arrogant to the people around him. The film begins with some narration, Borg is setting the story up for us, filling us in quickly before we begin to follow him. He has a dream at the beginning of the film that sets the tone for the rest of the film. He is on a street that is devoid of any signs of life. The clocks have no hands and he is all alone. He knows what this all means; death is near. A solitary man is seen standing on the sidewalk and Borg goes to speak to him. When he turns, we discover a shriveled and disgusting face staring back at him. A cart comes carrying a casket and catches itself on a lamp post, losing it's wheel and dropping the casket into the street. Borg goes to examine the body and finds that it his own. When he tries to move away, his dead self grabs him, refusing to let go.After waking from the nightmare, he informs his maid that he is going to Lund to receive his award without her, and instead takes with him his daughter-in-law, Marianne. Along the way, Marianne tells Borg why she (and her husband) dislike him. This forces Borg to think about the things he has done in life and his dreams take him back to specific events in his life, events he did not get to see, in which the people he cared for were explaining their feelings about him to another person. Borg was, in his early years, in love with his Cousin Sarah, but eventually lost her to his brother, Sigfrid. Now, in the present, Sarah has come back into Isak's life (despite the fact that she had died years ago) in the way of Sara, a hitchhiker with two companions (obvious representations of young Isak and Sigfrid) all of whom ride to Lund with Isak and Marianne. After a long journey filled with bizarre dreams, discussions on the existence of God, discussions of love and it's importance and a near deadly car accident, Professor Borg finally arrives in Lund, receives his award and goes to stay at his son's house. While there, he realizes the errors and mistakes he made in life and vows to reform himself, though he knows death is right around the corner. Sara and her companions are leaving for Italy, but congratulate him before departing. Sara takes this time to tell Isak that she loved him all along, a fact which seems to make a huge mark on the old man. He later helps to reunite his son and Marianne, whose marriage is failing as his once was, so that they do not have to suffer as her has. We leave Borg after his final dream, a dream in which he is reunited with his mother and father who are sitting on a river bed, just outside their summer home. We see a sparkle of life in Borgs eyes that was previously thought to be non-existent. Death is near, but he is able to accept it know, knowing that he has come to terms with his life.
A successful, respected doctor and professor near the end of his life looks back on it with regret and nostalgia.  Bergman uses dreams and allegorical images and characters to illustrate his idea that the greatest waste of a life is to live it isolation.  Wild Strawberries is also light and humorous in places, with a gentle and loving depiction of the doctor's family in his youth (though I think it's important that we never see the doctor interacting with his past family until the very end).  He is ultimately redeemed, and Bergman is stating, I think, that there is hope for us to change even until the very end of our lives, and that such change is worth undertaking.  One of the great strengths of this movie, and of Bergman's work in general, is that he creates characters who function successfully as both "types" -- embodiments of ideas, philosophies, or points of view -- and also as credible individuals in a narrative about whom we care.  That's difficult to do.


                
The famous "Wild Strawberries", Ingmar Bergman's masterpiece, so glad to watch it finally! An old professor, had a strange dream, in which he saw a faceless dead man and a clock without pointers. The metaphor of the dream made him look back into his nearly 80 -year-old life.His selfishness and apartness hurt a lot of people around him, he lost his first love to his cousin because his passive personality though he loved her so much. His relationship with his mother is tolerable because they are so alike, he inherited the apathy from his mother and passed it to his own son, a lamentable biological heredity.When the professor decided to receive an award for him, he drove to the ceremony with his daughter-in-law who had just disputed with her husband about the unborn baby. On their way they met different people, the professor recalled the memories of his youth, and found the true meaning of life, death, love, hurt etc...Life goes on, the inertia drives us to neglect who we're, we may lose, regret and hesitate to a lot of things, among which are treasure, some we could have seized at that moment but the inertia inside deterred us. How can we see ourselves clear and transparent? We're not god so maybe we can't, so at least we can do as much as possible to be near it.This film contains too much things about what a man could learn, so it needs to be re-watched many times. The subtle feeling, complex thoughts, vulnerable emotions and meaningful words can truly touch the deepest part of my heart.


                
This movie is great and I suggest that everyone to see it. anyone who gives this movie a bad rating probably did not understand it for what it is worth and the probably do not appreciate a good artistic movie. Bergman is great and this is his best movie in my opinion maybe besides the seventh seal. (well those are the only two Bergman films I have seen but Wild Strawberries in my opinion is better than the seventh seal.) The movie is very artistic and the dialog is very good. It is too bad that movies like this are not made anymore then again I don't know if any other director would have the ability to create movies like Bergman ever again.


                
... because Dr. Isak Borg, apparently both an M.D. and a professor, is extremely self-aware. In the opening minutes of the film he admits he has allowed himself to become isolated from others and declares that his most annoying characteristics are being a pedant and thinking that women should not be allowed to smoke in the car. He has one son, also a doctor, and his wife Karen has been dead for many years.Professor Borg is supposed to get an honorary degree in Lund that evening, and after waking from a horrifying dream that seems to be about death and loss of identity that only Ingmar Bergman could cook up, decides at 3AM to drive his car rather than fly as originally planned. His housekeeper of 40 years has a fit and he teases her that she is carrying on like a wife. In spite of the early hour his only son's wife, who is staying with him, asks to come along too.So off they go at dawn for the long drive up the coast. In fact, I found Professor Borg to be a good guy. His daughter-in-law, who is his guest, talks about how ruthless he is. I'm sorry I just don't see it. When they stop at a gas station the young attendant talks about how Borg is still remembered from decades before when he was a physician there and insists on paying for his gas. Borg cheerfully invites a young girl named Sara and her two male companions to ride with them as far as Lund - they are going to Italy together. When the group is sideswiped by a couple, Borg invites them to ride with them. It is only because the husband berates his wife to the point that she hits him repeatedly that they are asked to leave, and then it is the daughter in law who does the asking.Borg makes various stops. He stops at his summer home as a child and revisits, not a memory, but an episode he could not have seen or heard because he was elsewhere at the time, between his first and true love Sarah and his brother Sigfrid, as he tries to steal her away from Isak with some bold physical behavior and must have won, because the two went on to marry and have six children. Yet, Borg does not seem angry. Instead you see a trace of a smile and nostalgia on his face, especially when he sees Sara in tears talking to her cousin about Isak's sweetness versus Sigfrid's physicality and how she is horrified that she is attracted to the latter. This is really the only pleasant dream/daydream/memory of the several along the way. In the end I figured that the young girl and her two struggling paramours are probably signifying Isak, Sigfrid, and Sara in his youth, and the feuding couple probably represents Borg's own unhappy marriage in which, after seeing how he felt about Sara and how he must have felt losing her to his own rather boorish brother, the wife could not have helped but feel like anything but the back up plan. Isak and Karin had only the one child, their son, compared to Sigfrid's six. His own son, married for many years, has none. It's like Bergman is equating fertility to connectivity, not just to a spouse, but to people in general. In the end, it's not like Isak Borg was a bad person who redeems himself because of all of these dreams and touches with the distant past, but he does seem more at peace with his past as he readies for bed that night.I'd highly recommend it. I'm no expert on Swedish cinema or Bergman at all, but I thought it was interesting how Bergman seems to be saying that Borg's "wrong turn", if there was any at all, could be traced back to losing his first and true love to his own brother, and that everything after that just fed off of that disappointment. As I look back on my life, I think that I can agree with that assessment.And now a word about the daughter-in-law. She accuses Isak of having said some just horrible things. Things he does not remember saying and things the audience never hears. Perhaps she wants to blame her husband's bleak and icy behavior on someone and Isak is convenient? At any rate, by journey's end she has warmed to Isak enough to confide in him about a great turmoil in her marriage. This was more of a change in her than any change I saw in Isak. This one is really worth a look, even if you normally aren't into foreign film. My review is just my take on the plot. I'm sure it means many things to many people or we wouldn't still be discussing and watching it 60 years later.
"Wild Strawberries" is an Ingmar Bergman masterpiece and a must see for all reliable moviegoers.  The black and white medium is a must for this dramatic story of an older doctor with self doubts about his own existence.  The cast is dynamic.  The subtitles are easily seen and one has to put this one on his or her must see list.  It does not have the drama attributed to his other dynamic work, "The Virgin Spring", also performed in Swedish with subtitles.


                
Well, i live in Sweden in 6 years now and i can say that they generally have a problem like shown in the movie. but even for somebody coming from other cultural background i believe it has much and much to say. especially the thing with omission of the anticlimax - it will simply bring you to create your own. perfect - in every sense that the technology of '56 allowed. It really touched me, maybe because i am just in the phase of '37 which means reevaluating your entire life. And this really showed me how could i end, if i don't pay attention (means stays here in Sweden - no offense meant, simply other culture). generally this is a miracle movie which will work above the time.


                
An elderly Professor of Medicine is due to collect a lifetime achievement award at Lund University in Sweden. The night before, he has a wicked dream - laced with typical Bergman symbolism. He awakes early - partly perturbed, partly bemused - and decides to take a long, scenic route to the University, in his car, bypassing places of his youth.His daughter-in-law joins him for a lift and they set off by themselves, leaving his long serving housekeeper somewhat agitated. Along the way, they come into contact with different types of people, stopping at times for a rest. The Professor falls asleep on more than one occasion, and it is during his dreams - which unlike the one at the start of the film, now seem to be retracted memories - that he begins to chip away at the ice cover around his heart.The end may come rather suddenly for some, but if you have been feeling the gist of the story as it has progressed this likely will not be the case.Another thing which some people may not like is the black and white photography. Those people would be wise to still give this film a chance - mainly because of the way Bergman can handle this particular medium: there is none of the stuffiness or atmospheric smothering that misuse of black and white brings; the sky does look bright, the youth's skin does look full of youthfulness.Keep in mind this is not a film that overbears it's message; concentrate on it from start to finish and you may just learn something of yourself.


                
During the first scene of "Wild Strawberries," I didn't think I'd be able to get through it -- the Swedish was so alien to me it sounded almost comical; it seemed as if every word ended with an "eer" sound. But quickly the beautiful black and white photography caught my eye and I was drawn into Isak Borg's story, or rather, his self-examination.The progression of the film is fantastic. Early in the film, Isak has an apparition within a dream and the small events leading up to it, within the dream, are quite brilliant. Throughout the rest of the film there are dreams and recollections; newly discovered secrets of the past that Isak sees for the first time. As he says in the film, "Dreams, as if I must tell myself something I won't listen to when I'm awake." How Bergman shows us the characters is terrific. It's a like a relaxed puzzle that doesn't emphasize any sort of urgency to figure things out. The story unfolds beautifully as we get a deeper sense of Isak, who I assume is an alter ago of Ingmar Bergman at that stage of his life (he was thirty-nine when the film was released).It pains me to know that the majority of people my age would rather watch an Adam Sandler movie or "The Rock" than something like this. Hey, I liked "Big Daddy" and I love Nicolas Cage, but "Wild Strawberries" is one of the few films I've seen that could possibly change the way I live my life. I'm always interested in listening to what aged people have to say about their own life because, well, it can only give me tips about my own, and that's what this film does in a way.There is one sequence in the film that is frightening and "arty," and I don't completely grasp what it means beyond Isak's deterioration and his realization of how people actually feel towards him (he's told earlier in the film as well, but he seems to accept this "verdict" more readily), but it doesn't take away from the film; rather, it's an interesting addition to an otherwise satisfying experience. In fact, it's probably the most vital part of the movie -- Isak may not like it, bbut once he gets past it, he has the option to develop.I don't know if the film is a masterpiece -- it's my introduction to Bergman, so once I see "Cries and Whispers," "Fanny and Alexander," "Persona" and "The Seventh Seal" (if I can get through it, this time) I'll come back to this film with a new perspective, or at least see it as a part of Bergman's whole. I do think this is a great film of its type. It's the kind of film that may require viewings every five or so years, as a sort of reminder.Pauline Kael once said that she didn't think much of Bergman because she'd done her share of soul-wrestling and it wasn't that difficult. The film isn't as challenging as I was expecting it to be, in fact, it's a walk in the park. It's pleasant and rich and beautiful, and the title seems perfect after you've seen the film. It's all about wild strawberries.


                
Although I do not agree that this film presents "renewed belief in mankind," it is certainly a dramatic epic that consoles a lonely spirit. I prefer this to Bergman's Seventh Seal (1957), because for me the images and themes are more immediate and relevant. From the Freudian to the postmodern, you will find it in this film. It is not a cute pseudo intellectual movie that rewards with cheap plot twists and predictable fates, but rather a deep and intense journey into the soul of a man with a cold and dark heart. For the aging, for the lonely, for the misguided, this film is confrontational in its challenges to our beliefs of time, social relationships, and ethics.


                
Watching Swedish filmmaker Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries for the first time was an interesting experience because of three reasons. One, the film itself is terrific. Two, I watched it the same night as the 2006 Academy Awards, and was struck by how Bergman's film never condescends to its viewer, unlike the major nominated Politically Correct films Hollywood churns out and rewards. Three, having always known of Bergman from the films of American filmmaker Woody Allen, I was struck at just how much Allen steals from Bergman in many of his films- from camera angles and techniques, to outright theft of scenes. Not that I am accusing Allen of wrongdoing, for T.S. Eliot basically admitted that if an artist is to steal, they should steal from the greats, and Bergman crafted a great film, rife for purloining, back in 1957.The story the film tells is rather simple- it's a road film that journeys into the past and psyche of a retired widower and Professor of Medicine named Isak Borg (Victor Sjöström). Sjöström was apparently a greatly influential actor and director in the first few decades of Swedish cinema, but by 1957 had spent a decade or more in declining reputation. This film and role sealed his immortality. It is a great performance, and one which a lesser actor could easily have gone over the top with. There is a perfect modulation to not only his performance, but to every aspect of the film, starting with Bergman's stellar screenplay. I would be hard pressed to think of a great film, or even a good one, that lacks a good screenplay. This is one of the ironies of film, versus the other visual arts- it's almost wholly dependent upon an art form, writing, with an entirely different paradigm.Bergman was wise to have his film clock in at a mere hour and a half. It is a small, personal film, despite its cosmic undertones and themes. In a sense it balances the best of the dramas of Shakespeare and Chekhov, which is where the plays of Ibsen and Strindberg, Bergman's two greatest claimed influences, reside. He also wisely fills the detritus of Borg's life with symbolism that others- in the film or out- can interpret, but to Borg are just there. In a sense, the most important scene in the film, the one which acts as a fractal refraction of the whole film, is that where Borg and his mother pick through the old box of children's things as Marianne looks coldly on, misinterpreting both mother and son for her own reasons. For this reason, Wild Strawberries stands out not only as a great piece of cinema, but its screenplay as a great piece of literature. And given the multivalence of such art as this, to skillfully combine great imagery with great storytelling in a poetic vein, it's no wonder that film has become the dominant art form of the last half century, supplanting the novel and painting, just as they had supplanted poetry and the romance. Let me end this essay where I began, lamenting the greatness of this film juxtaposed with the supposedly 'great' films that Hollywood proffered for Oscars this year. It is like comparing a rich, diverse banquet with a greasy bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken. Period. One of the complaints that I have always found valid about great art is how it is usually always too expensive for the average person to enjoy- be it paintings in swank galleries, small books of poetry several times the price of novels, outrageously priced theater and opera tickets, or even foreign films on video or DVD. This was one of the major reasons it took me so long to watch this film, because the DVD I purchased, from The Criterion Collection, retails for $39.95, while your average Hollywood blockbuster can retail for a third that, or less. Is it any wonder, then, that the masses choose swill to fill their free time? In the name of raising up the filmic awareness and appreciation for the great films of the past, foreign or domestic, like Wild Strawberries, I urge companies that distribute foreign films to do their best to make good quality DVDs of such classics available more cheaply, for there is a market to be filled with great affordable art, and once a taste of greatness is given, the market will only expand, and justify the demotic impulse to lower prices with an increased quantity of sales making up for loss of high profit margins per unit. Dover Thrift Editions in America, and Wordsworth Editions in the U.K. have proved that great books cheaply distributed is an economically viable strategy, and I believe the same is true for great films. Why should films like Wild Strawberries remain only in the province of film snobs, and not made available to compete for viewership with contemporary schlock like Brokeback Mountain or Crash simply for economic reasons? Greatness in art may exact a price from its creators, but price should not diminish art's reach. Great films like Wild Strawberries deserve to be freed to the masses, to be enjoyed and enlightened. Watch it and you will agree.
This is a quiet film, with an old man reflecting back on his life as he travels to an awards ceremony with his daughter-in-law. It may sound too sedate to hold one's interest, but it does. Through dream sequences filled with symbolism and dialog with people he meets along the way, we get a picture painted of his life, its key moments, and how he evolved over time. We see the common thread – his serious, intelligent, considerate, yet cool and judgmental personality – and how that made him a very successful doctor, but created difficulties in his personal life. We see how he lost the real love of his life when she was picking wild strawberries and his own more passionate brother pursued her, and how his subsequent marriage to another was plagued with strife and his wife's infidelity. We see how this carried down to his son, his unhappy childhood, his depression, and the difficulty he has in his own marriage. We also see the perils of old age, seeing death coming, being sentimental, and fearing becoming obsolete. We see that despite his brilliant career and the very prestigious award he's just been given, the most meaningful, happy moment in his life was simply fishing on a peaceful day with his father, a sentiment which has a 'Rosebud' feel to it.The film is not heavy or hard to watch and just enjoy Bergman's storytelling, but at the same time it does have a weightiness to it - in recalling the soul-crushing moments of sadness in life, in his sentimental reflections of his childhood, in his weighing in on two younger men's debate about God's existence ("I see His traces wherever flowers bloom"), and as he thinks about his mortality. Some comic relief is provided in his relationship with housekeeper, who brings a smile when she leaves her door ajar as she goes to bed in case he "wants anything", after having bickered with him for the entire movie (and presumably decades of their lives).I don't see the film as being optimistic or pessimistic, or as much 'warmer' than his other work, though other viewers certainly seem to and there are moments of charm, such as when the young woman of the three he gives a ride to talks to him, asks him for advice, and sweetly says she loves him as they part. Bibi Andersson played both this role and the role of the girl in the strawberry patch that he lost, which has a certain symmetry and renewal to it. However, I think the movie is realistic and balanced, with just as much bittersweetness as sweetness – even the married couple they nearly get into a car accident with make endless snide comments about one another – and its genius is in showing us truths about life that are common to us all.While the movie doesn't preach or overtly push a message, you realize just how hard it is to lead a virtuous, positive life without regrets - and reflect on your own life, where you place priorities, how you treat people, whether you appreciate the small moments, or recognize the pivotal ones – all the things that you will probably remember at the end. Great art does this, spur reflection, and that's the case with 'Wild Strawberries'. Don't believe all the hype, but at the same time, don't be intimidated either – this would be a good one to see.
Just saw my first Bergman picture and it was beautiful. Both acting and formal arrangement of the story are fantastic in my opinion. Opposed to the majority of films that I have seen that piece by Bergman really touched me even though I have not understood many of the underlying conflicts. In spite of the difficulty and seriousness of the topics dealt with in this film one does not feel depressed or empty towards the end of the film. I guess this is because of the artistic brilliance evoked by the actors and the camera. I am not familiar with film analysis and I won't go into formal details for that reason. I am grateful to Bergman for the film because it makes you realize that all the hardship and heaviness of love and facing oneself is in a way natural and a universal task that everyone seeking for these things has to accept. I am still quite young and naive but I believe that love in one form or the other might be that one idea that can sort of tame that inner longing or drive for other things or beings, which could not be stopped otherwise. Thanks to people like Bergman I realize that misery and all the other negative feelings one can think are more part of the process than something one has to avoid as good as possible. I enjoy beauty and that film was just that. My favorite shot was the close up of Isak's face staring at the moon after he saw Sara, the love of his life and his brother Sigfrid happily in their share living room. The shot made me feel so much compassion for that man...
This has to be one the greatest black and white movies I have ever seen. Although I watched this movie in a not so good print, it did not make a great difference, because the movie itself was mind blowing. Even though the story-line is not very thrilling, yet it keeps you in its grip. You wont get bored for a second while watching it, at least I didn't. The acting done by the cast is also pretty good. You would feel as if you are there experiencing it yourself. It contains scenes of both emotions and comedy. The movie just flows on and keeps you in wonder what will the ending be. Its a soft and a light movie, a perfect piece to end your weekend with. It's a must watch.


                
I saw "Wild Strawberries" again after 30 years (Traverse City Film Festival) and I was as much affected by it today as I was then. Dr. Isak Borg (Victor Sjöström) is a bitter old man who lost the twinkle in his eye and love of people during 78 years of a hard, but successful life. A domineering stern mother and an unhappy marriage have left him without apparent emotional attachments. A strange dream shakes him out of his routine and he makes a sudden decision to drive to the town (Luund) where he is to receive a high honor. His daughter-in-law, Marianne (Ingrid Thulin), joins him on the journey, but he is totally uninterested in hearing about her problems. On the way to Luund, he decides to stop at an old house where he spent his youth with his 9 siblings. A patch of wild strawberries takes him on a journey in time to his youth when he was madly in love with his cousin Sara (Bibi Andersson). All of a sudden the memories awaken in him the pain of losing Sara and the failed relationship with his wife. The latter memory finds echo in the relationship of a couple that they pick up on the road, but he also meets an old patient Henrik (Max Van Sydow) who thanks Isak for some unspecified kindness in the past. The road crew becomes decidedly interesting when they pick up hitchhikers, a lovely and lively young girl named Sara (Bibi Andersson again) and her two boyfriends. Little by little and in often imperceptible ways we see Dr. Borg soften and become more human. By the journey's end, Isak has come a full circle. He has reconciled with his own past and achieved a kind of peace few are lucky enough to acquire.Victor Sjöström is fabulous as the old man and others are cast perfectly as well; many of whom are usual participants in Ingmar Bergman's adventures. Bibi Andersson looks radiant and it is easy to fall in love with her. Ingrid Thulin's character is also changed by the journey and she goes from being a cold and estranged wife to one who is beginning to understand and like her father-in-law. People taking a "journey" or road trip is a popular theme in films, and this is one of the most effective ones. It sometimes resembles "Midsummer Night's Dream" in its ability to find magic and meaning in the woods. Except for a brief Dali-Hitchcock inspired scene in the beginning, there is nary a false note. It is vintage Bergman.
I did not lived in Sweden, nor did I visited it, but I've seen enough Swedish movies to have an opinion. Ingmar Bergman, Arne Mattsson, Bo Widerberg, Jan Troell, Lasse Hallström, etc., and, last but not least, Victor Sjöström(as director) himself (the lead actor in this film). Excepting Liv Ullmann and Harriet Andersson, in the cast are all the big names that Ingmar Bergman would work in his films after this, all the outstanding actors: Bibi Andersson, Ingrid Thulin, Gunnar Björnstrand, Max von Sydow (in a small role). A sad and disturbing film.


                
A successful, respected doctor and professor near the end of his life looks back on his years with regret and nostalgia.  Bergman uses dreams and allegorical images and characters to support his thesis that the greatest waste of a life is to live it in isolation."Wild Strawberries" is also light and humorous in places, with a gentle and loving depiction of the doctor's family in his youth (though I think it's important that we never see the doctor interacting with his past family until the very end).  He is ultimately redeemed at the end, and Bergman is saying, I think,  that there is hope for us to change even until the very end of our lives, and that change is worth undertaking.On the whole, "Wild Strawberries" makes an affirmative statement.  One of the strengths of this movie, and of Bergman's work in general, is his ability to create characters who function successfully as both "types" -- embodiments of ideas, philosophies or points of view -- and also as credible individuals in a narrative about whom we care.  That's difficult.


                
In Wild Strawberries (original title: Smultronstället) we follow professor Isak Borg played by the mesmerizing Victor Sjöström. One of the masters of world cinema with a career spanning from 1912 to 1957 as actor and director, here he gives the role of a lifetime. He told Bergman that he was too tired to take the role, then he changed his mind on one stipulation, that the shooting for the day would be over before his daily late afternoon drink. Bergman quickly agreed, and the shooting of the film turned into one of the director's most fond memories. Sjöström's professor undertakes a journey both by car and spiritually. Stopping by the place where he picked wild strawberries as a youth, his memories come flooding back. For the rest of the movie the story interweaves between the present and the memories of the moments that have most shaped his life. On his journey from Stockholm to Lund, he also meets several characters that perfectly fit in with his memories and his questions to himself. At the end of the journey Isak comes to a conclusion, a change must come. Is it too late? Everyone should watch this movie.


                
Rarely do films evoke such emotion and nostalgia out of me. Although outdated and set in olden society, many of the themes are prevalent and generally forgotten in society's high tempo. We tend to go through life, completing daily tasks and essentially not living life and enjoying its facets. What is family? Just your reproductive offspring and people you speak with on occasion? What is the purpose of life? To just have fun and enjoy your time on this planet?Wild Strawberries is a commendable film since it displays the inner conflicts we all go through to seek meaning. No one really knows what their time on Earth is for. At the end of the day, will we be satisfied with all we have done and left undone? Movies generally focus on entertainment and try to provide a platform for audiences to enjoy themselves and superficially relate with characters. I truly believe the connection viewers built with Isak was a deeper one since this misunderstood elderly man is just trying to find his way in life like we all are. When we're on our deathbeds and nearing the end of our time, will we be happy with the life and legacy we are leaving behind and ready to go?


                
Victor Sjöström acts a 78 year old man in this 1957 film, and he was actually 78 himself. He died in January 1960, aged 80. Given his long experience as a director, and actor, first in silent films and later on the stage, it's as if he was directing himself in an equivalent account of his own personal life in this car journey south through Sweden down to Lund. The absence of hands on the clocks, and his own hand pulling him into the ghostly coffin indicate his anticipation that the end is near. The viewer is exceptionally powerfully drawn into the reality of what is taking place, as the aging man revisits the scenes of his past. Ingmar Bergman described himself as allowing his actors increasing freedom in self-direction, in terms of both action and dialogue. This attitude seems almost to have been initiated with this performance by Sjöström. It is an immensely effective film, but I've docked one star, as the hitchhikers struck me as irritating and unconvincing; besides wearing silly-looking shorts.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Wild Strawberries" (1957), created by a legendary Ingmar Bergman reflects on life, death, childhood and what it takes to achieve a lot in your life via carrier, but missing upon beautiful moments in your life and most important family - all this is seen trough the eyes on an old man. That said, this is a very easy movie to watch - its beautifully acted written and directed. Also while the themes i mentioned can sound hard, this movie is lighthearted and kinda makes you think after it ends about your life - where you are at this moment and that it shouldn't be to late to change it if you don't want to end up as this old man of whose carriers achievements appreciation comes not from a family, but a young unknown people with a heart.Overall, "Wild Strawberries" is a superbly involving, smart, moving movie that you will definitely can see and appreciate it. Great movie.


                
One hot summer-day the aging professor named Isak Borg drives from his home in Stockholm with his daughter in-law. He is to receive the title as honorary doctor the following day, but first and foremost he has to pay a visit to his mother and his son named Evald.In Ingmar Bergman's 18th and presumably most joyful feature film the viewers are introduced to 78-year-old professor Isak Borg, who after an alarming dream realizes that his self-chosen distance from almost any kind of interaction with other people and emotional inadequacy has been passed on to his son, and that he has to reach into his son before it's too late. The film follows a one day long journey where the main character, magnificently acted by then 78-year-old historic filmmaker Victor Sjöström in his final performance, meets people and sees places which reminds him of his childhood, his first love and his marriage. Through Victor Sjöström's harmonic voice-over narration, enchanting flashback scenes, Ingmar Bergman's gripping and compassionate screenplay, Ingrid Thulin's distinct and considerate role interpretation, Gunnar Fischer's radiant black-and-white cinematography and Bibi Andersson's charming and vital supporting performance, a whole life is depicted.This exquisite masterpiece which was awarded with the Golden Bear at the Berlinale and the Italian Film Critics Award at the Venice Film Festival in 1958, is one of the brightest and warmest studies of character from the visionary playwright who mastered the light like few others and in most of his films worked with actors such as Harriet Andersson, Bibi Andersson, Ingrid Thulin, Liv Ullmann, Erland Josephson, Gunnar Björnstrand, Birger Malmsten and Max Von Sydow. Ingmar Bergman's peaceful road-movie is surrounded by poetic atmospheres.


                
