There has been no other biblical film that touched me like this one. Dispite all the little details that have been criticized and pointed out, these should be of no consequence.  The illustration of Jesus' life story in this film was rich.  Not only can you feel the strong presence of Christ through Robert Powell, but you also can get a taste of the times in which he lived.Although the film, like many biblical films, tries to clearly depict the spiritual nature of Christianity, this one goes beyond that.  It gives you a glimpse into the politics, social/religious hierarch, economics, and the mindstate of the Jewish and Roman communities throughout the era.  It's more than just your typical Christ film. It's gives you a broader view and a complete understanding of what it was like to live in the times of Jesus Christ.Besides being a historical landmark and the great religous story that it is, this film also takes you through the ups and downs. The doubts, the hardships, the miracles, and the uprising. A very 3 Dimensional drama.I am a Christian, and while I might not be as devout as some, my faith is strong and this film re-enforced that spirituality.  It was very moving to hear the lessons and wise preachings of Jesus in a similar setting to the one where he once stood.  To see the dramas first hand, from an unbiased point of view.I would advise everyone to see this movie atleast once. No matter if your a Christian or not.  The morals and lessons taught by Jesus Christ can be appreciated by anyone.  Not just as the Son Of God, but as a Man who strongly believed in Love and goodwill towards his fellow Man. Not only as a religious icon, but as a mentor, moral activist, and humanitarian to his people. His words are universal.  What he stood for is greater than any man that ever walked the face of this Earth.  This film gives you that insight. It goes farther than showing you a religious belief...it gives you the reason why it's worth believing in.I give this film 9/10.  Powerful, Enlightening, and Emotionally driven. The Greatest Story Ever Told dramatized for all to enjoy time and time again.If you liked this film, I also recommend "The Robe (1953)" and "The Ten Commandments (1956)"


                
"Jesus of Nazareth" is by far the most detailed movie on the life of Christ. I remember when it first aired on TV back in April of 1977. That was the week of my wedding and I remember watching it with my new bride on our honeymoon. Because of it's length and as a mini series it was able to cover most all the events in Jesus's life. There are many scenes and which I would say are some of my favorites but by far the best scene in the whole movie is when Earnest Borgnine, playing a Roman Centurian, approaches Jesus with a request that he heal a servant of his. A servant he loves as a son. Jesus says he will go to his home. The Centurian says that it won't be necessary since Jesus is a Jew and can't come into a Gentiles home. All Jesus has to do is give the word and he knows that Jesus would heal his servant. Jesus says that he has found no greater faith in all Israel than that of this Centurian. Although there were some artistic interpretations in the movie, they are so very few it isn't worth mentioning. I have seen the "Passion of the Christ" and I feel it is a very powerful movie on the last week of Christ, but it is so intense. I have to give "Jesus of Nazareth" the highest rating possible


                
I am not ashamed to say that as a man in my mid thirties I cry like a baby every time I watch this epic. Robert Powell's portrayal of Jesus was exquisite, I've said Powell looks more like Jesus than Jesus did. Of course, in this day and age, people say things like "Oh, Jesus didn't have blue eyes". I know many Hebrews, and some have blue eyes. But this isn't important. What is important were his teachings. Love, love, and more love, to each and every man, pagan, enemy, or friend. Jesus even showed love to outright sinners and especially the Romans, which to my mind would have been utterly unthinkable and absolutely an astounding idea at the time. It's this doctrine that is so profound, so original, so revolutionary that convinced me that Jesus was indeed a man sent by God to show us the way how to live in harmony with our fellow man and how not to destroy ourselves.
This movie is SO awesome! I've seen it so many times that I can quote most of the dialog! If you want the ultimate portrayal of Jesus, watch this movie. If you want to see the best church sermon ever, watch this movie. If you want God in your life and don't know how to go about it, watch this movie! Anyone who isn't touched by this movie definitely has a heart of stone.At the scene where Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, the camera pans out and you see the countryside and Jesus from the back with his arms out and the tomb. Pay attention, after Lazarus walks out and the music gets dramatic, you see a huge shadow pass over the land that literally looks like God himself waved his arm over the earth. I wouldn't be surprised if He really did; showing us that He's pleased at what He was seeing! ;)


                
With Franco Zeffirelli's 1977 made for television masterpiece and Anthony Burgess' screenplay, religious film simply does not get any better than this. Much as I admire Mel Gibson's monumental depiction of the last 12 hours of Jesus' life in "The Passion of the Christ", I still believe that the yardstick by which all 'passion play' genre films will be judged in future generations will be "Jesus of Nazareth".After completing "Brother Son, Sister Moon", Zeffirelli turned (the Jewish) Sir Lew Grade down flat for this project, stubbornly refusing to engage on the project for a year and a half. As his other stage and screen projects turned to dust, however, he finally accepted the task. What finally convinced him was his conviction that the film could be compassionate towards the Jews, and thus could help undo some of the past hatred for which Christianity was renowned.Burgess and Zeffirelli was a match made in heaven: Burgess turned in a script that took great liberties with the sacred text. Zeffirelli was uneasy with his liberalism, and sought to bring the script back to a more faithful rendition; yet Burgess' awesomely effective dramatic structure remains. Interestingly, Ingmar Bergman had already been asked to turn in a treatment, apparently before Zeffirelli was ever approached. However, the Roman Catholics who had been the original driving force for the project strongly objected to Bergman's idea of a series of mini lives of Jesus, as seen from the viewpoint of different characters.Bergman was dismissive of the final Zeffirelli project, and it is certain that it would have been an entirely different film had he been asked to direct. While there is much to respect about Bergman, he would have been totally incapable of producing the beauty, purity and meaning in the hidden text that is so apparent in the final film.Less than seven years later, Zeffirelli estimated that 750,000 people had seen the film. I saw the original transmission on American television in 1977, (it was aired nationwide at least twice in two years), and I also have an original and ageing VHS (PAL) copy. I plan a London revival of the series during Lent 2007, to mark the film's 30th anniversary. Back in 1977, it was the talk of the nation - in St. Louis, I heard of one lady who was instantly healed of cancer as she watched the crucifixion scene.Interestingly, the resurrection scene nearly never got filmed. In fact, what we do see on screen is simply screen test material rescued from the editing bin at the final hour! The information above is documented in Franco Zeffirelli book, "Jesus: a Spiritual Diary" (1984: NY. Harper & Row) and Ingmar Bergman's "The Magic Lantern" (1988: London: Hamish Hamilton). However, there is no substitute for watching this masterpiece: in a word, it's awesome!


                
A film with a prodigious baroque photography, a true homage to sacred art works in line of catholic tradition. Also this film is a personal view of Zeffirelli, who presents a Christ very human, although sometimes in mystical ecstasy but probably like must be a man who thinks that is a God. Zeffirelli message is than exceptical like Pasolini. Jesus Miracles are simple and criptical and can considered it. In this film there is philosophical conversation, in Pasolini only there a translation of "evangelio secondi di mateo" texts, like says the title. Dramatically is very better that Passolini. Robert Powell is incredible. The cinematography and illumination is the key for achieve that scenes that mix light and darkness. Atrezzo is totally realistic. Virtuoso and majesty. Perfect 10/10My English is poor, I know it.


                
I have this movie on VHS and I usually watch it during Christmastime and Easter. It is by far the most well-made,beautiful film on the life of Christ. Every time that I watch this film I am in awe because it was so well made and accurate. The actors, sets, costumes and cinematography is so well done and this was before CGI came into being. The columns in the temple were absolutely amazing, but what really made it a great motion picture was the portrayal of Jesus by Robert Powell. He is absolutely an amazing actor and was by far the best film Jesus ever. He played the role very seriously and gave Jesus the proper reverence and poise. All of the other actors and actresses were great too. I really liked Olivia Hussey as Mary, she made a beautiful Virgin Mary. The musical score by Maurice Jarre was perfectly done and very beautiful and moving. I think this movie would be a great tool for evangelism, but it may be too long for some people, especially those with very short attention spans. No other movie about Christ touched me the way this one has.I have seen the Passion of the Christ and did not care much for it. Franco Zeffirelli created a wonderful movie and no other film about Jesus Christ can come close to this one.


                
This is the ultimate and to this day the most powerful,realistic and best version of Jesus and His life on earth . Robert Powell gives his character the kind of personality that gives his role realism and purity at the same time,like no one else. I think he has done a terrific job in this almost impossible task. He makes Jesus real! All the way you will enjoy his way of speaking The Word with a heart and might that this role is supposed to have . And he is doing alright. No, he is doing it brilliantly! Sometimes I think to myself - it must have been close to this!...I like to think of Jesus like this,when I see this picture .I know that there is no other than Christ to save ,and thanks for that .Robert Powell makes a very good character.Watch it!
There are, literally, no words to describe this. A depiction of life of Jesus Christ that touches your soul in every imaginable way.The cast is so brilliant that you forget that you are seeing a TV mini series. Robert Powell is like he was destined to play the part of the son of God.The direction of Franco Zeffirelli leaves you with awe. The music of Maurice Jarre is majestic and fills you with emotions. The script...well...the script it was written by God through the apostles.This is on TV every year, and every year people sit and watch it again for the nth time! A masterpiece.


                
Am not a Christian by birth but this is certainly the most powerful and enlightening films I've ever seen. I recommend it to anyone of any religion and faith. I have not seen the stand alone film and have instead seen the whole 7 part series years ago and am not quite sure of the exact content here. However, since the title reflects the same series ie all 7 parts, it should be fair to give an opinion of the same. This film, based on true events, is a must see, especially for children although under parental supervision. It is most surprising to see such an amazing and accurate film being done so many years ago. 10/10 stars.


                
This masterpiece is like watching the paintings of Leonardo come to life.Suceh reverence and such humanity...No one can watch this film and remain the same person..How AFI could not include it in one of the top 100 films ever made and 100 most inspirational films is beyond me..I could write pages but suffice to say, watch this film and enjoy six of the most inspirational hours of your life. Robert Powell is the definitive Jesus..Gentle but very assertive.. James Farrentino's Peter is a masterpiece, this 'every man' evokes empathy as he travels his journey to receiving The Keys To The Kingdom The actor who portrayed Mathew should have received billing with the rest of the stars..His transformation is inspiring. The music by itself is a collector's item..Very uplifting.. Then there are Sir.Lawerenc Oliver, James Mason and Peter Ustinov Three Giants who are majestic in minor roles. Olivia Hussey was born to play Mary The mother of Jesus. And of course ANYTIME you can hear James Earl Jones says ANTHING, it is a treat.. Thank You Franco for inspiring the ages..


                
This is a beautiful Movie! One of the best films done on the Lord! Powell Never blinks throughout the movie! Star studded cast! It is pretty accurate with minor extra dramatization and non-Biblical story lines. However overall a great movie. I truly enjoyed watching over and over again. Actually I enjoyed it so much that I am trying to find see more of it. I am trying to find the original mini-series in order to see the deleted scenes. Does anyone know where I can view the deleted scenes from this movie? I hear that there is a scene of the Temptation of the Lord immediately following the Baptism, as well as a few other scenes? I have never seen a DVD with these deleted scenes. Please help if you can.


                
Christian or whatever, the movie is divine. I watch it at least twice-a-month. Those people who wrote spoilers are judging it as entertainment, rather than inspiration. None of the past versions of Jesus' life-story affects my judgment: I've seen most of them, they were nothing compared to this film, and I haven't seen the uncut version. I, too, know most of the dialog - I don't even consider watching "Passion" - I know how Jesus suffered, I don't need it in graphic-surround-sound. I am content to experience the gentility of this film - it is totally believable. To those who complain about the English accents: it was made for British TV ! A few American actors appeared in this series; although their work fulfilled the role, one wonders why they were chosen for this totally British production.I have come back (5/26/06) to edit this commentary: although Rod Stieger played a powerful role into Pontius Pilate, I think his character should have put some mention to his wife's admonishing him to make no judgment upon Jesus (Matthew 27:19). She was ONLY Emperor Tiberius' daughter!; and, Pilate clearly washed his hands of the judgment (Matthew 27:24). Of course, Pilate could make no intervention in God's will.I would love to read about the difficulties and rewards, the technical obstacles overcome to get this film made. I find it amazing that Lew Grade's wife could see what casting-agents did not see: Robert Powell WAS the perfect Jesus. I've changed my mind; this film deserves a "15". Tears? They never end while I'm watching; I watched the third cassette tonight: every viewing is a new experience, both for the sincerity and power of the actors and the authenticity of that era. To me, Robert Powell is as close an embodiment to Christ as is possible, so far as we know. Nit-picking is not an option: I want to believe Judas was portrayed sympathetically, although The Book of John claims to be written by "the one whom he loved". Faith is the theme of this film: I have faith it will never be matched.


                
This is definitely the best religious TV mini-series of all time about Jesus.This six hour-plus mini-series features Jesus Of Nazareth as perceived not only by Christians or non-Christian but by historical accounts mainly on the four gospels of the Holy Bible. Jesus of Nazareth dramatizes the birth, life, ministry, death and resurrection of Jesus based on the accounts of the four New Testament Gospels of Matthew,Mark,Luke and John. It has an all-star cast led by British actor,Robert Powell,who portrayed the role of Jesus.It was directed by Franco Zeffirelli and produced by Lew Grade through his ITC Entertainment company.Also,Zeffirelli co-wrote the screenplay with Anthony Burgess and Suso Cecchi d'Amico. The mini-series was shot entirely on location in Tunisia and Morocco.This is the best presentation of Jesus in either a movie or TV series.What makes it so is the presentation of the man not based on only one religious belief but on the accounts of all religions.It presents Him as a man who was a great part of mankind and history.Credit that to the screenplay and the sensitivity of the film feature.Aside from that,the cast were also stellar in their performances.Aside from Powell,special mention should be given to namely: Anne Bancroft as Mary Magdalene;Ernest Borgnine as the Roman Centurion;James Farentino as Peter;Stacy Keach as Barabbas;Ian McShane as Judas Iscariot;Laurence Olivier as Nicodemus;Christopher Plummer as Herod Antipas;Anthony Quinn as Caiaphas;Rod Steiger as Pontius Pilate;Michael York as John the Baptist; "and" Olivia Hussey as Mary, the mother of Jesus.What makes this TV series special is that it not only provides information and presentation of Jesus BUT it can also be used as a means to meditate on the person who gave His life for mankind for their salvation of sins.The sincerity of the filmmakers and the performers shows throughout the film WHICH separates it from all the other films about Jesus like The Greatest Story Ever Told,The Passion Of Christ,Jesus Christ Superstar and many more.It never fell into the trap of trying to put in elements of Hollywood that would glamorize the person and the film itself unlike the other movies mentioned previously.
Jesus of Nazareth is such an incredible movie.  Robert Powell, who plays the role of Jesus Christ, is a remarkable actor. He plays Jesus so well that you feel it is really Jesus at times.  His performance as well as his looks are so realistic and sensational that it's unbelievable.  Powell is such a gifted actor that if he were to do films in Hollywood, he would most likely win an Oscar. I recommend this movie to anybody who would love to truly understand what Jesus Christ went through from his birth to resurrection. Not to mention, an amazing cast of Academy Award winners of the time. Overall, 10 out of 10!!!!


                
I just saw "The Passion of the Christ" that I liked very much. However, it made me appreciate this movie "Jesus of Nazareth" even more. Unlike Passion, that focuses on the last 12 hours of Jesus life, this movie goes into great detail about his life and the mood of the times/area of Judea. Mind you the movie is long, over six hours, but to me it was not a minute too long. As mentioned above, I thought Passion was a very very good movie that accomplished showing the agony and suffering that Jesus endured over his last 12 hours. However, what was lacking in Passion, the words, teachings and message of Jesus, is abundant in this 1977 movie "Jesus of Nazareth"


                
I think this is a wonderful movie.  It is supposed to be one of the more accurate biblical movies.  The message about the birth, death, and resurrection of Jesus seems very real.  I enjoy seeing the actors portray characters from the Bible.  I had never heard of Robert Powell before, the actor that portrays Jesus, but I think he did an outstanding job.  There are many fine actors and actresses in this movie. But the bottom line is - I love Jesus.


                
I am a very dedicated christian and I can honestly say that this is the most accurate Jesus movie ever made. My oppinion on Jesus movies is, if you can't make it accurate don't make it at all. Many Jesus movies I've seen (i.e. Jesus Christ Superstar) are borderline blasphemous, but this one hits it right on the mark. There are a few inaccuracies, like the fact that it is insinuated that Judas was almost tricked into betraying Jesus. I also thought it was kind of dumb that the young Jesus had blonde hair and blue eyes, but otherwise the movie is fine.The performance of Robert Powell puts even Max Von Sydow's performance as Jesus in the Greatest Story Ever Told, to shame. Jesus is often portrayed in movies as a soft spoken quiet guy, but do you really think it would be possible to preach to thousands of people without a microphone when you're so quiet? I think not. When Jesus clears the temple, do you think he could drive the people out when he's soft spoken? This movie portrays Jesus as a powerful speaker with an intimidating prescence.The performance of Olivia Hussey as Mary was impressive, but it is kind of ridiculous that she barely ages over 30 years and Joeseph looks ancient, but I'm not going to complain about that.I really liked the way Pontius Pilate was portrayed. Lots of movies make him seem like a total villain, but this one really shows that he didn't see any reason to convict Jesus and didn't want to sentence him. He was just a man who was pushed into doing something he didn't want to do all because of pride.This movie is a definite for anyone who enjoys Biblical movies, and for anyone who is disgusted by the many inaccurate Jesus movies. I truly enjoyed this movie and have very little to complain about. I gave this movie a ten out of ten.


                
This movie I believe has been expressed well by all the people who have written before me. It is simply the best. I just want to express it had touched my life in all ways and expression. I for one do not belong to any church and my church is my heart and I think that is what is so well taught and acted from all in this film. It is such a spiritual film. It is spiritual because of how much it shows the desire for people to know God and how to be close to him. To be close to him through the one that is him in perfect expression and which we can be also. I think that is why it has touched so many people. I would like to say that, that expression was excellently played by Robert Powell and the entire cast. I cannot say enough good things about this film. The music is beautiful and fits it perfectly and the locations and photography is all placed perfectly. It is my favorite movie and I give it an 11 out of a scale of 10. I have to say on the person who wrote about the minute detail of the 12 year old Jesus hair being blonde and the older Jesus hair being brown and how could that be. Well to the person who wrote that, that change happens alot in people. I agree with the other person who also wrote prior about this. I wish you could see my pictures as a child I was blonde as can be and now I have dark brown hair. I think the point on christ having blue eyes and looking different then people of those times and place is great. Because he was special and I can see a special one of God sticking out showing a focal point for people who believe in him to be drawn to. Peace on earth.


                
I used to watch it when NBC used to show it every Easter/Christmas.  Every since i was little.  I thought that Jesus looked like Robert Powell.  He is still the one i compare anyone else who plays Jesus too.  I wish there was more on Powell as an actor. The whole cast was excellent.  more praised should have been put on this movie through the years.To me it will always be the best


                
I have the Jesus of Nazareth movie on VHS and watched it over the Christmas holiday. After seeing the Passion in April 2004 and being extremely disappointed, I still think that Jesus of Nazareth is the best movie about Christ. The acting, especially by Robert Powell, was excellent. I am Afro-American and I doubt that the "real" Jesus had blue eyes, but the casting of Mr. Powell did not bother me one bit. I thought he made a very handsome and convincing Jesus. I don't understand some of the reviewers that are so hung up on Christ's eye/hair color. The Jesus in this film had very dark brown hair, which is common amongst Jewish people. So what if He had blue eyes! No one really knows what Christ may have looked like. Also, during the seventies there were very few Black or Hispanic or brown-skinned actors that had leading parts in TV films or movies. But in this film, Franco Zeffirelli did use local Arab people as extras in the crowd. Jesus even speaks 2 Aramaic phrases that are in the King James Bible. The film also includes many Jewish rituals and prayers. I thought this was an excellent film and very well-made. No film about Christ is going to be perfect and even this one had minor flaws, but at least the message of Christ is presented in a clear and reverent manner. I also liked the fact that there were no gaudy or fake looking special effects used.To those people who criticize this movie, go and make your own version that you feel is better.


                
*** Spoilers*** So many great performances. Well worth watching.Olivia Hussey and Yorgos Vogiatzis as Mary and Joseph were spot on, the Nativity story was excellent. The movie never stops from there. I never saw the actors, they became their character. Ian McShane was perfect as Judas, one part pride, two parts confused. Robert Powell as Jesus was tilted towards the divine nature but he was scary good at times. Raising Lazarus was very moving. Jesus has many believable scenes with Judas, Mary Magdalene, and Nicodemus. The Last Supper was missing The Washing Of The Feet. This Passion isn't quite so bloody but still well portrayed. The discussion by the Sanhedrin shows the motivations and evil intentions really well, rather then the screaming of The Passion Of the Christ. I didn't like either of the Herods, the first one was over the top and then the second too creepy for me. Michael York played a quite strident John the Baptist. Simon Peter was extraordinary, you saw Peter's weakness, growth and great struggles, very moving. His scenes with Matthew during the Prodigal Son brought tears and Matthew telling Peter he's never going home again sent chills down my spine. The Crucifixion and Resurrection wow, emotional. This movie from when it first aired has always stirred my Faith in Jesus. I hope it will stir yours too.
This is my favorite movie of all time. Robert Powell is wonderful as Jesus. I understand that when he walked on the set, no one cursed. I won't say he looked more like Jesus than Jesus did, but I wouldn't argue with it either. The casting person that picked him wasn't paid enough. The cast of stars is superb also. James Farentino as Simon Peter is my favorite. Anne Bancroft is powerful as Mary Magdalene. As great as Anthony Quinn is, I think this was his best role ever, as Caiaphas. I did not know Michael York was that great of an actor until I saw him as John the Baptist. Wow! talk about blown away. I have it on VHS and will get it on DVD. It is just too important of a movie. Everyone should watch this movie no matter what your religious affiliation.


                
Many of the reasons that I enjoyed 'Jesus of Nazareth' have already been stated many times in the previous comments. The excellent locations, the feel of authenticity of 1st Century Israel and the supporting story of the zealots all added to the depth of this great mini series. The best way I can describe the way this is so captivating is by recounting the day I first bought the video home. I was quite popular in my early 20's and I bought this mini series on a double video set and brought it home with my best friend to watch. As we started to watch in the afternoon, other friends of ours started to come over to see what we were doing. As each person entered and saw what was on the TV, we got the usual 'What's this? A religious movie?' and they sat down but we didn't hear another sound from each one. A few girls came over too, and by the time of the final part I had a house full. When it finally finished everyone commented on how brilliant it was and how much they'd enjoyed it. I cannot recommend this version enough to anyone. In my opinion, it easily surpases 'The Passion of The Christ' in the more human story of Christ, rather than just introducing literal demons for peoples actions (best demonstrated by Judas' betrayal in each version).


                
This was truly a movie about Jesus, with a rendition that was gentle and compassionate, yet spirited and sharp when he had to be. I could tell that He was a man with a huge mission. It was great that the script stayed close to the Bible-with such a well-known story, it's annoying when they take extensive artistic liberties with the script, like in "King of kings". The apostles were made so real for us in this movie, as well as all the people and places, beautifully done! I wish I had the writing skills to express how rich, alive and realistic the movie is-how the camera touches faces in the crowds, their woven clothes, the dirt roads, until we forget that we watch something that took place 2000 years ago. It is amazing how well it portrays the apostles' feelings, especially Peter's-his surprise, ambivalence, fierce feelings of love and sorrow.All in all, GREAT movie, the one to see or have about Jesus Chist. And it did not have too much of portentous, loud music either, for which I was grateful.I just wish the script had not presented something absent from the Bible-the association of Judas with the Zealots. It makes the motives of the filmmakers kind of suspect in doing that.....as if they want to give a bit of nobility to his wretched betrayal.


                
