There has been no other biblical film that touched me like this one. Dispite all the little details that have been criticized and pointed out, these should be of no consequence.  The illustration of Jesus' life story in this film was rich.  Not only can you feel the strong presence of Christ through Robert Powell, but you also can get a taste of the times in which he lived.Although the film, like many biblical films, tries to clearly depict the spiritual nature of Christianity, this one goes beyond that.  It gives you a glimpse into the politics, social/religious hierarch, economics, and the mindstate of the Jewish and Roman communities throughout the era.  It's more than just your typical Christ film. It's gives you a broader view and a complete understanding of what it was like to live in the times of Jesus Christ.Besides being a historical landmark and the great religous story that it is, this film also takes you through the ups and downs. The doubts, the hardships, the miracles, and the uprising. A very 3 Dimensional drama.I am a Christian, and while I might not be as devout as some, my faith is strong and this film re-enforced that spirituality.  It was very moving to hear the lessons and wise preachings of Jesus in a similar setting to the one where he once stood.  To see the dramas first hand, from an unbiased point of view.I would advise everyone to see this movie atleast once. No matter if your a Christian or not.  The morals and lessons taught by Jesus Christ can be appreciated by anyone.  Not just as the Son Of God, but as a Man who strongly believed in Love and goodwill towards his fellow Man. Not only as a religious icon, but as a mentor, moral activist, and humanitarian to his people. His words are universal.  What he stood for is greater than any man that ever walked the face of this Earth.  This film gives you that insight. It goes farther than showing you a religious belief...it gives you the reason why it's worth believing in.I give this film 9/10.  Powerful, Enlightening, and Emotionally driven. The Greatest Story Ever Told dramatized for all to enjoy time and time again.If you liked this film, I also recommend "The Robe (1953)" and "The Ten Commandments (1956)"


                
"Jesus of Nazareth" is by far the most detailed movie on the life of Christ. I remember when it first aired on TV back in April of 1977. That was the week of my wedding and I remember watching it with my new bride on our honeymoon. Because of it's length and as a mini series it was able to cover most all the events in Jesus's life. There are many scenes and which I would say are some of my favorites but by far the best scene in the whole movie is when Earnest Borgnine, playing a Roman Centurian, approaches Jesus with a request that he heal a servant of his. A servant he loves as a son. Jesus says he will go to his home. The Centurian says that it won't be necessary since Jesus is a Jew and can't come into a Gentiles home. All Jesus has to do is give the word and he knows that Jesus would heal his servant. Jesus says that he has found no greater faith in all Israel than that of this Centurian. Although there were some artistic interpretations in the movie, they are so very few it isn't worth mentioning. I have seen the "Passion of the Christ" and I feel it is a very powerful movie on the last week of Christ, but it is so intense. I have to give "Jesus of Nazareth" the highest rating possible


                
Was Jesus the Divine Son of God or simply a daring revolutionary? There have always been questions concerning Jesus and who He really was, and therefore, there will probably always be films about Him and His ministry on Earth. Whether or not Jesus was who He claimed to be, the Savior of the world, one thing is certain: He is alive in the hearts of millions, and this film helped capture the spirit of the Christian beliefs, making Jesus not so much an icon but a living, breathing Son of God, perfect in every way, Who loved us enough to die for our sins.There have been many versions of the life of Christ, and many actors who have brought their own personalities to the part. William Defoe was a fearless leader in "The Last Temptation of Christ." Brian Deacon was friendly and cheerful in "Jesus." Max Von Sydow spoke with authority and passion in "The Greatest Story Ever Told." Jurgen Prochnow was cold and mysterious in "The Seventh Sign." Jeffrey Hunter was untouchable and almost with little personality except to complete the mission assigned to him in "King of Kings." All of these men have contributed, but I would have to say that none of them were truly convincing, just because there are so many aspects to Jesus, and, being human, they were unable to really portray the Son of God affectively.Enter Robert Powell. This man looks as if he were born to play Jesus, from the physical features to the very heart and soul of the Son of Man. He manages to combine the elements of his peers who attempted the role, and you don't see the actor....you see Jesus Christ. You can sence the love and the passion flowing through Him, and at the same time, you can see His authority and discipline. For the first time, we have a Jesus who is "one hundred percent man and one hundred percent God."This is also possibly the longest movie I've ever sat through, but it held my attention, nevertheless. Zeffirelli manages to keep it captivating, with a powerful soundtract and a cast of famous actors that are jam-packed but never overused. Not only do you see an affective Jesus, but you also see a wonderful group of people who were affected by Him. If the real Jesus was anything like the way Robert Powell portrayed Him, then I don't have any problem wondering how Christianity has managed to grow and be spread, impacting countless lives....including mine."Jesus of Nazareth"....you do your title-name proud. Truly this Man WAS the Son of God.


                
I am not ashamed to say that as a man in my mid thirties I cry like a baby every time I watch this epic. Robert Powell's portrayal of Jesus was exquisite, I've said Powell looks more like Jesus than Jesus did. Of course, in this day and age, people say things like "Oh, Jesus didn't have blue eyes". I know many Hebrews, and some have blue eyes. But this isn't important. What is important were his teachings. Love, love, and more love, to each and every man, pagan, enemy, or friend. Jesus even showed love to outright sinners and especially the Romans, which to my mind would have been utterly unthinkable and absolutely an astounding idea at the time. It's this doctrine that is so profound, so original, so revolutionary that convinced me that Jesus was indeed a man sent by God to show us the way how to live in harmony with our fellow man and how not to destroy ourselves.
Over the years, numerous attempts have been made to transfer the life of Christ to the screen, and one that succeeds is Franco Zefirelli's JESUS OF NAZARETH. The story is a straighforward retelling of the synoptic gospels(Matthew, Mark, and Luke), starting with the divine revelations to Mary and Joseph of their roles as Jesus's earthly parents on the the Resurrection. The score is beautific and reverent, and the big name actors who populate the film are well-cast(no Shelley Winters or John Wayne, thankfully). Also, British actor Robert Powell gives Jesus the proper reverence and poise. Zefirelli was correct to cast him; with his angular features, wavy brown hair and light eyes, this Jesus looks like every church icon and Sunday School picture I've ever seen, something Zefirelli was aware of and used to great effect. While he passes on accuracy for effect with Jesus, the apostles, it must be noted, all resemble the Hebrew peasants, publicans, and sinners they most certainly were. The length is tolerable, primarily because Zefirelli doesn't waste film on needless, arty panoramas or slow-moving dialogue. Zefirelli does keep the action moving, but one annoying technique he employs is the now dated-looking zoom close-up, but this happens infrequently. Highly recommended.


                
This movie is SO awesome! I've seen it so many times that I can quote most of the dialog! If you want the ultimate portrayal of Jesus, watch this movie. If you want to see the best church sermon ever, watch this movie. If you want God in your life and don't know how to go about it, watch this movie! Anyone who isn't touched by this movie definitely has a heart of stone.At the scene where Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, the camera pans out and you see the countryside and Jesus from the back with his arms out and the tomb. Pay attention, after Lazarus walks out and the music gets dramatic, you see a huge shadow pass over the land that literally looks like God himself waved his arm over the earth. I wouldn't be surprised if He really did; showing us that He's pleased at what He was seeing! ;)


                
With Franco Zeffirelli's 1977 made for television masterpiece and Anthony Burgess' screenplay, religious film simply does not get any better than this. Much as I admire Mel Gibson's monumental depiction of the last 12 hours of Jesus' life in "The Passion of the Christ", I still believe that the yardstick by which all 'passion play' genre films will be judged in future generations will be "Jesus of Nazareth".After completing "Brother Son, Sister Moon", Zeffirelli turned (the Jewish) Sir Lew Grade down flat for this project, stubbornly refusing to engage on the project for a year and a half. As his other stage and screen projects turned to dust, however, he finally accepted the task. What finally convinced him was his conviction that the film could be compassionate towards the Jews, and thus could help undo some of the past hatred for which Christianity was renowned.Burgess and Zeffirelli was a match made in heaven: Burgess turned in a script that took great liberties with the sacred text. Zeffirelli was uneasy with his liberalism, and sought to bring the script back to a more faithful rendition; yet Burgess' awesomely effective dramatic structure remains. Interestingly, Ingmar Bergman had already been asked to turn in a treatment, apparently before Zeffirelli was ever approached. However, the Roman Catholics who had been the original driving force for the project strongly objected to Bergman's idea of a series of mini lives of Jesus, as seen from the viewpoint of different characters.Bergman was dismissive of the final Zeffirelli project, and it is certain that it would have been an entirely different film had he been asked to direct. While there is much to respect about Bergman, he would have been totally incapable of producing the beauty, purity and meaning in the hidden text that is so apparent in the final film.Less than seven years later, Zeffirelli estimated that 750,000 people had seen the film. I saw the original transmission on American television in 1977, (it was aired nationwide at least twice in two years), and I also have an original and ageing VHS (PAL) copy. I plan a London revival of the series during Lent 2007, to mark the film's 30th anniversary. Back in 1977, it was the talk of the nation - in St. Louis, I heard of one lady who was instantly healed of cancer as she watched the crucifixion scene.Interestingly, the resurrection scene nearly never got filmed. In fact, what we do see on screen is simply screen test material rescued from the editing bin at the final hour! The information above is documented in Franco Zeffirelli book, "Jesus: a Spiritual Diary" (1984: NY. Harper & Row) and Ingmar Bergman's "The Magic Lantern" (1988: London: Hamish Hamilton). However, there is no substitute for watching this masterpiece: in a word, it's awesome!


                
It has been 27 years since this TV mini-series aired. I watch it around Easter time every year. Robert Powell has played the best Jesus to date. Can you imagine how more awesome "The Passion" would have been if Powell played the part again. This movie was very believable.Does anyone know whatever became of Robert Powell? The other cast members played their parts well. I also noticed the good messages that were given that if more people watched it that they would get a better understanding of what God wants us to do. As a Roman Catholic I found this movie to be worth other Catholics to see. It also enhanced my faith since the first time I saw it at 13 years old.


                
A film with a prodigious baroque photography, a true homage to sacred art works in line of catholic tradition. Also this film is a personal view of Zeffirelli, who presents a Christ very human, although sometimes in mystical ecstasy but probably like must be a man who thinks that is a God. Zeffirelli message is than exceptical like Pasolini. Jesus Miracles are simple and criptical and can considered it. In this film there is philosophical conversation, in Pasolini only there a translation of "evangelio secondi di mateo" texts, like says the title. Dramatically is very better that Passolini. Robert Powell is incredible. The cinematography and illumination is the key for achieve that scenes that mix light and darkness. Atrezzo is totally realistic. Virtuoso and majesty. Perfect 10/10My English is poor, I know it.


                
I have watched this film for many years with my family. Each year we follow the life of Jesus through Holy Week and Easter Sunday. The director has made this a film that is understandable for all ages and makes the realism unique. I would highly recommend this film for families. Even though I loved "The Passion of the Christ," I found this film easier to view for the family. Maybe we'll watch in earnest when the kids are a little older, teens perhaps. All in all this film takes you through an understanding of life as it would have been seen through the eyes of the common person. Perhaps it is this reality that allows people to gravitate toward a love for the film and a commitment to making the viewing of it each year and family tradition. Looking for a great family movie to help teach the faith, this is it.


                
I recently watched this movie meticulously as I had the job of transcribing most of it to paper for a later production translation. I had seen this movie when it was originally broadcast in the 70's. Being a visually oriented learner, creative type and fundamental but immature in my Christian faith...I was distracted by the handsomeness of Powell and his blue eyes and aforementioned preoccupation of my own perceptions.That said, I would say that this is the best movie made about the life of Christ that I have seen and I've seen numerous. Robert Powell does make the character of Jesus very human and believable...and also gives the viewer a sense of the divine...Jesus was 100% man and 100% God. In short, a viewer can look forward to meeting this Jesus and not feel condemned...and can walk away forgiven.But there are people in this world who are fundamental and want to see a Jesus as described in The Bible as accurately as possible for a human to portray. Personally, I believe that God can inspire a man to play the role of Jesus to a certain extent. It's my opinion that Powell was inspired...not totally, but to a certain extent. BTW doesn't God want all of us to act like little Jesus'? Obviously, no man can portray the character of Jesus fully...there is only one Jesus.I would still like to see a Jesus that matches the biblical description: - he was not handsome according to the prophet Isaiah. - he was so beat up during his passion that he was not able to be recognized to be a man...again the prophet Isaiah. - His beard was torn out...again, I believe that's Isaiah.In my opinion, "The Passion" surpasses "Jesus of Nazereth" in that part of the story...but it too falls short of the points above. All in all, Jesus of Nazereth is an excellent road sign to point men to the truth.


                
I have this movie on VHS and I usually watch it during Christmastime and Easter. It is by far the most well-made,beautiful film on the life of Christ. Every time that I watch this film I am in awe because it was so well made and accurate. The actors, sets, costumes and cinematography is so well done and this was before CGI came into being. The columns in the temple were absolutely amazing, but what really made it a great motion picture was the portrayal of Jesus by Robert Powell. He is absolutely an amazing actor and was by far the best film Jesus ever. He played the role very seriously and gave Jesus the proper reverence and poise. All of the other actors and actresses were great too. I really liked Olivia Hussey as Mary, she made a beautiful Virgin Mary. The musical score by Maurice Jarre was perfectly done and very beautiful and moving. I think this movie would be a great tool for evangelism, but it may be too long for some people, especially those with very short attention spans. No other movie about Christ touched me the way this one has.I have seen the Passion of the Christ and did not care much for it. Franco Zeffirelli created a wonderful movie and no other film about Jesus Christ can come close to this one.


                
This is the ultimate and to this day the most powerful,realistic and best version of Jesus and His life on earth . Robert Powell gives his character the kind of personality that gives his role realism and purity at the same time,like no one else. I think he has done a terrific job in this almost impossible task. He makes Jesus real! All the way you will enjoy his way of speaking The Word with a heart and might that this role is supposed to have . And he is doing alright. No, he is doing it brilliantly! Sometimes I think to myself - it must have been close to this!...I like to think of Jesus like this,when I see this picture .I know that there is no other than Christ to save ,and thanks for that .Robert Powell makes a very good character.Watch it!
There are, literally, no words to describe this. A depiction of life of Jesus Christ that touches your soul in every imaginable way.The cast is so brilliant that you forget that you are seeing a TV mini series. Robert Powell is like he was destined to play the part of the son of God.The direction of Franco Zeffirelli leaves you with awe. The music of Maurice Jarre is majestic and fills you with emotions. The script...well...the script it was written by God through the apostles.This is on TV every year, and every year people sit and watch it again for the nth time! A masterpiece.


                
Am not a Christian by birth but this is certainly the most powerful and enlightening films I've ever seen. I recommend it to anyone of any religion and faith. I have not seen the stand alone film and have instead seen the whole 7 part series years ago and am not quite sure of the exact content here. However, since the title reflects the same series ie all 7 parts, it should be fair to give an opinion of the same. This film, based on true events, is a must see, especially for children although under parental supervision. It is most surprising to see such an amazing and accurate film being done so many years ago. 10/10 stars.


                
This masterpiece is like watching the paintings of Leonardo come to life.Suceh reverence and such humanity...No one can watch this film and remain the same person..How AFI could not include it in one of the top 100 films ever made and 100 most inspirational films is beyond me..I could write pages but suffice to say, watch this film and enjoy six of the most inspirational hours of your life. Robert Powell is the definitive Jesus..Gentle but very assertive.. James Farrentino's Peter is a masterpiece, this 'every man' evokes empathy as he travels his journey to receiving The Keys To The Kingdom The actor who portrayed Mathew should have received billing with the rest of the stars..His transformation is inspiring. The music by itself is a collector's item..Very uplifting.. Then there are Sir.Lawerenc Oliver, James Mason and Peter Ustinov Three Giants who are majestic in minor roles. Olivia Hussey was born to play Mary The mother of Jesus. And of course ANYTIME you can hear James Earl Jones says ANTHING, it is a treat.. Thank You Franco for inspiring the ages..


                
This is a beautiful Movie! One of the best films done on the Lord! Powell Never blinks throughout the movie! Star studded cast! It is pretty accurate with minor extra dramatization and non-Biblical story lines. However overall a great movie. I truly enjoyed watching over and over again. Actually I enjoyed it so much that I am trying to find see more of it. I am trying to find the original mini-series in order to see the deleted scenes. Does anyone know where I can view the deleted scenes from this movie? I hear that there is a scene of the Temptation of the Lord immediately following the Baptism, as well as a few other scenes? I have never seen a DVD with these deleted scenes. Please help if you can.


                
I have seen Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" with other members of my church, and came away recommending that they now see "Jesus of Nazareth". It is truly my favorite movie.  I first saw it when I was 14 years old, and remember being so completely moved by the whole experience.  The difference between these two movies is that you have to rely on your knowledge of the bible for "The Passion".  Jesus of Nazareth allows you to truly become emotionally attached to the actual person of Jesus.  I insist that my two teenage children and husband watch it with me every Easter.  We are always moved to tears by the end.  I am always disappointed that the networks choose to show "The Ten Commandments" every Easter, and not "Jesus of Nazareth".  Isn't the story of Jesus the reason for the season of Easter?


                
I was a kid, the first time I watched this film. I really enjoy watching this movie every Christmas and easter time. Robert Powell really plays his role very good. Robert Powell has got a strong charisma. It was a very good idea to make this movie in 3 sequences. There is a lot of information and a lot we can learn from Jesus preaching. One of my favorite scene is where Jesus speaks to the roman soldier. Although some characters are not the same like in the bible, it is still a great movie. It's definitely one of the best Jesus movies ever made. For everyone who wants to watch a Jesus movie, this movie is a recommendation.


                
Christian or whatever, the movie is divine. I watch it at least twice-a-month. Those people who wrote spoilers are judging it as entertainment, rather than inspiration. None of the past versions of Jesus' life-story affects my judgment: I've seen most of them, they were nothing compared to this film, and I haven't seen the uncut version. I, too, know most of the dialog - I don't even consider watching "Passion" - I know how Jesus suffered, I don't need it in graphic-surround-sound. I am content to experience the gentility of this film - it is totally believable. To those who complain about the English accents: it was made for British TV ! A few American actors appeared in this series; although their work fulfilled the role, one wonders why they were chosen for this totally British production.I have come back (5/26/06) to edit this commentary: although Rod Stieger played a powerful role into Pontius Pilate, I think his character should have put some mention to his wife's admonishing him to make no judgment upon Jesus (Matthew 27:19). She was ONLY Emperor Tiberius' daughter!; and, Pilate clearly washed his hands of the judgment (Matthew 27:24). Of course, Pilate could make no intervention in God's will.I would love to read about the difficulties and rewards, the technical obstacles overcome to get this film made. I find it amazing that Lew Grade's wife could see what casting-agents did not see: Robert Powell WAS the perfect Jesus. I've changed my mind; this film deserves a "15". Tears? They never end while I'm watching; I watched the third cassette tonight: every viewing is a new experience, both for the sincerity and power of the actors and the authenticity of that era. To me, Robert Powell is as close an embodiment to Christ as is possible, so far as we know. Nit-picking is not an option: I want to believe Judas was portrayed sympathetically, although The Book of John claims to be written by "the one whom he loved". Faith is the theme of this film: I have faith it will never be matched.


                
Unfortunately, it's been some years since I saw this mini series, but remember the experience being tremendously moving and uplifting back when I watched it. There are a few embellishments and minor deviations from Scripture, but only one (discussed later) that I remember these many years later as giving me pause. Of course I would advise anyone seeking strict accuracy to go to the true and best source, the Bible itself, and not rely on anything from the cinematic world. However, I believe this mini series would give a very positive spiritual enrichment to any Christian, whether Catholic, Protestant, or Orthodox. Watching it brought for me a closer relationship with the Lord.Robert Powell is magnificent in a role that is of course absolutely impossible for any actor to adequately fill, that of Jesus. Powell has the classic appearance people often imagine as Christ like. I note a great deal of discussion as to his blue eyes, but feel it's all much ado. True, Powell is not Jewish, so perhaps a Jewish actor might have given a more realistic appearance, but it seems minor in relation to his overall powerful portrayal. I agree with others' comments that looking at Powell here, one sees not the actor, but Jesus.The beautiful Olivia Hussey, who played Juliet in Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet, is perfectly cast in the role of the Virgin Mary. James Farentino gives a compelling portrait of Simon Peter, the sinful ordinary fisherman to whom Jesus eventually gives the keys to the Kingdom. The cast includes many other famous stars, such as Peter Ustinov (Herod the Great), Michael York (John the Baptist), Ernest Borgnine (the Centurion), Claudia Cardinale (the Adulteress), Ian McShane (Judas Iscariot), Anne Bancroft (Mary Magdalene), Lawrence Olivier (Nichodemus), James Mason (Joseph of Arimathea), Stacey Keach (Barrabbas), Anthony Quinn (Caiaphas), and Christopher Plummer (Herod Antipas). Although easily recognized & famous actors, they all seem credible in their roles, in addition to the lesser known cast members such as Yorgo Voyagis who is perfect as Joseph.Jesus's humble stable birth is eloquently captured. Also, the series brings vividly to life the miracles, parables, teachings, and especially passion & death of Christ. I found particularly compelling the depiction of the miraculous catch of fish, the calling of the tax collector Matthew as an apostle, and Peter's denial of Christ.Some events may have been omitted, one reviewer citing the marriage feast at Cana where Jesus changes the water into wine. I read from another reviewer that the series is based on the synoptic gospels (Matthew, Mark, & Luke), while the wedding at Cana is found only in the Gospel of John so that would explain its omission. In any case, it would be difficult to include everything, and I doubt that malice was intended here. One reviewer complained that the resurrection is not well portrayed. If that is the case, it did not upset me enough that I recall it these years later. However, I did find rather troubling the fictional sub-plot about the zealots and Judas trying to arrange for Jesus to meet with the Sanhedrin. His betrayal should have been depicted exactly according to Scripture. Nevertheless, Jesus of Nazareth is a captivating, reverent, & moving portrayal of the life of Jesus. It depicts Him as both fully human & fully divine, and shows at every turn His love for sinners. Despite perhaps minor flaws, it is true to both the message & spirit of Christianity. It is definitely a series I would recommend for viewing by any Christian and personally, I would love to watch it again myself.


                
I have Jesus of Nazareth in my home library.  I watch it at least 3 times a year and I never get tired of seeing it.  The casting is superb and I feel every effort was made to genuinely portray the life of Christ.  There is no way anyone can accurately depict the crucifixion since it is stated in the prophecies of Christ in the Old Testament that the beating left Him so wounded you could not tell if He was a man or a woman and according to the experts Roman scourging peeled off the skin so that you would be able to see the internal organs.It would be very interesting to know how playing these parts affected the actors lives.  I read an article by Ernest Borgnine in Guideposts that He rededicated his life to the Lord while playing the centurion but can't find anything about the others actors.Thank you for the opportunity to express my love for this movie and the one it portrays - Jesus Christ.


                
This is definitely the best religious TV mini-series of all time about Jesus.This six hour-plus mini-series features Jesus Of Nazareth as perceived not only by Christians or non-Christian but by historical accounts mainly on the four gospels of the Holy Bible. Jesus of Nazareth dramatizes the birth, life, ministry, death and resurrection of Jesus based on the accounts of the four New Testament Gospels of Matthew,Mark,Luke and John. It has an all-star cast led by British actor,Robert Powell,who portrayed the role of Jesus.It was directed by Franco Zeffirelli and produced by Lew Grade through his ITC Entertainment company.Also,Zeffirelli co-wrote the screenplay with Anthony Burgess and Suso Cecchi d'Amico. The mini-series was shot entirely on location in Tunisia and Morocco.This is the best presentation of Jesus in either a movie or TV series.What makes it so is the presentation of the man not based on only one religious belief but on the accounts of all religions.It presents Him as a man who was a great part of mankind and history.Credit that to the screenplay and the sensitivity of the film feature.Aside from that,the cast were also stellar in their performances.Aside from Powell,special mention should be given to namely: Anne Bancroft as Mary Magdalene;Ernest Borgnine as the Roman Centurion;James Farentino as Peter;Stacy Keach as Barabbas;Ian McShane as Judas Iscariot;Laurence Olivier as Nicodemus;Christopher Plummer as Herod Antipas;Anthony Quinn as Caiaphas;Rod Steiger as Pontius Pilate;Michael York as John the Baptist; "and" Olivia Hussey as Mary, the mother of Jesus.What makes this TV series special is that it not only provides information and presentation of Jesus BUT it can also be used as a means to meditate on the person who gave His life for mankind for their salvation of sins.The sincerity of the filmmakers and the performers shows throughout the film WHICH separates it from all the other films about Jesus like The Greatest Story Ever Told,The Passion Of Christ,Jesus Christ Superstar and many more.It never fell into the trap of trying to put in elements of Hollywood that would glamorize the person and the film itself unlike the other movies mentioned previously.
Jesus of Nazareth is such an incredible movie.  Robert Powell, who plays the role of Jesus Christ, is a remarkable actor. He plays Jesus so well that you feel it is really Jesus at times.  His performance as well as his looks are so realistic and sensational that it's unbelievable.  Powell is such a gifted actor that if he were to do films in Hollywood, he would most likely win an Oscar. I recommend this movie to anybody who would love to truly understand what Jesus Christ went through from his birth to resurrection. Not to mention, an amazing cast of Academy Award winners of the time. Overall, 10 out of 10!!!!


                
I just saw "The Passion of the Christ" that I liked very much. However, it made me appreciate this movie "Jesus of Nazareth" even more. Unlike Passion, that focuses on the last 12 hours of Jesus life, this movie goes into great detail about his life and the mood of the times/area of Judea. Mind you the movie is long, over six hours, but to me it was not a minute too long. As mentioned above, I thought Passion was a very very good movie that accomplished showing the agony and suffering that Jesus endured over his last 12 hours. However, what was lacking in Passion, the words, teachings and message of Jesus, is abundant in this 1977 movie "Jesus of Nazareth"


                
