At 382 minutes, you could say this film is a bit drawn out and a little too long. What makes it tough to watch is that the first segment is the most tedious, but I stuck with it the whole way and am still glad I watched it, and I would recommend to anyone to stay with it. Robert Powell is very good as Jesus Christ and has a memorable, haunting look to him. Director Franco Zeffirelli does an admirable job directing this made-for-TV mini-series that was filmed 30 years ago.The movie certainly sports an interesting, international cast. Just look at some of those names: there are a lot of famous actors from numerous countries. It's really an awesome lineup of actors, but the one you can't forget is Powell. To this day, and I think I've seen all the films about Christ, Powell's face comes the closest to how I would want Jesus to look. It's hard to explain, but Powell - perhaps the least known in this cast - puts on a memorable performance, with his face alone! However, having said that, one complaint is that the camera focuses too much on the icy stare of Jesus and anyone who has read or studied the Gospels know Christ was about as warm and loving as you could find and Powell doesn't illuminate that warmth. For those unfamiliar with Jesus except for this film, trust me: he loves people and had plenty of smiles and warmth when He walked this earth. The film did not do a good job in that area. However, I really don't want to nitpick because I could find a number of things. At least the length of the film actually does the Man justice because it can provide more of His life nd the incredible things He did, obviously, than a two or three-hour film. Another appeal of this film is that Christians and non-Christians alike can be moved by it. It is neither overly preachy nor blasphemous, just a good story of God being placed on Earth in human form and showing us how to live our lives....and what's wrong with that?


                
This two-part mini-series covers the life of Jesus even before the beginning. It's long, but holds your interest to the end, and some passages are absolutely riveting, although there is no way that such a telling could avoid controversy.It shows how powerful the story can be in the hands of gifted writers, Anthony Burgess among others, and an inspired director, Franco Zeffirelli.With that said though, this is probably the least spectacular of the three big productions that tell the traditional life of Jesus; the others being Nicholas Ray's epic "King of Kings" and George Steven's measured "The Greatest Story Ever Told". "Jesus of Nazareth" is photographed in a no frills manner, and avoids conventional depictions of many of the events, especially the crucifixion.Maurice Jarre's effective score has a crisp sound, halfway between the symphonic scores for "King of Kings" and "Greatest Story", and Peter Gabriel's new-age opus for "The Last Temptation of Christ". The film has major stars in many of the roles big and small, as did Steven's "Greatest Story". Zeffirelli's film seems more successful in fitting the big names into their characters although Peter Ustinov was such a distinctive personality that his Herod seems rather tongue-in-cheek, even when he is ordering something as horrendous as the slaughter of the innocents. However, Robert Powell's performance is fascinating. How does any actor interpret Jesus? There are no acknowledged physical descriptions of the historical Jesus so who is to say that he didn't have auburn hair and blue eyes? Unlikely of course, but beyond appearance, Powell and Zeffirelli saw him as an ethereal being, as though he is constantly aware of the fate that awaits him. Most portrayals of Jesus tend to do that, and you could argue that it is too obvious an approach, but it probably captures the way his disciples and followers must have seen him - a unique man seemingly existing on a higher plane. Otherwise, why would they have followed him when it was so dangerous to do so? Although some characters were invented for the purposes of the drama, I think the series as a whole presented the story of the Gospels in an honest and accessible way, but obviously made by a director with a deep faith.Of course, it's such a powerful story with a massive influence on the history of mankind, that the door is always open for another interpretation.


                
I think this is the best Jesus movie I've ever seen even if I don't agree with all the facts shown. I love long movies and I wish my church would come out with a long dramatization of Jesus's life and work. I love this movie. I try to watch it every year at easter like I did when I was little. Other movies I'd recommend are the "Ten Comandments" (1956), "The Testaments" (put out by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, not yet available on video at this time but seen at a temple visitor's center), "Finding Faith in Christ" (Though it is too short, also put out by The Church of Jesus Christ Of Latter Day Saints), "The Restoration" (by the Church of Jesus Christ Of Latter Day Saints).


                
