Whose Line is it anyway?(1998) Review: I loved The original series. It was uncensored, witty, fresh and downright hilarious. Now, Whose Line goes Hollywood. Here's my take:Let me start off with the improvisers in seat order:Seat #1: The seat-filler comic. This one is named that for a reason. This seat is normally taken by improvisers who have little to no talent. They barely lift a finger throughout the show and are insignificant. Or it is filled by Chip Esten who is no different. The only exception here is it is rarely filled by Greg Proops. Greg is funny. He still has got it. He is one of the few that does deliver the goods, but is starting to show some rust. Remember, he is rarely here.Seat #2 Wayne Brady. Wayne is different. He is however not a improviser. Wayne is here to pretty much sing and show off. He has single handedly butchered Song styles. It's the same thing every time. Every time! The original Whose Line's Song styles had songs about such mundane things such as dog poop to a bag of chips. That's what improv is about! Not the same love song EVERY time. This is Whose Line, not American Idol! Wayne does have tons of charisma, but improv is not his style.Seat #3 Colin. Colin is a Whose line alumni. He was awesome during the British version, but here is still funny, but is showing lots of rust. Every once in a while, he would use some stuff from the original whose line. Other times it just is not funny. He still has lots of energy and can deliver some laughs, he is a shadow of his former self. He not awful at all, just washed up. He does get a little old after a while.Seat #4 Ryan Styles. Ryan is another Whose Line alumni. However see Colin for pretty much the same thing. Only difference is Colin has more energy, and is a little more funny.More: We hardly see any of the old school games. Also, the new Whose Line has butchered "Questions Only". Instead of just the original of just asking questions, we get additions such as "impressions". You ask a question while impersonating someone. 99% of the time, I do not know who they are until Wayne Brady does his Scooby Doo(which he does every time during this game). Hideous.Drew Carey is another problem. He is not a good host. His host power is not there. Clive had wit and charm. Drew is wooden and lame. Drew should also learn that improv is not as easy as it looks. Drew at the end decides to partake in the improv 90% of the time replacing the seat filler comic. Drew is TERRIBLE at improv. He has not wit, no comedic charisma, and a terrible delivery. Clive Anderson knew he was not a improviser so he stayed as host. Drew should do the same.And lastly, Josie Lawrence made a special appearance here. It was nice till during her improv she cursed. Just then Drew stopped her act and said that you can't do that here. In the British version, anything goes and you can get away with anything you say, here you cannot. This show has restrictions. The original did not.One more thing, I HATE the Irish drinking song. Annoying is just the start of this. It gets worse if Drew Carey gets involved. (cold shiver goes up my spine) The Last Word: Desecration. Whose Line went Hollywood. What a damn mistake. The comedy is watered down. The antics are sometimes lame to re-used. Drew Carey is a terrible host, and the show has restrictions. What was once great has fallen so far. Ignore this. Stick to the original series instead.


                
