Drew Carey is the host of this 'game' where the audience picks the style and the story that the four 'contestants' must improvise a skit from. The contestants are usually quick minded comedians. The usual suspects are Colin Mochrie, Ryan Stiles, and Wayne Brady with sometimes a guest trying to keep up.This has great fun, and originality at the start. It was truly laugh out loud. After a couple of seasons, the games get repetitive. There's only so many games they had to play with. But it's asking too much to keep it fresh all the time. They do have guest stars once in awhile, but they're usually ineffective.


                
A show that should have gone on forever, WLIIA presents four performers and a moderator, for purposes of doing nothing but improv. Drew Carey was the host and Ryan Stiles and Colin Mochrie were the mainstays, along with a revolving cast that included Wayne Brady,Brad Sherwood. and Greg Proops. Other than Stiles, costar of the equally long-running The Drew Carey Show, most of the comedians were unknown to TV audiences prior to this show. Mochrie, a rubber-faced, balding Canadian whose innocent demeanor was bellied by frequent naughty one-liners, was especially funny. Occasinal celebrity guest stars like Robin Williams and Whoopi Goldberg were at best hit or miss. Unfortunately, reality TV came along and killed the show after an eight-season run. Perhaps Carey and crew were tired of it by then. Comedy is tough, but improv is tougher. I highly recommend catching late-night reruns on the ABC Family Channel and also on youtube. Some of my favorite segments, all of which can be seen on youtube, are WEIRD NEWSCASTERS and the show's truly bizarre version of The Dating Game. I don't think I have ever heard a studio audience laugh louder, and audience members were frequently called upon to help out in certain segments, making things even funnier (see the legendary "Tarzan and Jane" segment on youtube to see what I mean). Highly recommended.


                
