Wildly original, laugh-out-loud funny, impressing performances. That and more is Whose Line Is It Anyway?I started watching this show around 2001 and been loving it ever since. I didn't know much about improv comedy before watching this and was pleasantly surprised afterwards.Ryan Stiles, Colin Mochrie, Wayne Brady, Greg Proops, Brad Sherwood, Chip Esten, Jeff Davis and more are the people who have to act out scenes using improvisation as their only tool. It's great to see a show that manages to be so creative and funny at the same time and allowing the performers to show their wide abilities. Whether it's Ryan playing a foal being born, Colin playing a man being gradually eaten by ants, or Wayne and Jeff singing an opera about motorcycles, this show has it all.Hosted by Drew Carey, who does a good job of interacting with the performers and even participating in a skit at the end. He's not that good at improv, but one of the great things about Whose Line is that even when the performers can't entirely handle a game (like Colin in If You Know What I Mean) it's hilarious as well.So, get ready for some of the best material that comedy has to offer. Tapioca!


                
I never have never seen a show that I have laughed at as hard as this one. Drew gets a lot of guff by fans of the original British series, but I thought he was a worthy successor to Clive Anderson, and seemed to be having a lot more fun as host. Whereas Clive would barely crack a smile, Drew was laughing his butt off the entire time. The only thing I didn't like about Drew was him always feeling the need to explain that the points don't matter. He did it so much that it really got annoying. Oh, and also when they started having audience members participate in "Sound Effects", he always seemed to pick the worst possible people (usually little old ladies) to provide the sounds for Colin and Ryan.Doing the bulk of the jokes were Whose Line (both versions) regulars Colin Mochrie and Ryan Stiles. They had been working together since the British version in 1991, and had gotten to the point where they seemed to know what the other was thinking. Wayne Brady really became the breakout star of the series. It was hard for them to not make him a regular along with Colin and Ryan, because he was so good. The only draw back is that it meant less of a variety in performers, which translated into some shows having a "been there, done that" feel. The other supporting cast was really good with Greg Proops, Brad Sherwood, and Chip Esten being the standouts. Josie Lawrence, from the British version, made a surprise appearance in season two. The only one I never understood why they kept bringing back was Kathy Greenwood. I guess they needed a token female, because that was about all she was good for on the show. I would rather they have brought back Denny Siegel, or had Kathy Kinney make more appearances, because at least they were funny.
This is the first game show Drew Carey hosted, as The Price is Right is about to become number 3. Drew is a fine host & I am sure he will add something to TPIR.Whose Line Is It Anyways started with the BBC & when it was brought here it was a great choice to choose Drew as host. Actually Ryan Styles & several other regulars were also mainstays on the British version. About the only major changes were the host (Drew) & the fact the instead of a game show counting points it became just a who can be funniest competition. US TV viewers won on that one.I bet though, if drew accidentally tells a TPIR contestant that the "Prizes don't matter" there will be some major confusion, especially if Mimi comes out as a Carey Beauty! Of course then again, maybe there is some fun as Drew needs to make the show his own. Wonder how far Drew can go? Maybe they will get rid of those Medicare Commercials CBS has been running with Bob! Most Whose Line shows start with the introductions of the performers & then they sit down until Drew calls they up to do some situation. Sometimes, like the British one, suggestions from the audience are put in for good measure.Quite a few shows feature a mock news cast. Scenes from a hat is another favorite of mine. Sometimes voice overs in from of blue screens or old films are done. Funny doings with a Prop sometimes come in here on some shows.When it comes to the singing portion, I always hope Wayne Brady is there as he can really ad-lib some crazy songs. The improvisational comedy which this show truly is is almost always funny. If you want to relieve daytime burnout, this show is a great place to stop.The closings I have seen are either a couple of folks taking the names in the credits & doing strange things with them or sometimes the theme hoedown ends it. The theme of the hoedown usually changes every time.This show is great fun, & I give the folks on it a 1 millions points & they win great applause.


                
"WHOSE LINE IS IT ANYWAY?," in my opinion, is an absolutely freakin' hilarious ABC classic! I haven't seen every episode, but I still enjoyed it. It's hard to say which game was my favorite. I said that because they're all really funny, especially Irish Drinking Song, Greatest Hits, and Hoedown. However, I think it was always funny when they did skits or whatnot. I always laughed at that. It was all that everyone stayed with the show throughout its entire run. Everyone always gave a good performance, the episodes were funny, and the writing was always very strong. In conclusion, I hope it stays on FOX Family Channel for fans of the show to see for a long time.


                
