I was hoping this would be a new chapter in the franchise that was fresh and exciting, but this is a terrible let down, I have tried to stick with it but it just doesn't work, the writing is leaden with dull stories, little excitement and too many assistants adding to the confusion. There is nothing wrong with the new doctor per se, but get rid of her team of companions, add some decent scripts and move it back to Saturday please please please


                
I abhorred the BBCs first deliberate assassination of The Doctor, when they cast Sylvester McCoy in a cynical attempt to destroy the popular Classic Who. As soon as I saw that the atrociously untalented Chris Chibnall - who was single-handedly responsible for by far the worst Torchwood (Who spin-off) episodes ever written - was taking over, I KNEW that the Death Warrant had been drawn up.New Who has evolved from the quite scary, but brilliant at times (Tom Baker) kid's show that the Classic Who of my childhood was. It WAS edgier, more grown-up, until Chibnall served up this slop.I really don't care that they cast a female Doctor, but Whittaker runs around waving her Sonic Magic Wand (that, against all Who dogma, can now do EVERYTHING!) like a demented Fairy Godmother (Godperson?). She is shocked and surprised by all that happens to them and around them. She views alien planets and vistas with the jaw-dropped wonder that is lacking in the Committee she feels the need to cart around with her after over 1,000 Earth years mainly alone!I cannot decide which is worse, the writing or the acting. Or are they feeding off each other to produce the series with by far the lowest and most negative User Reviews in Who history? What I hope is that this "break" for the whole of 2019 gives those in charge at the BBC the chance to read the innumerable negative comments, the plummeting Ratings and either remove Chibnall and this ridiculous Doctor by Majority Vote situation in the TARDIS, or cancel the whole rotten show!


                
I've been watching since Jon Pertwee, and I really was looking forward to Jodie Whitaker. But season 11 is utter, utter garbage. I still have 3 episodes left on the DVR, and I just can't bring myself to watch them.
There will always be ups and downs with this series, because it must always be trying new things. Some of Davies' ideas were a bit lame, and Capaldi struggled at first, but it was always worth sticking through the rough spots. This is quite different. It's not just a rough spot. It's not just a little wobbly.
I can understand the thinking behind it - let's shake things up a little, let's freshen it up and give it some new life. Let's look at some actual history, and see what we can learn from it. I applaud that. But you have to actually deliver. Instead, the writing is leaden, the action superficial and boring. There is no wit, no charm, no cleverness.
I feel bad for Whitaker and the rest of the cast. They have been given nothing to work with.


                
The first episode was weak on plot, and quite derivative - did the writers think that no one saw Predators? OK, we'll give them a pass. Most Doctors need a few shows to get into a grove. But there is no excuse for the preachy crap that they're pretending it's a science fiction show. The plots are dull, there is no underlying plot arcs, and the companions are boring. Bring on more seasons of the Expanse.


                
Really poor worst season out of them all terrible I don't know anyone who watches the show any longer


                
As a fan of many years ...... new series is absolutely awful! I don't need to be lectured or preached at . I can read the guardian for that . Shame, great cast . I can't watch anymore episodes. <f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+0081>


                
I love Doctor Who. So does my wife and son. And we so wanted to love Jodie Whitaker. I imagine one of the most difficult things for the writers is to produce a unique Doctor with each new regeneration. We thought, with the Doctor becoming a woman, that we were in for one of the most singular Doctors of all time. The possibilities were incredible! Sadly for us, it has been a crash and burn. It's as if the writers are determined to not use the fact of her womanhood at all, except as promotion material. For example, previous Doctors have had so much compassion (Matt Smith especially), but I feel nothing from Jodie. You could plug any guy into the current roll and barely have to rewrite. Her character is so bland. Other than the obvious play of having male characters having a problem with listening to a woman (as tired a story trick as any), there's been very little difference between Jodie and the other Doctors, as far her gender plays. It's tragic. No femininity at all.As for the companions......too many, and I don't care about them. At all. Might as well throw some red jerseys on them. I fell in love with Amy and Rory, Clara, and Martha, almost immediately. 5 episodes into the season, and I cannot even list their names in this review. I'd have to look them up!As far as storytelling goes, the first 5 shows have been standalones without even a hint of an overarching storyline. No crack in the wall, no Bad Wolf, nothing! It feels like you could miss watching the first half of the new season and not only be ok, but not actually have missed anything important!And it feels like there is a political correctness checklist that the writers are working through. For instance, I have never even thought about race or gender before in Doctor Who, but now, every episode, I feel as if political correctness is playing an important role in everything. Story elements seem to be included for the simple correctness of the choice, and that is awful, because Political Correctness ruins pretty much everything it touches, and now it is ruining one of my favorite shows of all time.My last two points are strictly about personal taste, but I have just got to say something about them.Jodie Whitaker's outfit. I have always loved the Doctor's sense of style. Matt Smith (bowties are cool) and Peter Capaldi were so stylish. Jodie Whitaker looks like she fell out of bed and decided to wear whatever she happened to land on. Seriously, she dresses like she could be Mork's cousin from his home planet of Ork. Combat boots and capris along with a "trench coat" that looks like it's made from the same material as sweat pants! And let's not forget the suspenders, cause what woman is complete without a pair of suspenders?And finally the phone box. What in the name of all that is good and pure and timey-whymie has happened to the TARDIS!? Seriously, it looks like some child's crystal growing science project went crazy inside the TARDIS. You might even think that the design was something a fan, who has no sense of taste or design, came up with and posted on Pinterest. It's that bad.The only reason I'm going to continue to slog through this atrocity is because I have to know what happens to Clara and Ashildr. The only reason my wife is going to continue watching it is because I am, for the above stated reason. Our son told us to call him if Clara shows up.


                
And this is how my favorite show was ruined ...thanks to chibnall uninspired dull writing ...the show lost it's wit and spirit ,The episode is mono tone from the begining to mid to the end ...
and the "doctor" now is just a secondary character with uninteresting lines and one facial expression ...Jodie Whittaker is clearly not a doctor who material .
As long as Chibnell is not replaced by a better writer and Whittaker by a more suited actress to the role...this show is nothing .


                
I have been a fan of Doctor Who since the 70's. Didnt like the Sylvester McCoy era, but not many did. Christopher Eccleston was obviously doing it as a reboot for his career you can see that in his acting. Now David Tennant was amazing, great scripts, great acting and fab special effects. And so the quality continued for another 10 years until Chibnall took the reins.Now in 2018 we are given something which seems as though it was written by a school kid. Special effects are ace still. But the acting is abysmal by all the lead characters. The scripts abysmal. Jodie whittaker while I have heard great things anout her in other series, plays this with all the conviction and talent of an 8 year old at a school nativity play. She looks totlly lost in the role. The only actor remotely okay is Bradley Walsh and lets face it quality actor he isnt! But he would have made a better Doctor with a different writing teamI gave it a go, am 5 episodes in but its getting no better. Time to give up.There isnt a christmas special....... I love the christmas specials.... but this year I cheered when I found out there wouldnt be one.As for the PC bias in this well I am afraid it has swung too far the other way and got caught up in its PC agenda, rubing our faces in it in every episode. Sorry all you have done is alienate us. I dont want to be made to feel unconfortable about who I am when I watch a family program. Dr Who used to be good wholesome family entertainment with no agenda. Lets get back to that.


                
Yuck.The whimsy is gone. The heroics are gone. This is certainly the Doctor for millennials: childlike, post heroic and literally emasculated. With a wave of her Harry Potter-ish sonic screwdriver, Doctor Who becomes a sad little parody of itself. The writers are far more interested in teaching lessons than telling stories with actual villains and (gasp) things that happen and building tension. And perhaps that's merely sign of the current zeitgeist, of who we are as a culture.It saddens me to say this, but it appears I am no longer the target audience. I remember staying up on Sunday night watching Tom Baker stories on PBS. The special effects were atrocious. But my goodness, the stories! Now we have fabulous special effects and a monstrous brand.Adieu, Doctor.


                
A terrible shame. I, like many others here, have watched Who for decades. This is no longer Doctor Who. The scripts are PC rubbish, the acting is terrible. Whittaker just does not seem to have the acting scope for this role. She seems to be trying for a bad impression of Smith/Tennent with a dollop of primary school teacher thrown in.
The way they have dropped the fans who have loved this show for years is appalling. I hope lessons will be learnt but I doubt it. I'll go back to watching Pertwee and Baker.


                
This could have been a great show. Jodie Whittaker as the doctor was a great idea. I feel so sorry for her though. Terrible acting from her supporting cast. Really poor writing. Really cheap sets and poor CGI. Then to top it off they ram through constant political comments. Trying to push the BBC agenda. I just want to watch great sci-fi and be entertained. Keep politics out of it.


                
This show went from an amazing sci-fi with deep lore and even deeper caracters to some high-schooler's social justice wetdream. Man I was so pumped for the first female Doctor but, as always nowadays they just made it all about the politics, with shallow sidekick's and even shallower storylinesé What a sad era this is...


                
3 episodes in to season 11 and i am so disappointed
I feared stunt and politically correct casting, over stuffed number of companions that chick off a large number of minority boxes but DAMMIt i love Doctor who so I will give it a chance despite the misgivings and..............................it is a complete crap fest.
Chinball has got to go.


                
Jodie Whitaker May or May not be a good 'Doctor' (who knows?) but this series is virtually unwatchable! Poor script might be the issue but whatever it is it has most certainly hit a new low.


                
Wow what the hell has happened here sure we've seen a decline in recent years despite Capaldis brilliant portrayal as the Dr but the ott PC/SJW messages are just killing it. But then we get to this latest season & Chibnal & Whittaker have just killed it. The episodes from this season are the weakest we have ever seen & are more interested in putting in some cringeworthy SJW messages over an actual plot & as for Whittaker Dr the least said the better the lass just can't act. When will these hyper woke SJW producers realise that swapping out your leads for females just isn't working,there is nothing wrong with a female lead when it calls for it but to just switch male for female leads in a pathetic show of liberalness & SJWness is just pathetic did Ghostbusters & oceans 8 not show you that switching the leads sex to show your political beliefs just does not work


                
With video games, star wars, comics and now this 2018 mess. If season 9 was bad, now season 10 is a dumster fire. Since taking a hard left the show should be called Dr. Who Cares. I'm switching sides and joining the Daleks.


                
Was such a good programm,but it's become dull and to pc


                
I have watched Doctor Who from the very first episode - yes I am that old - and was looking forward to a new departure with an excellent lead actor.The major problem is with the scripts. In the distant past there were good attempts to educate by good choices of historical location and story. Now the historical themes are drowned out by political correctness and bad plotsI also wonder who persuaded Jodie Whittaker to play the part as Bubble from AB Fab meets the aliens.Nothing is irredeemable here - with new scriptwriters


                
To be fair I've left this review till I'd seen the first 4 episodes.
Oh dear.
The writing
Oh dear
Casting
Oh dear
The acting
Oh dear
This is just not Doctor Who, I don't care who plays the part but running around waving a sonic screwdriver at everything in sight for 40 minutes doesn't cut it.
Bring back David Tennant.


                
Today we are going to tell you why you need to feel bad about the Partition of India. We'll leave out the significant political complexity and just blame the usual baddies. NO . . . Not the Daleks . . . the British. Don't worry - the scary alien monsters now love everyone and you can too.


                
Watching the first episode I couldn't help but feel that this didn't feel right. No, I don't approve of changing the gender of the Doctor, even though it was done (for laughs) in a comedy special over a decade and a half ago. There's absolutely no reason why the Doctor needed to change sex, it was never part of canon.
While the show has the name 'Doctor Who', it's essentially using an established brand to do a 180 on the fans. And that's not always a good thing. It reminds me of the Star Wars side story movies, like Solo. All the characters are there, but it was missing something that made it feel 'Star Wars', even though it had all the right pieces.
If they had gone and done this as a spin-off of the series, I'd be okay with it. Why not have a female Time Lord who goes around helping solve problems. But do not call the character The Doctor, because it just feels like a gimmick to satisfy some sort of agenda. Without good writing and good stories, it doesn't matter what you make the Doctor, the series will fail. And that is what was hurting the series, not the fact that the Doctor was a man.
Let's have this experiment end by the end of the season, and go back to the real Doctor Who we have all known and loved.
Update:
I've watched more episodes, and I have to say, that this is one of the worst seasons. I'd even take a Colin Baker season over this one.
Why have they turned an entertaining science fiction show into a soap box for social justice? And it's so heavy handed and blatant. I
If the BBC was trying to kill the show off once and for all, this will do it.


                
What am I even watching here? This is NOT Doctor Who. It is the foray into the mind of ten year old. The writing is simply awful.
Where is the Doctor's familiar sense of self confidence? The sense of, no matter what's happening, you just know s/he is confident enough to know it'll all work out?? That sense of awe and wonder and "let's do this!"? Gone.
Where is the sense of connection with the Doctor and the comoanion(s)? All gone. I dont even care enough about these characters to want to get to know them, but that's ok because there is nothing about them that makes me even want to.
Where's the action? The flashing lights? The clamor of adventures waiting to be embarked upon? All. Gone.
And the TARDIS?? I have no words. It's a joke now.
I knew from the very first episode that the lure of the Doctor was gone. For goodness sake, it was a direct rip off of Predators! I haven't watched any episodes past the third one, and all they felt like were sad lessons in politics and political correctness. I can't say that I've ever even thought, oh wow. Doctor Who is on tonight, let's watch! Nope. I don't miss it at all.
There are no spoilers here. Except if you were expecting a witty, well-written science fiction series. Sorry, but you won't find it with the current iteration of Doctor Who. I was rooting for Jodie Whitaker, who is a fine actress, but the writing is not cleaver, funny, or thought provoking. It is just heavy handed and dull. Ms. Whitaker just can't overcome the painful fact that the choices made for the series were just wrong.


                
A star for bradley walsh, eveything else about this series was a car wreck!!! please don't let chris chibnall do another series, i think jodie could of made a decent doctor with better writers and a better showrunner! roll on 2022 when we might get a proper doctor who (i don't care if it is a male or female doctor), also can i see the series that the critics watched? must of been a different one to the series that aired in the uk!!!


                
