I tried, i tried so hard to like it, but I just can't... Doctor who was great because he tackled racial issues and other bull**** on their own way, the way it should be dealt with, now is just pure propaganda and literally unwatchable... You're gay, black whatever, so what? That doesn't define you, your actions does... And I don't like her... Nothing against female Doctor or Jodie but she is not that great actress and for the Doctor you have to be... When bad American shot pure spider she just stared at him angrily... That is defining moment and she did nothing... When she told Graham to stay in TARDIS and he said no you can see that she can't do anything about that because she doesn't have authority nor commanding presence... She's not the general who leads army's, no one would fallow her... She is just over joyed companion and even then she's not interesting...The Doctor is a killer, ruthless and yet so kind, he can go from the most charming man to the most dangerous one in second... Yet, she isn't either of those thing.... And she can't run.... Writing can be better when they give up on PC or get writers who know what are they doing but bad acting can't change if they don't change actor... And for a first female Doctor this is kinda insulting....
For as long as I can remember, I've heard about the good Doctor, references, inside jokes and the like. Such as "Real Daleks don't climb stairs, they flatten the building".The quandary was this: Where do I begin, with thousands of episodes aired? I was afraid of getting myself into something deep, dense, voluminous and possibly repetitive, impossible to get back out of.The very simple yet belated answer was, of course, by accident.On one of those sleepless nights, flipping channels, I saw astronauts in a Victorian library, and was immediately intrigued by the weird homage to Kubrick. Before the commercial break, I was treated to electronic ghosts and invisible floating piranhas.Then this absolute beauty comes up, I paraphrase - "You've been living in a computer simulation, your physical body is elsewhere" - "But I've been dieting"Bleak, subtle and sophisticated humor? Check, and count me in.As it turned out, I had stumbled into the middle of a Sy-Fy Channel short marathon of Doctor Who. I resisted going to sleep until the damn thing ended five or six episodes later, at ten in the morning.What wildly imaginative premises, what a high-quality level of writing, what a gem this is! There is serious brain-power at work here, courtesy of the BBC yet again, on a continuing heroic mission to sacrifice short-term profit for long-term legacy. As evidence, I present "Monty Python's Flying Circus", "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy", "The Singing Detective", "Brideshead Revisited".From what little I've seen in half of a short marathon, Doctor Who deserves a ten out of ten.


                
I cannot believe it's been back on our screens for ten years, it seems like only yesterday the show returned with Rose.What I've loved so much about interacting with people on IMDb is that no series seems to split opinion more then Doctor Who, fundamentally we all love it, it's why we tune in each week to see what's on offer.We've experienced highs and lows and will no doubt continue along the same vein for many years to come.Each Doctor has offered something, some perhaps more then others. Same for its producers, there are people that have loved and loathed both Moffat and Davies, both have given us some excellent and not so excellent episodes.The format and premise of the show remains its key strength, he can literally go anywhere and do anything, most shows are faced with multiple constraints, that isn't the case here, the possibilities are endless.We've had episodes that are widely loved, some of my own favourites include Blink, Silence in the Library/Forest of the Dead and Vincent and the Doctor. Others have positively split opinion, Love and Monsters is a good idea, personally it's one I enjoy. I can appreciate an attempt at doing something different, it's a show that could become tiresome if it became to formulaic.I like the format of the two part serial, it allows a greater character development, sometimes with the single episode there's sometimes a feeling that some characters are a little shy of screen time.They have been guilty of using some of the Doctor's foes too often, the Daleks for example, they've popped up a few times too many, once they were the adversary I desperately wanted to see, not it's a feeling of indifference. Long may it continue!! I couldn't contemplate Christmas Day without my hour of Who, Baileys and Ferrero Rocher.Great big 10/10


                
I remember being so excited on Saturday nights when I was a kid, waiting for Dr. Who. I thought it was the best show ever made. Then, I grew up, Dr. Who went off the air, and no one I knew had ever heard of it. Then I found out there was going to be a new series. I was a little nervous about it. Was it going to live up to the expectations I had carried around since I was little? Would they screw it up? Would the Dr. suck? Would his assistant suck? Would they create a more intimate relationship with the Dr. and his assistant? YES, NO, NO, NO, NO!!! This show is wonderful!! I love the new Dr. I love his assistant. I love the show. And I find myself excited on Friday nights now, waiting for the "new" episode. I'm just now seeing 2005 episodes, as I live in the States, so I'm a little behind the rest of you. I hope the next Dr. is as great as this one!


                
You looking for Sci-Fi? It's got it. Action? It's got it. Drama? That too! This show has got it all. With tastes of Horror, Romance, Mystery, even some Western. It really depends on the episode. While not episode is perfect, every episode can be appreciated. While the main idea of the show doesn't change, the show has experimented in many ways. The show is ever changing, with the main cast being swapped every few years. With such a big history, there's a reason the show still stands strong to this day. The episodes give nods to the past, and hints to the future. With this capability, it truly has an infinite potential. This show truly has affected my life in ways I'd never believed. I went into the show believing it to be a cliché, boring Sci-Fi (I'd never been a fan of the genre), but after just a few episodes I was absolutely hooked. With each new main character added, you quickly learn to love them, despite your disbelief in the ability to after such a heartbreaking exit, which I'll get into later. The characters are written brilliantly, and by the end there run, you always say that the next person coming along will never be as good. Every time, your proved wrong. While everyone has their favorites, each Companion and Doctor have moments to shine, and are all brilliant in their own way. This show truly is something special. I'll support this show for decades, and I give it a very easy 10/10.


                
Doctor Who just works. However you watch it, as a fan or casual viewer, there is something there for you; and if there's not, well, try a different era. It helps that it's got 52 years currently under its belt, and so there is and has been for a long time, an element of nostalgia to the show-- recurring villains, references, companions or places/planets that get revisited just to please the people who've been watching long enough. But that's not all there is to it: because every year, there's some kind of hidden gem of an episode that's a shining example of great television, along with the scary, funny, tense episodes we have all come to expect from this show. One of its strongest merits is its constant adaptability. There are different writers almost every week, different companions every other series, different doctors, different locations, directors, genres, threats and ideas. For every one abysmal episode (and there are a few of them), there are some absolutely stunning ones too. I'd recommend Heaven Sent, Bad Wolf/Parting of the Ways, The Empty Child/The Doctor Dances, Blink, The Pandorica Opens, A Good Man Goes to War, Asylum of the Daleks, Flatline, and The Day of the Doctor. It's a show that never dies. Of course, it will get cancelled at some point, maybe, just as it did before; and then it will live on. It will get picked up again. TV just isn't the same without it. If you're new, it's best to start with some classic stand-alone stories to get into them. Maybe try a few from each series to work out who your favourite Doctor/companion combination are. 'Smith and Jones' is a lovely episode to start with (it's where I started)--the season 3 opener, with a new, companion, a reintroduction to the Tenth Doctor, and a wholly entertaining episode. Other great places to start are Rose (although there's a lot of catching up to do), The Eleventh Hour (a completely brand new start-- perfect if you know absolutely nothing about anything in the show), and Deep Breath (an introduction to the current Doctor, with a few entertaining characters who have already been in the show before). Generally, starting with a Series 1-4 episode will be much easier, with simpler stories, a new companion/Doctor each series, and some enjoyable, if upsetting, season finales. Series 6-9 are harder to start at, with characters carried over from previous seasons, and plot lines and mysteries also carried on with. The individual episodes within the seasons, however, need no foreknowledge at all: for Season 6, be sure to try The Doctor's Wife and The Girl Who Waited; Season 7, try Asylum of the Daleks, Dinosaurs on a Spaceship and The Bells of St John; Season 8, try Flatline, Listen, or Kill the Moon; and Season 9, try The Girl Who Died/The Woman Who Lived, The Zygon Invasion/Inversion; and Heaven Sent (which is absolutely incredible). It's a lot of episodes, which for some seems too much. For me, however, it's never enough.


                
I have been a fan of this series since almost the beginning of Series 2; my first proper episode was School Reunion, however I had seen the last 20 minutes of Dalek back in 2005, but I didn't remember to tune back in the next week! Ever since then, I've pretty much caught every episode on its broadcast, except for the odd one where I've been away or indisposed. In 2007, I decided to take a look at the Classic Series - my first story was Genesis of the Daleks, and I've loved it ever since. Slowly, I've collected and watched almost every Classic episode available, following the "junking" back in the 60s, and I've come to love Doctor Who as part of my life, like a dog or a cat, something I can be with from time to time and have a smile on my face. In 2008, I even started scouring for Big Finish Audios, novels and comics, and I'm still collecting them to this day. By now, of course, we've had thirty-four series with the "New Who" batch included, twelve Doctors (thirteen with Hurt), 812 episodes, 252 stories and 50 years of history. In many ways, with the extreme amount of miscellany as part of the franchise, you could compare Doctor Who very nearly to the Star Wars franchise, and has its own culture and everything.What really gives this television show ten stars though is the continuity. This may be hard to explain, because not many people usually comment on it. What I mean by continuity is that every single episode of Doctor Who is linked in some way or another by threads of storyline that cross the 50 years it has been in existence! Whether it's a returning nemesis, an item of clothing or a passing reference, there's always something to look out for and shout "Ooh, another easter egg for the Whovians!"A simple example for you was back in the 5th series, following Amy and Rory's wedding, the Eleventh Doctor has just received a phone call in the TARDIS from someone claiming there is an Egyptian goddess loose on the Orient Express. Whilst there are a few slight changes to the context, which could also have been a ploy, three series later, the Twelfth Doctor finally replies by visiting the Orient Express and discovers that it was a computerized identity known as Gus who had brought him there in the first place. It's simple, yet in my mind, it allows me a pause of nostalgia as I think back to how I watched the 5th series.The greatest example I've ever seen was again quite recent. In Moffat's polarising episode, Listen, Clara tells the young Doctor what she heard from his twelfth incarnation. One part of the speech springs to mind, however, "Fear makes companions of us all". Not many will have perhaps realised, but this was in reference to what the First Doctor once said to Barbara Wright in the Cave of Skulls, in the third ever episode of the television show. In a very sublime way, the series is never far away from reminding us about the past.As a recommendation, I would give this show an open-mind, especially the "New Series", starting 2005. Some episodes are superb, but others drop to the very bottom of the mediocre barrel. What I love about it though is its timeless story, consistently great acting and the fact that the next series could bring absolutely anything to the table - there's just no way of predicting what is to come!Top 10 Doctor Who Stories: 1. Silence in the Library/Forest of the Dead (10th Doctor - 2008) 2. Human Nature/The Family of Blood (10th Doctor - 2007) 3. A Good Man Goes to War (11th Doctor - 2011) 4. Genesis of the Daleks (4th Doctor - 1975) 5. The Talons of Weng-Chiang (4th Doctor - 1977) 6. Blink (10th Doctor - 2007) 7. The Impossible Planet/The Satan Pit (10th Doctor - 2006) 8. Dark Water/Death in Heaven (12th Doctor - 2014) 9. The Day of the Doctor (10th/11th Doctor - 2013) 10. Doctor Who and the Silurians (3rd Doctor - 1970)P.S. IMDb should join both this page and the Classic Series; it's the same bloody show!
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that that posting this review is such a pleasure. Never have I had the experience of fun and emotions than I have watching this series. I truly feel that this is a show that anyone and everyone can relate to, no matter the generation, age, or background.I have to start with how I was introduced to the series. It was a Monday night and I was watching wrestling (of course, right? I mean, what else is on on a Monday night for a then-male bachelor?!). Around 9 PM, I got a phone call from my best friend, Hannah, who said, "Hey, dude! You need to turn it to BBC America, now!" My response? "Why? I'm not British..." She proceeded to tell me of this great series called "Doctor Who" and I was about to protest when I thought, "What the hell? Why not?"As soon as I tuned in, I loved it. The episode I watched starred the 10th Doctor, David Tennant, and I loved how I was on the edge of my seat at one moment and laughing the next. That's what started my voyage to becoming a Whovian.The series began in 1963 on BBC and is centered around a character simply known as the Doctor, who is the last Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey. He travels through the far reaches of time and space in a time machine called the TARDIS (Time and Relative Dimension in Space), which is stuck in the disguise of a 1950s blue police box. With the aid of time-traveling companions, he battles with different robotic and organic adversaries in the attempt to save other planets from suffering the same fate as Gallifrey. In addition, instead of dying per se, he regenerates into a different outer appearance. There has been 12 reincarnations of the Doctor, who is currently played by Peter Capaldi.I absolutely love the entire series, even those in the "Classic Who" series (pre-2005). The character has the ability to speak to many people in different ways. I think that is why there are so many people who like different reincarnations of the Doctor. My favorite reincarnation is the 10th Doctor, masterfully played by David Tennant ("Fright Night," "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire"), because he has a sense of humor but also has a maniacal dark side.The best thing that I love about it is that is has action, suspense, drama, and comedy that can be seen even by children. My oldest son absolutely loves the Doctor (who started with the 4th Doctor, Tom Baker). Even though it is indeed geared toward children, there is a tremendous fan base made up of all ages. It's a great show with a great story line that can show children that even if you have the power to go through time, you still don't have everything. The Doctor shows the audience that he still longs for acceptance, if not from his companions but from himself as well. He must fight his internal demons that threaten to crush him as much as his adversaries.If you're looking for a family-friendly fun ride that you can continuously watch, particularly if you're a fan of science-fiction and/or fantasy, please consider "Doctor Who." By the end, I promise that you'll be saying the famous line from the 10th Doctor: "Allons- y!"
In all honesty, all I can say about Doctor Who is positive. It might have inconsistencies here and there, but as a franchise it's the best television series ever produced. Doctor Who is thrilling, action packed, emotional, funny, and dramatic- and it does this in a way that makes it fun to watch while not being too heavy like The Walking Dead or Breaking Bad. The main reason why Doctor Who is my favorite show is because it encapsulates everything good and bad about humanity to create a feel good series. It's plain old fun, yet its scary, surprisingly emotional, and thought provoking. The acting, the music, and the script writing as a whole are phenomenal, especially as the show progresses. I strongly recommend that if you do want to watch, start from Series 1 in 2005. Starting from Series 5 is a quicker way to catch up to the upcoming series, as the show gets a minor reboot and a much bigger budget, but in my opinion Series 1 does a much better job at introducing the show: the mystery it builds is fantastic, the arcs are phenomenal, and the characters are incredibly fleshed out. The earlier series look dated, but it's really the characters and the story that hit home. I have loved every series I have seen, especially Series 1, 3, 4, and 9. I think the best aspect of the show is how it has an overlying story that develops across each series and every episode, but most episodes have enough to be self contained stories themselves. I highly recommend that everyone watch Doctor Who, especially with their families. It has themes that adults will love, and enough adventure, action and silliness for the kids as well. While Doctor Who isn't perfect, its as close to perfection as any series I have ever seen.


                
I live in Germany and Doctor Who is not as Popluar as in the Uk. This may by the Reason why I've discover this SCIFI Marvel so late. Late means in this case at the age of 32. I'm a huge SCIFI fan and STAR TREK and STAR WARS practically raised me. But back to DOCTOR WHO. It was This Time when you have nothing left to watch, and netflix just started in Germany. So I've think lets give it a try. It Takes just a few Seconds of the First Episode Rose(Doctor Who 2005) and I became a Whovian. It is the best TV Show I've seen ever!!! Amazing Script, Actor, Heart and this incredible British Style. I hope this Show runs for ever.10 out of 10 SCIFI at his Best


                
I actually like the new doctor, just because the actress is good in it. I just don't like the fact that there's no depth in it. The companions don't ask questions about the doctor, who is she, where she comes from, how old is she, why does she have two hearts and so on. They just accepted the fact that she is an 'alien', someone different. I also don't like that there are 3 companions and they can't form a deep relationship with the doctor, it feels shallow. I also think that they could have used the doctor better, now that a doctor is a she, and they could have elaborated more about how different the doctor feels now that she is a woman.
The actors are great, but the writers did a poor job.


                
When it was announced in 1995 that 'Dr.Who' was going to return as an made-for-television movie co-produced by the B.B.C. and Universal T.V., Paul Mount wrote an article for 'Starburst' magazine offering advice to incoming producer Philip Segal. Amongst other things he recommended that the new film not pander to long-term fans by making unnecessary continuity references to past adventures. Alas the film, though it had its good points ( McGann was an incredible Doctor ), did not work as a starting point for a new series. The 'kisses to the past' crippled its chances of finding a new audience. However, Mount's sensible advice seems to have been more closely heeded by Segal's successors, Russell T.Davies, Julie Gardner and Mal Young. 2005 will surely go down in 'Dr.Who' history as its most incredible year. Everything worked; a first-rate new Doctor ( Christopher Eccleston ) and companion ( Billie Piper ), big audiences ( 10 million for the first episode and Christmas special ), major awards, critical acclaim and those idiots who spent years giggling at the Daleks' seeming inability to negotiate stairs were silenced forever. But then Eccleston dropped a bombshell, quitting after just one series. It looked like the honeymoon was over. But the public appears to have embraced his successor, the excellent David Tennant. On top of this the show boasts fine S.F.X., like the spaceship crashing into 'Big Ben' in 'Aliens Of London' and superb story lines such as 'Tooth & Claw', 'Army Of Ghosts/Doomsday'. Davies established a 'tone' for each episode, writing the lighter ones himself while farming out the more serious ones to Paul Cornell and Steven Moffat. Judging from some of the other comments here it seems some people are having problems adjusting to the new look of the show, levelling at Davies the venom once reserved for the late John Nathan-Turner. I would ask them to give it a chance. The original show, after all, also produced more than its fair share of rubbish. The new 'Dr.Who' is basically the same as the old, only updated for the 21st century. Had the wobbly sets, Dudley Simpson music and fake monster costumes been retained, it would have been laughed off the air. Some fans have accused Davies of 'ruining' the show. They need to remember that there was no show for sixteen years until he came along. Objections to the new Cybermen put me in mind of an article from the now-defunct 'Dr.Who Bulletin' titled ''80's Cybermen Just Aren't Scary'. So it goes.
When I was a child my Saturday afternoon viewing after cartoons and before my mother kicked me out of the house to get some fresh air went like this 12pm Star Trek 1pm The Prisoner 2pm 2 episodes of Doctor Who(Tom Baker)It was all on CBC. I became an angst ridden teenager who became more interested in girls than sci fi so I put all that stuff on the shelf. Fast forward to 2005 and I heard that The Doctor was coming back with one of my favourite actors Christopher Eccelston from Shallow Grave and since I re-embraced my latent geekdom I decided to give it a shot and never looked back. Usually I don't really care for revamps of classic shows as they tend to be a pale shadow of what they once were. There are some exceptions of course, Star Trek TNG, DS9 and Battlestar Gallactica come to mind and Doctor Who. The Doctor has quickly risen to be my Favourite TV show right now not just sci fi.As much as I liked Chris and was disappointed that he only had the one season David Tenet has quickly become my favourite Doctor dare I say he is even better than Tom(who I will always love)Gone is the half hour format with the cliff hangers in favour of complete hour long shows.The special effects look great and the show can be immensely funny or very tragic.New aliens like the Ood and old favs like the Daleks with the reintroduction of The Master I could go on for hours. If you haven't seen it yet or decided to boycott it because of the horrible way the original series ended do yourself a favour and check it out it's the best show on TV


                
For most of my life I wouldn't be caught dead watching this show. I thought it was for babies and nerds, and anyway if I had a genre it was classic horror, not SF. But after a brief but violent infatuation with David Walliams made me watch the episode "The God Complex," which just happens to be a really good horror tale, I started brushing up on my BBC Wales-era DW (Doctor Who not David Walliams.) This show has such an irresistible concept that it's possible to be a fan just of the idea of it, and such a vast backlist of episodes at this point that it would take a very dedicated DW geek to go back and watch them all, let alone investigate all the ancillary audio recordings, comic books, novels et al. I think this is one of the reasons for the phenomenon of fans having "their Doctor." In order to not be overwhelmed most of us have to be cafeteria Whovians and pick and choose what eras and episodes appeal to us most and focus on them.Since I came into the show during the Smith era, his sweet-natured dancing pixie Doctor has been imprinted on me as what the Doctor should be like, though I've had no problem warming up to Peter Capaldi's Doctor (he is arguably the most gifted actor who's ever taken on the role, in the twenty-first century anyway.) Christopher Eccleston was fine but sort of fades into the background compared to the far more showy Doctors that followed him. I like David Tennant a lot but for some reason I really don't care for his approach to the Doctor, which he plays like a children's show entertainer. Which is perfectly valid given that "Doctor Who" is supposed to be a kids' show. In contrast Capaldi seems to me to be following the tradition of actors like Boris Karloff and Peter Cushing, who approached their roles in genre TV and films with a sincerity of purpose that was enchanting in its own way.


                
Back in 1963, a low budget science fiction television series was launched primarily aimed at educating children during Saturday teatimes, called Doctor Who. Slipping under the radar due in no small part to the assassination of President Kennedy, the show suddenly became the hottest property on British television just six weeks into its run with the introduction of The Daleks. The Daleks propelled the show into another stratosphere and became a merchandising phenomenon in the 1960s, which guaranteed the series a shelf life much longer than was originally planned or anticipated. The blank canvas doesn't come much bigger - any episode could be set at any time, in any world, anywhere. And add to that the genius of the central character being able to regenerate without the need to ruin audience expectation, and you had television gold. And so began an amazing run of 26 years with the Doctor portrayed by seven different actors, before the wheels began falling off. The decline can be traced back to the late 1980s. Tom Baker, largely considered by many fans to be the ultimate Doctor (before the emergence of David Tenant who now has a claim to the throne) ended his hugely successful run in 1981, and youthful producer John Nathan-Turner replaced him with popular TV actor Peter Davison. Whilst Davison's era was highly competent and successful, both in terms of ratings and quality, it was Turner's decision to install Colin Baker in 1984 that was the beginning of the end. Baker's crass and incredibly ill-judged portrayal alienated viewers and as ratings fell, it was no surprise that then-BBC chief Michael Grade gave the show a deliberate 18 month rest. Sylvester McCoy was then handed the role, and whilst his tenure is regularly derided by fans, he was harshly treated. His realignment of the part was excellent, but by now the show had degenerated into almost pantomime type farce. Turner was obsessed with attracting big name guest stars to the show - witness the likes of Ken Dodd, Richard Briers and Sheila Hancock, but was accused of taking his eye off the ball as the story lines and dialogue descended into cringing embarrassment. We were no longer hiding behind sofas because of the terror of the aliens - we were hiding from the show itself. The show's darkest hour was when McCoy's Doctor was faced with an enemy in The Happiness Patrol called the Kandy Man who just happened to resemble a giant liquorish allsort. And it seemed that when the show was finally axed a year later in 1989, it would be forever confined to the memories of TV yesteryear. An abortive effort to revive the show in 1996 using a TV movie with Paul McGann only served to remind us that the show was best left on the shelf.But then 2005 happened and Russell T Davies, one of the most prolific and thought provoking writers in television, revived the series with highly acclaimed actor Christopher Eccleston in the main role, and, as a stroke of pure genius, the bewitchingly alluring Billie Piper as his assistant. Piper was the conduit between generations - she still had a teen following from her earlier career as a successfully precocious pop star, and also attracted more than a passing interest from older (male)viewers as she was also something of a pin-up girl favourite, often posing for lads mags of the age. But Davies also used his massive budget to transform Doctor Who. Gone were the cardboard sets and sticky-back plastic alien costumes. In came proper special effects and even a revamped orchestral theme tune. But the strength was in the scripts. In Fathers Day, for example, Piper goes back in time to see her father who died when she was a small child. This was high octane emotional drama, and was difficult to reconcile with the often comedic episodes of the past decades. And then came David Tenant. As Tenant's performances got better, the scripts pushed him harder, and he quickly developed a cult following that took the show right back to the top of the ratings, and even created spin off shows like Torchwood and The Aventures of Sarah Jane Smith. Countless episodes followed which were suddenly the envy of producers everywhere - Doctor Who was streets ahead of everything else on television and remains so today.
I have not seen the old doctor who series (doctor 1-8), but watched the whole of doctor who season 1-11 (doctor 9-13). Doctor Who is basically what it would be like if Sherlock Holmes was a time traveling alien who can resurrect himself.This series is not for everyone because it gradually changes its "style" from being action into more fun detective work and back again. The first and second seasons is forgettable but enjoyable for people unfamiliar with the series, season 3-4 and some of season 8 is my personal favorites because it refers to historical story's, myths and beliefs in a really nice way.If I was just starting to watch this series I would eater start from season 1, 3 or 11. Season 11 is friendly for new watchers of the show, it explains some concepts again for people jumping into the show while still being fun and new for long time watchers.


                
I seriously enjoy Dr Who.Seriously, don't just dismiss me as a "sci-fi person", because I'm not normally. I caught on because a friend got me hooked when they started watching it. It is actually really funny, and more often than not, it's fast-paced. All of my family watch it pretty much and that's a miracle.Christopher Ecclestion is pretty good, but David Tennant is brilliant. I think it's because he made the Doctor so manic and it's just nice to have that little bit of eccentricity in a TV character again.I don't know what it is about it, but everything manages to work like clockwork. All I'm going to say is just try it. One episode (probably best if you don't pick the second half of a two-parter, though).


                
So one night back in 05/06 I was bored and looking on the TV Guide for something interesting. I saw on the SciFi channel they listed Doctor Who. I knew a little about it, and was interested in catching an old scifi show I'd never seen before.I tuned in a few minutes early and they ran some TV spots. The only Dr Who I'd ever heard of then had curly hair and a scarf - when I saw the previews advertising the "series premier" and this guy running around in black with a leather coat on, I was disappointed. I'd seen how old scifi shows get revived - they try to justify all the cheesiness of the old show, add long story arcs about politics, have the characters constantly moping and wash out all the color. It already happened to Galactica and Star Trek.I decide to tune in anyway, to say that I did. The theme music was catchy - it sounded like it was ripped out of the 60s, so I was satisfied so far. The Doctor shows up - immediately starting a long rant while running with a bomb from the bad guys. Then I saw the bad guys - MANNEQUINS. Mannequins who replace the sidekick's boyfriend with a plastic double. By this point I'm rolling on the floor, laughing and having fun. The next hour they showed Episode 2 - it's the year 5000000000, the Earth's dying, historians call a 50s-style jukebox "an iPod", and the last human in the universe is a stretched-out piece of skin with a brain in a jar. Can you tell I love the show at this point? The reason Dr. Who rises above other modern scifi shows is its reverence to the campy, cheesy show it spawned from. They're not afraid to have colorful, plastic-looking aliens, and the only difference with the returning aliens is the higher-budget costumes/makeup. They don't need to be bogged down in baggage from the real world - every week is just an excuse for the Doctor to romp around in a new place/time and meet new aliens.I can tell you, years later I found the Scifi channel advertising a new Flash Gordon series. I figured the source material's a lot like Dr Who, they're just taking a wing from Who's revival for an American scifi hero. When I saw Ming the Merciless as a well-kept politician in a business suit, I knew the show was EXACTLY what I expected New Who to be before I saw it.Scifi fans, take note: you DON'T have to be ashamed if your franchise of choice is cheesy. It doesn't have to be realistic, it doesn't have to be reimagined, it doesn't need a long chain of relationship issues and political strife - it just has to take you on a colorful adventure for 45 minutes at a time.


                
I was never a fun of the original show and I didn't think that I would like this version, but after the first few episodes I was hooked. This is the BBC trying to challenge American programs like Lost and Buffy the Vampire Slayer for cinematic like quality and a vast story arc. The other problem is that the BBC spread a lot of money on Doctor Who and thereby forces them to make some cheap rubbish problem, but this is an issue about the funding of the BBC is a different issue.Doctor Who has had two good actors playing the title role, Christopher Eccleston and David Tennant. I think Eccleston is the better actor and is very good at playing the Doctor as a tortured character, but Tennant is the better Doctor overall. Billie Piper and Freema Agyeman were both good and I did fear Catherine Tate would ruin Doctor Who, but she has been alright in the role as Donna Noble. The show is well written and there is a story arc to it and recurring themes. The show has action, lots of science, can be humorous and little hearted and other times dark and very scary. It can also be psychological and sociological in its approach. The show looks at the past and the future and has a wide scoop for plots. I personally enjoy it when the Daleks are in the program and I really hope Davros makes a come back in the show. The show can be cheesy and hammy sometimes, but I can live with that and that was the spirit of the old show. The CGI can be very impressive, such as in the episode 'The Impossible Planet', but can also be weak, but that is a problem that shows like Lost suffer because the budget is spread more thinly.Russell T. Davies has just said that he is leaving the show, which is a shame because he was the reason why Doctor Who was such a success, but I hope that the quality of the show isn't affected and good writers are brought in.Doctor Who is a Great British invention and is worth watching. As I said I love it when there are Daleks involved.


                
My review only intends to be a global one about all the new series, from 2005. I did not watch yet the original series from the sixties but I started with the new one. Episode by episode, I was converted into a unconditional fan. You can found emotion, fun, humor, suspense, adorable punchlines, unforgettable characters other than the Doctors, delightful Britishness and much more. By the other hand, the stories are simply good sometimes and excellent more frequently. You can enjoy the very different personalities of each Doctor. I was a previous fan of Christopher Eccleston and David Tennant so their high performances was what I expected. But about Matt Smith?. He is a real discovery. You must see him.


                
Looking back at "heaven sent" I notice a lot in common with narrative wonders of the "Who" universe like "midnight" and "blink": none of them showcase the thrill of the doctor's adventure but rater the more dark and intriguing tales of the doctors's universe. From the beginning we are treated with Capaldi's bone-chilling tale, about a creature that although slowly goes, "it"; never stops. It's a brilliant display of psychological terror and perfectly sets the tone for the 54-minuete run.Heaven sent makes clever use of dim lighting and cinematography, it portrays or rather, makes the grim and mournful tone of the episode, following the events from face the raven. The theme of the episode is nothing short of a masterpiece, it makes you feel goosebumps every time you hear the mellow tune play and after the credits roll on at the end, you just want to hear it again.Like other titles mentioned above, heaven sent is an intriguing tale, you never know were its going to go and is filled with twists and turns you never saw coming. Its sublime directing by Talaly is only topped by Moffats clever monologue and witty lines, delivered with utter expression by Peter Capaldi.Although Heaven sent is a 2 in a 3 part episode, it leaves nothing to be desired after a genius ending and clever plot twist at the end which is too good to spoil in the spot. Heaven sent is a slow pacer but is just as entertaining as an adrenaline filled thriller.


                
My first experiences of Doctor Who, was reading some of the books based on the classic episodes, due to my mother's influence.When I heard that the classic series was going to be repeated on Australia's ABC station, I was really excited. I watched as many of them as I could, loving the stories and acting, and wishing that the special effects could be a little better.Then I heard about the TV movie, and that was brilliant.After that, the 2005 revival, which I tuned in for, with great expectations. Not only did the show meet expectations, it surpassed them! I was a little unsure of Christopher Eccleston's Doctor at first, but over the series, he really grew on me. Billie Piper was terrific as Rose Tyler, and so were Camille Codurie as Jackie Tyler, and Noel Clarke as Mickey Smith.The second series came, with a new doctor, and again I was a little unsure, but by the start of series three, David Tennant had become my favourite Doctor of all ten.Series three had Freema Agyeman as Martha Jones to fill the gap left by Rose, and I thought that Martha was a brilliant companion for the Doctor, providing a very down-to-earth attitude. The return of the Master (Derek Jacobi/John Simm) was a great thing for the series and made the series final three-parter just that much better.Series four saw the return of Donna Noble (portrayed by Catherine Tate from "The Runaway Bride") who was a very strong-willed character. My favourite secondary character in this series was Donna's grandfather Wilfred Mott (portrayed by Bernard Cribbins), who was just a fantastic character.All in all, I can't wait for the "The Next Doctor" and the series of four specials over 2009. I just hope that the new Doctor starting in series five will be a worthy replacement for David Tennant.As many thumbs up as I can to the BBC, and Russell T. Davies for this Fantastically Brilliant revival of a cult classic!!


                
First let me say, I have been a lifelong Dr. Who fan!!! I can't remember where I was when I saw my first episode, but it was back in the 70's on Public Television (here in the US), and I was just a kid. The fourth Doctor was the star, and from that point, I was hooked! So, just what is so great about it??? The entertainment value is phenomenal, the special effects are cheesy; yet timeless, and the drama draws a person in with its cleverness and wit. What's not to like?!? Sometimes the Doctor is a clumsy bumbling fool, and others he is a remarkable genius, but he always gets through to the end.Dr. Who is fantastically entertaining because you (along with the Doctor) end up in places you never thought plausible, and you manage to get out of impossibly sticky situations when no one else could, but what I probably like most about Dr. Who is how powerfully it stimulates a person's imagination! When I watch Dr. Who, I recognize that anything is possible! These creative ideas portrayed within are far from exaggeration -- they *could* exist, and it makes me realize the sky's the limit.As college students some years back, we used to jumpstart ourselves off of that factor! My roommates and I would watch the Doctor, and then we'd brainstorm about our class projects (or other topics). You could literally feel your mind brimming with brilliant ideas, and we came up with some doozies! (I'm sure we improved a grade or two as well.) I've liked some doctors better than others... in many ways the fourth doctor (Tom Baker) is still my favorite, but this new series (2005 and beyond) really has me enthralled! The additional character development is a vast improvement from the past -- I had always wanted to "know" more about the interpersonal dynamics of the time traveler and his companions, and we're finally seeing that now -- and both Christopher Eccleston and David Tennant do superb acting jobs to make the characters totally believable.All-in-all, I find Doctor Who to be wonderfully entertaining. If you like sci-fi and you've never seen an episode, then get out and view one now! You won't regret it! I highly recommend any of the series' as a starting point though you're probably better starting earlier (say, third or fourth doctor) and working forward (in time) just to get the overall history of it all.Best wishes! Let the Doctor materialize around you!


                
This is my favourite show, thanks bbc for ruining the show for me and others.


                
I first decided to watch Doctor who when it was relaunched in 2005 as my parents had kept on telling me how good it was. As I had nothing to do on that Saturday night I decided that it would not hurt to give the show a chance. After watching the debut episode of the relaunch, "Rose", I found it highly enjoyable. Two things I enjoyed the most about the show was the energy that the characters carried and the unique story line, it felt confident and was not afraid to be different. Of course after watching Episode 1 I decided to give the following few weeks a chance to see if the show continued to carry on dishing out creative and fun episodes.By the 4th episode of the new series 1 I realised to myself "this is such a fantastic show". I began to fall in love with the characters and the stories that were being executed were just brilliant. The show is simply based on ideas that the writers have which make it so unique and so creative. Eccleston was brilliant as The Doctor and brought so much energy to the show.Ecclestons departure was very sad indeed as he was my first Doctor and I felt that his chemistry towards Rose in series 1 was fantastic, however what I did not realise was the show was about to get even better. By the time Series 2 came along everything just got that whole lot better, the writers had become a lot more confident which meant all of those creative and unique story lines from series 1 suddenly got even more unique, out of this world and exciting. In my opinion the greatest part of series 2 was the episode 12 ending, it was simply just stunning! One year later series 3 was aired on our screens and this time the show no longer had Billie Piper. However this did not ruin the show what so ever. Yet again the stories got more unique and much more exciting and to me series 3 was the best New Who yet! Freema Agyeman took a while to get use to, however by episode 5 I had begun to find her character very enjoyable.Over the past 3 years I have felt that the show has continued to improve with each series. Lets just hope they can do it for a fourth year in a row. Bring on series 4! Only two days to go now!!! 9 out of 10
