I was so looking forward to a female Dr. Who. But instead we got a nothing Dr. Who. And it probably isn't the actress' fault--in fact, she's done excellent work elsewhere. It's just that the scripts are atrocious. These new episodes are unimaginative, unsurprising, and unbearably dull. Some of them feel like after-school specials. Some of them feel as though they were rejected story ideas. Some of them don't feel like anything, they're so poorly created and produced. What a disappointment: creating a female Dr. Who and then not giving her anything to work with.Such a shame. When Dr. Who has been good, it's been great. Now it's not even mediocre.


                
I just finished the 5th episode with Jodie Whitaker as the new doctor. The writing is so weak and the stories so dull and plodding that I can't blame the cast. I get that the transition to a new doctor takes some time both in terms of storytelling and character development. But there seems to be little continuity between the old and new doctor. They are technically the same person! I'm not asking her to be the same as the previous doctors. I get that they are trying to do some new things, take new paths and so some breaks with earlier seasons are necessary. But is feels like they have erased much of her past. Also, the old doctors used to have some fun. This doctor is kind of a grind. I get that the showrunner said they were going to stay closer to earth and old foes would not revisit the show much if at all, but the stories just feel juvenile and lack depth.I used to be excited to catch the next episode, but now it feels like drudgery just to get through it. Keep the cast, but something needs to be done about the writing!


                
Too many promises!
The Christmas episode ended with a big cliffhanger. And it was not solved at all. Why the Tardis is throwing out the new doctor? How does she survive the fall? All this is thrown away like Luke Skywalker throws his lightsaber.Jodie Whittaker!
She is coping David Tennant's doctor without adding anything new to the character. (Except a funny outfit.)Political Correctness!
Many storylines are filled with a teacher like lesson. Complete useless for the story, and therefore just annoying.The doctor is the companion!
Many episodes are not about the doctor. She remains only a marginal figure. The companions are often the main characters here. It also lacks a matching opponent. A villain, the doctor can prove herself as a hero. It's missing.And all that makes the show trivial and boring.


                
I have loved Doctor Who since I was a child. This season has completely broken my heart, they have destroyed the Doctor. They've taken away all the fun, fear, silliness, sadness and heartfelt moments and replaced them with dry, cardboard hallmark TV moments. The only thing saving this season is the cinematography and music. The writing is atrocious, the acting is abismal and there is no storyline. Nothing to keep you watching, wanting to know what happens next, hooking you in, making you crave more. It's just so bland and boring and trying so hard make it PC, to try to please everyone, by trying not to offend anyone that they've just broken the whole show. Jodi Whitaker is a decent Doctor... well, she would be if given a chance. I really hope they don't cancel Doctor Who, because it is such a wonderful and inspirational program, but, they tried too hard this season and just failed. They need better writing, better companions, and an overarching story for the season that keeps you hooked. Not this lame, childish force-feeding equality rubbish. Just take a chance, go back to the old Doctor Who we loved.


                
I did not watch the original series so I don't care what other people are talking about. But I do know that I just wasted time staring at the tv. I was done with this steaming pile of woke crap after the Arachnids in the UK episode.
The whole seson so far consists of a very uninteresting premise combined with horrible acting and dialogues. It's not good as an adventure, nor drama, nor comedy. This is just another fine example of a tv show going down the drain, casued by getting "woke" done by terrible writers like Chibnall. It's dead, Jim.
Three episodes in to the 'new' Doctor Who (Jodie Whittaker) and each one worse than the last. The acting is ok-ish, although the new companions don't get a lot of chance to demonstrate it, but the show is let down by some terrible writing and the need to be so Politically Correct that it can't see beyond the end of its nose.The show began it's latest decline after Jenna Coleman left Peter Capaldi. Bill and Nardol were very average companions to Capaldi's rather average Doctor - although admittedly Tennant and Smith were hard acts to follow.
Then of course the Doctor became female. Absolutely no need for it at all, and no need for all the fuss about it either and it could have worked, but poor Jodie Whittaker has nothing to work with. They writers haven't actually given her a character.Then there is today's Episode 3 - Rosa Parks. Why? Just make a documentary about her and the segregation issues in 1955 USA instead, not have a very boring episode with no jeopardy and a random unexplained bigoted time-travelling non-villain (oh how so very convenient). Then rub everyone's brains into the dust by ending with the Rosa Parks asteroid - was that all the woman was worth? A bloody asteroid!
As a history lesson about Rosa Parks and segregation it didn't work.
As an indication of the racism still prevalent in society today it didn't work.
As an episode of what has been one of the most enduring and loved sci-fi series on British telly it didn't work.
As an example of woolly thinking, abysmal characterisation, poor scriptwriting and bad TV it worked perfectly.


                
Why the heck do they go for a brilliant actress like Jodie Whittaker and then take everything that Dr Who was always about away? We don't need a politically correct loaded episode every week, we don't need a herd of companion travelers representing every single ethnicity that runs around on this planet (we do get the message - every new series seem to rub it in big-time), and we don't need lame stories that makes everyone fall asleep. What the heck was wrong with Daleks, Cybermen and Weeping Angels? Bring back The Master and bring back real Dr Who stories and make sure the season connect properly.


                
Some particularly poor writing and direction this season. Unnecessary plot devices and cheese that outstrips even the belief suspense of even this long time who fan.Jodie could have made the season great if she was given more to work with. Instead, they reduced the doctor's abilities, confidence and removed the darkness that has always lurked just below the surface. The fearce protector of the universe is MIA.Perhaps the 2019 break could see some planning and improvement.


                
Was ok until episode 3 then it got super NPC boring and the far left race bait bull started 3 of us fell asleep in this episode will give it one more chance to get off the regressive sjw poison


                
I a huge fan of when it comes to Doctor Who series and still am, But I was very disappointed when i began to watch this new series.Children under the age of 15, or even better under the age of 10 will probably will enjoy it the best, and possibly new fans who haven't seen any of the original series, But as far as fans of the original series, will find this series missing much of the charm the made the original series so great, It took David Tennant to get me to Appreciate how Much better Christoper Eccellestion was as a Doctor in the 1st season.I would only recommend this series for people who haven't seen much of the original series, people who are under 15, and EXTREMELY DIE HARD who fans, everyone else will just get a laugh and mumble curse words about Russel T. Davies screwed up one of our favorite TV shows.


                
Its sci fi Jim but not as we know it. The new series of Dr Who is pretty awful.Mediocre acting,a rushed and derivative script full of juvenile humour and some sloppy effects made this a train wreck of a TV series.I imagine those raving about it are doing so because its called Doctor Who when the saddest fact of all is that it bears little resemblance to the classic of old and has no real identity of its own.It could easily be one of dozens of generic action adventure series and that is the real loss here.Eccleston is a fine actor but was wasted in the first episode.Whether his Mancunian football hooligan catches on remains to be seen,Billie was adequate but the rest of the cast are poor with Noel Clarke singled out for worst performance.


                
Well we're on episode 4 of series 6 and so far it's the same old waste of time. A very interesting episode idea written by Neil Gaiman, yet still clogged up by the rubbish that has littered the series since R.T.D. left. Rushed episodes have resulted in little to no explanation of key plot points and a transparency of character reasoning. It's also now very clear that the show is starting to stray into Sarah Jane territory. Catering less for a family audience and pandering more to children. I was always under the impression that Sarah Jane was for the kids, Doctor Who for the family and Torchwood for adults (guess I was wrong).When Matt Smith first arrived he bought something very refreshing and interesting to the character, but recently poor character writing is destroying the time lord's image. I'm getting extremely bored of hearing the Doctor warn every evil entity off with statements like "This planet is protected" and "Run" every damn week!! It's becoming silly when earlier series showcased such fantastic episodes as The Empty Child & Blink. Let's check out The Empty Child from Series 1: A battlefield ambulance from the future crashes in war-torn London and releases un-programmed nano-genes. They find the remains of a small boy killed in an explosion and wearing a gas mask. Upon reanimating the battered body into a battle ready super-soldier the nano-genes unknowingly attach the gas-mask to his face (being unaware of how a human should look). They then continue on to repair every human they meet to fit their vision of what a human should be. In the end the Doctor presents the Nono-genes with the child's mother. They realise their mistake after scanning her DNA and return everyone to their true form. Science fiction with a well thought out plot and an interesting conclusion. Then compare this to the tripe that Doctor Who is fast becoming. The now series producer Steven Moffat wrote The Empty Child and has written most of the shining lights in every series so far. He should clearly be writing more rather than giving the go ahead to the infantile stuff of late
I'm very sorry but I cannot accept what people say about this new series of Doctor Who being a great show. I'm sure that if it had been something entirely new that wasn't called 'Doctor Who' I'm sure it would have been somewhat more appealing, but as it is I just can't accept this as Doctor Who. The original series was something very enjoyable indeed; a nice evenly balanced plot with surprises in the right places, with a bit of humour too. In fact dealing with the time in question I think that the BBC had done a great job in their special effects despite the low-budget, which I think helped to make it work because it meant they didn't go overboard and make it too flashy. In this new series nearly every single episode is like a Hollywood film; big shocks, big emotional drama and an awful lot of flashing lights and effects. In my opinion this rather makes the plot for a good drama rather uneven because if you have too many surprises and big special effects then (and I know this is an odd thing to say) you'll just make it rather boring and it'll get rather predictable. For example, it you got stuck in a traffic jam and there are horns beeping and people shouting all around you, at first it will be too much and then if nothing happens for a long time it'll just be something you get used to and you won't be bothered by it anymore. Another thing is the Doctor himself. The one played by Christopher Eccleston was possibly a little too much like a normal person than the character the Doctor was meant to have been. All the other Doctors in the original series were more like what people's idea of a scientist was only with a certain eccentricity to their personality. I do admit it appeared in some more than others but it was still there. Christopher Eccleston might have tried to portray this character when he took the part however I just don't think he ever quite managed to get that same air of mystery about him like his predecessors did. And as for David Tennant, well, I'm sorry to say that he acts far too much like his Casanova character for my liking. Though I must say I did enjoy seeing Sarah and K9 again and I think the character of Rose played by Billie Piper is quite good, but those are the only things about the show that I found really interesting. In fact thinking about it, I think even if the show had been completely new I'd still have found it a bit too much of an uneven plot.


                
I would just like to comment with regard to the New Doctor Who compared to the Old Doctor Who. I have nothing personal against the actors who star in the current edition of the show. However, I do think that Doctor Who overall only works on a low budget level. The current series is way too over the top and doesn't really have the charm of the classic series. They should have kept the essence of the program but bring it up to date instead of doing away with what made the show so wonderful and appealing in the first place. The new program is just too modern for my taste. If others enjoy the newer program then that's fine. But as an individual who grew up watching the Tom Baker edition of the series, some of the changes leave me completely cold.


                
Looking at the rebirth of the franchise in series 1 it was a bold and daring move with some well deserved payoff. However the Christmas specials, with the possible exception of the first one, have all been camp, tongue-in-cheek insults and served only to highlight the inevitable decline of a series whose main concept seems to have been set in stone right from the start of series 3; the Doctor, a now humorously gurning David Tennant, encounters a problem, a couple of singular characters portrayed by barely-known 'celebrities' (Don't get me started on Peter Kay's alien appearance!) and wanders about looking concerned and spouting gibberish for 45 minutes before flashing his sonic screwdriver in the direction of the offending item/alien/celebrity in generic 'bad guy' role. Fair play indeed to Russel T. Davis for being able to bring back this vintage franchise but it seems that it has begun to become a bit predictable. I had hoped that Series 4 would be a fresh change from the abysmally droll series 3 but episode 1 was, in my opinion, laughable. Catherine Tate was the wrong way to go and eliminates any suspense or atmosphere with her mouthy, irritating characterization and I found myself fervently hoping that there might be some way that she would not end up in this series. Stephen Moffat's scripts are highly entertaining and 'The Empty Child' was, for me, the highlight of the whole thing so far. However Davis' scripts are not as immersive or well developed as I would have expected from such an avid fanboy and despite the series being aimed at a family audience I still find his episodes to be somewhat lacking. The first two series were interesting and exciting because they were new and inventive and offered a change in pace between Christopher Eccleston and David Tennant and Billie Piper was the best companion of the three so far, discounting the fleeting appearances of extras in the Christmas specials. However series 3 was the start of the new series' decline and I sincerely hope I might be wrong about series 4 but it does not bode well, obviously there is a reason they are taking a break from the fixed pattern of series to focus on intermittent special episodes every now and then for the next couple of years. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the first 2 series, I just feel that the latest stuff is limited in atmosphere and aplomb and far too formulaic and, in most instances, predictable. Let's hope things improve as series 4 progresses and inevitably ends with a Rose tinted bang.


                
