Simple Doctor who was great up on till season 11 because season 11 is just insulting now to what Doctor who was to most of Doctor who fans love about the show so let Doctor who die and reinvent it to bring back the Doctor who we all use to love.


                
I never saw Doctor Who before (at least not in any focused way), so I was new to the concept. I have to say that the new show works very well. It's funny (it really also ought to say "Comedy" in the genre description; many plot turns are only acceptable because of their comedic value), it's well-written and it's making a meager budget go a long way. The human dimension is very strong and engaging, which is very rare in current TV shows.I've seen the first eight episodes, and #6-8 were my favorites so far. Even types of stories that are all too easy to screw up (with time-travel, saving one's dead parents and that sort of stuff) works out amazingly well here.Christopher Eccleston is a joy to watch as the witty and light-hearted though occasionally morose Doctor - if they can find a good replacement for him, I'll be quite surprised. But I'm willing to give the new guy a chance. There's little doubt, however, that the Eccleston episodes are going to go down in history as classics.The relationship between the Doctor and Rose is particularly refreshing. The Doc is much more of a father figure to her than a romantic interest, and yet there are hints of romantic innuendo between them, which however is much more emotional and human than sexual.A good show. The biggest drawback is the low budget - a show like this ought to have better special effects. And why they don't simply use some cheaper effects, I don't know. In this day and age, SFX don't have to cost a bundle - just look at the Star Wars: Revelations fan film.8 out of 10.


                
SPOILERS IN THIS JUST REVEAL WHO PLAYS THE DOCTORS! Doctor Who is great enjoyable family fun! Well it used to be.Lately the story lines have been pretty dull, disappointing and not as good as they where in the 1st and 2nd series. The 3rd series and 4th series had a range of good and okayish episodes. (Seriously whats with those random episodes that don't really have the Doctor in them, because those episodes are really crap). Then the TV specials were okay, though the last one with David Tennant was pretty good.Series 5 comes along with a New Doctor played by Matt Smith. I think he does a pretty good job at replacing David Tennant but the material he and other actors are provided with is pretty awful these days in Doctor Who.I actually love the acting in this program and think all the actors do a good job especially the three Doctors we've had so far. But the standard has gone down in the story lines in each series. I don't know maybe there running out of ideas but i'm really not enjoying Doctor Who as much as I used to.I'll still watch it, but I'm not as excited as I used to be when I saw Doctor Who in the TV times, I now tape it and when I get time I watch them. I'm glad there are spin-offs to Doctor Who, just finished watching TORCHWOOD and 'WOW' that is amazing especially series 2 and Children of Earth. The story lines are great in every episode and the characters development in the show is also great. Anyway.If you agree with what I said about Doctor Who (not TORCHWOOD) press Yes otherwise if you disagree press No. I'm open to anyone's opinion, though me personally I think the story lines keep on going down each series.


                
I was born in 1963, the year Doctor Who first aired on UK television. I'm not going to pretend I remember the original episodes with William Hartnell as I was obviously too young. I do have some memories of Patrick Troughton however and subsequently the other Doctors who followed.The re-generation of the Doctor and (obviously) the new actor has always been tricky to come to terms with but I've generally stuck with it.When Doctor Who was revived in 2005 with Christopher Eccleston it took a little while but the story-lines mostly worked and I became a "born again" Doctor Who fan. The transition to David Tennant was again difficult but the story-lines and interwoven threads were intriguing. Again, with Matt Smith we had some clever interweaving of plot threads through episode - enough to keep me hooked and applaud the writers and directors.My problem now is the change of actor and what seems to be weaker story-lines, threads and direction. I not only have to struggle with coming to terms with Peter Capaldi as the new Doctor but Clara (the Impossible Girl) has become a doe-eyed loved up teacher (what happened to the "Run you clever boy, Run" spirit?).It's not that I have anything against Peter Capaldi, I just feel he hasn't developed his character (or isn't allowed to by the story material and the directors).It's obviously all subjective but in my opinion (and that of various friends and family) Doctor Who has fallen flat with this season. Such a shame.


                
The series first interested me when Paul McGann took the role. Awesome TV movie, good story and effects. Watched a few old stories, appreciated it and took an interest. There was also the thought that after Eccleston's portrayal, the BBC wouldn't get complacent...We now have a formula for the episodes already, where a sinister threat becons, mystifies and menaces, and is then revealed to be a hard done by alien. Forgive me if the notion of an alien with Maureen Lipman's face living inside a television isn't quite scary, or inspiring. It robs people's faces, but we're in Doctor Who. Why not just devour them? Because the writers do not need to push anymore boundaries. Why? Because the BBC are happy with viewing figures. Now, about the BBC not getting complacent. It has in their hands what could be an unsettling, yet darkly comic sci-fi show which only seems to try to canonise a character who's becoming a Bond-like hero. It will soon become cheese. Indeed, these comments will be discarded for now, because the show's "doing so well". But what happens when fans old and new begin to tire of the concept that exists now. It would probably be many years before another revival of the series were possible.


                
In San Francisco there is a Gilbert and Sullivan company called "The Lamplighters". I saw their production of "The Mikado" and it was very good. Now they cant do it any more for fear of being called rascist. They are working on a PC production reset in Italy instead of Japan. Titipu is now Tiramisu, etc. A great classic of English entertainment bites the dust. Now it has happened to Dr. Who. They have decided to make it less sexist. Another classic of English enrertainment bites the dust.


                
I have to say I was a late comer to Doctor Who, though my parents had watched some of the older series and I've since seen a smattering of a few of the previous doctors before this 2005 restart. However, when I did I found I enjoyed the sometimes over the top stories and the general fun that happened. I enjoyed watching Christopher Eccleston, his final episodes were brilliant and when his time came to an end, I wondered what would David Tennant do... then like many I fell in love with David Tennant's version of the Doctor, his enthusiasm and mile-a-minute genius talk. Heck, I liked the companions, although Rose is talked about most I find Martha underrated. She was a really good, level-headed intelligent woman. And you can never forget Captain Jack! (The good ones are always taken, gay - or the Doctor). I think many would agree with me that 'Blink' was definitely a highlight of David Tennant's tenure. As was the three final episodes of the third series featuring the Master (John Simm is awesome!) So then I come to watch Matt Smith. Again, there was the same trepidation that was there when David Tennant's Doctor started and it seemed this time I was right. First off, I have to get off my chest, despite what people say, in a show that is sci-fi there is some limit to saying something is ridiculous, but River Song's story line is. There, done! I had heard so many great things but in the end it just a cringe to watch, though probably the most interesting part of the seventh series. Next, is Matt Smith, I think it must be just me, but his version of the doctor doesn't capture my imagination like the previous incarnations I've seen. As to companions, I have to say, I don't mind Rory. he's just a down to earth kind of guy trying to work stuff out (and accidentally is eliminated from reality before coming back...) Anyway, that being said, not a particular fan of Amy Pond, but each to their own. Its probably just me. Don't get me wrong, I watched the entirety of Matt's run and though I didn't particularly get excited like I did with Christopher and David. The problem was because of that I felt obligated to like it. Then there were times that because of the guest starts, etc. I felt even more obligated to watch it. In particular I recall this when Richard E. Grant was first in it (I think that was one of the Christmas specials) and the run with Mark Shepherd (Brown Coats probably did what I did and thought "Badger from Firefly, must watch!" Others may have thought of him as Crowley in Supernatural and an appearance he made as a supercharged pyromaniac on first season X-Files). Then there was when Neil Gaiman wrote 2 episodes and I thought - "awesome!" I've loved much of his written work, which I know more of than his screen work. Though that being said, I have to say that I liked the episode where the Doctor and Amy visited Van Gough. That was somewhere between fun and sad - probably much like the man himself. So overall, fun, but in the end, its comes down to the character that attracts the viewer. And that is one good thing, there is a wide diversity of characters on the show.
Before I start moaning, I just want to say that the majority of Dr. Who episodes are great and I like it. Especially the 1st series as it was so original and the chemistry between Ecceleston and Piper shined. But over time it has gradually got more stale. And I believe that's because of Dalek syndrome.The 1st series was great because we got our first taste of the exterminating gods of Dr. Who and they were terrifying and brilliant at the same time. Next series, they were back but they had company with the cybermen. To me it was a bad move. The daleks were great because they were the only villains. Now, because of the authority they have over anybody on screen, the iconic cybermen were completely shunted out of the spotlight which should have been theirs in series 2. I know that it was a grand confrontation between the two greatest enemies of Dr. Who but they could have given the cybermen a little bit of dignity.So in the next series the daleks were back, although they were back as the only villains and it was an okay episode but nothing special. Again it didn't feel as they should be their so soon after that dramatic final episode in the last series. The only blessing was they were not in the final episode.This had given me hope that they would take a short break in the next series, but no, they returned with davros as well. I concede that the episodes were great if the daleks had been absent from a series before hand but now I'm getting bored. I know they are the greatest enemies of the Doctor, and they are the most popular and marketable, but sometimes there is such a thing as "too much of a good thing."
The episode started well with solid introduction to various characters and the well handeled weaving of various plot lines. However things took a dive once the villain was introduced. He was so plain and unadventurous and while the crane scene was fun, Jodie's dialogue didn't real land for me in her final confrontation scene.
I remember watching the American movie of Doctor Who years earlier but thats about it.For those who have no idea who the Doctor is; let me just say he has become a part of British culture, just like Bond.I didn't pay attention to the first series with Eccelston but during the second season I watched the episode 'Tooth and Claw' it had a dark and grim mood. Then the episode 'The girl in the fire place' was very dark and scary; it really shows how much a good script can do. The show has some great episodes and good villains; Tennant does the role justice even though he seems at times, over-acting...But as the series goes on it seems that Russel.T.Davies is trying to make the show into something like 'Buffy'; which I happen to be a very big fan of...and Davies fails.And it seems that bits of the show are pieces of Hollywood movies...Overall this is a good show but is let down by some of the plots; and acting.
I have never been a fan of the 'Dr Who' series, but I peek in on it to see the new Doctors and their travel companions. Jodie Whittaker is very good as the Doctor. Her personification of the character is as intriguing as any I have ever seen and better than most. I do have a problem with her travel companions. The past few productions of 'Dr Who' seemed to be following a trend toward pretty female starlets-to-be as travel companion characters. Starting with Billie Piper and continuing with Freema Agyeman, Karen Gillian and Jenna Coleman, I have found the travel companions equally as entertaining to see as the Doctor. This series seemed to have abandoned that trend in favor of a team of character actors. I have no problem with the actors or their performances, but I would have gone with a young, butch, muscle bound, gung-ho, mildly dense, pretty-boy, starlet-to-be to continue that trend in reverse. What's good for the goose is good for the gander. I am sure I would have found that teaming much more amusing. But that's just me.


                
While the writing and acting is on the edge of too cheesy at times, I really enjoy the new season. I like how they mix different political episodes with classic whovian adventures. This is a step up from Capaldi who, while I still love the actor, didn't work as The Doctor and made it at times unbearable to watch.Though, I am disappointed that Doctor still isn't Ginger.


                
It did not surprise me to learn that Peter Capaldi and Pearl Mackie are moving on. I don't think they failed. I just think some plans don't work out like expected. I could why after good performances by Paul McGann, Christopher Eccleston, David Tennant, and Matt Smith that they would want to go with an older doctor for a change of pace might be a good idea. Looks like it was not the right time and maybe this is a plan to make a fresh start along with a change of show runners. From what I have read, a doctor like David Tennant is being sought so I hope it works out well. I think the worst mistake made was letting Christopher Eccleston get away. I know a sincere effort was made to get him to take part in the fiftieth anniversary and wow that would have been a fantastic show. Looks like it will take him a long time to recover from whatever it was that has made him so negative about returning. They came very close to getting him on board. It would behoove the producers to touch base with him from time to time if he will not be negative and maybe something will eventually be worked out for him to stop by from time to time. I think the ratings would go though the roof because he is a very popular doctor. They lost a serious continuity train by letting him get away. They even did a good job of wrapping up Paul McGann's doctor and transitioning him to the War Doctor and then transitioning the War Doctor to Christopher Eccleston. I wish good luck to Peter Capalti and Pearl Mackie and hope to see them stop by again in the future so I hope BBC does not burn those bridges like they did with Christopher Eccleston. I am looking forward to the next doctor and the next companion.


                
every since doctor who came back on TV in 2005 i have loved it. i thought Russell T Davies's story lines and writing was amazing and never failed to entertain me and also David Tennant along with the other actors/actress were very entertaining. but ever since the old cast and crew left and they got Matt Smith as the doctor, i haven't ever had the same excitement as i normally did watching David Tennant as the doctor.i know Matt Smith would of had a hard time following on from what some people think is the best doctor yet but i think he's trying way too hard making his acting bad in the show.i think it was seasons 5 and 6, i had no bloody idea what the story lines were. i was so confused i felt like just turning over to another channel because i was so bored and confused and if anyone thinks that i should watched every episode weekly to understand it, i did. sometimes i re- watched them the next day to try and figure out what the hell was going on.also what hell have they done to the Daleks and Cybermen? they look so stupid now and the cybermen look like some kind of faggot iron man that touch something and upgrade? no that's not how i remember them. being able to survive everything? that takes the fun out of it cause every time i see them on the show now i'll think 'oh god, here we go again, i cyberman that can't die'. i'm looking forward to the 50th year of doctor who just so David Tennant and Billie Piper come back even if it is for one episode.
Recently got into this.. There are some good episodes, some great but there are also some stinkers especially in the earlier seasons which mostly focus on the end of the world as a way of raising stakes. My favorite episodes are the more intimate ones that let character take center stage inside the wacky concepts


                
In 2005, a popular sci-fi show by the name of Doctor Who returned to televisions across Great Britain for the first time in 16 years. Just like its predecessor, the show followed the adventures of an alien Timelord by the name of The Doctor with his ship that could travel through time and space, a vehicle affectionately referred to as the TARDIS. Its chameleon circuit was still broken, giving it that familiar Police Box appearance, The Doctor could still regenerate his body, allowing new actors to take on the role every few years, and he was still in search of human companions to join him as he traveled the universe. There were differences with this revamp, the biggest being that now The Doctor was the only Timelord, the sole survivor of a war between his species and their most infamous enemy - the Daleks - small, evil aliens enclosed in a robotic exterior whose sole purpose was the genocide of all other alien races. The Doctor was played by a younger actor, the show deciding to introduce a romantic relationship between the alien and his human companion. Even though this attracted a lot of new viewers at the time, eleven years later the show is one that is hard to jump into, especially for adult viewers, who tend to expect more serious alien threats from their science fiction. Doctor Who is a show aimed at families, so it shies away from going too dark most of the time. Since brooding story lines is what I had grown to expect from science fiction, it held me back from truly enjoying the show when I initially started watching. However, as soon as I fell in love with The Doctor, I understood the craze. That is, until I reached the Eleventh Doctor. This New Who is still on today, but a change in leadership on the show has given it a much different flavor. From 2005 to 2009, the show was run by a man named Russell T. Davies. In 2010, he gave the reigns over to Steven Moffat, a man who many people are familiar with because of the popularity of his other BBC show Sherlock. There is a great difference in the style and character of the show between these two eras, and it is difficult to discuss the show's merits and faults without dissecting each portion separately. Put simply, I liked Davies' Doctor Who and not Moffat's. Russell T. Davies' era on the show had rough special effects starting out and some rather silly alien plot lines. However, Davies' control of the show also supplied a great deal of heart and character growth. Steven Moffat, on the other hand, introduced fantastic special effects and flashier plot lines with more action, but his characters lack the same development and heart as Davies'. His female characters in particular tend to fall flat. The biggest issue with Steven Moffat's Doctor Who isn't that it's bad, it's just boring. I don't care about the characters. I don't feel the need to watch further episodes, as opposed to the lightning speed with which I flew through the last few seasons of Davies' era.In 2018, Steven Moffat will be leaving Doctor Who to a man by the name of Chris Chibnall. While no one has any clue as to where he will take the show, I am extremely excited based on Chibnall's other work. His television show Broadchurch stars my favorite male and female detective duo on TV today. He perfectly depicts two broken characters caring and supporting each other during the worst time of their lives and I've grown to ship them avidly. From 2006 to 2011, Chibnall also had control over the dark and gritty Doctor Who spin off Torchwood, which managed to not only have an interesting character arc for its lead man, but for every member of the Torchwood team. Chris Chibnall has shown he has the ability to handle what Moffat can't, and I'm patiently awaiting my chance to see how he'll put his own spin on Doctor Who.
Okay, I cant argue that I loved all three of the new(er) doctors. Eg, 9, 10 and 11. I still like 12, but the show is just falling apart. When it was rebooted back in 2005, it was epic. Though it was pretty low budget, it was so cool to watch, and Christopher Eccleston done a fantastic job.Then came fan favorite David Tennant. He was probably the wildest and funniest out of them all, this was when Doctor who became one of the most popular British shows to date. After a very sad goodbye, we where introduced to my favorite Doctor. Matt Smith was introduced in 2010, and he brought a new style of the show with him. From here on out, the show consisted of brilliant story lines and narratives, and some really scary and dramatic episodes which brought tension along with it, the 11th Doctor was replaced by Peter Capeldi in 2014.Now, there isn't much wrong with Peter. But since the show had only been getting better, for it to suddenly just ditch all of the cool story lines and plots was a bit strange. But like I was saying, there isn't much wrong with Peter, he's a really good actor, and a really good Doctor, but the weak plots seem to be always watering down his acting style, and the tension of the episodes. Occasionally there is the one good episode, One of my favorites ever was in the latest series, but apart from this the show is just collapsing and seems to be carried along by terrible narratives and side characters, such as the God awful Clara. But overall, the show isn't dreadful, in fact it would be largley entertaining for a smaller audience now, which I think is what the producers where aiming for, bu tit now just fails to capture the creativity that it used to. Peter Capaldi series - 6/10Other doctor's series - 8.5/10


                
As a longtime Who fan I can say that the first to fifth series are some of the best in the entirety of it's 50+ years. I found the 9th (Christopher Eccleston) and 10th (David Tennant) Doctors to be my favorites. Both of them did incredible during their runs that sometimes I find it hard to pick who I found better.To me after the 4th series things felt different. It didn't have the same feel which made sense since the cast and crew changed completely. Matt Smith did a great job till the end and while I didn't enjoy some of his stories and arcs I still found him great.The new Doctor, Peter Capaldi, whom I've loved since The Thick of It, has done a great job playing The Doctor during series 8. Sadly a lot of the writing felt dull like 'Kill the Moon' and 'In the Forest of the Night' but there were some good episodes like 'Listen' and 'Mummy on the Orient Express'.I'm excited to see the newest 9th series soon, which I hope will be better than the 8th, but hell, even if it isn't I'll probably still be watching.Series 1-4: 9/10 Specials ('08-'10):- (1) The Next Doctor: 6.5/10 (2) Planet of the Dead: 4.5/10 (3) The Waters of Mars: 10/10 (4-5) The End of Time: 9.5/10 Series 5: 8/10 Series 6-7a: 7/10 Series 7b-8: 6.5/10Specials ('13):-(1) The Day of the Doctor: 8.5/10 + .5/10 for Tennant and spoiler cameo(2) The Time of the Doctor: 8/10


                
The job of the first paragraph in a story, or in this case, the first few minutes in a show, is to grab the audience and give them enough of a shake to make them grab tighter. It shouldn't be so strange as to give them a headache, just enough to pull you in.This pilot DIDN'T.Maybe it's because I'm an American, but I found about the first half hour of it rather convoluted and confusing. In fact, the only reason that I kept watching was because of my scifi addiction and the hope that it would get better.Guess what? It DID.Somewhere between 25 and 35 minutes in, it changed. From an overbearing, queasy cant and an annoyingly unsuspended suspense of disbelief, the quick rhythm of speech and motion smoothed out into something quite interesting. The two main characters became believable. I even sympathized with them. In short, I was pulled in to the story.Add to this twist of events the rather well-done preview of the next episode, and I was officially hooked. I have to see the rest, period. For those of you who love scifi, and are considering this show, I only have one thing to say: Stick it out to the preview.If you still aren't interested, hey, no one's forcing you to keep watching. At the very least, you'll have some concept of what on earth "Doctor Who" is. There are worse things to do with 45 minutes than widen your scifi repertoire. You know what? Just watch the damn pilot and decide for yourself.


                
I am a new viewer of Doctor WHo. A friend told me about it one day, said it was a great show.I had just now heard of Doctor Who and was interested, so I looked at their website. The first piece of Doctor Who media I've ever seen was the "Attack of the Graske" game on their website. Then, I read one of the old 4th doctor books. Then, the first episode I saw was "The Impossible Planet." Now I know about the major writer of the show's episodes and I don't like the kind of stuff he does. For one thing it isn't purely original, and another, he (it?) "hints" things in the show that would definitely drop its "PG" title.Now before I knew about the writer and some of the episodes, I loved the show and its base storyline. It is thrilling and I've grown to love the characters. But, the vague and very uncommon appearances of slight profanity REALLY tick me off. Its a great show, too great to be ruined by profanity!!! An example? Cassandra taking over Rose and causing her to unzip her shirt a bit to show more cleavage (and female cleavage in general), and the Cassandra taking over the Doctor- in New Earth.A lesbian couple in Cellblock...A 'bisexual' character (Captain Jack)...The random kisses the Doctor receives...I mean, it just strikes me as odd that this show remains PG rated. Children watch it! A children's SERIES was made on it (Totally Doctor Who)! And here Russel is ruining it with profanity.All in all, its a great show, a good resurrection of the classic. Great special effects. Amazing Time-Lord plot. But I am always uncomfortable showing some episodes to my friends who have more strict parental rules on what they can and can't watch. I only wish Doctor Who were less profane.Now I myself have a lot of great episode ideas for this show that don't take place on Earth. Original ones. I only wish I was writing the episodes with David Tennant because he's my favorite Doctor, and the first Doctor, I've seen.Please! If one of you executives for BBC is reading this (and I highly doubt it), I have some great episode ideas... *hint hint*
Love it or hate it at this point in time Dr Who is very much the crown jewel of British TV. Every series is greeted with a fanfare and every Christmas special is welcomed like a distant relative. Fans old and new scream with joy as the Doctor defeats monsters with ease with his companion. Non fans merely have to accept that Who rules the waves and are reduced to sitting in a darkened room for thirteen weeks.This new series has created several magical moments while also making its fair share of errors. People love to hate Who but for those who do love it there will always be an episode of it on somewhere or a piece of merchandise for them to purchase.Christopher Eccleston, David Tennant and now Matt Smith have all taken a turn at being the Doctor with ranging degrees of luck. Tennant was very much the face of the show for a long time and was many peoples favourite but sadly Who fans are fickle and have moved onto loving Smith with alarming ease. Much like the show itself things are constantly changing. One day Who will again become a relic and fade from the schedules. Before it does though there are many more magical moments to come.


                
As a boy I remember coming home from school happy knowing Doctor Who was on TV that afternoon. I was a 70's kid and grew knowing all of the old generation of Doctors. Why did the series work? Because it stuck to a simple formula, offering up high adventure, danger and excitement, all wrapped up in a world of far fetched science fiction. Its a shame then that the new crop of Doctors have gradually come to look less and less like the pioneering space adventurers of the 70's and 80's. These days the new crop of Doctors look more and more like professors of applied science, who also fill in the for philosophy professor, who has gone on extended leave. That is to say, the reinvented series has become increasingly DULL. Far too much time is spent self examining and solving, often abstract puzzles, to be even remotely exciting. Its small wonder the series is languishing and the BBC are considering reducing its screen time. Its not the actors fault, its the result of taking boring scripts that feel, to me, like they were written by accountants and inflicting them on the viewing public. If this series is to do well again it needs to look at what made it work in the first place. Remember people, first and foremost its supposed to be fun! Seven out of ten from me.


                
The original and long-running Dr. Who television series was a triumph of imagination and, at the same time, a testament to the BBC's willingness to hold down expenses that might have been spent on sets, actors, and stylists (Tom Baker's untamed glorious hair!) in a bid to challenge Star Trek as the best sci-fi television show. This new 'Who' (2005-13) is full of the same imagination. Oddly quirky but delivering fresh ideas, interpolating its stories from featurettes on plausible space tech to 'historical' whodunits that play like a live action homage to an episode of Scooby Doo. The reboot is plagued by the old version's familiar and tiresome inability to retain a single actor as the lead, always discomfiting, but on the plus side, there is Billie Piper. Appearing as "Rose," an honest working-class girl who is teamed up with time-lord Who, Billie Piper creates the singular sci-fi character of the last 20 years who would be voted 'most desirable to be locked into a subatomic telephone booth with for an accidental eon.' That is to say, Piper's performances as Rose are nothing short of delightful, rollicking, refreshing, and assuredly post-ingenue in the backbone she supplies to the character. Like all Whos, the new Who lags at times, misfires every so often, mixes very good acting with less then good, but, as the time lords are my witness, Billie Piper is reason enough to watch every single episode one can find her in. Should she develop a taste for appearing at the sci-fi conventions, the line at Billie Piper's table will be longest.


                
