I'm guessing you have to be of a certain political bent to enjoy this, or of the opposite to hate it. I really don't care, I just think this is incredibly boring. It's only a half hour but I swear it's the longest half hour you'll spend without laughing, well to be fair there's probably one or two laughs, but a lot of dull and uninteresting characters. I can completely understand it's low ratings and how it survives on the least watched network. Of course supporters and NBC have to create research stating that "more watch than the ratings state". Yeah really. You've got to really want to support your beliefs to have to put up with this.


                
Let me start by saying that I really enjoy many, many US comedies... But this is certainly not one of them!If you have seen the office (American version) then you have already seen this show... It is identical. The problem is that Americans cannot do this type of comedy... The whole point of this type of comedy is that when you watch them you are meant to think that they are real, Parks along with the American Office are both terribly overacted and where the humour is meant to be subtle it is in your face, or worse yet it is that annoying American zaney tripe! Absolutely awful.


                
Parks & Rec is a show similar to The Office but the comedy aspect is completely missing.Having lived in both countries there are some styles of comedy that do not translate, typically British comedies are very self deprecating the characters usually people you want to hate but at the same time are so endearing (Think Bernard Black, Father Ted or Basil Fawlty).The main character in Parks & Rec is just an awkward mess on screen, the show doesn't seem to know how to poke fun at itself properly, Its an American sitcom scared of actually accepting its premise.It's one of those shows that leaves you thinking "I really don't get American humor".For a smart show that achieves where this fails watch "Arrested Development"


                
I spent money on this DVD. I wish I'd read the reviews on here beforehand. What I dislike about the office is that the characters look directly at the camera with a knowing look as if sharing in the joke with the viewer. This was okay as a plot device for the first season of the Office when it was new but it's wayyyyyyyyyyy overdone now and simply annoying. This simply feels like an extended episode of the office, and lacks in humour, writing, or character development. There is nothing fresh or inspired here, and it's not worth your time. It's painful to watch the characters just talk and talk with minimal action, nothing much happens. Also the original UK version of The Office was much better than the UK remake. So this Parks & recreations show is an imitation of an imitation. Time for new ideas, networks take chances with your TV Shows. The death of TV is well on it's way and with networks that broadcast this lowest denominator formulaic crap it's just speeding up the process.
After watching a couple of episodes I realize this is EXACTLY the same as The Office US, only without actors who are capable of making something out of nothing. The filming is exactly the same as The Office, the humor is way too predictable and lame.. The characters are cliché, and the jokes are just too easy. If there were some actors who could act, then maybe this show becomes "watchable", but since I don't see that happening, you should just avoid watching this. There is no originality in this show. I can't imagine anyone watching this.I wouldn't watch the Office, and this show is about 10 times worse than that. It's just.. well.. terrible.


                
Again, another attempt at taking a SNL style character and expanding on it beyond it's 5 minute skit lifespan.I do like the "fake" Pawnee, Indiana website they created. Borders on being realistic, until you see the picture of Amy on the sidebar. I live in Indiana and you can tell it wasn't filmed here, but who really cares about that, I know.The comedy looked forced, and I wondered if the cast and crew was asking themselves if people were going to laugh. It just didn't have any steam.Please, don't make another episode.That was just awful.


                
I want my time back!!! Worst show ever!!! This shaky camera, zoom in, zoom out crap has got to stop. This is from a 1990 Levis ad. Is the DP fresh out of Junior High? What ever happen to "Must See TV" on NBC? Thursdays from 8:oopm-10:oopm. That was TV. You had to tune in on a Thursday night. Unless of course, you had a date. Or, that was your date? You had to work hard for that time slot. Now it's just given away. Just because you know the creators of "30 Rock" and you were on SNL? And, now they use an SNL News stunt at 8:oopm before "Parks and Recreation." LOL... The Indian guy's name is, Tom Haverford (Aziz Ansari)Why not John Smith or, John Miller or, Jimmy Jimmy Joe Jack? Yes, the Office sucks too. Comedians are more intelligent when they are not pushing their far left communist Obama views on us. Save it for the far left local news. Grow up people.


                
This show is for people who never learned anything beyond high school. In this TV universe government is always good, and corporations are always horrible evil entities. It's actually really disturbing how they try to manipulate viewers political opinions with half-witted, juvenile writing. Its hard to see how anyone with half a brain can't see there is an extremely biased political agenda being flaunted. Occasionally it has something worth a laugh but whenever they touch any political issue the writers suddenly turn into children with nothing but straw-man arguments, and logical fallacies to prove their flawed philosophy, and because there is humor surrounding the disinformation, nobody seems to question the faulty logic.


                
possibly the most overrated TV series of all time. do not believe the good reviews. this show is just not funny,simple as that. it's literally one of the LEAST funny comedy shows I've ever watched and every time I ever watch another comedy show I always think straight away "this is already funnier than parks and recreation". I have watched a whole 6 seasons of this show without ever laughing once. all of the characters are very boring and basic or just annoying and terribly uninteresting, and the humour of the entire show is pretty much just made up of Ron Swanson saying a very mildly funny quote once or twice each episode which may or may not just raise a chuckle, and making pop culture references to popular movies or TV shows without actually making any jokes about them. the whole show is just filled with so many awkward, uncomfortable silences followed by pathetic attempts at humour and its incredibly boring and slow. the concept of the show is uninteresting, it's about people working on building a public park which is just a very random and weird idea. basically someone just said "hey let's make a show just like the office but they're in a parks department". it borrows far too many concepts from the office and ruins them, such as for example the idea that everyone picks on Jerry is just copied from the office where everyone picks on Toby, though it is not anywhere near as funny. it was funny in the office because Toby is such a normal and seemingly nice guy and we have no idea why Micheal hates him. with the whole concept of everyone picking on Jerry in parks and rec, all it seems to be is everyone just bullies Jerry cause he's a fat loser which is really more upsetting than it is funny. it's also filmed like a documentary just like the office except in the end it never even explained why which is just really stupid and blows off the whole point of the show. it was only ever filmed like that just to copy the office. it attempts to have heart by just randomly marrying characters out of the blue without any build up or romance and by creating very annoying "cute" couples like Leslie and ben so really it isn't very heart warming at all. only a sassy teenage girl would find this show heart warming. now here is my biggest problem with the show, I usually always puck out the good qualities in shows first before the problems so that I can enjoy it by focusing on the good qualities. the problem with this show is that I can't even pick out any good qualities, I'm never noticing any funny jokes or moments, I'm never noticing any heart felt scenes, I'm never noticing anything interesting or enjoyable about the show and the entire show feels like when you're waiting for it to start picking up. the office and Brooklyn nine nine are both hilarious shows which blow this mediocre crap out of the water and that's just a fact


                
Have seen an original comedy since 2 NBC'S Classics Chico & the Man; Sandford & Son


                
Very bad because it is lame and this review is not short stop saying that it is


                
First few seasons had decent original comedy, but then the show just got hateful and sexual. Not worth watching.


                
I know this was created by the same people who made The Office but that's no excuse for trying to make it the exact same show.I'm sure at the pitch meeting for this they were very concerned that The Office wouldn't last forever so they had to make a new one.A new Office.Then they talked about how most people who watch TV are idiots and they won't even notice that it's a total rip-off.The moronic public will praise it as comedic genius.Wish I could have been at that meeting.The casting was even more ridiculous.They got lucky with The Office when they cast a bunch of unknowns and non-comedic actors, why not just do that again?Aziz Ansari is the only person on the show who was ever funny but that was in his stand-up act.He won't make you laugh in this mess.Where they really screwed up was adding Rashida Jones to the cast.She was by far the worst character on The Office.What were they thinking?Oh yeah, they were thinking you are stupid.I think they were right.


                
