Just watch it for yourself. I was drawn in by Amy Pohler, someone I didn't really like before I saw this show, and i stayed because of the beautifully drawn characters. Because they're deep characters, they're not gonna slam you over the head with comedy. This ain't My Name Is Earl, people. The show's funny, but in a real, get to know everyone kind of way.Even though I loved it, I'd say the first season stumbled a bit, but the second season gets funnier with every episode. Try it out, I bet you'll like one character right off the bat, and if you're like me you'll end up loving them all.


                
This show is basically a cute version of The Office. If you haven't seen The Office, it is a hilarious show that is filmed like a documentary. It has a weird vibe because all of the characters seem to know that the cameras are there. They also give asides to the camera which are always funny. The asides in Parks and Recreation are funnier than those from The Office. They seem to be more of a showcase for the actors to show off their comedy, not additions to the plot. One thing that turns some people off about The Office (that is to say, what sets it apart from other shows), is that it gets incredibly and hilariously awkward. What sets Parks and Recreation apart is that it is incredibly and hilariously cute. Where The Office makes your jaw drop before you burst into laughter, Parks and Recreation gives you a warm smile before you burst into laughter. It makes it a lot of fun to watch.Another subtle difference from The Office is that aside from Jerry (Parks and Recreation's version of The Office's Toby), is that all of the characters care deeply about one another.The cast of Parks and Recreation is far better than the admittedly stellar cast of The Office. Amy Poehler lights up the screen every time she is in view. Rashida Jones has much better on screen chemistry with this cast than she ever did during her stint on The Office. This show is incredibly lucky to have Aziz Ansari before he becomes a worldwide phenomenon, because he is well on his way. Don't even get me started on how perfect Nick Offerman plays his role as the motivated slacker, libertarian boss. In the end the haters will say, "Oh they just stole The Office's idea and put it in City Hall." That is a far to shallow of a response to such a deeply funny show that stands wonderfully on its own.


                
I was lukewarm on this show throughout the first season and for the beginning of the second, but the last few episodes have made this the funniest show on air for me. The humor is not always laugh out loud, but I can watch each episode a few times and find new things that make me laugh each time. The mayor is one of the funniest characters I've ever seen on a show, and April the intern is funny even when she isn't saying anything. Some of the cameos aren't very funny, but all of the basic elements are fantastic and improving each episode. The Office seems to be (very slowly) running out of steam but this show is definitely making up for it. There's quite a few bad reviews for this show, but I can't suggest it enough. It is the opposite type of humor from My Name is Earl (which it replaced), and I consider that a very good thing.


                
There is no doubt that one of the main inspirations of this show was The Office - you will realise this in the first minute of the first episode. However, instead of trying to copy the main points of that show's success, Parks and Recreation has come up with its very own recipe. Amy Poehler is amazing as the lead actress, she plays an extremely enthusiastic city official in a department filled with bludgers and lazy bums.What sounds a little lame actually becomes very endearing very quickly: all supporting characters have great story-lines, and grow quickly with a light yet sometimes strangely moving plot. The dialogue is fantastic, every show will make you laugh out loud plenty of times, and the roughly 20 minutes of each episode are over way too quickly.I found myself re-watching the whole two seasons immediately after I had finished them for the first time, and the show holds up easily. Each character gets enough screen time to stay interesting, and very quickly, the show establishes a Simpsons-like range of in-jokes and extras who add even more depth to the story.Before you know it, you wish your own city had such a department, and you will fall in love with Amy Poehler's stellar performance. An absolute must-watch!


                
There was a lot of anticipation for Amy Poehler's new series, at least around here there was, and after eagerly tuning in to the pilot episode and every episode since then, I can honestly say that it has lived up to my expectations! Parks and Recreation has a sort of dry humor, where the really funny parts are the awkward moments between Leslie (Amy's character) and other characters. It is truly Amy's strong point, as we saw during her (too short!) run on SNL and in movies like "Blades of Glory" and "Baby Mamma". Amy absolutely steals the show, but it might be just because that's how the show has been written; the supporting cast are all strong actors, and, with the right material, could all bring in huge laughs for the show.It is obvious when watching "Parks and Recreation" that there has been a lot of effort put forth to put out a great show, and I believe they have pulled it off. The show leaves me not only laughing hysterically but also rooting for Leslie and her committee. The show is a welcome addition to my weekly TV schedule, and is worth checking out more than once.


                
There are always a few television shows that seem to "define" a genre every decade or so, and considering Parks and Recreation finished its final run several months ago, I feel it important to revisit the show and the impact it left. Many times it was spurned as "The Office Rip-Off" in its starting days, despite it being more of a brainchild of the writers than anything. It seems safe to say, that after more than seven years on the air, Parks and Recreation has carved its own spot amongst the quirky and well-loved comedies that are hard to come across today.The show stars hard-working public servant Leslie Knope (played by the amazing Amy Poehler) and a cast of humorous and memorable characters that navigate through bureaucracy and red tape in the local city government to complete projects. The most notable--and perhaps most powerful--asset of this show is its lovable and unforgettable characters, some that will leave you rolling your eyes and chuckling while others will simply make you smile in the most joyous kind of way. The cast has obvious chemistry amongst one another, and this certainly breaks through into the characters in ways that will make a viewer grow more attached to them. The humor of the show itself also sets Parks and Rec apart from other television shows. While it's apparent the first season struggled to differentiate itself from The Office's "awkward humor", Parks found its stride in the simple "cute humor", the kind that is so innocuous and dumb and simply "cute" that it becomes hard not to laugh at the bumbling antics of the Parks and Recreation branch of the city of Pawnee. The episodes are mixed with the right amount of comedy, wit, and actual drama and storytelling; each character is crafted with the perfect amount of depth, that really separates from other comedy shows that rely on cardboard characters with running jokes to spew the funny. Even in its heartfelt moments, there is always room for laughs, but it never pushes aside the rest of the characters or their development. If you find yourself immersed in Parks and Recreation, it is almost certain you will find yourself immersed with one, more, or maybe all characters.The simple genius, the style and passion this show was borne of, really marks it as a one-of-a-kind show, one that may not have had all the high ratings or prime-time slots or huge important newspaper reviews, but it became its own, and that's really what mattered in the end. After struggling in the shadow of The Office, and finding its stride in later seasons, Parks and Recreation became its own kind of wonderful recipe, one that delivered its own style of warmth and humor not found in many television shows. It may even define the style of comedy itself; after all, both Parks and The Office made famous the "mockumentary", "talking heads" sort of humor that others are sure to try and replicate. What gave Parks and Recreation a "name" per say, is the fact that the characters were so much larger-than-life, the stories so innocuous and believable, that the avid viewer can begin to believe them too, and find that this show is as heartfelt, funny, and enjoyable as I found it. 10/10


                
Once you get all the way through the series, get ready to have this show on repeat when there's nothing else to watch. One of my all-time favorite tv shows.


                
I've heard a number of people say that this show isn't funny which is not true at all. Probably the funniest show I've ever seen making something which is probably a mediocre joke and making 10x funnier with an amazing cast. None of the characters seem to be similar and all have their own personality traits. Taking somewhat funny and unrealistic subjects and mixing them with the struggles of real life politics.The characters are Leslie Knope (Amy Phoeler) a woman who loves her job and is trying to get to the top of her profession.Ron Swanson (Nick Offerman) a middle aged man who hates the government and only really cares about sports and food.Tom Haveford (Aziz Ansari) he is constantly trying to sell his weird business ideas and constantly failing.April Ludgate (Aubrey Plaza) she basically hates everything.Andy Dwyer (Chris Pratt) he is a nice and kind guy overall but is unfortunately a complete idiot.Chris Trager (Rob Lowe) he's a completely healthy always happy and nice guy, so nice infact he broke up with someone and she didn't even notice.Ben Wyatt (Adam Scott) Leslie's love interest.Ann Perkins (Rashida Jones) Leslie's friend ...
... that's LITERALLY IT.And finally the greatest character in anything ever...
... Jean Ralphio Saperstein (Ben Shwartz) I can't explain you just have to see him.I REALLY urge you to watch this show it's one of the greatest things I've ever seen!


                
I've been a big fan of Amy Poehler ever since she played Andy Richter's pigtailed, dental-retainered little sister (with the huge crush on Conan!) on Conan O'Brien's late night show. That first appearance is still the most amazing performance I've ever seen on TV. The addled but adorable Leslie Knope is the absolutely IDEAL character for Amy to play! I'm also thrilled to see Rashida Jones, another of my favorite super-talents, doing a thoroughly delicious characterization as Ann Perkins. Word was that the network was worried about the similarity to The Office. What's to worry? Two genius shows just might be better than one!!! The writing on this show is breathtakingly original and deeply enjoyable. You won't find a better cast anywhere on Earth. This is just another case of "a perfect storm" of comedy excellence on NBC -- along with The Office and 30 Rock. It's well known that the best TV comedy derives from complex, fascinating characters. Along with the creators and scribes of those other two shows, these writers are the absolute best at devising characters that are equally lovable and horrifying -- you can totally revel in their triumphs AND their tragedies!


                
I was not sure if I would like this when I started, Season 1 was a bit rough but after that I was hooked. This show was really funny and serious. After watching the finale I felt like I lost an old friend.


                
A documentary style sitcom, "Parks and Recreation" is a show about the lives of the Parks and Rec department in Pawnee, Indiana, specifically Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler) as she strides to make the most out of her position in the department. At first glance, it feels like a spin-off to "The Office" and it isn't until the premiere of the second season that the show starts to take shape with Poehler being the most lovable character on the show, Ron Swanson (Nick Offerman) becomes everyone's mood and Andy Dwyer (Chris Pratt) well, you can't hate Chris Pratt. While other characters of the show never feel left out or just side-characters as everyone gets their chance to shine during the seven season run. In my opinion,this show has some great running gags and with a rocky start but a perfect ending this show was simply awesome.


                
This show is awesome. Let me be honest, I hate most people. I work in a job where we go through so many different employees and to begin with I was optimistic and very easy going with the people that came through the vine. Years later I cant stand people and this show, in a jokingly way, but very real way shows how useless and misguided 9 out of 10 people really are. I know this show is suppose to be a satirical exercise but it's more towards reality than you think. I love all the characters on this show except Andy and April. The scenarios are interesting and the bond between the characters are great. Must see if you think society is massively flawed


                
I never saw the first few episodes which I intend to get to at some point. Got into Parks and Recreation somewhere in the middle of the first season. It has quickly become one of my favorite shows on television. Up there next to Family Guy. I never really got into Amy Poehler's humor on SNL, but Parks and Recreation showed me just how talented she really is. She is an incredible comedic actress, her timing and expression are dead on and she is sooo cute! I'm glad her talent is showcased so well on Parks and Recreation. The other actors on the show aren't too shabby either. Very talented people on this show, Nick Offerman, Paul Schneider, Aubrey Plaza, and Chris Pratt are my other favorites. And yes, it is "laugh out loud" kind of funny. It is smart humor too. Great characters, great stories. I can't wait to see how it develops.


                
This show is hilarious, amazing, and just everything you could want in a show! Humor, love, friendship, characters building, jokes, and everything else!


                
I could sit and awrite a detailed review and analyse everything, but I'm not. Why? Because that would take your precious time away reading this view, instead of using it to watch Parks and Rec.Seriously!Stop reading this and go watch it! You will NOT regret a second of it! Best show I've ever seen! Bar none!


                
Don't be fooled by the lower reviews, as they're comparing it to The Office, and have strange reasons for it not being as well done ("Americans can't do British TV"?). This show may have similar audience types as The Office, but that's where the comparisons end - the characters are entirely different archetypes; each with their own storyline, character development, unique humor, and a reason for you to care about them. EVERY character is fully flushed out, which for me, actually sets this show above and beyond The Office (which I loved by the way, but I know believe this show is better based on character development alone). Also, if you found The Office to be awkward or difficult to watch at times- this show is all funny with no discomfort.


                
Honestly, without a doubt, Parks and Rec is so fantastic I believe it needed more praise than it got. The characters are so funny and the overall tone of the show is just fun and great. It can always can sustain multiple laughs through multiple viewing times. Best television show to binge and is completely different to it's sister TV show: The Office. Although the Office came first, it tackled more of a relatable tone of the American Working life and its perks with it but Parks and Rec brought light hearted characters with fantastic character arcs and legendary comedic writing. Brilliant. Definitely recommended


                
I started Parks and Rec from a recommendation since I love the Office. I was hesitant at first because it seemed like it was almost a rip off with the whole fake-documentary style comedy where characters break the fourth wall and speak to the camera (and thus, the audience), and it does take place in a different kind of office: the Parks and Recreation department for a town called Pawnee, Indiana. But let me tell you, I was wrong. I found I enjoyed this show just as much as the Office. While the style was similar, the characters make this show so enjoyable. Every single character is so well developed, unique, and funny. They are caricatures of different people that we all have in our lives, and yet each one has qualities that make you like them. Unlike the Office, you don't have to worry about secondhand embarrassment/super uncomfortable situations, which is a plus. Parks and Recreation is a show that you will find yourself quoting constantly, which to me is it's own metric of success in anything that I watch. And as the title of this review states: it will have you laughing out loud like an idiot even if you're watching by yourself. Parks and Recreation is fresh, original, funny, and has some great emotional moments even though the circumstances are sometimes outrageous. I will admit that I teared up over a memorial concert for a mini-horse called "Lil' Sebastian". There is also some really great satire for anyone interested in politics, or like myself, has little time for politics. Either way, the comedy there is undeniable. As an aside, for any Chris Pratt fans out there like myself, this is a good show to watch for him alone (though as I mentioned before, all of the characters are great), and it's really neat to watch because he does transform physically throughout the show because he clinched Guardians of the Galaxy towards the end of the series (in case you are like me and enjoy that sort of tidbit). Highly recommend.
Parks and Recreation is a funny show that started out slow but tuned into a hit sitcom that was extremely addicting to watch. I know myself because I binge watched the series. Amy Pohler did a terrific job starring and producing in the show as well as making people laugh. Nick Offerman personally my favorite character on the show had over 50 different quotes that made me laugh. Christ Pratt and Aubrey Plaza made a hilarious and terrific couple on the show which also took them to further stardom for the actors. Rashida Jones Leslie's beast friend in the shows had the perfect reactions. Aziz Ansari another one of my favorite characters on the show had a fun amount of swagger and was enjoyable to watch him. Rob Lowe also did a perfect job at being a crazy healthy boss to the characters as well as being Bens friend. And for Jerry he was obviously always being made fun of and hilarious to watch. Parks and recreations final episode was a touching tribute to the shows previous episodes and personally my favorite episode. All in all Parks and Recreation is a hilarious and touching show with a great cast and shall be treasured for years to come.
I am a big Amy Poehler and Tina Fey fan. I absolutely love '30 Rock' and when I heard that Amy Poehler was also going to be starring in her own show, I was psyched.'Parks and Recreation' is definitely a show similar in style to 'Arrested Development,' 'The Office,' and '30 Rock,' so if you like any of those shows, I would definitely recommend it. Yes, I agree with some of the other comments that described the pilot as a little slow, but all shows take a bit to get into.I absolutely adore dead pan comedy shows with no laugh track and I highly recommend this show. Amy Poehler's work is great and I support her 100%!!


                
While Parks and Recreation may not have the awards and ratings of its predecessors, it still manages to provide absolutely hysterical comedy that just brings out that good feeling. Parks and Rec's greatest strength has to be its superb cast. Unlike The Office, most supporting cast members are developed enough to become the main subject for any given episode. The supporting cast, at times, even triumphs over the main cast. While the main cast of Parks and Rec might be smaller, these characters still Pack-A-Punch. Amy Poehler and Nick Offerman's great deliveries provide a countless number of quotable, classic lines. The stories of each Parks and Rec episode tend focus on very interesting plots that help keep the show fresh and consistently funny. Overall Parks and Recreation is by far the BEST television show I have watched in history, and I look forward to the show ending with a bang in its 7th and final season!!!


                
Out of all honesty... I have watched the mockumentary The Office over 15 times through and through and I dont miss anything.... I have heard many mixed reviews of Parks and Rec over the years and I started it about 4 times but just could not get through 3 episodes... I finally took advice from others and I pushed my hardest through the 1st season... Thankfully after the 1 season it picked up and to be honest this show is one of the greatest shows of all times. It has through all seasons so many famous celebrities, like ginuwine, the decemberists, jon hamm, kristen bell, michell obama, joe biden, john mccain, roy hibbert, John Cena, Bill Murray and so many more! This is one of the best mockumentaries that really shows character development through 6 years of a characters life. the emotional, and physical changes, pregnancies, divorces business ventures etc... but they kept up the story line all the way through and it made it better each season. The relationship Ben and Leslie has is truely sincere and honest and #relationshipgoals. You have to have a macho man Ron Swanson, is the greatest fatheresque human who has a loving heart. Leslie is a perfect character for wanting to infect change and she is the epitomy of happiness and doing everything for everyone, and she and Ron have a father daughter relationship that is one for the making.Overall this show makes you smile, LIL sebastian!!! it brings joy to your heart of how good it is. To be honest... it fell a bit overboard after season 6 where it should have ended but it wasnt horrible. Anyway GREAT show!


                
This show tends to follow the 'documentary' style successfully seen in "The Office". As stated, successfully seen in THE OFFICE! If you want funny doc-style in this format, then I would recommend The Office. It is funnier, better written, and has a more talented cast. It didn't need an 'already-celebrity-status' thrown in (Rob Lowe). Positive reviews for P&R seem to be given by fans of the show, not by other reviewers that didn't get the gist of it. What I mean is, The Office (US version) hadn't been done in a show released in the US before; so for the producers of P&R to do the same thing doesn't make sense to me. For me, as stated, it is successfully seen in The Office. So if you want to see funny documentary style comedy, start there and avoid P&R.


                
Parks and Recreation is am extremely funny and emotional journey through 7 seasons.through out this show we you get to know the characters and they start to grow on you and with every passing episode you love them more and more and thats something that a lot of shows forget about is that for a show to be good the characters need to be sold in there world and not go over same plot lines over and over again, i was very upset that the 7th season was there final but it the finally was very true to the show and how it's progressed.all in all one of the best shows i've ever seen and easily my favourite TV show of all time


                
I really loved this series. The thing is that I tried to start watching it a couple years ago and I hated it.. I watched like 2 episodes. Out of the blue I decided to give a second chance I finished all seasons in 2 weeks. I really liked it because is was really easy to watch, no complicated a story just a really funny down to earth comedy.In terms of the end, well I got mixed feelings but it was not horrible, but definitely better compared to The Office. For some reason I thought that Michael Scott or Dwight were going to pop up at any moment for some reason. Ron rules ! Tammy, this is Diane. Diane this is a piece of human garbage named Tammy, who is also my ex-wife."
