I only recently started watching some of the episodes of this show in it's last season, and I'm glad I didn't get into this. It's awful. It's trying to be The Office, only worse (the UK version of The Office is the only one worth watching), because the characters are dis-interesting, not uninteresting; it's like watching a soap opera comedy, and I do not care about any of the relationships among these people. The only one who doesn't whine all the time is Ron Swanson, who's only the second best character next to Andy, and that's not saying much. Don't waste your time on this one.
I give this show about 6 weeks. It is so bad, I might not watch The Office, just in case I get up from the couch and forget to change the channel and it comes on my television.Amy Poehler needs to go where most female comedians end up, doing stand up at 3am on Comedy Central. I believe the only reason for this, is because of Title 9. Comedy Central has to let women comedians perform. There should be warnings before the broadcast: ***WARNING: WHAT YOU ARE ABOUT TO WATCH WILL NOT BE FUNNY. THERE MAY BE SOME ATTEMPT AT HUMOR, BUT PLEASE DON'T LAUGH BECAUSE IF YOU DO, YOU REALLY HAVE NO IDEA WHAT HUMOR REALLY IS. YOU SHOULD GO TO BED INSTEAD.*** I am disappointed that Aziz Ansari and Rashida Jones got caught up in this catastrophe. Ansari is hilarious and his career will continue to flourish. You can't keep someone that sarcastic down for very long. This show will be the low point of his career. Jones was vastly underused in the pilot episode. It is very clear that she is the "Parks and Recreation's" Jim Halpert. Both Jones and Ansari need get out while they still can. Let Poehler go down with this ship.I have an idea, how about an original idea NBC. We already have "The Office." We don't need a crappy Office.


                
When it begins it is a considerably less funny version of The Office but is still decent. Somewhere in the middle of season 2 It switches from a poor man's office to a very thinly veiled ego trip for Amy Poehler, which is sad because she is a decent actor and doesn't really need to do that. for the entirety of the series we see that she is hardworking but still mostly inept at her job for mostly comical reasons. But in between her failing they make sure to try and force the opinion on the viewer that she is the most valuable member of the local government, while at no point in time showing her have any value, outside of a one time Harvest Festival (Which also had a large amount problems and did little to help the city). She won city councilwomen, but at no time did they show why anyone would vote for her short of one trailing statement at the end of one episode, yet in each episode she was higher in polls. In summation, every other character is great and enjoyable, sadly they only exist to talk about how amazing and infallible Amy Poehler's character is while they fail to show her do anything remotely worthwhile.
Amy Poehler's Character is a complete and utter rip off of Michael Scott. Its unwatchable...well in a way it is cause its so bad. There's a Jim rip off as well.Aziz Ansari is a bit of a save but...no, stick with the office. It's leaps and bounds beyond this crap.Also, this show looks like it can't go anywhere, and...its..in...a...office....whyyyyyyyyyyyyyySorry Amy, go back to SNL where you worked As for Greg Daniels and Michael Schur your original idea just isn't very original.But your version of The Office is Brilliant.


                
Not un-watchable, at the best a time killer. If you have some boring work to go through, pop this on a screen and go on working. Honestly, this won't take any significant brain time to crunch through.I have a tick, once I start watching a show, I stick to it, unless it is really horrid and should crushing, like The Walking Dead become after a few seasons. I even watched Lost. And true to my nature, I am keeping up with Parks & Recreation and waiting for the day when I am done with the series.The characters are poor and a waste of talent for some of the cast ((What the hell Chris Pratt! why are you there?).I would have shot the April and John-Ralfio characters in the belly, repeatedly, if that was possible. They are so annoying, not fun annoying, deserves-strangling level annoying. And of course the sorority girl Tom Haverford is not far behind.Don't make the mistake I did. Don't watch this.


                
Apparently made by the people who made us version of the office - which again I hadnt watched: why watch the copy after seeing the original?
I found PaR unfunny, with very obvious jokes which were incredibly predictable and the idiot character played by chris pratt was painful to behold!
Terrible, just terrible Terry


                
