I'm surprised at how many people wrote negative reviews of this show despite it being my most-looked forward comedy of the week, followed by the Office, Curb, Sunny in Phily, and the Peep Show - a great British comedy. The characters are unique and the comedy comes mostly from subtleties such as intonations, gestures, and camera glances. It's high-end comedic stuff in my opinion. Though Arrested Development was untouchable in this regard. Boy AD was good. I suppose if you like trite predicable comedy, you wouldn't see it as funny, but the thing about this show is that's it's also fun to watch, the characters are very charismatic on screen, I think the casting was great. Is this 10 lines yet IMDb?A really great show.


                
Recently rewatched the whole series yet again. Still found it as engaging as the first time I watched it. I find the all cast/characters share the limelight at one stage or another in this mockumentary style comedy series. The seventh season doesn't share the same tone as the other seasons, but forgivable nonetheless.


                
Note: I have seen all 7 seasons.Before watching this show, I thought The Office was my favorite sitcom. Parks & Rec has now taken that title. After a rougher first season, each of the characters brings several laughs in every episode.If you only want to watch the glory moments, stop watching after season 5. Season 6 and 7 are still funny, but not at the level of the previous seasons.


                
I admit I started watching this because my Amazon Prime account suggested it after I'd finished The Office for the 8th or 9th time. I found the first series mildly amusing, but liked the way the character backgrounds were built and the fact that it was so well written and yes, similar to The Office. It starts to hit it's stride and find it's rhythm in season 2 and from about halfway through that series it became clear that I was going to be hooked on this show. Ron Swanson (the brilliant Nick Offerman) is one of the funniest characters to grace the screen as is Andy Dwyer (Chris Pratt on full comedy dumbass mode). The storylines are clever, the side characters are well fleshed out and very funny. It also shows a side of Rob Lowe I never thought I'd see, his comedy chops are well and truly earned here. He is "literally" the most upbeat man on the planet. It's one of those shows that makes you smile, occasionally laugh out loud and generally has a feel good vibe about it. I'm now on my 3rd go watching it all the way through. Give it a go, give it a chance and you may just be surprised like I was. I hope you are.


                
Parks and Recreation is a rare gem in the comedy business. There is never a dull moment.Parks and Rec is highly amusing and addictive to watch. You won't be able to stop watching after you watch the first few episodes! The story line is funny and full of plot twists. With seven seasons you are sure in for a ride!I rate this a 9 out of 10


                
I would say the BEST Comedy on TV, but I don't watch all of them, so it is possible that there is one out there better, but I don't care.This show is the highlight of my TiVo week, and while I used to not be able to wait for Thursday night because of "The Office", I now can't wait for Thursday night to watch another episode of "Parks and Recreation".What a great show, and a great cast. I will say that I am a huge Aziz Ansari fan now, and will be following him in whatever he does. The cast is great all around, and each episode usually has a "Classic" moment. If you aren't watching this show, you really should.


                
I've been looking forward to this show for quite a while. I am a city planner for a local government, I worked for a Parks Department for large parts of my career and I've been thinking about all the ways that one could do a riff on local government a la 'The Office.' I figured if done right it could hit a chord with all the poor unfortunates like me who are stuck in the bowels of government - stuck in a Dilbertesque half-life of government cubicles.I'm torn on this one so far - there are funny moments and places here I go "Ok, wow, that was funny and this is how it really is.' Most of the time, though, It's just kind of flat, like they don't get it or that they're sticking far too closely to 'The Office' formula because it's safe and trusted. BUT, I think it would be better if they could cast themselves off.I think the stage is set for some potentially funny stuff, but I think it's going to be an uphill battle to set themselves apart from The Office and really find a character for itself.


                
To start, I love both the Office and Parks and Recreation. I think the shows are the best comedies along with Modern Family that have taken place since 2005. The shows provide unique story lines that really develop the characters and romances with effortless comedy mixed in. One of the bright points of both shows is the writing where most shows struggle with this.Parks and Recreation provides a very cute aspect of a career driven woman in a city that could care less about the parks department. I think the show maintained a solid performance all the way through the series and while Andy never seemed to get any more intelligent and Tom seemed to get more and more whacky it didn't take away from the overall direction of the show. The Office draws a lot of its humor from the sheer awkwardness of the situations and while Parks and Rec does this to a certain extent a lot of the humor is derived from the individual performances and not necessarily the plot that unfolds. Would highly recommend this show to anyone that found the Office funny or anyone that is willing to give a comedy a chance.


                
Funny funny funny funny, unlimited amounts of fun. Great cast.


                
I would recommend this show to anyone, family friendly and funny with a diverse personality of characters who grow into a loving yet slightly dysfunctional family. 
You've got Leslie, an overly enthuastic leader who starts off slightly annoying but eventually you realise is the kindest women this world has to offer that you needas your best friend.
Ron is probably the best character, playing a loveable, no nonsense, government hating, privacy loving, awesome mustache wearing, man who becomes your favourite uncle.
Tom starts and ends as slightly self centred but is so loveable.
You can't forget Chris Pratt as the hilarious idiot Andy, Aubrey Plaza as April a self proclaimed goth/ vampire, Retta as the fabulous Donna amongst many more. A definitely must watch.
"Parks and Recreation" is being compared to "The Office" and is said that it does not meet "The Office" criteria and/or this show is a wannabe "The Office". These comments are more hilarious than the show itself! How can this show be a wannabe when it comes from the same producers of "The Office". I won't bring down "The Office" fans because I've never seen the show.Anyways, seeing the Pilot of "Parks and Recreation" and continuous episodes, I think they couldn't have cast a better group of characters. The characters put so much life into the show. You have one character who makes you chuckle, and another who simultaneously backs the chuckle up with a hysterical laugh.I also enjoy the theme of the show and how the Parks Department of the show helps to make the city of Pawnee a better place for everyone, environmentally speaking.Amy Poehler does an amazing job performing her character as Leslie Knope. Her comedic intellect in the show just makes you want to laugh. She performs actions of her character that the character herself doesn't find funny, but the viewers do!I also think the other characters of this show really are the gravy and corn to the Turkey. Nick Offerman does great portraying his character of seriousness and boss-like business. Aziz Ansari is also another hilarious character who, if this show didn't have, it wouldn't be as comedic. Aubrey Plaza, who portrays April, is quite amusing also. Her speechless facial expressions, show off the other characters stupidity.This show is nothing compared to anything else on television. The Parks department of this show is superb and no other characters of any other show can compare to this show's optimistic and comedic cast.


                
In a short summary of what I've seen from this show, it's always been entertaining. It started off a bit iffy, there were laughs here and there, but nothing too spectacular. My man-crush on Aziz Ansari kept me watching, though, and thank god he did, because I've seen a huge improvement this past season. The acting has been spot on. I love how they've really involved the entire cast even more and brought more life to the characters since the start. Amy Poehler's once awkwardly unfunny role has done a total 180 into the well-deserved spotlight. It's first season wasn't looking good, but even The Office started off unsure of itself, and it grew into its role as one of the funniest US comedy shows around today. "Parks and Rec" has earned its spot on NBC's Thursday comedy lineup. I can only see it getting even better from here.


                
I actually found this show to be very funny. Sure it is very similar to The Office (my favorite show), but is that a bad thing??? Not in my opinion. And to the people that say Leslie is just a female Michael Scott, apparently you don't watch The Office enough to make that comparison. Michael is very insensitive and kind of an idiot most of the time, Leslie on the other hand, is perky, and is just trying to do what ever she can to help and is quite likable. Obviously people are going to compare it to The Office because NBC made the mistake of basically screaming that it was from the same people in its promos, but if there were no Office to begin with, people would most likely consider this as funny anyway. I kind of think of it like Joey and Friends, well Joey was quite awful, but if it wasn't Friends, then people didn't want anything to do with it. I love Amy Poehler and would love to see her continue on a sitcom with such a great cast. So please just give this show a chance and you might actually enjoy it as much as i do if you are willing.


                
I recently finished watching the Office (US and UK versions) and was told that I would love Parks and Recreation (P&R) seeing as I found the Office truly brilliant. I wasn't aware that it followed a similar format of a documentary-style comedy until I started episode 1. It soon became apparent that a new show would dethrone the current top- sitter of TV shows that make me laugh much as intravenous comedy could...P&R is set in the small town of Pawnee and follows the local P&R department (go figure), with Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler) as the main focus. Leslie, a work-a-holic, is surrounded by a team about as competent as tap-dancing monkeys. Ron Swanson is a man I feel embodies the true outdoor American, with an added sense of paranoia and hatred towards the government. His jokes and one-liners were so laugh out loud that I ended up watching a 45 minute compilation on Youtube from start to end. The other members of the team have their own unique features that provide another dimension to the show. In some cases, however, I felt that some of these quirks got annoying as they felt so over the top that they were detached from 'real-life' (even though I appreciate this is a TV show). Each season had their own separate plot, with a few underlying core themes running throughout. Despite its negative press, I loved season 1. Of course, the show was still finding its feet and it felt slightly confused. However, since P&R grew to become such an incredibly different, refreshing and diverse comedy show, it is understandable that its beginnings aren't 10/10. I believe it set a great foundation for later seasons as the concept of Leslie fighting a storm of opposers became engrained in our minds and the character development was great. Seasons 2-6 were genuinely comedy gold. I cannot think of 1 bad episode. I have seen people rank the seasons and I just do not see how one can rank seasons 2-6. They are just that good. Leslie's relentless nature, Tom's stupidity, Andy's idiocy, Ron's hatred of all things...the list goes on! Each element made every episode a true gem in their own right. Even thinking about some of the jokes makes me burst out laughing. Following this, season 7 fell a bit flat for me. I felt as though an already over-the-top show became even more detached from reality. It made it hard to relate to much of what season 7 had to offer as they were just that wacky. I also did not understand why other relationship changes were included altogether as it just confused me. For example, the falling out of 2 key characters (I won't spoil anything for you). What I did feel this season did well was the finale. It tied up all loose ends in a satisfying manner, which is something I felt many shows fall flat on.In summation, P&R is a brilliant piece of television. The characters were brilliantly conceived, the main plot of each season was great and each episode was a true pleasure to watch. Leslie Knope wore me down and I must concede. P&R is now my favourite TV show. Full stop!


                
A beautiful show, truly an instant classic. The characters are lovable, touching and overall inspiring. With a character for every type of person, from eccentric to silent wisdom there is someone for everyone. Don't compare it to The Office they are different shows. Parks and Rec has heart, soul and a beat that keeps it going, with a perfect cast and perfect execution.
As sitcoms go, "Parks and Recreation" is certainly on the more refreshing side of things. Incidentally, I was drawn to this show when "The Office" took a dive, and I haven't looked back. It's a great staging area for mocking the Midwest (I like living here, but it's deserved), and even still, the producers seem to have an affinity for small-town American . . . so it all evens out in the end.But at its (oversized) heart, this is a show where everybody pulls together to fix a problem - and when that's centered on government, sentimentality or no, that's an angle we should all be able to get behind. It's just so damn optimistic, and that can-do attitude is personified by Amy Poehler. A more likable character (or actress) you'll be hard-pressed to come by.Also, Ron Swanson, who's probably the best sitcom character we've seen in decades.9/10


                
Parks and Recreation really is a hilarious show, with characters that could really seem annoying, but somehow turn out to be really cool and likable. It really goes to show just how well written this show really is. You have Leslie Knope, an overly ambitious Parks Department director, who is always leading the crew, and learning from her mistakes as she goes, but doesn't accept defeat with ease, and certainly doesn't take no for an answer. Ron Swanson, the man, the outdoors man, the meat lover. He hates government work, and loves building things out of wood. Tom Haverford, the entrepreneur, the very ambitious one at that. He's always looking to start his own business, rather than working in one. Andy Dwyer, the lovable, brainless, unintentionally hilarious one. He doesn't know much, but he means well. And who can forget his alter ego, Burt Macklin, FBI. No task is too difficult for him. April Ludgate, if it brings joy to people, she hates it. Although she does love animals. Donna Meagle, the sassy, independent one. She's loving, and can read you like a book. Ann Perkins, she's looking for men like a heat seeking missile. She often has difficulties finding the perfect man, no matter how nice or how beautiful and brilliant Leslie thinks she is. Chris Traeger, the inhumanly healthy one. He's always looking to help everyone with their problems. No matter how big or small, Chris would literally.. do anything for anyone. Ben Wyatt, the smart, and nerdy one. He loves Game of Thrones, and is always worrying that Star Wars Episode 7 is going to rely too heavily on CGI, but he's always the man with a plan when one is needed. Then you have Jerry/Gary/Larry/Terry Gergich/Gingerch. He's a nice man, and is always looking to help out, no matter how badly he screws everything up. Although he does has a suspiciously good looking family. Each and every one of these characters are extremely well written, and work so well together, even though they all seem so different. It just shows what a great job Michael Schur did writing this series and I certainly cannot wait to see Season 7. 9/10


                
-Parks and Recreation (2009-2015) series review: -Parks and Rec is a comedy series that looks at a group of public workers as the parks and rec department of their local town Pawnee, Indiana. Taking many noted from The Office, Parks and Rec takes a somewhat more absurd approach to this show, adding room for some sharp over-the-top satire about small government, consumers, town hall meetings, etc.-I love this show so much. It is funny, smart, likable, and full of some really memorable charters I will get to soon! If the comedy scene is not your thing, that is okay. I just reviewed Daredevil. But this is not Daredevil, it's Parks and Rec! -The series plot varies a lot, making it easy to jump into, minus a few character subplots. I love the way the story progresses along with the character changes. And the moments it gets absurd, it is never to absurd it is unbelievable, just absurd to the extremes of realism. For example: Woman complains about snails. Absurd, but not unheard of. Satire to a 'T.-Each episode is only twenty minutes, minus a few finales, so it is easy to accidentally watch eleven episodes in one night. Not that that happened to me or anything<U+0085>.-I am going to combine acting and characters for this next part: Parks and Rec stars Amy Poehler as Leslie Knope, a workaholic, dedicated, somewhat crazy deputy director at the department. Amy Poehler does a job worthy of the Golden Globe she won for it. I also totally love the character of Leslie Knope. She is annoying at times, but so lovable and heartfelt. She's also a serious liberal, so if you are one of those extreme people who hates every mention of Joe Biden because you think it promoted how wonderful Democrats are, it is just a TV show. Leslie Knope is aided by Nick Offerman as Ron Swanson, an anti-government, anti-people, pro-meat guy who would rather build a canoe with his bare hands than listen to someone discuss their feelings. Nick Offerman is hilarious and my favorite character on a show full of wonderful characters. And then there is Aubrey Plaza as April Ludgate, a younger, sarcastic intern turned secretary who hates everything but dogs and Andy. Chris Pratt plays Andy Dwyer, who is a child-like idiot with a really big heart. He offers a lot to the show in both the comedy area and some really meaningful moments; plus we would not have Burt Macklin, FBI or Johnny Karate without him! Aziz Ansari is Tom Haverford. Like I am pretty sure he is. In real life. Tom is an entrepreneur and is always coming up with self-centered ideas, but his change throughout the show is another one of the many best things about it. Jim O'Heir plays Garry Jerry Larry Gergich, who is another lovable character whom everyone makes fun of because he is a walking klutz. Retta plays Donna Meagle. Treat-Yo-Self! Rashina Jones plays Anne Perkins, but moving on to more fun people! Rob Lowe is literally, the best City Manager in history. Chris Traeger is a very positive individual who is obsessed with fitness to the point of driving Ron Swanson mad. And finally, Adam Scott plays Ben Wyatt, who is a smart nerd who invents his own board game, knows everything about nerd trivia, and loves calzones. I may or may not be him<U+0085>.-Finally moving on! There is not a lot of music because of the mockumentary style, but we do get some music in the way of Mouse-Rat, Chris Pratt's band. The reoccurring songs The Pit, which is about how Andy fell in a pit, and Bye, Bye Li'l Sebastian, a memorial song for a pony, offer a lot of heart to the show. Somehow.-I love this show. The more I watched, the closer I felt to the characters and story. It made my tear up several times, which is impressive for a comedy show, and it offers a lot of heart and a lot of laughs. I think it is a great show! No, I think Parks and Rec is<U+0085>. Amazingtastic! -Parks and Rec is TV-PG, but occasionally has some references and conversations that are in the PG-13 realm if it were a film. It also censors some language for humor's sake. And it has one minor character who, due to the insane nature, needs to be pixilated.


                
Absolutely fantastic series. Cinematography was amazing, storyline was spot on, actors performed their roles flawlessly and there is an awesome mixture of humor and seriousness that makes you want to tell the producers to never quit making episodes. I just finished 1-6 on Netflix and absolutely cannot wait until the 7th. I will be sad to see the entire series end.Having said this, I do have two qualms with P&R. The first is Mark Brandanowicz. His character was completely off from the rest and made the first two seasons my least favorite, I am sorry to say. This is probably why they eventually get rid of him. I don't know if it was Paul Schneider's acting or the lack of Mark's ability to mesh with the rest of the cast but in my opinion he didn't belong in the series. This is one of the reasons I took my review from a 10 to a 9 stars.The second problem I had with the series was the hatred of Jerry by the rest of the cast. Yeah I get it that he's the awkward guy in the office that everyone doesn't really like but we have to be around but they kind of went to far (which i'm sure was their intention) and this took it from being funny to just annoying.Overall, I still will put this as one of my all time favorite TV shows to watch. I look forward to more productions from these creators and the cast.
Like Modern Family, this show is that fake "reality" kind. And just like Modern Family it delivers on so many levels. The writing is mostly outstanding, only on rare occasions being slightly predictable in terms of punchlines or outcomes. The delivery of lines is incredible with entire cast just fantastic (and brilliantly cast). The ensemble works wonderful but of course the most special of them all is Amy Poehler. Always amazing, always able to show us multiple sides of her character. We can't help but falling in love with her Leslie Knope! The story lines are very believable even in the most of unbelievable scenarios (marrying penguins who both turn out to be male and then standing up for gay rights and transporting them in baby car seats to another zoo - how priceless is that!!!!) You will be cracking up for days after each episode!
Parks and recreation is one of the best TV series out there. Pawnee with its idiosyncrasies and small town issues instantly draws you in and makes you feel that you belong. You get a sense of communal feeling which is unique to this TV series and which is portrayed perfectly by its protagonist Leslie Knopes who goes to great lengths for the city she loves so much.Some episodes in between were slow, but somehow it feels good to watch someone who is so passionate about their job. With its unique characters, amazing character development and some good old-fashioned fun, it instantly makes a connection and always leaves you wanting more. Recommended. Watch it.


                
Many comedians start their career on this show. Aziz, Pratt, Poehler.


                
During the opening scene of the episode "Pilot" of "Parks and Recreation," we are introduced to go-getter Leslie Knope, a determined woman who works for the Parks & Recreation division in Pawnee, Indiana. Leslie, along with her less enthusiastic co-worker Tom Haverford, go to a town meeting to discuss the Parks and Recreation division. One woman, out of the nine who showed to the meeting, Ann Perkins, tells Leslie that her boyfriend fell into a giant pit that homes were supposed to be developed on, and Leslie springs into action to develop a community park. During the episode we are introduced to Leslie's coworkers, angsty April Ludgate, tired Mark Brendanwicz, and Leslie's boss, government hating Ron Swanson.  "Parks & Recreation" provides a fresh take on how awful the workplace can be, while also having perfect comedic timing. The difference in characters personalities provides a hilarious contrast, from Leslie's upbeat attitude to Tom's "I would rather die than be here" attitude. Ron Swanson's cynical outlook on the government, while also being an employee for the government, is a hilarious quality that makes you look forward to the next appearance of the character.  "Parks and Rec" follows the classic format of comedy shows like "The Office," while also taking its own spin on the genre. The show has almost perfect comedic timing, with jokes that cover a wide range of different humors. Even if you have the weirdest sense of humor, you will find at least one joke to laugh at. The actors have perfect chemistry with each other, and they understand their characters well. "Parks and Recreation" is a fresh show with very funny comedy, and it is well worth a watch.
Parks & Recreation is the most underrated comedy series on television, with the most underrated cast. Amy Poehler is a comedic genius, period. The supporting cast is top notch. Watch it starting from Episode 1, Season 2 - when it really started to get its footing. I am just waiting for the Emmy's to take notice. Modern Family and Glee are great, but Parks & Rec deserves the same accolades and more for stellar writing and acting. Chris Pratt kills it every episode. He is the standout of the supporting cast, which is saying quite a bit with this cast. Wonderful show.While The Office starts to wear and show its age, Parks & Rec offers the same type of humor, but with the freshness the Office had in its first few, stellar seasons.


                
I I cannot believe how much I like and care about this show and its characters (it is just a TV show after all). I consider Parks and Rec to be one of the very best sitcom (stupid term) — or just one of my favourites (alongside Seinfeld, It's Always Sunny, Curb Your Enthusiasm, and The Comeback) — and I'm the most boring and pretentious person and as so I shouldn't even be watching this stuff, but I do and I like it.This is a confession: I love this show. I care about the characters and I do feel pretty stupid about it. I don't know why I like it. I have nothing in common with this people (character or actors) apart from belonging to the same species. I'm not even American.The fact that the actors don't look plastic (modelled to be the very embodiment of western assumptions of beauty) is very nice — nothing worst than a Friends-like cast or Marilyn Monroe-like plastic people created to attain some form of weird perfection making us feel bad about ourselves (superficially).Well, at the beginning, I thought this would be a cringe-y show, but, then, it changed (in my opinion for the better) and instead it became silly, sentimental, and all around oozing cuteness. Also, it starts with the documentary (or mockumentary) idea to explain the camera which I dislike, because it's unnecessary to work, the pretence of reality in visual or literary arts can and should be dropped, but without anything to explain it or back it up like in a Godard film.So, it is a post-modern show, but it certainly cares about its characters: they change, grow, become better.What a feel-good show this is; really heart-warming. April and Ben looking at the camera are always funny and cute and real somehow and all the asides directed at the camera (at us) are laughing out-loud funny. That's how meta-fiction should be: disdaining (or better, disregarding) the pretence of reality in art shouldn't affect the diegetic continuity and our enjoyment of it.Exaggerated and silly and cute Parks & Rec continues.The chemistry of the cast confounded me at certain times, gave me goosebumps. The veneer of post-modernist pretentiousness is made irrelevant in such an atmosphere of great performances (effortless acting) in which they seem to enjoy themselves so much.In summa, in my opinion, Parks is the greatest silly comedy show (though less intellectual) since Flying Circus.* Points for those who know and noticed Jolie Holland's poster (of the album Pint of Blood).** This review was useless I now notice: why did I wrote this? *** The show is great. Go watch it. If you like silly and cute and heart-warming story telling, go watch it.**** TV is a waste of time but so is sleeping (and everything else).II I know, I know what I like about this show: so obvious: universal themes: friendship, unity, goodness, etc.; beauty in difficult situations, walking the walk of life, just trying to be a good human being.Although all the characters are extremely different from one another and their interactions sometimes conflict they manage to be good and support one another (even Jerry). They fight, they make amends, they love.Leslie's enthusiasm in her personal relationships as well as in her professional affairs is contagious; when she smiles we laugh, when she cries our hearts stop. (Yes, the show doesn't lack highly dramatic moments). Heart-warming heart-warming heart-warming cute so cute silly funny life-affirming renew one's hope in humanity's goodness so cute so nice everything everything I assume some people have disliked Leslie becoming the archetypal progressive woman instead of the clueless and kind of idiot-savant that she was at the beginning, but the awkward, cringe comedy didn't work for the characters and overall feel of the show in those few episodes in which she was that (stupid, misogynist) stereotypical blonde (only slightly less "blonde"). But, come on, the couples are so cute, and there's Ben (awesome! He mentioned Twin Peaks: double awesome!).Parks and Recreation isn't just a platform to showcase the show's runners perceived progressiveness — it really is a well of great comedy balanced with conflict and drama and a deep sense of friendship and faith in humanity's ability to unite in crises.
