Okay, I'll be the first to admit that when the promos for this show first aired on Disney Channel, I wasn't interested. I hadn't particularly enjoyed Fish Hooks, and I figured Gravity Falls would be more of the same. I was so wrong. This show is full to bursting with fantastic and lovable characters, witty humor, great writing, beautiful animation, and mysteries, fantasy, and little Easter eggs around every corner. In addition, there are a few elements that could easily give me nightmares, but which, oddly enough, the kids I babysit find more hilarious than anything. Guess it's the age difference. If you haven't yet, you definitely need to give this show a shot. I know Gravity Falls fans from age two to fifty, and I'd recommend it to anyone.


                
Very few shows have the capacity to entertain 8 and 10 year old girls a 13 year old boy and their 27 year old woman. Like the Shrek movies it has humor for youngsters and a stealthy adult humor. Definitely has elements from many cartoon predecessors and often times will ground a plot on a real life issue. My little cousins love it and when they found out I was watching gravity falls at home they flipped out. Now when I go visit we will sometimes watch on episode from the DVR. I literally can't stand most Disney programming but the style and creativity of this show caught my eye one day channel flipping. It is worth checking out and you will most likely be extremely surprised.


                
I hate the Disney Channel and what it's become, however I watched this show, and was very entertained! It's not just the humor, but the mixture of surreal situations that connect with the story. Not to mention, THE CHARACTERS! They're all simply fun and the way they get along and interact with each other is great! The setting is pretty cool too, there's always the potential for something completely new and supernatural to occur. I've seen all the episodes so far (all 7) but for the time being, I will continue to keep up with the episodes, and altogether I'm just happy to see that there is still hope for the cartoons of today and the future cartoons.


                
This show is really great, the writing is great, the characters are great, the humour is great, its the BEST written show storyline wise i have ever seen, the plot is so well thought out and so many secrets and codes to look for in every corner as part of the overall mystery. The characters are all very entertaining and funny, and the humour is very funny, quick, and breezy. The ONLY problems with the show is that it's rated tv-y7, it should really be rated p.g, if it were it would bring in the crowed it is more suited for. Some things in the show make me think "wow they got away with that?! In this day and age?!". Not only is there several jokes that would fit just as well in the simpsons, there's references to the simpsons too! Even a couple jokes that hint at pornography. The other problem is it airs on Disney. This is NOT a Disney show nor should it be treated like one if this show doesn't last long, its because its on Disney. It would be much suited to a p.g rating and on CN. Or at least if it was Disney, rated it p.g and air it late at night. Overall, a really really great well written show that is just not rated properly or on the right network. Do check it out though! Teens and adults will enjoy it.


                
There are few things I hate more on television than the Disney Channel. This factory of mediocrity has churned out "gems" like The Suite Life with Zach and Cody and the unfortunately popular Hanna Montana. The Disney Channel is a place for Uncle Walt's successors to push talentless teens out in front of the world. Said teens get a few moments of fame and the Mouse gets another few million.Why do I make this cynical and cliché critique of the Disney Channel? Because I want to make sure every person who reads this understands how shocked and delighted I am by Gravity Falls.Gravity Falls takes place in a remote Oregon town of the same name. It features Dipper and Mabel Pines (voiced by Jason Ritter and Kristen Schaal respectively), a pair of twins, staying with their Great Uncle (or Grunkle, a term I believe needs to be used more often) Stan (voiced by show creator Alex Hirsch), a sleazy con-artist that runs a tourist trap called the Mystery Shack. Stan rips off gullible vacationers and townies with "supernatural" attractions and a less than stellar gift shop, overseen by man-child Soos (also voiced by Hirsch) and a down-to-earth slacker teenager Wendy (voiced by Linda Cardellini). It looks like a dull summer for the twins, but they soon find out that there is quite a lot of strange goings on in the little town.This show has that right mix of humor and adventure every family program ought to have. It's written in a way that can engage people of all ages without pandering to anyone.The voice actors were chosen masterfully, especially in Mabel Pines. I can't imagine anyone else but Schaal (who also voiced Trixie in Toy Story 3 and plays Mel in Flight of the Conchords)playing the bubbly, effervescent Mabel.This show also features DIY voice acting from Hirsch, a seemingly common occurrence in animated shows today (Regular Show creator JG Quintel voicing Mordecai and High Five Ghost and Adventure Time creator Pen Ward voicing Lumpy Space Princess as well as a myriad of side characters). Hirsch shows quite a bit of range voicing miserly Stan and obvious Soos.Gravity Falls is also able juxtapose the supernatural and the normal growing pains of adolescence. On a nearly weekly basis, the observant and intelligent Dipper finds a way to crack a mystery involving gnomes and crystals that change an object's size, yet he can't muster the courage to ask his crush, Wendy, on a date.There are a lot of TV shows and movies that try so hard to reach that sweet spot where they can appeal to kids, parents and young adults, but fall painfully short. Gravity Falls, though, hits that spot brilliantly.Like his fellow CalArts alumni Quintel and Ward, Hirsch's product is one made out of love and care and it's made clear in every episode. Most impressively, though, is that it gives me a reason to watch the Disney Channel.


                
By far my current favorite cartoon! This show is really clever, mysterious, funny, and great! When I first saw commercials for this show I didn't think it'd be special, but I was for sure wrong! Once I started watching it I just could not stop. The characters act like real people and are relatable to. When you watch Gravity Falls you feel the suspense and mystery but will be laughing as well. The only thing I think I'd want different is more of it! But it takes time to make such a quality television show. Overall Gravity Falls is in my all time top 5 favorite television shows and I hope they continue making many more episodes soon.


                
Gravity Falls is a new show on Disney Channel, and the only reason I heard about it was because of a friend I have on tumblr. While I haven't been a fan of Disney's recent...ventures, I have to say that Gravity Falls is absolutely fantastic.Gravity Falls is about two kids, Mabel and Dipper Pines, who are currently living in one of those "middle of nowhere" towns called Gravity Falls with their uncle Stan, who appears to have a very mysterious past. Plenty of other mysteries lurk in Gravity Falls, and you, as the viewer, look to figure them out along with Dipper and Mabel. Along with dealing with their eccentric uncle, the kids also encounter the extremely snarky Wendy as well as a host of other quirky residents.The tone of Gravity Falls's humour is very similar to Adventure Time - very strange and mostly situational, but I feel that a lot of the time the dialogue is much more clever and mature than that of Adventure Time's. The voice acting, animation and art style are also great, and the theme song of the show especially is fantastic.What I enjoy most about this show, however, is its tone. This show is a total mystery - there's clues hidden everywhere. I'm completely enthralled with finding everything out before it's addressed in the show - mainly Stan's past.This show is great, check it out!


                
Gravity Falls is set in a town in the middle of nowhere, focusing on Dipper and Mabel, solving the mysteries of Gravity Falls.One of the things that I find really amazing about this show is the music. It's great, eerie, and enhances the mood of the scene.The characters are all great, and are all very likable and funny. The dynamics between Dipper and Mabel is one of the best parts of the show if you ask me. The way they interact with each other is the way you would think a brother and sister would act towards each other.Animation wise, it is pretty well animated. The intro's animation is impressive but the actual show isn't as amazing but still good.The show has a eerie atmosphere, but still has the heart of most of Disney shows.So overall, The show is great. The characters, eerie atmosphere, and charm make it a enjoyable watch for kids and adults.


                
Disney has been making some radical changes in recent years. Back in the day Disney was always known for its films and amusement parks, its original creator driven content always seemed to take a backseat. For years the only decent original Disney channel series were Fillmore! and The Weekenders. However like I said recently Disney has been taking a bold new direction. The addition of Disney XD has led to the creation of some great shows Phineas and Ferb and particularly Chris Prynoski's new show Motor City. Their current original content mirroring the 90's shows that put creator driven series on the map. Their latest play in this new direction the creation of what so far promises to be perhaps their best creator driven series yet Gravity Falls.Emerging from the ashes of the Marvellous Misadventures of Flapjack (another quality show, however not Disneys) where series creator Alex Hirsch served as writer and storyboard artist, Gravity Falls is perhaps the best instalment in a series of programs crafted by current Cal Arts Alumni since Adventure Time. From a cartooning and animation standpoint the series feels refreshing. The character designs feel like some superb mixture of The Simpsons, Classic Disney animation with a bit of The Marvellous Misadventures of Flapjack thrown in. The Characters are drawn in a very fun way and they lend themselves to the quality character animation the series has produced. From a character animation standpoint the work is spirited. It is fluid and comedic exemplifying how much the character animation can be integral to the characters themselves. Cartooning and Animation aside though I feel the true greatness of the show stems from its writing style, approach of comedy and characters. Alex Hirsch and his writing team have made a show that conjures to mind the character driven humour of the classic Simpsons with the weird and often creepy nature of a 90's kid show called Eerie Indiana. The end result is a show with unique and weird story lines and a level of humour that does what many of the 90's shows did best, transcend its target audience. This show produces jokes that will work for both kids and adults. The characters are also very likable. We have seen characters like Dipper, Mabel and Grunkle Stan before but on Gravity Falls they are crafted so believably that we can forgive that. These are not just funny characters, they are characters with defined personas, they are oddly relatable and they have even in these 9 episodes shown some semblance of character development something that is usually left out of many North American animated series. So far this is a near perfect show its only misstep so far the episode entitled Dipper Vs. Manliness, which I won't spoil it for you, has a great concept but is too much build up and not enough pay off. For me this is a show that makes the kid in me smile. Watching this now is like tuning into my childhood favourites (Hey Arnold, Ren and Stimpy, Courage the Cowardly Dog) only now I am old enough to appreciate it.


                
The plot is amazing, funny and mysterious. All the elements blend greatly. The characters are weird and lovable. The characters interact great together and I have been enjoying every minute of this show. The ciphers that the show offers are amazing and fun to solve they don't give away plot,at least not yet, so you don't need to decipher them, but personally I enjoy doing it. I enjoy everything about this show. There's never been any terrible jokes and no clichés in the plot which is always great. I recommend that you watch this show, but if you don't enjoy mystery in the plot, which I don't know why you wouldn't, or weird random humour, more understandable, then you probably won't enjoy this show as much as I have but it is still defiantly worth checking out.


                
Over the years, many shows have let me down in terms of storyline, humor, and originality. It seemed to me that every major children's network disappointed in all three aspects. I actually anticipated this show months before it even aired because, despite the fact that there wasn't much information available about it online, the premise sounded promising.As my rage towards Disney's mediocre attempts at teen-comedy and music grew infinitely stronger, I held my breath and awaited the release of that which is Gravity Falls. (Keep in mind, only two cartoons made up Disney's regular schedule prior to the airing of this fantastic show. Disney brings to mind animation, not anorexic twelve-year-olds dancing in miniskirts. Shame on you. Walt would be appalled.) Anyways, I was thoroughly impressed by the pilot episode, "Tourist Trapped", which pulled you right into the action of the show and delivered its characters in a quick and convenient manner.Gravity Falls is about twins, Dipper and Mabel, who are sent to the quirky woodland town of Gravity Falls, Oregon to their greedy Grunkle Stan over the summer. While helping their great uncle run his tourist attraction - the "Mystery Shack" - the twins also discover a secret book that sheds light on the many paranormal and otherworldly oddities found throughout their bizarre, new setting. The show also focuses on a number of other topics, including the struggles attained through youth.Viewers are provided with a balanced amount of mystery, action, humor, and suspense within each of the episodes. The characters each serve their purpose and contribute their roles to the storyline, which many other cartoons fail to do. I like the animation and the art in general, as the style is very appealing. Gravity Falls treats its viewers with respect and regard to their intelligence. The plots in each episode are complex enough to keep adults interested, all while providing enough laughs for the children. In other words, Gravity Falls is a show that can be enjoyed by any age. Most certainly recommended.
In an age where Disney Channel seems to be stuck in a rut when it comes to making good shows, I've never seen, not only a cartoon, but a show in general as hilarious and ingeniously thought out as Gravity Falls. When I first saw the trailer, I honestly thought it looked pretty dumb, but once I actually gave it a chance, I was absolutely blown away! The story of the show is actually similar to Avatar, in which it continues its story rather than just making episodes without any continuity whatsoever. When the show began, the story was clearly fleshed out with very likable characters and surprisingly great humor, and it only seemed to get better the more it went on. The mystery element has only grown, giving us so many questions and small clues, and letting us come up with our own theories (speaking of which, I'm pretty sure that Gompers the goat is Bill Cipher in disguise.) When the show DOES give answers to questions though, it does NOT disappoint! When it comes to the animation, the world that the show has created is 100% fascinating!From the creatures, to the locations, to the backgrounds, to the magical elements, it's all incredible to look at! I've already mentioned that the show has hundreds of clues as to where the story is going throughout it, and the animation often gives many away, even though we may not even realize it. All the amazing sites, cool places and crazy creatures will make you wish the town were real! It probably isn't surprising when I say that the characters are all fantastic. You'll really root for the good guys and you'll love to hate the bad guys! You'll want these characters to be real just as much as the town so you can go on a mystery hunt with Dipper, knit a crazy sweater with Mabel, let Grunkle Stan show you around the Mystery Shack, play Laser Tag with Soos, chill with Wendy and more! Now with the addition of Great Uncle Ford, who has already began to set himself as pretty solid and likable, these guys are classic examples of timeless characters.I don't even know what else to say; I simply adore this show! I recommend this to everyone; kids, adults, and especially people who love a great mystery! It's a show that's only gotten better, and I hope it continues to do exactly that!
Somewhere in the Middle of Nowhere in Oregon, two twins exit a bus. A flashy showman, their Great Uncle, greets them, and invites them into the paranormal epicentre of the world. While it seems he's too much of a trickster to believe in the supernatural he promotes, the kids explore the town, and find enough adventure, mystery and conspiracy to last a thousand lifetimes. It's an experience that will change the both of them forever.Gravity Falls' intro has no lyrics, and yet, in roughly forty seconds of screen-time, we already know the settings, the major characters, their virtues and flaws, their relationships, and a whole lot of foreshadowing for things that won't even be touched on until the very end. This very effectively sums up the show; a lot being thrown at you, even if you don't recognise it at the time. It constantly thinks back to itself, with some of the most in-depth continuity, background or foreground, of any show, animated or not. Characters casually appear in the background several episodes before an episode revolves around them, minor plot-points are revisited dozens of episodes later, and damage to both people and property doesn't vanish after a single episode. Almost every major plot twist (and there are many) involves a heavy degree of foreshadowing, stretching back into the first season. Thankfully, it's never quite enough for the casual viewer to pick up, but enough to reward multiple viewings. Being a show that revolves around mystery (the creator, Alex Hirsch, had the intention to blend the episodic mysteries of X-Files, with the overarching mystery of Twin Peaks), every episode is littered with codes and riddles that are used both for comedy, and hints about upcoming confrontations. The more one dissects each episode, the more one realises the dedication and effort that was put into every one.But regardless of the mystery elements that define the series, the heart and soul of the show is the relationship between the twins, Dipper and Mabel. Both on the cusp of puberty, Dipper is introverted, adventurous, and deeply precocious, while his sister is extroverted, more interested in the prospect of summer romance than the supernatural, and has an infectious, childish optimism for life. So many pitfalls that beset other twin/sibling relationships in shows are avoided in their writing: identical characters, every episode being a conflict between the two, one of the two always being right, etc. While very different, the two compliment, rather than conflict with each other. When they tease, they know when to stop, when they fight, it's a big deal, and when they see the anguish the other goes through, they sacrifice. What a relief from the endless cynical jibes that define character interaction in the modern era; here, the two unquestionably love and cherish the company of each other. It's the most affecting twin relationship one could write without straining believability. Both have insecurities about themselves, and both are deeply flawed from the outset, which they learn to overcome together. Hirsch said one of the most amazing things about the show for him was the sheer amount of people calling him up to thank him for their getting closer to their siblings, after having drifted apart, or never having been together at all. The relationship between Hirsch's own twin sister and himself as the obvious inception for Mabel and Dipper gives a deeply authentic vibe, creating one of the best written sibling relationships in all fiction.This allows the show to do something really well; humour. Hirsch never intended to do a kid's show, and constantly wrote the show from the perspective of what would children get into, and what would make adults laugh, a formula which enabled the show to have the entirety of the top ten broadcast ratings on their channel. Consequently, the strong characterisation and connections between the characters, (the twins, their con-man Great Uncle, the practical but dim-witted janitor, and the tomboyish counter-girl) allow for miraculously high-quality character-humour. However, this isn't to pigeon-hole the show's comedic writing, which has an incredible range from slapstick, to visual gags, to fourth-wall breaks. There is not a fart joke to be found, but there are jokes that no child could possibly get that will send older viewers into uproar (such as the Great Uncle giving the names of his hands as "Scratchy and Shaky.") When asked which episode in particular the censors most objected to, Hirsch replied "All of them".While the humour can often be adult, including some of the most depressing, nihilistic monologues one can get away with given the rating, the level of darkness in terms of horror is something that shocks most people who watch the series for the first time. With a shape-shifter morphing into a spider version of the main characters, screaming severed heads, and lines like "I've got to turn some children into corpses", Gravity Falls never shied away from nightmare fuel. Yet even then, the show never forgets that it is primarily a comedic series. In the midst of extreme drama, there will be isolated comedic moments that are just enough to make you laugh, but integrated enough not to detract from the tone. The intensity of the drama cannot be underestimated though, with major life and death decisions having to be made by children who are clearly not prepared for the turmoil they are going through, which makes us all the more heartbroken to see their anguish.Ultimately, the show concluded on the creator's terms; he envisioned a beginning, middle, and ending, and saw it through to the (highly emotional) end. Gravity Falls will never suffer the same zombification that overcame once great shows like the Simpsons, leaving one of the most consistent high-quality programming across not just children's, or animated television, but the medium in general. It's a show for all ages, and an adventure in itself.


                
While I am 50 years old and WAY outside the target audience for this show, my 24 year-old daughter is hooked--so much so that she always insists that I watch "Gravity Falls" with her. And so this is how I came to see the show--and I assume most who have reviewed the show are much younger than I am!The plot is a lot like the old show "Eerie, Indiana" in that the main characters, who are kids, keep stumbling upon weird cases of the supernatural in this bizarre little town. However, and this is important, unlike "Eerie, Indiana", the characters are far more likable and funny. In particular, Mabel is a hoot--and is among the best things about the show--as is Gruncle Stan. But the others are all quite charming and weird. The writing, therefore, is a very strong suit about the series and, oddly, will appeal to just about all age groups. Sure, it's a show for kids--but oldsters like me will like it too, if they give it a chance. Well worth your time.


                
Last Halloween, a friend of mine cosplayed as Dipper (The main protagonist aside from his twin sister Mable and their Grunkle Stan) from the show and told me it was worth a watch. Needless to say I got into it and enjoy it very much. Just finished the first season too! The character designs are sort of reminiscent of older cartoons and definitely some Ren & Stimpy influence thrown in there- big differently coloured noses, googly eyes and lanky bodies. The background artwork is surprisingly innovative and versatile. The characters, Grunkle Stan, Mable and Soos are amongst some of the best characters in the show. The writing is witty, humorous and even touching at times. Continuity plays a big responsibility in this show as characters will address past events and the show teaches good morals without being too preachy. Gravity Falls has a strange and mysterious history that plunges Dipper and Mable into all kinds of adventures and foibles. This show comes as "recommended to watch" by this old Saturday morning cartoon watching veteran! By the way, the writers of this show HATE teen pop stars :)
I say this as a child who watched Disney Channel during the period it brought its live-action properties to greater prominence: I never thought Disney Channel would have any good cartoons. I never grew up with Ducktales or the popular Saturday Morning lineup from the late 80s, and so when I watched the channel the only running cartoons were the likes of 'Kim Possible', 'Lilo and Stitch' and 'American Dragon'. The first two were decent cartoons, and while I didn't get into American Dragon much, the couple episodes I watched did feel action packed. Unfortunately, when it came to quality they couldn't compare to shows on channels like Cartoon Network. The characters and stories didn't leave much of an impact; a lot of it because the same archetypes and plots have been done better in other cartoons, but also because it never took that many risks. And then this show comes along.The premise of Gravity Falls is that a pair of 12 year old twins from the Pines family, a brother named Dipper and a sister named Mabel, go on a summer trip to a rural, woodland town in Oregon to visit their 'Grunkle' Stan (who I'm guessing is both the twin's grandfather and uncle. I'm trying not to think too hard about it). The uncle runs a museum of faux paranormal objects, and the twins have to help him run the place, with help from a deep and hilarious handyman named Soos and a teenage girl named Wendy. Ironically, the town of Gravity Falls turns out to really be home of numerous supernatural anomalies and creatures, and the twins have to deal with them each episode; all the while trying to discover the source of all the town's strangeness.As childish as it seemed, the precise moment when I perked at Gravity Falls was when one of the characters openly uttered the word 'Sascrotch'. Obviously, adult humor does not equal good quality writing, but the mere fact that the Disney Channel let a show get away with such humor indicates that they've given this show much more freedom in its development. And as proved with shows like The Simpsons and Animaniacs, giving creative freedom to a talented crew of writers, animators and artists can produce amazing results. And while we're on the subject, so much of Gravity Falls reminds me of The Simpsons in both humor and the animation. Gravity Falls's creator Alex Hirsh even stated that The Simpsons was a major influence of the show, and it definitely shows in all the right ways. The characters themselves resemble Simpsons characters, except with pink skin, slightly smaller eyes and with an added extra finger on each hand (except the kid protagonists. Seriously, look at the hands of the twin characters and the adult characters: THE KIDS HAVE LESS FINGERS THAN ADULTS). All the characters have distinct traits, and all of them take part in the show's hilarity. Mabel especially is the quirkiest character of the show, and I think it's charming to see an animated young girl who's wacky and not always purely innocent. The humor and writing themselves also recalls the Simpsons, with a pinch of pop-culture references, a dash of slapstick and plenty of unpredictability and wit without getting too cynical. I've never cracked up so much to any Disney Channel cartoon other than Gravity Falls.The animation itself is amongst the best of Disney 2D animation I've seen outside of their films, even if there's a bit of 3D animation for any vehicles in the show. The movements of the characters are extremely fluid, while the backgrounds themselves are full of meticulous detail; fully capturing the nature of the Oregon woodland while evoking the show's dark, unknown mystery. Speaking of dark and unknowing, the overall nature of the show is one of the strange and paranormal, and there's a consistent cryptic atmosphere in each episode (complete with decodable codes in each of the episode's credits, the appearance of the 'All seeing eye' and hidden clues). This is one of the few Disney channel shows with genuinely scary moments, but all the while there's a coating of lightheartedness that makes it so much fun. Some of these moments came from the 5th episode "The Inconveniencing", which is also the episode that completely won me over to the show. Without spoiling much, this episode is about the Twins, Wendy and some friends visiting an abandoned convenience store that turns out to be haunted, and it packs a couple of the scariest and hilarious moments of the show into a single episode.But what gets me the most is that this show is full of heart, especially with the relationship between the sibling protagonists Dipper and Mabel Pines. I drew up the Simpsons comparison here earlier, and in this regard it's similar to the relationship between Bart and Lisa Simpson. But unlike the Simpsons (and many other animated shows depicting constantly quarreling siblings), there's almost little to no rivalry amongst the Twin siblings except for a couple of episodes. It's not to say that there's no trouble relating to it: one of the themes around the show is how the Twins deal with maintaining their relationship with one another while going through adulthood. The Pine Twins genuinely love each other as siblings, and whenever they express that love it's extremely heartwarming without ever coming close to saccharine. To sum it up: It's a shame that Gravity Falls often gets the short end of the stick when it comes to Disney Channel's scheduling (there's sometimes a month-long break between episodes. Why, Disney, why?), because this isn't only THE best show currently running on the Disney Channel, but also one of the best animated show currently on TV. It's humor, horror and heartwarming packed into a fun, wonderful package, and I highly recommend it to anyone missing the days of the classic Simpsons and animation with optimism.


                
After reviewing a lot of mediocre shows,I decided to do a review on this amazing show.I really really REALLY LOVE this show.It's a perfect blend of comedy and mystery and some action.The characters are all lovable and have unique personalities(my favorite is mabel).The animation is gorgeous and the voice acting is not bad either.The jokes are SOOOOOOOOOOOOO HILARIOUS!!!!!!They're similar to the jokes in phineas and ferb,only funnier.The show also has some pop cultural references(something that seems to be absent in most kid's cartoons these days)So yes,this cartoon is not only my favorite modern cartoon,it's also my favorite cartoon of ALL TIME!!!!!Yes,I love it THAT much.If you haven't seen this show,then boy,have you missed out.Just watch an episode and I guarantee that you will love it.Sadly,Disney channel does not exactly love this show(as they put this show on a million hiatuses).I also heard that they are going to cancel this show and replace it with more stupid teen sitcoms.Well,if they do that,then I'll stop watching the channel for good.So bottom line:this show is really enjoyable and is a lot better than most of the cartoons that are airing now(in fact,I find it to be more enjoyable than adventure time,my little pony:friendship is magic and phineas and ferb)
I certainly love this show! its only one of the Disney shows i would watch i love the characters a lot! the plot actually makes sense than the other Disney shows i bet Walt would be proud every time it comes on it makes me smile1.Dipper is cool,good-looking,funny and fun even though everyone else in the show doesn't think so 2.Mabel is weird,has a vibrant sweater thing in every episode,very fun,and kinda foolish3.Stan is Cheap,and old he is kinda like Mr.Krabs but funnier,i do like old people like that but without being criminals or that cheapI give it a 10 good job Alex Hirsh!


                
First of all, the characters. Dipper Pines and Mabel Pines are an excellent example of what children are without overly sugar coating it. Mabel is a stereotype on preteen girls and achieves comedy by behaving like one. However, she is not an offense to the female gender/sex because she is not overly dependent on Dipper. Dipper is also a stereotype on what an everyman looks like but as a child. He is a kid but he is also mature. He has a crush on a girl and she is quite oblivious to it. He also is not offense which is hard to find nowadays The story is that Dipper and Mabel spend too much time indoors and their parents take them to Gravity Falls with their Gruncle Stan (Grand Uncle?) and notice that something weird is up with the town. Just like classic cartoons, Gravity Falls deals with a long-term conflict and short-term conflict. They are trying to figure out the mystery behind these books that are a manual to the paranormal things in the town. But with each episode the main characters get caught up with an antagonist or a random creature. There are gnomes, sea creatures, dinosaurs, time-travelers, bottomless pits, and many other things. There are also lots of references thrown in to video games and movies from the childhoods of adults which is why this would be great for adults. There is even a Street Fighter parody episode. In terms of production, the show looks amazing. There are not that many episodes, but that's because of release dates. The music is astounding. The intro sequence has great music. It is like the Game of Thrones intro but on the level of children's television. The animations is smooth and solid. The art has excellent shading, is curvy in its style, plays well with colors, etc. Basically, this cartoon is like a modern version of old cartoons that we all used to watch when we were children, which is good because it's the best of both worlds. Highly recommended to anyone.


                
This show is actually really good. It's not just some silly kids show that has vapid lowbrow jokes. Everything is thought out and has a purpose. It actually reminds me of the Disney show The Replacements but better. It has the same smart comedy style that is suitable for adults and children alike. I was initially surprised how clever this show is as the ads and synopsis don't really do it justice, but it is much better than you would expect.Mabel is definitely my favourite character in the show. She's so hilarious and high spirited. I can't help but cringe and laugh every time she opens her mouth. The rest of the characters are fine but in my opinion Mabel is the comedic relief in a group of generic characters. But together they all work together to balance each other out so it works.So I swear, give it a go as it is actually very funny.


                
This show was amazing and there needs to be a season three. I have a problem though, because I keep watching weirdmaggedon over and over again. 10 out of 10


                
In a world where sitcoms rule the air, it seems unlikely that someone will step out of the box and be creative enough to make a well thought out, and funny animated show. Gravity Falls is one of those few shows, and boy is it good.Gravity Falls has everything right, from comedy to plots, and even mystery is a huge success in this show. I'm always pleased to see a show like this come around when Disney has only sitcoms and rarely has originality, other than combining two sitcoms for an episode, but even that is terrible.I see tons of positives and few errors. One error that could become huge is the children. I could see children not watching this show due to the confusion and weirdness it offers. If this happens, Gravity Falls could shut down, which would be a huge letdown.Unless that happens, I see a bright future for Gravity Falls on its way to gold. Watch this show 100%


                
So gravity falls is a series set in a small town Oregon called Gravtiy Falls. the premise of this is simple but the execution is beyond the cosmos itself. so the premise is that two kids Dipper and Mabel Pines move in with their uncles for the summer to find that this town is pretty much high on alien drugs. So the first episode of the show starts of quite slow with little character development (well since it's the first episode) but as of the next episode onwards each character began to be more fleshed out and their personalities become clear. For example in this episode Dipper Pines the protagonist are on a quest to show that he's not a weakling like everybody thought and it really relates to the audience since each and everyone of us HAS experience something similar that make us feel helpless. My favorite character by far is grunkle Stanley and grunkle Stanford. Both are absolutely amazing (honestly when I found out that J.K Simmons is doing Stanford's voice I screamed like a little girl) the two have honestly the most fleshed out characters since the two can only work side by side, they're a metaphor representing what the mystery twins could be, what Mabel and dipper could turn out in the future. And Stanley pines isn't just a money hungry cheat, his character is that his dad is not impress with him and doubt that he could make millions, like his brother Stanford. So grunkle Stan set out on a journey ultimately to just impress his father to win his love. The script of this movie is incredible, it's funny when it wanted to be and it hits ya at the heart when it wanted to. Ultimately it feels like a great adventure full of mysteries that people would go on the internet and make theories about, when a show managed to do that then you know that it's gotten everybody hooked on some legit Gravity Falls.The supporting cast are also great, for example this girl Wendy she isn't just another pretty or dumb teen who gets all the attention of the boys but she actually is a good person, not a gold digger or stuck up girl. Ultimately she values her best friends more than her boyfriends or regular friends, which is very nice. So all and all, at the end of the day, Gravity Falls is a blast with many twists that is sure to have jaws dropped everywhere. I recommend it very much.
You know, this show is really amazing. It pulled me in, it mystified me, it is just a true gem of cartooning (or animation if you wanna say that).I'm not good at reviews, but I can tell you this show is fun, fun not just for kids, but for everyone, even the family. If you want my opinion, I can't get enough of Gravity Falls, and I'm hoping Alex Hirsch decides to expand from three seasons to four, that's how good this show is.I really haven't seen a cartoon like this since CN started falling (some current shows are really nice however), and this is just a fantastic show that really is fun to watch (I may be repeating myself) but also has a sense of humor that keeps it fresh every episode.Plus, it constructed a continuity (or story if you want to say that) nicely, kinda like what KND did and that therefore made this wonderful in-depth world of Gravity Falls, that really immerses you, or at least it did to me, and this built-up continuity just keeps adding and adding on more mystery, secrets, and all kinds of incredible things that just has me putting the pieces together, and then one comes out of the ballpark and changes the game completely, it's incredible!All in all, I give Gravity Falls a 10/10, I honestly cannot find any faults, and to be honest, I don't want to, it's perfect.


                
How can someone come up with a show so AMAZING?!The show is full of humor, ACTUAL humor, unlike all the other shows in Disney with terrible jokes, this show has way better jokes! Not only is it filled with humor, but it's full of suspense and mystery, and the story plots are really good. The show is filled with mysteries, codes and clues to unlock, making it fun to watch to find clues. It fills you with so much suspense! The characters are awesome too! Mabel, is bubbly, silly, funny and friendly. She is sensitive and full of humor, and she is the humor part of the show! Plus waddles is so cute! Dipper is more serious and a typical nerd. He fills you with suspense after he finds the book in the forest. Grunkle stan is greedy, but he fills you with the most suspense! As one code reavealed Stan is not what he seems, and I spend my time searching to find the truth about grunkle stan.Soos, is a gentle sensitive man working in the mystery shack.Although he acts dumb, he knows a lot about gravity falls, and actually is protecting the kids from finding out the truth, as he often distracts them while weird stuff is going on.The season finale is breathtaking! Bill cipher! Oh, I forgot to mention gideon, wendy and robbie! Gideon, a phony fortune teller, has book number 2, while dipper has book 3. he is evil,and wants all the books. he also has some secrets. Wendy is a cool, rebel teenager. and robbie is a rebel teenager, who is enemies with dipper because they both want to date wendy. I don't want to put anymore spoilers but just letting you know this show is amazing!!!
