Gravity Falls is set in a town in the middle of nowhere, focusing on Dipper and Mabel, solving the mysteries of Gravity Falls.One of the things that I find really amazing about this show is the music. It's great, eerie, and enhances the mood of the scene.The characters are all great, and are all very likable and funny. The dynamics between Dipper and Mabel is one of the best parts of the show if you ask me. The way they interact with each other is the way you would think a brother and sister would act towards each other.Animation wise, it is pretty well animated. The intro's animation is impressive but the actual show isn't as amazing but still good.The show has a eerie atmosphere, but still has the heart of most of Disney shows.So overall, The show is great. The characters, eerie atmosphere, and charm make it a enjoyable watch for kids and adults.


                
This show is actually really good. It's not just some silly kids show that has vapid lowbrow jokes. Everything is thought out and has a purpose. It actually reminds me of the Disney show The Replacements but better. It has the same smart comedy style that is suitable for adults and children alike. I was initially surprised how clever this show is as the ads and synopsis don't really do it justice, but it is much better than you would expect.Mabel is definitely my favourite character in the show. She's so hilarious and high spirited. I can't help but cringe and laugh every time she opens her mouth. The rest of the characters are fine but in my opinion Mabel is the comedic relief in a group of generic characters. But together they all work together to balance each other out so it works.So I swear, give it a go as it is actually very funny.


                
This is suck a fun and mysterious show that begs for more than it gives in its season run. All I could ask for is more episodes. I would love a spin-off with any number of character(s)


                
There are very few shows I have watched that I have had to wait for years to continue watching. Most of the shows I have watched either have a new season a few months later, or I never get long enough to have to wait.But gravity falls is an exception. The first season aired form 2012 to 2013, and the second season aired from 2014 to 2016.
Ok, maybe the time between the seasons aired wasn't too long. But I didn't know how long it would take for one episode to be made, so I would wait a few months after continuing to watch. And when I first watched the show, that was a good thing. It made me really feel like I had known the characters for a while. See them grow and show new sides. So when everything ended, it was very emotional since the characters felt real.But now that watched the show again, it didn't feel nearly the same. And I think it had to do with watching the episodes as they came out and now watching the show two years after the finale. Cause the first time I watched it, I had to watch the show for around two years (With gaps between every episode). And like I said, that made it feel like everything was real.
But now that I only had to spend 8 days to watch through both seasons, I wasn't nearly as invested. Cause I felt like I didn't know the characters as much.
It could be that I have gotten more critical with the media I watch, but I am very certain that it has to do with the time I spent watching the show.And that's why I think watching a show as it airs makes you more invested. Maybe not scientifically accurate, but that's my experience.But even though I wasn't as invested as the first time I watched the show, I still really liked it. My favorite part was by far Bill Cipher. It wasn't really his writing that was so good, rather it was the art direction they went with him. You know, with all the symbols and weird things he does. But I also really liked how he represented what Dipper wants. That he knows about everything and everyone, something that Dipper tries to achieve. But that he sees how messed up he would become if that would ever happened.
So yeah. I rewatched Gravity Falls recently. Didn't like it as much, but I can see why I would love it. Weak 9/10
Well, as a kid of the late 90s I grew up on shows like GummyBears, DuckTales and TaleSpin and I still consider them as the best of its kind. Shows like Kim Possible and Amarican Dragon where a fresh new start for the 2000 period, but series like Phineas and Ferb and not to mention FishHooks were more then disappointing, so when Gravity Falls started I had no good feeling. And I was so wrong.Twins Mabel and Dipper have to spend their summer with their great uncle Stan in an little town called Gravity Falls. Summer seems to end up lame, until Dipper discovers a mysterious journal and from now on an great adventure begins.The writing is clever, the animation is fitting to the tone and the characters are more then perfect. Dipper and Mabel are the best characters so far, there is so much to say about them that I don't have enough room for it, and if you don't get interested into the other characters (which is not possible) you will watch the show only because of those two.The only "negativ" point is maybe that it can be too scary for some younger kids and I personally don't get the humor sometimes, but its just a small point.All in all, I recommend it truly


                
The first season was completely filled with flat, banal humor akin to the "captain obvious", occasionally accompanied by stupid and absurd actions of the characters (during a quiet retreat from the danger to play a loud toy, seriously? No, seriously!?). Well, sometimes there were really interesting and worthwhile episodes.
In the second season, there was less of such foolish things. The second season was much more ... adult. In terms of "acting" and behaviors. And it was much more interesting. After the second season, I understood why the series had such a rating and at the same time did not understand why it was all right to draw these almost useless snot / series in the first season by 20 eps.
Well, in general. I agree with the rating and reviews about the series. It is very good and in some places touches on good topics, but only if viewed from the side of children. And I absolutely do not understand the fanaticism of this series by adults.


                
This is one of the best cartoon if have seen in past 10-15 years. Biggest point about this cartoon has is that not only it has a good production value but it also has a plot ... and not a bad plot but really a good one which kind of like is of conspiracy theory style , paranormal theme ..... the plot is something even good cartoons lack these days but its plot is well though out and up until now i am not disappointed with most of the episodes ... 2nd thing good about this cartoon is its voice actors .... some of the voice acting is done by cartoon's creator himself while other are done by famous voice actors .... i want to specially take about the voice actor of main character Mabel done by famous comedian Kristen Schaal which brings the Mabel character to life ...... 3rd thing good about this cartoon is the Easter Eggs and clues which are embedded into this cartoon which gives clues about the plot and the creators of this cartoon have gone on great length to put these clues ...this is some i have never seen before in any cartoon which makes this cartoon more interesting ......


                
My gosh this show is amazing. It's hilarious, it's so much fun to watch, and there isn't a single episode that is bad. It has so many fun plot twists and elements in the story that all connect together in a really strange way. It's mind blowing. It's extremely entertaining. The characters are so great and interesting. The dialogue is so funny and memorable. We feel for the characters: Dipper, Mabel, Stan, Ford, and countless others. And shockingly this show has only forty episodes but it has been out for four years! Do yourselves a favor and watch this show. It's amazing and you will not regret it. This is my favorite Disney show since Good Luck Charlie.


                
Well done Disney! You have done it again.It's not easy to find a show that will be entertaining for the whole family. Gravity Falls is one of those rare gems in midst of the mediocrity that is aired on Disney Channel these days. I still have not managed to watch all of the episodes, I have barely begun! From I have seen thus far I am impressed. The characters are great and the 2D animation is not usually my style but it's decent. I particularly like Bill Cipher, he makes an interesting antagonist. Easily one of Disney's most powerful villains.I look forward to seeing the remaining of the show. Although GF is time consuming, it's really worth the watch.


                
