Wow, Wow this was simply perfection. Everyone or almost everyone knows the story of O.J...but not like this. It goes behind the scenes of each character and shows their raw emotion. Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark was fantastic, Courtney B. Vance as Johnny Cochran was riveting and Sterling K. Brown as Christopher Darden was perfection. John Travolta, David Schwimmer, and Cuba Gooding Jr were all excellent as well. The acting is what makes the story. The subject matter is disturbing, the brutal deaths of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman are tragic and this does not make a mockery of their deaths.


                
I'm not a US Resident, so this didn't affect me in the way it seemed to affect American audiences, especially considering I'm under 25 and as such, OJ Simpsons trial was before my time. All of this culminated in a set of fresh eyes watching the OJ Simpson trial play out in a fictional setting. I really enjoyed 'The People v. O.J. Simpson, American Crime Story', it was well written, well acted, and the editing was incredible. Obviously I know this is based on a true story, however, because of the aforementioned fresh eyes - I was able to enjoy this thoroughly and became engrossed in the story, as opposed to the details.One thing that really stood out for me was the time dedicated to setting the scene within the first ten minutes of the first episode. We're given information about the racial tensions of the day (RE; 1992 L.A Riots) and this helps establish the tone and world that this show will be exhibiting for us. Many people have remarked that Cuba Gooding Jr wasn't a convincing OJ- for me though this wasn't an issue. Even after researching OJ Simpson and watching the original trial tapes on YouTube, I still think Cuba Gooding Jr did a brilliant job at capturing OJ's shady essence within his very nuanced performance. Marcia Clark was written and portrayed as a strong, flawed, and determined woman, and Sarah Paulson's acting was superb and worthy of her accolades and awards.Overall 'The People v. O.J. Simpson, American Crime Story' was a brilliant Miniseries, and one I would very much watch again. It very much captures the story of OJ Simpson in a way that feels authentic (minus any actual discrepancies) and makes for a very compelling piece of television.
If I have to describe this series in one line, I would say, "A series worth your time". Never during the entire series will you feel the need to move an inch in your seat. The makers of the show have stuck to the facts and presented it in an ensemble of plot twists.One thing which I found very interesting during the entire series was that I was constantly switching sides; often sympathizing with the prosecutors and often sympathizing with the defendants (read court drama).Towards the end of the show you find it difficult to understand who the protagonists and who the antagonists are. And I believe that is what makes a series worth watching, isn't it?


                
This series had me hooked since the first episode.Not being born around the time of the O.J Simpson trial, I only heard about it referenced here and there, I never realized the full complexity of this trial until I studied it in American Government. I loved studying this case, and once I heard this series existed, I was excited.Cuba Gooding Jr. does an amazing job portraying O.J. Simpson. Complete with all the emotions, and dialogue, it's almost a perfect replica. David Schwimmer playing as Robert Kardashian is a great fit. You can see how Robert slowly starts to turn on his best friend as more and more evidence comes out. John Travolta playing as Robert Shapiro does such at great job. You are going to hate this character, and John Travolta makes sure you do. With just the cast list I've listed, you already have a great cast. There's even more big names that fit their characters perfectly.The constant conflicts in the plot keep the viewer hooked. You have the love tension between the prosecutors, you have the tensions with the media and this case, you have the tensions of the jury being in one of the longest cases in America, and the conflicts of O.J.'s lawyers and who should be lead. It captures you and makes you want to keep watching, even though you know the whole case already.This whole entire series was incredible, and they even add a "Where Are They Now?" credits scene which really helps out viewers. If you haven't seen this, you need to.


                
