I watched this film on the opening night, and I was extremely perplexed walking out. The first thing that puzzled me was how on earth the film got away with a PG rating. I figured it this way. It was trying to be a kids adventure film, but was so poor that it needed to compensate through over the top violence and horror. So my puzzlement was how on earth Lucas and Spielberg managed to bend the arms of the censors to get their PG rating, which allowed them to keep on marketing the film as children’s fare. And the other thing that puzzled me was that the movie was over before it had even started. I hadn’t noticed a story starting anywhere, so I was wondering how the movie could have finished. In other words, there was no film, just a blaze of action, and then suddenly the lights coming on. I heard someone comment on the way out, “I’ve never seen anything like that before.” I don’t know if she meant it in the same way as I did, but it was exactly my sentiment. I had never seen anything like that before! A film that’s not a film at all! Just an excuse to put one action sequence after another. In fact, the censors should have banned the film on account of its having no story. How could Lucas and Spielberg get away with this?! The overall impression I got was that there’s something very rotten going on in the film world now.The above response was instantaneous, and it was before all the legend around this film had grown up. I didn’t think the film was going to be a hit. In fact, I thought it was going to fall flat on its face. But the film went on to break box-office records everywhere, and after the legend had cemented, I started to have different feelings. I reasoned that I may have missed something the first time, and after reading the umpteenth glowing review the film began to look better in my memory. However a recent viewing helped to dispel all these false notions. It must be stated out and out. This film is bad!!! There’s nothing more to be said about it, but there’s a lot to be said about the audience. I think it’s high time that we said a few things about the “movie brats” and the popular appeal that they court. The thing started proper with Star Wars in 1977, and this is where the Raiders phenomenon begins really. Star Wars is an equally bad movie, but it had a few things going for it. It was presented as a myth, or fairy tale, for the modern age, and it worked too. Three reasons for this. One, the groundbreaking special effects gave it an epic quality, exactly in keeping with the space mythology being presented. Two, the Hollywood narrative was totally disbanded, giving way for an episodic structure. This helped the myth-making, because without a narrative drive people could read whatever they liked into the movie. And three, the notion of an omnipotent “force”, with both a good and dark side, captured the imagination of a world moving towards “new ageism”. So, Star Wars started it all, and the “new age” of the Hollywood blockbuster had begun. These films don’t rely on the traditional virtues of film anymore. Their aim is no wow audiences with something else, more specifically, the expensive, special effects laden set piece. They cater to the New Age mindset of “me me me”. People don’t go to the watch the stories of other people anymore. They go to participate in the megalomania of the filmmakers who were making inflated films with inflated budgets and inflated subjects. It was the “me me me” for the filmmakers, and the vicarious “me me me” for the viewers. In short, the pornography of self worth. And Raiders is only another early landmark in this trend.Lucas and Spielberg claim to be reviving the B movie adventure serials of the thirties, but there is something horribly ingenuous here. B movies are cheaply done, purely escapist, and never meant to draw attention to themselves. A film like Raiders does nothing but draw attention to itself. It’s only an excuse to use the episodic structure, so that one set-piece can be followed by another without worrying about character or plot. But all this doesn’t explain why Raiders became so popular. I guess the secret lies in the hero – Indiana Jones. When Star Wars kicked off the whole thing, there was an epic but no hero. Luke Skywalker is in no sense a hero. Only Hans Solo has a semblance of heroic about him, but was much too roguish. I guess the original idea was to get Harrison Ford a new vehicle so that he could be a braver and less cynical Hans Solo. So that’s my theory. Raiders is only a continuation of Star Wars, supplying the hero which the first film sorely lacked. So Indiana Jones comes along, and the definitive American hero for the “new age” is born. He is up to his neck in Hollywood excess and that’s all that matters.So don’t be fooled by all these reviews here that praise this film to the skies, calling it escapist fun. There may have been some thrills for the audience back in 1981, but most of the excitement was from the audacity of breaking with tradition, ignoring story and engagement with the characters, concentrating on spectacle and excess, and participating in an experience of concerted megalomania. After Star Wars, this film really cemented the ground for Hollywood excess. Most of the people here are not judging the film itself. When people say that Star Wars is good, I think they are in their New Age pious mood. The same sort of thing when they say that Raiders is good.


                
i really don't get what people see in this film. it looks cheap. the story is cheap. the acting is poor. this is by far the worst film by Spielberg. first, i thought "okay, if that film is directed by Spielberg, it should be fun with a little bit of brain at least." but then i couldn't believe it. in every long minute of the film i asked myself "when will the story begin?" and after two hours i was completely disenchanted and yearned to the end. in my opinion the film is just for fans of poor action who give a damn about a good plot. seeing this film rated for one of the best ever makes me cry. really cry. 1/10


                
This is a grade Z movie, just the mindless piece of garbage known under the name of "Spielberg's classics": one-dimensional cartoonish characters, no more intelligent than a condom commercial.Don't be fooled by their appearance. They are just apes in human suites. Watching the movie gave me the experience of a Discovery Channel documentary involving animal behavior. They seem to have no seing of reality above their own immediate needs such as territory and reproduction.However, they are not 4 millions old remainings of apelike ancestors, but modern idiotized masses reduced to the lower level of humanity. I would doubt Spielberg would be one of them. He clearly knows how to profit out of other people uneducation and genetic-inherited stupidity.


                
I had to watch this film because of a film arts class that I am in. I've heard so much about this movie, and I expected it to be fantastic. People said things like "SETS A NEW BAR!", "WILL KEEP YOU ON THE EDGE OF YOUR SEAT!" and even "BEST FILM EVER MADE!". I was genuinely disappointed after watching this film. It was just a bunch of mindless explosions and chase scenes. However,I understand that a great deal of people do in fact enjoy watching this kind of film and that I should have expected this kind let down from an action film. Although,on the same note, I expected it to have more substance. I probably would have appreciated it more if it had maybe, oh, I don't know, a real plot or story of some kind. The insignificant story line it did have was so hard to follow anyways because of all the explosions,crashing and fighting. It could have been so much better.


                
This is it, folks, it doesn't get any better than this. You know the plot, you know the music, but trust me- this is the one to see. Harrison Ford at his peak, Karen Allen is perfect (why in the world did Spielberg not use her again? She was far superior to the whiny Kate Capshaw) and every supporting actor is spot on. This is the one that started it all, for better or for worse. I'm of the school that thinks the sequels were inferior retreads, but that's neither here nor there- this is a great movie and you should see it already!


                
Ever since I became a movie fan, my taste for dazzling action has been cultivated by movies from the late 1990s up to the present, such as The Matrix Trilogy, Spider-Man, X-Men, Blade, and the awesome Underworld franchise. Having been used to these movies, my standard is high. If something looks fake, I will think of what Sir Ridley Scott said about fake scenes, "I don't f..king believe it!"Today, I finally finished watching the so-called classic, the first instalment of the Indiana Jones franchise. It almost put me to sleep twice. The story is slow-paced, but the problem is the movie never picks up the pace. It drags on and on. The opening scene in the cave with the spiders were interesting. And that's it. Gradually, I began sleep-watching. The movie never engages. There was never a moment when the protagonist was in grave danger. Yeah, he got trapped in a tomb. Whatever... When I woke up, I was not surprised to see that he had managed to get himself out. The movie was that predictable.Do not think that I cannot appreciate old movies. I like the 1979 timeless classic, ALIEN. That movie does not look dated at all, even seen today, due to the way it was shot.Raiders of the Lost Ark is god awful. It looks dated. So is Star Wars (1977).
Just watched this classic again after a long while. This time a blue-ray release. Some idiot has cut away the wonderful "submarine diving while Indy on deck" - scene. Somebody should rot in Hell... I'm not absolutely sure if anything else has been altered but I had some kind of weird feeling through the earlier stages of the movie that everything wasn't as it should have been. The submarine scene-cutting however was a dead giveaway. Isn't anything sacred in this world? Has Spielberg developed alzheimers? Shame! Shame! Shame!


                
If adventure has a name...it must be Indiana Jones. That line says it right there. The contrast between this movie and all of the heros before it was that Indy was human. He gets hurt, unlike his predecessor James Bond. With whip and revolver in hand, Indiana was an exotic hero. Indy was sofisticated (a college professor), he was handsome and adventurous. Harrison Ford was liked by all audiences, women found him attractive, men found him daring. Qualities found in Brittish spy, James Bond. Most people know now that Steven Spielberg was denied the directors position for a 007 film. He teamed up with George Lucas to make an American hero- Indiana Jones. There are many parallels between the two characters, but I'm not going to get into that. Another thing that made Raiders great was the plot itself. An archeologist travels around the world to find the Ark of the Covenant- the ark that contained the 10 Commandments and was said to have special powers. Indy gets entangled with a rival French archeologist who is working with the Nazis. An amazing story which keeps you on the edge of your seat for the entire time. What keeps you there is not just the plot or action sequences, it is also the score by John Williams. Some of the best soundtracks are from John Williams (Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Superman). This adrenaline-pumping score of the Raiders March makes you wish you had a theme song everytime you walked into a room. This is a great movie, it should be seen by anyone who enjoys a good adventure.


                
If u have much time and want to spend it .see this movie


                
Although I've seen "Raiders of the Lost Ark" several times, my boyfriend made me gain a new enthusiasm for it. It's really a fantastic movie that has to be seen by everyone. And it's the kind of movie that you appreciate more every time you see it. I think it's one of Steven Spielberg's greatest movies, and one of Harrison Ford's most memorable roles. I definitely recommend this movie, so go out and see it if you never have, and watch it again if you have.


                
