This adventure flick, which mixes the Western movie formula and special effects in their infant days, represents the American mainstream cinema in the early 80s in many ways. The protagonist Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is a scholar and an action hero; this combination is unique but the uniqueness has nothing to do with the character development and seems to be the result of the filmmakers' thoughtless decision. The portrayal of the heroine Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen) is also inconsistent; sometimes she is tough and independent, while frail and dependent on Indiana Jones in the other times. Along with a dragging optimistic story, overly stretched action scenes may be beyond the audience's attention span. The Reaganomix overshadows the plot, where the Americans can do whatever they want in foreign places (South America, Nepal, and Cairo). The sets of Nepal and Cairo look nothing but sets, while John Williams' score, with a catchy melody line by brilliant brass in the Late Romanticism taste, annoyingly accentuates every single action.


                
I've been avoiding Indiana Jones like the plague until tonight when I decided to see what it's all about. And boy was I in for a treat! I was laughing so hard at every action scene! The music was so laughable, Harrison Ford played worse than Paris Hilton sings and every cliché imaginable was there.The plot is virtually non-existent during the first half of the movie and when the real action finally kicks in, you see Dr. Jones escaping from difficult situations with unbelievable ease, the ridiculous music score serving as another way of applauding his actions. Those were the best bits. Because then you have the totally random ending that turns your laughter into a WTF expression.The characters are paper-thin - not to mention Spielberg's obsession with the Germans (or anyone non-American or non-Jewish) who have to be depicted as either superevil or superstupid.Unintentionally funny, totally predictable and a waste of money and film. How anyone with an average IQ can enjoy this is beyond me.


                
I'm not going to spend much time on this as I am obviously in a massive minority by not liking it. It's taken me 20 years to finally see this film through to the end.It just bores me completely. It's a part James Bond film, which I've never had any time for. It doesn't seem any better than the 'Mummy' or 'Tomb Raider' type films (ZZZZZZ) where the dialogue is largely incidental & which you can watch with the volume turned down and still follow. They generally concern some pre-historic torch, urn, key, lump of dog turd, that has special powers, that the hero needs to get his hands on & that just doesn't make for an interesting film.I just cannot get into films like this & never have any interests whether they achieve what they're after. In this there were a lot of scenes which seemed to be filling in time. First the Nazi's had the initiative, then Jones, then back to the Nazi's again and this went on & on & on, to the point that it wasn't dis-similar from a Steven Seagal or Van Damme film. Apart from the obvious superior quality of acting in this, the fighting scenes were sometimes laughable.Karen Allen threw in some incredibly wooden acting in her cliched lines she was given. The "I'm your partner" was almost cringe making.There seems an unwritten rule that you are not allowed to comment on Raiders of the Lost Ark without mentioning Star Wars for some reason. So I love Harrison Ford films, I like George Lucas & certainly don't dislike Spielberg. Thus, I have Star Wars as one of only a dozen films in my list at 10/10, it's almost perfect. I myself, wouldn't mention this in the same breath as Star Wars. You immediately feel a part of Star Wars & it's wonderful characters, neither of which apply here.This film has never taken off in England to the extent it has done in the US. I know plenty of adults who've never seen it & many who are not mad over it. But I'll admit I've never found anyone who genuinely dislikes it. Apart from me!3/10


                
The "raiders of the ark" is probably a genre by itself.It is not an action film. You should not expect more than a couple of gunfires and some whisp tricks. Is it realistic? Not at all, except if you consider that a man can move a pyramid's hone to escape from the pyramid.It is not humoristic, either (is there a single play on words?). Actually, it is rather completely stupid. A typical scene is the guy who sees a skeleton and howls like a fool for five seconds.The scenario is very boring. There is not a single second of suspense.Ironically, what makes the film watchable is the soundtrack. No, actually, it is not sufficient, I stopped watching near the end.Really, I don't understand how many people can consider this crap deserves to be watched. How can it be in the top 250 ?


                
I can't understand how this movie got rated so high. It is just yet another stupid action movie and I found really NOTHING remarkable about it. I don't think someone else could get a movie with more kitsch even if one tried, I guess that's what they mean when they say that the movie is one of a kind. It is full of silly one-liners, same idiotic comedy "combat" and the (how could we do without) sexy heroine that's there only to give some sex moments. There was no plot I could spot, I mean, unless you count the "nazis digging artifact. Indiana Jones must get artifact from them" as plot". Could it get more stupid?? I could go talking for several pages what I disliked about this movie but I'd be just wasting my time I guess. Each to his own. For a good adventure movie I'd suggest people to see "The Man who would be King" instead. *seriously p****d off*


                
This film is for me a complete mystery.Is it a "pastiche", a parody of "good ole time" adventure movies? In this case Lucas & Spielberg missed the target.Or did they simply make fun of us?


                
