It's the first part of adventures trilogy , going on the way of the 30s classic films and the Comics-Books language. The picture blends comedy,adventures action,rip roaring,cliff hunger,tongue-in-cheek and is extremely entertaining and fun . The archaeologist Indiana Jones with his bull whip-wielding and hat will confront dastard Nazis (Ronald Lacey) in Peru, Nepal and Egypt to the obtaining the Moiseh ark with the Covenant's tables . He's only helped by two feisty adventurers (Karen Allen and John Rhys Davies) . Indy fights nasty Arabs , decodes hieroglyphics and faces off hundreds of snakes . The movie attempts to go on the path from great classics during the 30-40s and the comic-books narrative along with the special characteristics of the terror cinema of 80 decade.Dr.Indiana executes feats of derring-do in various exotics countries. The action highlights include the opening sequence in a Peruvian jungle temple and the creepy and spooky final, but some scenes aren't for squeamish kids . It's realized in James Bond style and high-adventure and it is driven with enormous , formidable fair-play . This breathtaking movie has a number of scenes that will have you on the edge of your seat, but the action never lets up . The enjoyable screenplay was wonderfully written by George Lucas (film's producer) , Philip Kauffman and Lawrence Kasdan . In the picture there're several exotic locations , cliff-hangers, tongue-in-cheek , daring escapes , rip-roaring , derring-do , it is a very bemusing cinematic roller-coaster ride . It's a throw-back to old-fashioned Technicolor amusement with hints of serial with thousands of dollars in budget .Harrison Ford interprets masterfully the daredevil and brave archaeologist transformed into an action man . Karen Allen plays his untameable and impulsive couple who'll have a little romance with Indy . The movie has great loads of action , special effects galore and the habitual and excellent , as always , John Williams musical core . Dazzling action set-pieces are stunningly mounted by Steven Spielberg . The film has entered the lists of ten most popular of all time . It is followed by ¨Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom¨ and¨ The last Crusade¨. And by the TV series ,also produced by George Lucas : ¨The young Indiana Jones¨with Sean Patrick Flannery .It's a must see for the adventures fans . Rating : Awesome.


                
A rip-roaring adventure with lots of hand-to-hand battles and plenty of guns means only one thing: entertainment for the whole family! There's not too much blood and gore, but it's still way up there in the body count department. Much of the thrill of this beloved movie is in the fright factor, so cadavers, snakes, spiders, and nasty villains (mostly Nazis and Nazi sympathizers) also abound. Throughout the film, there is a parade of anti-Nazi symbolism and sly religious satire. Harrison Ford is the embodiment of Indiana Jones -- dry, fearless, and as indestructible as a cartoon coyote. The female lead in an Indiana Jones movie is sort of an honorary boy, no more sexual than the girls in boys' adventure magazines, although Marian can more than take care of herself and is not helpless in the face of danger. The special effects, astonishing at the time, are still amazing, and Lucas' experience of "Star Wars" is visible. The movie is just plain fun.


                
This is an adventure film and perhaps one of the best.Indiana Jones, the archaeology professor takes us on an adventure and lets us know about things that we never knew. I am not sure if they ever existed but as along as I am on fun ride, I am pretty happy with the fiction element of the ride. And this one is a fun ride and good one too. Having said that, I still can't say if it still has the charm of 1981 (rather I saw it first time in 2002) but as I saw it today, it made a fun ride. Thanks to Harrison Ford for carrying the style and flamboyance needed and to Steven Spielberg and George Lucan and team who made this INDY possible. It's an adventure of 1930's and art direction and cinematography are superb. The music which has now became a signature tune even to film awards in India is gonna stay with us for a long time. Some film makers have claimed this film to be changing their mind and pulling them into films, example Nagesh Kukunoor. So the impact of the film is understandable and yet is extensive. The special effects are nowhere when compared to what we have today, but it was made but what was there in 1981 and boy, I must say it will stand better than many special effects films even 100 years later. The best thing probably is the setup, there is a dialogue initially to help us understand what is the purpose of the adventure and then once the adventure rolls in, we are put aback by thrills and stunts and more than anything, the enigma of a charismatic man called Indiana Jones.I would go with 4/5 and recommend it to all those adventure and fun loving guys. And for all the parents, your kids will love this film more than the recent crap films like JOURNEY or anything. I strongly believe this.


                
Indiana Jones is still an enduring and timeless classic in every way a great film should be. I can watch this movie when I'm a graying, senile 90 years old grandmother and still LOVE IT! The story, acting, suspense, adventure, thrills, chills and everything in between is universal and timeless. It doesn't get better than this combo of Lucas, Ford and Spielberg!Some of the photography, pacing and ending Special Effects is dated a bit, but I think Ford's charisma, charm and ruggedness still holds up with age. He's still so dreamy I'm still in love ;) Worth a rewatch if you haven't seen it in years like me!


                
I was so amazed to see a movie like this from those days of 1981. Spielberg magic...!!


                
I remember watching this film in 1996 as part of a school project. We get an adventurer, his mission to find a biblical artifact, and the Third Reich at his heels. It's basically a throwback to the 1920s and 1930s adventure serials that told the sagas of service members battling German soldiers around the world. And that's what you get here. Harrison Ford was great for the role, and now that I'm older I like this film role of his better than Han Solo and all the others. I also like Indiana Jones better than I like James Bond. The women aren't too cliched as damsels in distress and Karen Allen does justice in this film as the streetwise love interest of the main hero. And those locations; what a way to go! From South America to an island in the Mediterranean. After watching my dad's VHS tapes, I became a fan. This is my second-favorite Indy film (after Last Crusade).


                
I find that the third movie of this series is the best, but the first is certainly done well too. Indy is well played by Harrison Ford, as is Marion by Karen Allen along with the supporting roles of Sallah and Belloq. The action is good for the time it was made, and the storyline is solid with good characters. The only time the effects and acting were really lacking was in the climatic scene with the spirits within the ark making all of the Nazis bleed to death on the spot. The dialogue flows well throughout as does the general plot. I might have spent less time in the streets of Cairo had I made the movie, but apart from that I don't really have any complaints. This film has the classic spirit of a hero that can overcome almost anything with help. That sort of thing appeals to modern audiences less, but isn't necessarily bad, considering that the lack of that type of hero tends to result in a somewhat annoying 'save the world' type of plot that this movie doesn't have. I like this film better than some other Spielberg movies like Jaws and Jurassic Park because the characters and the movie itself have more personality. The theme by John Williams is pretty good, though I think he sometimes tries to make his songs sound good on their own and not fit the scene and consequently not really come out sounding good on their own. It's good about not letting the religiously historical plot turn it into some kind of morality lecturing movie. The graphics on some of the gore and the sound effects are less than perfect, but that's coming from someone who has had movies with Lord of the Rings quality special effects around his whole life. Still, the explosions are much better than in Independence Day which was made 16 years later. As a whole, the movie is a good classic that I give an 8.2, but would probably be rated better had it been made 30 years later.
Harrison Ford was pushed into Hollywood A-list and became a movie icon with his famous role here, as Indiana Jones. A University teacher of Archeology, and also a tough guy adventurer who risks his life in searches for ancient artifacts in dangerous jungles and deserts.Director Steven Spielberg made this as an homage to the adventure serials of the 1930's/40's and it works superbly from start to finish.The movie begins with one of the most iconic opening sequences of all time. It's action packed and exciting and tells you everything you need to know about Indiana Jones within moments, before the main plot kicks in, which focuses on Indy's quest to get hold of the mystical Ark of the covenant before the Nazi's do.Despite been considered a classic action adventure, there's quite a few long sequences throughout where the action stops. But it never becomes dull because there's always something interesting happening or something visually stunning to look at. But when the action scenes arrive they are exciting and memorable, and are much better executed than any movie made nowadays that rely heavily on CGI. Just pure stunt work and real explosions, and the tone of the movie just has the right amount of seriousness and humour to it, which makes the plot and the action even better. The special effects still hold up after all these years and even if they do look a bit cartoon-like it actually adds to the movie because of it's intentional references to older Hollywood B-movies.Ford really makes the movie but he has a fine cast to support him. Karen Allen as his love interest Marion, Paul Freeman as his rival Belloq, John Rhys-Davies as his friend Sallah, and of course who can forget one of the most menacing and creepiest villains to appear in a family movie, Ronald Lacey as a Nazi officer.Everything about the movie is terrific. The cast, direction, cinematography, and last but not least John Williams' memorable score, which perfectly fits the protagonist and Spielberg's tongue in cheek tone.
Indiana Jones is, I think, one of the best characters in cinema history. A whip-cracking adventurer, he searches for missing treasures while fighting evil. In this film, Indy is hired by the U.S. Government to find the Ark of the Covenant. It is believed that it holds the ten commandments, and he and his ex-flame Marion must also fend off Hitler agents from getting their hands on it. What results is a movie with pure adventure and entertainment; a brilliant cast, great direction, rousing music score (John Williams' Indiana Jones themes is probably one of the most recognizable and memorable in movie history) and beautiful place settings, from the villages of Egypt to the Arc of the Covenant. It's a great film, but I personally enjoyed Temple of Doom and the Last Crusade more. I just think the stories and action to those two films were more spirited and compelling. Just a funny note, as Indiana Jones being of the most memorable fictional characters, I actually parodied him in a college skit. It was fun; our skit was voted the best in the class.Grade B


                
Harrison Ford acts brilliantly as a 1930's superhero/ Anthropologist. This film and its predecessors kept me at the end of my seat. I found few if any boring moments in this movie. The story line kept me guessing and wondering if all would turn out well. Even the love story parts kept me watching with held breath. The story kept me guessing about what events were to unfold and I never did predict them correctly. This movie is an original and stands out as a real classic. Harrison Ford was at his best. The story never looses its pace and stays believable. In addition this is a film where the characters have been well developed and the script stays clear and clean.


                
This was one of the best movies. I absolutely loved it. Who could forget the scene where Indiana Jones is facing the samurai warrior, a seemingly unbeatable opponent with all his fancy sword tricks, and Indy casually pulls out his gun and shoots him. And if you don't think that's funny, when he attempts the same thing a second time later in the movie only to find out he has no gun, you should at least crack a smile. If you don't...you're hopeless. This movie was hilarious and if you haven't seen it you should.


                
This is a famous classic action packed film. I don't say this often but this film is definitely a must watch if you haven't seen it because it's just so perfect and has that charm to it.


                
I like how every Indiana has a gruelling scene and this film's is by far the gruelliest! Harrison Ford's performance here was on point!


                
Steven Spielberg's film still looks sexy after more than three decades. Spielberg and George Lucas gave Harrison Ford (who had worked with Lucas previously in Star Wars) a unique role, as an adventurer and lover of the archaeologist named Henry Jones Jr. - known as Indiana Jones, or just Indy.
He works as a professor wearing glasses, but in holidays he adventurer does not know fear, with his hat. When the Nazis discover the whereabouts of the Ark of the Covenant (which will give them an unstoppable power), Jones must stop them.
In my opinion, the film has the best key I've ever seen, filled with a host of memorable pieces (such as Ford's giant rock hunt), by the great cinematographer Douglas Slokamp. In addition to John Williams who composed music nominated for Oscar, which was performed by the London Symphony.
Raiders Of The Lost Ark was the biggest box office film in 1981 and has won nine Oscars, including the best director. Winning the best art output, best editing, best sound, best visual effects and finally the best sound effects.
The cast on Ford is also good. With Paul Freeman, who plays the role of French archaeologist René Bellock, Denholm Elliott played the role of Jones' colleague at the college (Marcus Prodi). And "Karen Allen" in the role of Habiba Jones (Marion Ravenwood).
The film also adds some humor. There is a fascination and vitality for this film, which Spielberg later admitted was "the first film where I actually visualized without thinking." Really attractive film. One of the best action and adventure movies, Raiders Of The Lost Ark is really fun as a whole.
A very famous action film from the early Eighties. Harrison Ford looks so young in this film now. This was one of his iconic roles, and he chews the scenery with the best of them. The action is relentless, and despite a few plot holes, is immensely satisfying. Karen Allen looked great, and played her tough-girl role with relish. This being a Spielberg film, it is a visual spectacle, with high production values, outstanding photography, and lots of stunts and effects. Everyone should see this film.


                
'Raiders of the Lost Ark' is the first and, in my opinion, the best of the Indiana Jones films. This film is almost 40 years old but remains today one of the best and most iconic action/adventure movies of all time. For sheer entertainment value, there aren't many films that have come close to 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' since its 1981 release.What makes 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' stand out from the rest of the Indy films is the story. It's fast-paced, exciting, tense and hugely enjoyable. There are some memorable individual action scenes that put any modern day CGI dominated action sequences to shame. 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' is an iconic action movie that has stood the test of time. Definitely a classic of the genre.


                
The pinnacle of what you want out of a summer blockbuster, the Lost Ark has everything you're looking for in an adventure romp: action, suspense, daring stunts, comedy, romance, witty dialogue. This movie hits all the check marks and leaves the viewer feeling cinematically sated. The pacing is perfect and there's very very very rarely a dull moment to be had as Indie and company globetrot their way to an unforgettable climax.Some have criticized the movie for its ending, our hero doesn't save the day but instead stands tied up as we watch the Nazis become responsible for their own undoing. I see this as more of a pro than a con. This isn't the only IJ movie where the villain's thirst for power has been their downfall. I think it's meant to teach us that we need to be careful with our lusts for wealth, fame, and power. Stay humble y'all.
Indiana Jones was a great main character; he was charismatic, intelligent and quite a daredevil but also feels like a regular human and you do feel a sense of danger when he is doing dangerous things- you can clearly see that he gets quite wounded in multiple situations and he is in fact vulnerable and not like a superhero or anything. The action is amazing and incredibly well done and well shot. You can see how everything flows and the amount of tension is great as it is displayed clearly that every character is very vulnerable and can easily get hurt. All of the environments feel real and it really does feel like you're on the adventure with Indy. The practical effects are also amazing, examples include the ancient relics and also the infamous face-melting scene. Some of the special effects do look dated however (for example some of the green-screen isn't particularly great) but this was 35 years ago so I guess I can kind of forgive it and it's not too distracting but I guess if they were unable to use this technology that well then maybe they shouldn't have used it as much. This movie is rated PG and is pretty violent for a movie of that rating- there's quite a bit of blood and also the face-melting scene. They took it even further with the next instalment which resulted in a new rating needing to be created, PG-13. I can't make a review on this without mentioning the soundtrack; John Williams is just amazing. Overall, a great adventure movie with amazing action and a great main protagonist and a very fun ride. 8.3/10


                
This film marks the start of the Indiana Jones franchise. This film shows the adventures of an archaeologist/explorer, seeking valuable artifacts throughout the world. Directed by Steven Spielberg, has a screenplay by Lawrence Kasdan on an original concept by George Lucas, and with the participation of Harrison Ford in the title role.This film is based on reports on how the German Nazis sought ancient relics, considered magical, and pillaged works of art. The script proved to be functional and able to tell a story quite logically, vivid and interesting, but of course it has flaws, beginning with the complete absence of historical truth. Although the plot is situated temporally in the period immediately before the Second World War, this film had no major concerns with historical accuracy. The film also marked the collective imagination about how it may have been the Ark of the Covenant, a Judeo-Christian relic about which abound the legends and myths. Harrison Ford was fully up to the challenge and honored the audience with a strong and impressive interpretation. The sets and shooting locations make our imagination go beyond the film itself, the action scenes were good and the soundtrack, written by John Williams, quickly became one of the most famous in the movies.This film gave rise to a true cinematic and cultural icon that now everyone knows, even those who are not regular lovers of cinema.


                
All movies from Steven Spielberg are my favorites. Gremlins 1&2 are great. The Goonies are amazing. The Jurassic park films I can't get enough from. His war movies are so well made. Back to the future and go one with his movies. But the Indiana movies are for sure my number one movies from Steven Spielberg. The movie is full with good special effect. Good story lines. And the acting is perfect with this cast. Tonight I'm going to watch all 4 off them. A whole weekend long. And enjoy all of them 5 stars my number one is of course Raiders of the lost ark. The special effects in this movie are so well made by Steven Spielberg
Now, I'm not a huge Spielberg fan. I like most of his films, but not to a really high degree (the exception is Jaws, really). This is another in the long line of his films. I like it enough, but not love it. I do think it gets a little tiresome as it goes on, a little too exhausting, but it still remains fun and the first half is aces. The opening 15 minutes, in fact, are truly fantastic. Probably one of the most casually thrilling openings in a film I've ever seen. Harrison Ford remains as captivating and charismatic as he was in the Star Wars films. He's just so charming and so, so handsome and adorable. Overall, this is some good stuff, recommended.


                
Harrison Ford makes his first appearance as Indiana Jones in this exciting, highly entertaining globe-trotting adventure, which finds archaeologist and college professor Jones pursuing Nazis who are searching for the Ark of the Covenant, with which they hope to use its mystical powers to help them conquer the world in Pre-World War II[1936] days.Harrison Ford became a huge star in his own right(not just as Han Solo) and is highly appealing and capable, really making Indiana come to life in this fantastic story, helped by a fine cast featuring Karen Allen, John Rhys Davies, and Denholm Elliot. Steven Spielberg directs in a breathless and inspired way, and this film is great fun(just don't ponder its credibility too closely...)


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark introduced the world to Indiana Jones, an archetypal action hero for all generations. This film shows Indy racing with the Nazis to attempt to uncover the lost Ark of the Covenant from the Christian Bible. Through the movie he faces many dangerous scenarios, cunningly escaping with a combination of wits and physical prowess. Aided by his now-famous whip in tight confrontations, and aided by his professor's cunning in puzzle situations, he skillfully demonstrates the ability to come out on top of every encounter.In the first scene of the movie, Indiana Jones is on an expedition to some country in South America where he goes into a cave and has to outsmart different levels of puzzles to eventually get a golden idol. He evades every trap, gets to the idol, and then outruns a giant boulder to the exit. Upon arrival at the exit, his archenemy Belloq confronts him with a small army and takes the idol from him. Seeing Indy escape so many perils with such skill foreshadows his ability to escape from great peril throughout the movie. Pretty early in the movie Indy meets with a woman named Marion who will have some clue about the location of the Ark. It becomes clear that she and Indy had a romantic past and shortly thereafter we learn that she also had a past with Belloq. Whenever a movie has two archenemies and a common romantic interest, the bad guy will take the girl captive and the hero will rescue her. Believe it or not, that all happens later on.One of the subtleties that are fun to watch throughout the movie is the famous Indiana Jones hat. Throughout every action scene, whether he is in a fist fight, in a pit of snakes, leaping across a bottomless pit, or racing through busy streets knocking over baskets carried on top of people's heads, it stays on his head, never once falling to the ground. Indy's always stationary hat is an adamant reminder of his unrelenting pursuit of good. The thing that makes Harrison Ford such a good Indiana Jones is how the acting in scenes of endless crises. When he falls into a pit of snakes, with Marion, and the "tomb" gets sealed by Belloq, Ford doesn't revert to cheesy facial expressions or unnecessary gimmicks; instead he faces it with a calm demeanor that shows his analyst nature, always looking for the light at the end of the tunnel. One of the less subtle things that are pervasive is the use of the Nazis. They are shallowly developed characters, but that isn't necessary to the storyline. What keeps the story going is the symbolic motif that "Nazis are bad" with anti-Nazi instigations. Nazi symbols burst into flame when near the Ark, the Nazis are all killed when they open the Ark, and when Indy tries to cling to a Mercedes-Benz hood ornament it snaps right off, Mercedes being a German company. The anti- Nazi symbolism used throughout the movie is pervasive enough to be noticed and humored but small enough to not create any serious backlash.The biggest thing that bothers me about solo action hero movies is that there is never any real fear for the main character. With only one main good guy, when he is in peril early on in the movie, there is always the notion that he will unduly escape and save the day. When a movie encompasses a group of good guys that the story connects, then the audience gets more fearful knowing that at any time anybody in the group could die. Indiana Jones is the sole purpose for this film, so putting him into danger as early as the first scene isn't necessarily for the danger aspect, but simply to build his character and reputation. Indiana Jones is the, not a, the, archetypal action hero. You can replace dozens of action heroes in other movies with Indiana Jones and you will often find the same result: Good guy saves the day, bad guys lose. Indy set the tone for generations to come for being a noble and skillful hero without accrediting fame or fortune: he taught when he wasn't on an adventure.
Harrison Ford, Karen Allen, Paul Freeman, John Rhys-Davies and Denholm Elliott star in Steven Spielberg's 1981 adventure. This takes place in 1936 where we meet professor/archaeologist, Henry "Indiana" Jones (Ford) who is hired to locate the famous, Ark of the Covenant. It's no easy task when he's surrounded by snakes and enemies trying to kill him. He also reunites with his late friend's daughter, Marion Ravenwood (Allen) who has a medallion given to her by her father that can pinpoint the location of the Ark. Indiana finds it and Marion gets kidnapped by French archaeologist, Rene Belloq (Freeman) who plans to open the Ark before delivering it to Nazi leader, Adolph Hitler. Soon, Indiana, attempts to rescue Marion and he, Marion and Belloq discover the Ark's powerful secret. Davies (The Living Daylights) plays Indiana's friend, Sallah and the late, Elliott (Trading Places) plays his other friend, Marcus Brody. This is definitely one of Ford & Spielberg's best with a good cast, neat effects and excellent score by John Williams as usual. I recommend this classic.
I loved this film, it's got every bit of the great things to make it a film with high ratings: action, adventure, romance, comedy. I thought the film was great but the snakes in the well of souls had scared me to death. I loved the scene when the cobra stood up right in front of Indy and the way his face looked when he was backing away from the snake. I laughed at the way his face looked. I loved the way the ark looked. I am still wondering if that is the real ark or a fake one. I liked the scene at the ending when the spirits came out and the power of the ark was revealed: death. I was scared to death when the camera had shown all of those snakes in the well of souls. I will never forget that part of the film. I hope there is another film like this!
