After all the good reviews and as a fan of European films I was so much looking forward to this film - but I ended up being so disappointed. The film was supposed to be set in the aftermath of the Paris riots but for all the film portrayed it could have been after a bit of rain. There was no sense of anger, loss or hopelessness - just a bunch of young men moaning and brooding. These men were so unsympathetic I lost any kind of concern for them very early on. To me they just seemed a bunch of me, me,me victim-mentality that is all too common now. The dialogue was trying to be real and urban but it just came across as stilted. Anyway this film drones on and on without any plot twists, change of pace or building of tension. The obvious "tragic" ending couldn't have come soon enough for me. I am sure this is a case of "emperors new clothes" and most of the people who say they like it are just saying it. Not a patch on "irreversible", "City of god" "Im not Scared" etc


                
Typical left-wing ideological garbage! If this film purports to be a critique of society, it's own aim is foiled by this approach which does itself absolutely no favors.In Australia, Victoria in particular, we have nothing but fairy's for police. We would gladly swap what we have for the decent policing rather than the pansy hand-holders we've got at the moment.Some of these uppity rejects from other countries need a good slap around the ears rather than attempting to hold their host countries to ransom!This film is so biased in its approach, the most it does is to reinforce the stereotypes it so pathetically seeks to dispel!


                
Two hours of your time that you can never get back! If you are a high school drop-out, into drugs and have no purpose in life you'll love this movie. Otherwise, just stay away from this bullshit for your own sake!The story is based on how three idiots spend their day doing absolutely nothing good for either themselves or anybody else. And you know what's gonna happen in the end from the first 10 minutes on. The only reason I watched the whole thing is that I never leave a movie unfinished so that I have an idea. I wonder what kind of people voted 10 out of 10 for this movie and made me wanna watch it by putting this crap in top 250 movies of all time. Generally IMDb top 250 movies rarely disappoint me, but this one made me even write this comment which I never do about any movie, good or bad.Such a waste of time!


                
The film is very difficult to understand, for a teenager like myself watching this film was very boring, with subtitles and in black and white you find it very hard to concentrate on. I was watching it in media and i nearly fell asleep! Over all though the message it puts across is rather random, it doesn't set a good example of how you should act towards the police, and what you should do in a similar situation. The content of the film is a lot to be desired, to amount of foul language in it is not acceptable for viewers especially in a another language. I didn't like it..Wouldn't see it again if i had the choice.


                
