'Mean Streets' in french - and so much more. While there are so many references to Scorsese that you could almost call it an homage, this French milestone deals with the disillusioned youth who live in the outskirts of Paris in such an elegant - and honest - way, that I would go so far as to call it the most relevant French film of the last 20 years. But it's also a cinematic masterpiece and great, often hilarious entertainment. Everything fits: the musical choices, the outstanding performances by the 3 main characters, the beautiful cinematography and flawless direction. And, perhaps most of all, THE perfect script. As much a realistic portrayal of a torn society as it is an artistic achievement, 'La Haine' is essential viewing.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
La Haine aka Hate is a story about three friends living near Paris in France (one Jew, one Arab and one black) who have nothing special in their lives and try to live a day at a time by drinking and having a good time and also working (at least the black character, who owns a boxing hall). Their friend, however, is captured by a police which tortures and maltreats him so badly that he is sent to a hospital in a critical condition. This makes the youth gangs in city including the three protagonists start a war against the police and authorities for the horrible wrongs they and their friend have suffered, and suddenly they notice the whole society is collapsing, and all there is is hate and need to revenge...Violence and mayhem is almost everywhere, including authorities which should do nothing but fight against it..This film is powerful and grim. Totally unforgettable is the last scene which at my first viewing time blew me away. It comes very suddenly and there are no warnings what will happen at the end of this film. The message is so important and these marks of the "apocalypse" can be found in our everyday life everywhere. The society is falling and it is "spinning" as the voice over says just before the end credits..The film brings into question such horrific facts as racism which should have passed away long times ago, but no. Racism is such a primitive, stupid and despisable cancer among people, that there is no hope of better future if individuals don't understand the real facts of life and right ways to live with each other. Hate feeds hate as the character Hubert says, and that is something that our stupid race has not learned.There is one very powerful scene just before the end scene and it deals with a skinhead and these three characters who could kill him right away and pay something back. It is very challenging scene and even Vinz, the most revenge seeking character, starts to see things different way after that. The whole point of La Haine is violence in all its forms. Why there is violence and why the hell it is used so often everywhere in every form? Don't we ever learn? These kind of films are important and so powerful that unfortunately people who should see them don't want to or they can't bacause it would be as a mirror for them..The film is also a comment on power used by police as they are pretty tough and hard in this film. Police think that they can use any methods in order to get some answers, or in order to have some fun..It certainly doesn't judge police as "pigs" or violent sadists in general, but it is a warning example of what must NOT happen anywhere ever, by police or by others. One has to see through the film and to its core in order to understand what it says. Otherwise there is no point in watching these kind of films. La Haine is that kind of a film that it should be seen by police and youths as well, because there are still possibilities to prevent things to go too far in our life and world we live in.The camera techniques used in this film are magnificent. Director/screenwriter Mathieu Kassovitz uses camera so smoothly and passionately and there are many similarities in techniques between this film and his more recent, Assassin(s). I am very happy for this young talent to have won the director's award at Cannes. These kind of talents deserve their prizes because there are so many stupid and worthless films which don't have nothing artistic in them and have nothing to say, and are just mindless and greedy entertainment. The black and white is very great element and the film strikes greatly without colors. The same case is with the Belgian classic Man Bites Dog, by Remy Belvaux, Benoit Poelvoorde and Andre Bonzel.
A great masterpiece in French modern cinema and recommended for the fans of intelligent and important cinema so seldom found from big studios or Hollywood (there are exceptions, of course) nowadays.10/10


                
Moviemakers when filming French based films have traditionally tended to sentimentalise the <U+0091>people' through the celebration of les petits gens, the little people of Pagnol and Clair as well as more recently the fantastical Parisian wonderland environments of Amelie and Moulin Rouge. With La Haine, young director Mathieu Kassovitz took the flipside of this and gave an illustration of the awfulness of life in the depressed blue-collar areas of ParisLa Haine (<U+0091>Hate') begins after a night of rioting on a dismal housing estate on the northern outskirts of Paris and focuses on 24 hours in the lives of three close friends aged around 20. They are Vince (Vincent Cassel), an explosive working-class Jew, Hubert (Hubert Kounde), a handsome, soft-spoken black, and Said (Said Taghmaoui), a mercurial streetwise Arab. With little hopes or prospect of regular employment due to where they come from, the trio drift aimlessly, engaging in petty theft, and seething with aggressive resentment against an uncaring world. L'Avenir c'est nous (We Are the Future) is the ironic slogan on the estate's playground, but this is a film about people who believe they have no future.The quality of the performances from the 3 main actors, their conviction, the way they interact with one another and the vigour and fluency of Kassovitz's script and direction make this a very special movie indeed. Its full of action, detail, unexpected incidents and quirky humour. For instance, the boys have a bizarre encounter in a public lavatory in central Paris with a diminutive survivor of the Gulag that is as puzzling to them as it is to us.  Does the story the Gulag survivor tells them have a deeper meaning than on the surface? Of course it does, and importantly this film makes you think as to what the metaphor means. Throughout violence is always on the point of erupting. There are constant confrontations with a brutal, racist police force, and Vince has a 44 Magnum revolver that a plainclothes cop lost during the riots, which we know will eventually be used on someone. However none of this ever descends into mere gratuitous violence like so many Hollywood filmsLa Haine presents a state of affairs of the alienation faced by many young people in the <U+0091>projects' in France, and all over the world. It doesn't offer any solutions, though the point is forcibly made that in France, as elsewhere, parts of the police force are part of the problem rather than the solution. Of course, much of what we are shown is familiar to us from British and American films .The strength of the film is that it neither glamorises nor patronises its characters. They hate their life because it's boring, and they despise the society that's created it for them, together with parks, football fields and a few mod cons with which to comfort them. In particular, they hate the police, who hate them right back. The film's other major achievement is to show in a tangible and very expressive way how a cycle of distrust and anger is created on both sides of this awful divide, so that there is very little anyone can do about it. In other words violence and hate breeds more violence and hate.A criticism that could be levelled is that in the US / UK versions the sub-titles don't help, pushing what is very authentic dialogue into something more like cliché, as well as pointless miss-translations that occur. However this is just a minor thing, and does not and should not reflect at all on the film itself.This certainly is one of the greatest films of the 1990s. Its one of those rare films that you will think about for the days and weeks after <U+0096> not solely about the film itself, but on wider issues such as society, poverty and racism.


                
I first saw this film in 1997, after seeing and reading reviews about it on tv and the net for a couple of years. I never thought a film could actually make you truly think about things around our world, not just how bad it can be in places like the projects set in the film. I could truly see this happening where I am from(Rochdale,Manchester,UK).The situation set in the film is a dark and nasty one. you watch 3 friends fall apart from the aftermath of a riot in a parisian project.a friend is near-fatally injured in police custody, which sparks a chain of events, part forced onto the 3 friends, part of self-inflicted.the acting is amazing. Vincent Cassel's performance is electrifying. his mentality is distorted with hate(hence the film name), but you truly feel he is not a bad seed. His problem is he can't see the wood for the trees, which Hubert tries to point out to him.Hubert is a character who has the potential to better his life, but he is trapped in his parisian project cell. he tries to guide vinz to a healthier and more productive way of thinking about life.said seems to be the one who doesn't want trouble, but it is thrust upon him. he sees the relationship between hubert and vinz, his 2 best friend, deteriorate, but doesn't know who to side with, or what to do about it.Mathieu Kassovitz made this film in a way that you feel for both the police and the the 3 friends. It is amazing to watch, as mathieu takes the simplest things, and makes them look classy(check out the DJ scene for a true example of what I mean). he uses black and white as to colour, and it doesn't look fake, or cheesy. in fact it enhances the film more than you could imagine. you won't sit there and wish he filmed it in colour by the end. the action, although relatively mild compared to todays film, is believable.speaking about the end, it is one of the most simplest and powerful endings I have seen in a film yet. the soundtrack is awesome too. who would have thought french hip-hop would sound so sweet.


                
In 1995, Mathieu Kassovitz wrote and directed a film that showed the controversial truth; "La Haine", which translates to "Hate", a film deemed so important the then-prime minister Alain Juppé arranged a special screening and ordered his entire cabinet to watch the film. Kassovitz rightfully won the Best Director award at the Cannes festival for his film that had and still has a huge impact on French society. La Haine mixes ethnics to emphasise the overriding importance of solidarity against the police. In my opinion, the greatest film ever made. A cinematic phenomenon so close to my heart.It is the day after the riots on an underclass French estate (the film opens with real footage of riots with the suitable soundtrack of Bob Marley's Burnin' and Lootin'). A youth named Abdel had been caught and beaten by the police and is now in critical condition. One of his very best friends, Vinz (Jewish), had found a cop's weapon. He swears that if Abdel dies he will kill a cop. The majority of the film revolves around Vinz and his two other friends Hubert (Afro-Caribbean) and Saïd (North African) roaming around their ghetto and suburbs of Paris. Set just within 24 hours, this is just a glimpse of the chaos.There is an image in La Haine where Vinz (Vincent Cassel) imitates Travis Bickle (Taxi Driver) in the mirror; "You talking' to me?" and then points his fingers like a gun and fires. This is not an action he only does once as he repeats it twice during the film. But why? He has a gun. Is this preparation? Yes. Vinz has to prepare because he is scared. And he has to see what it looks like, to make sure it looks "cool", as when he does kill a cop, he will get an undeserved respect by his peers. There is another scene in which Vinz and Hubert bump into a cop while trying to run from this. Vinz' first instinct is to pull the gun on him, this shows that the first instinct has now become violence. The reaction to violence is fear (which is apparent in the cops face until Hubert knocks him out). Fear creates hate; or, the thought and idea of hate. Like the youths feel they are supposed to hate the cops. Vinz is the angriest central character, but when he had his chance, he hesitates; consequences are not forgotten. Cassel performs Vinz with brute force, not failing to portray his character for a second.Hubert (Hubert Koundé), the most subtle character in the film, remains quiet and gentle, although he is a boxer; or a fighter; for the majority of the film. He has a longing to escape. He has no idea who to trust. Everyone is a thug. This is the stereotype that has been created. But not even a thug wants this thought about them. He is always watching the hatred breed around him but never takes part. But when it comes to the cut, the action and reaction is always the same and he proves himself wrong. Koundé put a lot of effort into his role and earns his praise.Saïd (Saïd Taghmaoui); possibly the most vibrant character of the three, feels as if he has to be something, he hates change but he follows the crowd, he wants to be accepted. He appears to be everybody's friend as he constantly makes jokes. This is because his family is dead so Vinz and Hubert; and possibly Abdel but we don't know since we only ever hear about Abdel, so they are basically his family. But if they get into trouble they wouldn't hesitate to leave each other. It's every man for himself. Cassel, Koundé and Taghmaoui work so well together its as if they have known each other for years.The youths are stuck on the idea that the cops are there to stop them, and they refuse the idea that the cops are there in fact to protect them. And the youths express hatred with violence. Sexual intercourse is not an issue in this society as it is too dangerous to have a girlfriend, as it will spawn more violence, thus more hatred. La Haine does not offer solutions to all the racism but in fact, shows you in a detailed and mature manner.Starkly shot in black and white; La Haine has one of my favourite cinematography works. Kassovitz directional style is so inspirational, using rocketing zooms and smooth swerves to get the full view of the destruction. Popular hip hop music is used and heard throughout the film, none of it I would listen to unless I was watching La Haine. The film shows a side of France you can not find on a tourist map. Passion, dedication and effort was well put forward to La Haine. It punches you in the face with its sheer, raw intensity.The films most important quote is the one it opens and shuts with: - "Heard about the guy who fell off a skyscraper? On his way down past each floor, he kept saying to reassure himself: So far so good... so far so good... so far so good. How you fall doesn't matter. It's how you land!". This directly reflects the films content, structure and result. La Haine proves that hatred is in fact the strongest emotion. One of the greatest films of the 90s and of all-time; if there was one perfect film; it would be La Haine.10/10


                
When the riots broke out last autumn in Paris..the first thing I thought about was this movie. I put on the TV and all the scenes reminded me off the best movie ever made in Europe, and the best on the subject...La Haine The first time I saw the movie in 2003, we was gonna watch it for school. At first I thought it was gonna be another french movie about a young french girl that got pregnant(we watched a lot of those in French lessons)...but what followed was probably the most defining 90 minutes in my life.When the movie started with the images of riots (real riots, old news footage) combined with Bob Marley's "Burning and Looting" I was getting fascinated about this movie, this had to be good. A lot of things were very recognizable, everyone knows a "Said", everyone knows a "Hubert" and at the time I was feeling like "Vinz". All the scenes influenced me and were very recognizable, the hanging around with friends, the way of talking, the arguments they used for their deeds...everything. The end shocked me and I couldn't really think anything else then "I got to watch this movie again", and the day after I bought a DVD of it.The movie tells the story of a black, Arab and Jewish guy who live in a housing project near Paris, the kind of neighborhood where most of the people don't have a job, where the youth bores itself and flirts with criminal behavior, where drugs are being sold and where an occasional riot starts (this happened from the 80's until recently from time to time). The movie follows them 24 hours after their friend Adbel got beat up by the police during the riots, where a cop lost his gun. Vinz (the Jewish guy) found the gun and swears that when Abdel dies he's gonna take vengeance by killing a police. With Vinz - not being the most stable nor the most smart and relaxed person - having a gun on him the three come in some hard situations, but also without the police gun they have enough problems during the 24 hours....I ain't gonna spoil anything, but this should be enough to make you wanting to watch this movie.After watching it a couple of times I realized that this was a story, I always thought it was a documentary, which is a big compliment to the whole crew I think. But still that didn't made the movie less strong, the greatest thing about it is that it isn't easy made, no clichés...when you watch an American movie on the subject there always is some form of exit for the main character or he dies in a way that makes you think he deserves it. So either way a character is portrayed as a nice guy or a total bad guy, who both have girl who want to get them out of troubles. This is where La Haine sets itself apart from other movies, it doesn't try to portray the characters as nice people, although you do feel sympathies for them. The best thing is the end, which sets the movie mostly apart and makes it more recognizable for the European crowd (I'm not gonna spoil it, but if it ended differently the movie wouldn't been so great) The way it is shot in black and white makes it look realer, makes it grimier, it portrays the banlieues as a place without an exit. That's what maybe sets the movie also apart, the black and white makes it look arty and grimy at the same time. Maybe the best is that it still doesn't look dated because of that.Another great thing is the soundtrack, all the songs that are used in the movie have a great effect on the images and visa versa. Bob Marley perfectly fits the riots, Isaac Hayes fits the hashish packing and smoking scenes, Zapp and Roger fits the break dance song perfectly and the Expression Direct fits the haunted car scene in inner city Paris perfect (if you can understand the lyrics). But what really sets this movie apart is the Cutkiller scene, this scene only made me wanted to get a set of SL1200's...The way the tension is build in the movie is great, most of the time the characters don't do anything, but you still feel the tension building, the hate growing, and when you maybe bored watching some scenes the first time (the "candit-camera" scene for instance and the "eiffeltower" scene), but afterwards they're like pieces of a puzzle falling into it's place. Some shots are brilliantly, the Taxi Driver imitation of Vinz at the beginning (when you already see that Vinz is losing it), the police interview shot with Said and Hubert, the discussion at the toilets, the way the characters are introduced, the subway shot...it's all eye candy.To make a conclusion, if you love hip hop and don't think the police as necessarily the representation of the good in society. of course when you love cinema it is also a good movie, but it really is a movie which has it own public: the youth. If your Dutch try to get hold of the 7 euro Freerecord shop version, but I can recommend the English 10 year anniversary more...the directors commentary, trailers and bonus material make this a really nice DVD. But I can understand why a lot of people don't like it, it doesn't offer solutions, it doesn't give an opinion on anything except the police, and of course you have to have a certain frame of mind to like the movie.


                
Out of nowhere this film came along, blew me away, and left me begging for more.  A totally original and brilliant piece of work by writer/director Mathieu Kassovitz -- Hate is one of the best films I have ever seen. Vincent Cassel gives a draw dropping performance, but the real star of this film is the dangerous screenplay.  Few films have left me in as much awe as Hate.  A must see.


                
This film is in my top 3! it is that simple... I have seen this movie over and over again, because it's just that good. the 3 characters (Vinz, Saïd and Hubert)act superb. even tough the movie is in black and white, it enhanced the movie. the main story of the film is just great, a real sub-urban style. furthermore it is a very powerful non-Hollywood film and that is an extra bonus. watch this movie and you'r hooked for life haha :).the ending is so powerful that you think: this movie is just to good to be true.i know my comment isn't very helpfull, but i wanted to give you all my opinion about the film.


                
This movie floored me when I saw it about 8 years ago. I was alone, stoned, and ready for a decent foreign film. Black and white, one great freaking soundtrack, amazing amateur acting, a very real script, and just a blazing atmosphere set this movie apart from almost every indie film in the last 20 years. a mixture of race had to be done to achieve the mentality of youth in a "ghetto" culture like this. I grew up in Echo Park, Compton, and in a sprawling, nasty, dirty, section of Indianapolis when I was much younger. I know how these kids felt. I was a white boy screwing around with a couple of black kids smoking jays, causing a little bit of havoc, and just seeing what our city had to offer. Cops were rarely a problem, but I do know that race profiling is real. Even if you are white. Screw racist cops.The ending is one of the most abrupt and BEST endings I have ever seen. I saw it on VHS, and when it was done, my jaw was still dropped after the snow had hit the screen a few minutes after credits had rolled. Highly recommended.


                
For all the violence and despair shown in "La Haine", the film doesn't offer any solutions nor hope of improvement. As Vinz, one of the three ill-fated men at the centre of the story, says: "it's (the story) about a society on its way down. And as it falls, it keeps telling itself: "So far so good... So far so good... So far so good." There must be conviction in such words and the characters in "La Haine" seem to know they're in such dire circumstances, which are presented to us as almost inescapable for them.The french film, which took home the César Award for Best Film in 1995, succeeds in its sense of realism, almost appearing as a documentary with incredibly subtle camera-work that allows us to, not so much participate in but rather, feel shameful for unobtrusively playing witness to the crimes. The cinematography specifically is an absolute treat to the eye, with innovative shots and angles to seamlessly truck the story along in an engaging fashion.The grainy cinematography paints the inner city as a place of cold emptiness and savagery. Its beautiful from a distance, though embodying an ugliness at its core that its characters persistently find themselves in the middle of. The atmosphere's harsh lighting and expressionist style of cinematography bears a striking similarity to the classic noir film, "The Third Man", where the surroundings are so vibrant that they nearly become a character in itself.Director Kassovitz, in only his second feature, demonstrates a masterful understanding of space and shadows, creating feelings of distress, at times claustrophobia, and a general sense of uneasiness. He uses quick edits during violent scenes and shows a willingness to employ some longer shots during the film's quieter moments, which help let the surroundings and reality of it all sink in a bit for the viewer. Overall, this is an emotional triumph which succeeds seamlessly in both narrative and style.


                
After watching this film I reflected back on a whole host of films I've seen produced by Warner Brothers back in the Forties and Fifties, having to do with the subject of poverty and how that can lead to crime and lost lives. In a lot of cases, civic and moral dilemmas could often be resolved with right winning out over wrong in the end. In today's world, 'right' often comes up empty handed, and often there's a fine line between differentiating the good from the bad. In many cases, moral equivalency enters the picture, and we're left to distinguish between bad and less bad. It doesn't make for a hopeful situation.That's the sort of picture "La Haine" is. Translated, it means 'Hate', and that emotion is palpable throughout the story of three young men with no direction, no job, and nothing to do with themselves except kill time by hanging around in one section of the city or another. Being a French film, the city in this case is Paris, but not the Paris one sees in travel brochures. This story is set in an area of depressing housing projects where the chances of upward mobility doesn't exist, exacerbated by tensions between the police and a diverse population trying to make ends meet.The film is book-ended by an idea submitted as a conversation about a person falling from a high rise window. All the way down, the soon to be deceased person maintains a momentary positive attitude by repeating to himself, 'so far so good', with a corollary offered by the listener that 'it's not how you fall that matters, it's how you land'. This would appear to be good advice for the three principal characters, Said, Vinz and Hubert if they only had the temperament to look at their lives objectively and realize that no one was going to come to their rescue as victims of the projects. That they would have to do for themselves. But with those whose inner rage has ratcheted up to a boiling point, an inevitable hard landing is virtually assured.I thought this was a good film for what it was, even though it doesn't try to provide any answers. The answers, as most rational people know, lie within one's self, and there are many real life examples one can point to of people digging themselves out of a hole to become worthwhile and productive citizens. Unfortunately, many never figure it out, and 'so far, so good' almost never lasts.
Bold, violent, provocative, La Haine is a remarkable, mesmerizing achievement, a raw punch in the face. Few other movies are this socially relevant, and if you want to learn something valuable, I suggest you watch this film. It was made in 1995, but has lost none of its strength.The movie takes place in the Parisian suburbs, where three angry, confused and frustrated young men live. These three (Vincent Cassel, Hubert Koundé and Said Taghmaoui) have different ethnic and cultural backgrounds, and don't feel very French. They also don't have any idea of what they wanna do with their lives, unless it's got something to do with drugs, thefts or riots. Then one day, one of their friends, brutally beaten by the cops, ends up in a hospital, with little chance of survival. Life tries to go on normally, but Vinz (Cassel) wants to avenge his buddy. It's up to Hubert and Said to make sure a blood bath won't start...Writer/director Mathieu Kassovitz (also behind the first Crimson Rivers flick) gives a very realistic look on everyday life, which isn't always a joy. Despite some really funny moments (a dealer named Asterix, Cassel doing a Taxi Driver impression, the Tarantinoesque discussion about Tom & Jerry), this black and white milestone of French movie industry remains a very serious, brutal, unflinching film. The bleak ending is just the definitive proof of what the entire movie is trying to teach us: hate and violence will only cause more violence (this aspect makes La Haine quite similar to Spike Lee's Do The Right Thing).This movie should be shown to everyone, so that people can understand what doesn't work in our society.Films with a strong message keep being important even 20 years after their release. La Haine is such a film.


                
This movie blow my mind. I first saw it when i was going to see anther movie but it was sold out. Already set my mind to go a movie, i purchased ticket to this La Haine -viha in finnish, without knowing anything about it than what the movie poster showed in the lobby of the movie theater.Powerful beginning with the riots in the streets, together with Bob Marleys song was very promising. Soon after the scene where Said opened his eyes and in a way wrapped us, the movie audience into to his world, in the suburbs of Paris. Just like that, simple effect and together with sound and puf, you're in the never neverland and the journey can begin.Throughout the movie, every single detail (yes, even the colorful cow in a movie otherwise black and white) seemed the get their place in this movie. Flawless storytelling, intense acting and mastery in directing this film by Mathieu Kassovitz is truly a modern masterpiece which value, i am sure, will grow as the years go by like a vintage wine.Unique storytelling also remembers to end the story well, this is often neglected in modern movies. You may have seen movies which are great but the ending spoils everything, but in La Haine this is also in good hands and when the subtitles goes by after the movie has ended, you literally still remain seated because it takes a while before you understand that you are not in the world of this movie, but your own.La Haine: my top 5 movies number 1.PS. the others are: Apocalypse now, Sideways, Lost In translation and American Beauty - i recommend warmly to see these movies!


                
The film La Haine is considered to be one of the most controversial, powerful and innovative films of the 1990's. It won the Best Director award in the 1995 Cannes film festival and won film of the year (1996) at the Caesar awards. La Haine (which in French means 'hate') was considered innovative because it is part of a very underused style of French cinema called 'Un Cinema de Banlieue' or 'Cinema of the Suburbs' which depicts the grim reality of France's run-down suburbs. Other films from this genre include 'Etat des lieux' (1995), and 'Bye Bye' (1996).
It was considered different at the time because most French films from this period were either heritage films like 'Jean De Florette' (1985), 'Cyrano de Bergerac' (1990), and 'Manon des Sources' (1986). Or they were from the 'Cinema du Look' based on 'slick' visual style which includes such films as 'Diva' (1981), 'Nikita' (1990), and 'Subway' (1985).The cinematography in the film is very personal, and is shot almost in a documentary style, in that whenever a character or group of people moves the camera moves with them and when they stop the camera stops with them.There are also some outstanding shots in the film that continue the films theme of showing an horrific, real life situation but presenting it in an unreal way. The first of these shots is when a DJ opens his window turns his decks on and mixes Ice T's song 'Cop Killer' with old French records. As he is doing this, the camera goes over his shoulder and out of the window; it then flies over the entire estate as the music is playing in the background just to give the viewer a perspective of the dilapidated state of the estates. This is used to give the viewer a real understanding of why these people are constantly rioting against the police because they feel trapped in this urban jungle and that the police actually keep them down rather than help them.There is another shot where Vince and Hubert are standing on a raised level with the streets of Paris behind them. As they stand there the streets zoom in closer to the camera and they zoom out ever so slightly. This is a technique, which has been used many times in films, was pioneered by Steven Spielberg in the film 'Jaws'. Ever since that point it has been used by directors as a way of showing fear and tension in one shot. But typically Kassovitz inverts this theory and uses it as a way of showing how small and insignificant these characters become once they enter the big city. It is also another example of the film going against what Hollywood sets out as the norm.Another great example of the films theme of reality versus surrealism is in the way it is shot in black and white. If it were meant to have a documentary feel then it should surely be shot in color, but again Kassovitz goes against the rules of filming and shoots it in black and white to give it an unreal, dream like feel to the whole film. It also portrays the film as being straight and unrelenting, in his idea of the film as a metaphor for life, there is only black and white and no grey or colorful areas. It is also a wonderful way of making the projects in the Parisian suburbs seem even worse than they already are.The Mise-en-scene of the film plays an important part in reinforcing the traits and very individual characteristics of the main characters. The most important being Vince, the Paris native who believes himself to be from the streets and something of a rebel. His strange fixation with violence is only ever present when he is acting out violence; we see a great example of this when he is at home, in front of the mirror impersonating Robert De Niro's character from Taxi Driver. He acts out the scene in almost perfectly and at the end holds his hand up to the mirror and pulls the imaginary trigger, but we actually hear a gun shot go off. This is another hint towards Vince's delusion that his hand is a real gun and that he is some kind of thug. The same thing happens later on in the film when Vince points his hand at a cop and fires, in his mind he kills the cop but in reality nothing happens. Whenever Vince is confronted by real life opportunities to use the gun he backs out and realizes that he is nothing more than a normal man with a bad attitude.The editing in the film is kept quite simple, as to not detract from the documentary style of the camera work. However sometimes we see different speeds of fades and cuts and occasionally fades up from white instead of the usual black. This is to give a sense of surrealism and make the audience feel like this is a real life situation portrayed in an unreal 'Hollywood' way.The sound is also a very important part of the film as it gives more hints towards the influence of American Culture on the film and its inhabitants. During the scenes in Hubert's room we hear Barry White singing, which is a hint towards Hubert's wish for a calmer atmosphere, so he plays calmer music. The DJ mixes Ice T's Cop killer song with a lot of old French music which is another hint at the films apparent fusion between French and American culture. The scenes in the streets or in meeting places usually have hip-hop music playing, which is a sign of just how wide reaching American culture has become in its effect on French Popular culture.There are lots of hints towards American Culture and its influence on French Culture throughout the film. Indeed the way the film is shot is almost making fun of Hollywood's way of shooting real life situations in an 'entertaining' and 'easy to watch' way. In many ways it is Kassovitz's way of rebelling against Hollywood, by showing that he can do all the clever camera and editing techniques but accompany them with a strong script and identifiable characters.It clearly mocks Hollywood in a scene where Vince is constantly walking in and out of almost every film in the cinema complex because the films he watches are either riddled with clichés or just simply really bad. This is again Kassovitz trying to make the audience see just how unrealistic and bad some mainstream films can be. In doing so he has created a film that is everything some Hollywood films try to be, cutting edge, realistic yet surreal, humorous in a dark way and extremely powerful and poetic.


                
... the very moment he passed the gun to his friend.Ugly movie. Noisy, disgusting even. Also childish and innocent. At least 2 stories in it: 1. The smaller one - how mighty you could feel when carrying a gun. How inhuman you become just because of possessing it. But when it comes to the real killing - the fully conscious one - you feel you have choice. And you choose. 2. The bigger story is the suffocating realization of the scale of the terror. You receive a detailed picture of the quiet torture that represents the everyday life of a great part of the humans in "civilized Europe" (and America, and Asia, and Africa, and Australia). Just for the case they are gathered in Paris.This movie won't be seen by any of the people who live such kind of life. Pity.But any of the rest is obliged not to remain indifferent.
"La Haine" is a political film. "La Haine" is a humanistic film about the realities of ghetto life. "La Haine" is a film about France, specifically the turmoil surrounding rebellion, honesty, and sacrifice. "La Haine" will anger you. It will make you cringe in your seat. It will make you question the values within your own community. That is why this film swept in 1995 when it was released, why other directors have attempted to recycle the story, and why even today - 14 years later - it still remains a relevant film, not just about French society, but a dedicated relevance towards American society as well. Director Mathieu Kassovitz has pulled this story directly from the headlines, taking the injustice of the police and the corruption of the streets and transforming it into the lives of three multi-national boys hell-bent on initiating revenge for the sake of their fallen friend. It is a dark story that uses drugs and violence off the scene to build the suspense within. Filmed in a stark black and white, Kassovitz takes away the glory, wealth, and American-ized culture of project life (see Baltimore's "The Wire") and allows us to experience one day in the life of these boys and their discovery of a gun.Like von Trier's "Dear Wendy", "La Haine" focuses on the gun, a rarity within the youth of the French projects, and builds this momentum that the unknown will eventually happen. This onset of violence, which has been haunting us throughout the film, a la "Mean Streets", finally comes face forward in our third act in a shock provoking scene that will rattle you each time "La Haine" visits your DVD player. Yet, this is just a small indication of what "La Haine" has to offer. Yes, it is a film about violence, it is a political film, and you better believe that it is a youth film, but there is something universal about this mid-90s film that continues to resonate with each viewing. For me, it rests powerfully on the actors. Vincent Cassel absolutely steals this film. From his opening dance, until the unique dilemma surrounding the skinhead, he proves throughout this film that he was passionate about the material. For those doubting the power of his ability, see his body language, emotion, and intensity behind his words - what Cassel does in this film is rare in today's Oscar-caliber films. I recently had the opportunity to watch his film, "Eyes Wide Shut" - again, another independent film in which he gave over 100% of his ability to bring to the screen a genuinely unique character. That is the ability of Vincent Cassell. Yet, in "La Haine", we have two other players that bring even more of a dynamic to this group. Hubert Kounde's performance of Hubert is jaw-dropping. There is this subtle level of intelligence that rounds out our group consisting of himself, the wild-card, and the jokester. Hubert shows that life in the ghettos of France are not just a status symbol, but instead merely abilities to get by. When selling drugs, the money doesn't go towards jewelery or cars, it goes back to his mother to pay the gas bill. In this scene alone, Hubert shows his humanity, while Kassovitz demonstrates the truth behind the scene. Said was equally as good, keeping up with the other two, but for myself, Hubert and Vinz were our stand out roles. They played against themselves so much, that the two of them became closer as the film progressed.Watching Criterion's release of this film, it is impressive how much they put together for this double-disc set. The interview with Jodie Foster is a bit long, but interesting. She talks about her first impressions of the film, and her excitement about bringing "La Haine" to the US of A. While it showed a different side to Paris, the universality of the message Kassovitz was trying to bring to the screen; youth's anger towards leaders, corruption within the police, and unnecessary casualties of protest is still relevant here today. Albeit, the language is different - the message is the same. Kassovitz's audio commentary is a political one, occasionally discussing how the scene was created and the shortfalls of creating a independent film, he talks in length to his experiences within the ghetto, and the truth behind the police in France (as well as its leaders). He also interestingly enough, talks about his influences on this film, and throughout his career. Obviously, you can see the Scorsese references throughout (see "Taxi Driver"), but he talks in length about "Mean Streets", and how that film spoke to him more than any other big-budget Hollywood film he had seen. Included on the second disc are plenty of behind the scene moments as well as extended and deleted scenes that further demonstrate Kassovitz's ability, and how he transformed this color film, into a cinematic triumph.Overall, I love "La Haine", but be forewarned. This is not a "sit-down-on-a-Saturday-with-some-friends-and-a-beer" film. This is a thought-provoking slice of international cinema that demonstrates amazing actors in their craft, a film with a message, and a director who had little to work with, but used what he had with artistic talent. "La Haine" will remain with you long after the short credits roll, the shock of the ending will make you jump again and again (no matter the amount of times seen), and the discussion to follow remains a pivotal part to this film. I cannot watch this film back to back, but when I come across a need to experience cinema as it should be created, "La Haine" will be the first to come to mind. Impressive.Grade: ***** out of *****


                
I usually don't write reviews, but for this one I'll make exception because it caught my eye.Great film, as for the french cinema, so for the world. I guess I won't be able to say everything that's great about this film, but surely I will try.Mathieu Kassovitz is showing us one day in the life of three violent young men. One of them is Jewish (Vinz), one of them Arab (Saïd), and the third one is black (Hubert). They live in a very violent hood full of riots. They're strongly involved in the conflict with the police. They don't have any other interests, except to become a wannabe street heroes, although Hubert does some boxing at the gym that has been burnt somewhere in the beginning of the movie. La haine starts with the scene of riots on the streets of France. I'm not informed when and why these things were happening, but it doesn't matter, cause they can happen every moment, in every corner of the world. In fact, these things are happening at this exact moment in which I'm writing. Opening scene is perfectly followed by Bob Marley's "Burnin' and Lootin", a sweet reggae melody. You can see some irony here. Then, we learn, from the TV news, that some Arabian guy has been wounded by the hand of the police. We meet the characters and then the story flows like a water. Story itself contains several events happening in a chronological order at different times of day. It is very well composed so we can understand the characters and the problems they're dealing with. They are chasing their identities and personalities. They are trying to be something what they consider to be right. But they are slaves of the modern society, and the slaves of the occasions in which they are. They are immature, they don't think before they do, and worst of all, they are hiding the truth from themselves. This is a story about the hunt for identity, about youth that is lost in the chaos of modern society, so when they try to find themselves, they actually become part of that chaos. "Heard about the guy who fell off a skyscraper? On his way down past each floor, he kept saying to reassure himself: So far so good... so far so good... so far so good. How you fall doesn't matter. It's how you land!" They are falling, but they are lying to themselves on the way down, and when they touch the ground, it won't end happily.La haine (Hate) is simple, yet powerful name for movie. It fits perfectly with its main theme. Hate. Unreasonable hate. People who hate something or someone because their friends and idols do that, because it's popular, because they want to feel accepted by the group. It's not a problem in violence, it's a problem in its cause.Whole film is filled with the symbols. I noticed some of them, I read some of the messages, but I'm sure that there are many more that I will catch on the second watching.Episode with the old man in the toilet? Brilliant. Whole symbolic Grunwalski story about the pride and death and the way it was told. Tadek Lokcinski like a prophet here, totally steals the scene in a few minutes of his appearance. A strong moral behind the story, but the boys can't understand it yet. It will cost them, so they will learn it on the hard way.Paroles on the walls that we can see everywhere around the city. One of them "The World is yours" (Said corrected it to "The World is ours") is the main motto of these young men. They want to try everything, and they want it now, but they don't see the hole on the end of the road they went. This also may indicate Scarface, which contains similar messages.One more thing that I found interesting was the picture of the poet, Charles Baudelaire on the building at the end of the movie, and I am sure that this isn't randomly put there. Baudelaire wrote the poem called "Le Tonneau de la Haine" (The Cask of Hate) so there's an obvious connection.I like the fact that the characters have the same names as the actors that play them. Crime isn't glorified in this movie, neither is the law. Violence is strongly criticized, modern society isn't spared either. Nothing is exaggerated, this is pretty realistic picture of what's happening around and inside us. We can get to like the characters, but it would be wrong if we agreed with most of their deeds.Did we learn something from this movie? Well, we learned plenty of things. Paris, so as the world, isn't just a city of love, there are "black and gray" sides of it. It may be easy to tell, but not to do. Especially to pull the trigger and kill the face in front of you. Neither side of the conflict is absolutely right or absolutely wrong. Sometimes is better to swallow the pride. Batman is not so strong. Directing and camera work are great, acting too, dialogs are smooth and interesting even with the English subtitles, so I can only dream how much this is enjoyable for the French speaker. Soundtrack is one more great part of the film. I didn't write the flaws of the movie because when I watch some gem of the cinema like this one, I try to concentrate on the good parts of it, and as I said, La haine is full of them. And still, there are many things that I forgot to write, or missed while I was watching.10/10 I suggest it to everyone, don't be repelled by the bunch of kids who try to identify with the characters in this movie.


                
This is a text book film for explaining the french cinema. Vincent Cassel is an extra ordinary performer.The film takes you through a roller coaster of highly relatable emotions at a very fast pace. I didn''t get bored even for a second


                
Brilliant performance by the acting crew, especially Vincent Cassel, captivating story and unbelievable realism, true to the core. This movie is a masterpiece.


                
Probably one of my favorite movies. This film is so incredibly moving and so well shot. Kassovitz is at his best here. I encourage anyone to go out and see this movie if you can, you will not be disappointed.


                
It's a nice movie with a perfect directing and successful acting


                
In my opinion this is an authentic portrait of the life in the french banlieue. Those who like this movie may also like City of God, Tropa da Elite or Tsotsi.


                
It's hard to think of a film made over ten years ago that's still incredibly relevant today, but La Haine is definitely one of them and not just because of the 2005 French Riots. Because this film isn't just looking at the situation in Paris or in France it's asking what happens when a country ignores a whole mass of people. The answer is presented through our three lead characters, Vinz, Said and Hubert each from a different background but all living on the same estate in Paris. Neither of them are bad people, but with no one to guide them, the only things they are know are drugs and violence. The situation is exacerbated by the brutal actions of the police which further alienates the three from society. In fact it's kind of worrying when you think how many cities this film could be set in, London, New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Berlin, Sydney, the list goes on.All of this is presented in just one day in the lives of these three, following a riot on their estate. Vinz is out for revenge while Hubert is trying to work his way out of the neighbourhood. The story is told more like a documentary but with some comic elements in a few places. But all of this builds up to an ending that will leave you on the edge of your seat long after the credits have rolled.


                
I was searching some high rated movies that i wasn't aware of and i found one of my preferred movie with only 8.1Anyway i'm French and this movie is one of the few that i'm proud of to be from our country.It got all : A good story, messages, direction, actors, picture & soundtrack.You can dislike it (some are in France), but it will show you a side of France that i think its not very known (though riots might have fresh ed some ideas).The director and the main cast of the movie rented an apartment 6 month before the shooting of the movie, population wasn't friendly at the idea of a movie in their neighborhood. Once they understood the project, they accepted the idea of the making of the movie. The movie has been made in color then post producted in Black & White, the deal was the movie in theater in Black & White, and if the movie wouldn't work in Theather, it would get released in color in home support.Hopefully it worked in theaters.I like this movie for many reasons, one of the few is the way Paris is in this movie, i'm always glad in the movie when they go to Paris and go away from where they leave.City Of God (La Cite De Dieu, Cidade de Deus) is a movie in the same kind of way in the sense as it shows you a side of Brazil (Rio) not very known.The credits at the end are short because the director wanted a quick lights on in the theater, for those who wonder.I recommend it to everyone.


                
The film opens with footage of actual Parisian riots and a dedication to those who died whilst the film was being made. The use of black & white photography makes the film more serious and documentary-like and more respectful to those dead whose lives the film fictionalises.The plot is very simple: a 20-hour period with 3 young disaffected men (Hubert, Said and Vinz) living in the Paris suburbs that are beset by riots after another young man (Abdel) was beaten into a coma by police. The men live in an area affected by low employment, poverty and deep distrust for the authorities. The time we spend with the characters is not without enjoyment or humour as they get into scrapes, fight amongst themselves and muse upon life and politics.Hubert is of West African origins and had boxing aspirations. He successfully campaigned for a gym on his housing estate. When we meet him his gym has been trashed by rioters and he has no intention to restore it. He is the most philosophic and reflective of the characters. He is the mouth piece for the film's main theme and title: 'if you'd been to school you would know that hatred breeds hatred'. Clearly Hubert has been to school but we learn he has also been to prison and though he longs to escape the confines of his environment he spends his time dealing in and smoking cannabis.Said is of Maghrebi origins and is the most amenable of the 3 spending his time thinking about girls, sex and defending his sister. He has dubious ways of making money and we meet one of his debtors, a sleazy man called Asterix, in a hilarious confrontation replete with guns and machismo. Said seems to be the fall guy and stooge of both Hubert and Vinz and others in their community. He is also a peacemaker whose anger is channelled into graffiti. It is he who graffitis an advert changing its slogan from 'the world is yours' to 'the world is ours', part symbol and part the political theme of the film that is gently woven throughout the drama.Vinz's origins are unclear but we learn he is Jewish. He is the most troubled of the three looking for fights with authority and warring with Hubert. Hubert suspects that Vinz was one of the rioters who trashed his gym and given Vinz's interest in killing a cop so that he can do time in prison and, therefore, earn some standing in the community, this seems a real possibility. But Vinz is not invincible (in spite of his name) and is unnerved by the cow he glimpses wandering around throughout the film. The cow is a symbol and foreshadowing of death.The film's mantra of 'life, so far, so good' we hear from Hubert in an opening story of a falling man who says over and over as he falls 'so far, so good'. But as Hubert notes it's not how you fall but how you land that matters, i.e. the consequences and the future not temporary living from hour to hour. For all their bravado and world weary cynicism the three are falling and when they land their bravado and survival instincts fail them as Vinz and then Hubert are shot in a final and fatal confrontation with the police.This film is beautifully shot; the use of black and white is stark and illuminating, giving the suburbs and its people gritty texture. Everyone is terrific in the film and the acting and dialogue seem spontaneous and natural. In fact the dialogue is so natural that one wonders how much, if any, was ad lib. I saw the film on release and several times since on DVD and it has improved with each watch. I cannot recommend this enough.
