Admittedly, I watched the badly subtitled American version of this film, and so couldn't possibly comprehend the resonance of what they were saying, but at least I got something out of it. Though I feel the characters are a little lacking, this being a film they made up as they went along, the cinematography is just brilliant if you take the time to think about it. This film gets such mixed reviews, some people love it, some people hate it. It's all just a matter of what you want to get out of a film. Some people watch films for the entertainment value, in which case you're better off watching something else, but others watch for more unique reasons. If you like to ponder the metaphorical resonances of a film, this is the one for you. If not, and you'd rather watch something for pure entertainment, maybe give La Haine a miss. You need to actually care about this film to enjoy it, which is a shame, as the first time around, this film often goes over people's heads (It certainly went over mine!)


                
Good, but somewhat overrated. It's a French Do the Right Thing, which is its biggest problem. It apes Spike Lee so much that I don't think it ever finds a voice of its own. Plus, its three protagonists, Vinz, Saïd and Hubert are all pretty despicable. Am I really to feel sorry for these guys when they've been insulting and assaulting every person they run into? Kind of reminds me of the American film Kids, too. Sure, the film is, I assume, steeped in honesty about its characters. But that doesn't mean I feel sorry for them in the end. The film is very well made, if a little self-conscious about its freshness. Doesn't surprise me much that director Kassovitz went on to make Gothika.


                
French director Mathieu Kassovitz directs "La Haine" (Hate), an "angry urban youths movie" which centres on three young men – one Jewish, one Arabic, one African - living in a Parisian housing project. The film unfolds over the course of one day, and uses its impoverished youths to represent any and all minorities currently ostracised from France's social majority. They are those whom society prefers to keep out on the fringes, a separation which the very tenets of multiculturalism makes difficult. Alienated and belittled, the kids spend all their time drawn into constant confrontations with the police. The police, being the only visible signs of the boys' subjugation, understandably become all that the boys can lash out at. But their violence is wasted. They should be seeking other avenues, but don't know how. One day, one of our heroes' buddies dies in police custody. Like the LA Riots, anger arcs across the housing estates. One of the boys, who owns a pistol, fires the first shot. Tensions then escalate into outright war. In this regard, the film plays like Spike Lee's "Do The Right Thing", Scorsese's "Taxi Driver", and the many Angry Young Men movies of the British new wave ("Look Back In Anger", "The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner", "If", "Kes", "This Sporting Life"), though like most of those films, "Hate" eventually engages in ideological displacement. Anger is quickly misdirected, straw-men are scapegoated and both the violence and the cause are forgotten. In terms of flaws, the film doesn't go far enough, refuses to place any blame on the kids (Kassovitz rightfully sees them as victims, but refuses to examine their complicity in the events), and possesses two very pretentious scenes, filled with some didactic moralising. Other than this, the film is fast, punchy, and reasonably stylish.Today in France, relations between the French and local Arabs are still tense. The film's plot is loosely based on the actual police beatings, during a 1986 student protest, of Malik Oussekine, a young Arab who died from his wounds. Two decades later, riots again flared up in the streets of Paris, again due to accidental deaths caused by police. "You are not responsible, you are irresponsible!" Kassovitz would tell then Minister of the Interior Nicholas Sarkozy, who handled the whole fiasco like an idiot. Sarkozy became President of France two years later. Months later, Kassovitz's "Babylon AD" bombed at the box office.8/10 – Worth one viewing.
Mathieu Kassovitz's 'La Haine' is a film that deals with the major social concerns present in the French banlieues or suburbs, where social fragmentation in the society and hatred to a system that rejects the inhabitants have resulted in gangs of multi-ethnic youths. They fight each other for street cred or unite in their common hatred for the police system to take part in violent riots. The racist police are shown as a collective body representing the state, hating the youths right back in a vicious cycle of hate breeding hate.Kassovitz effectively captures the frustration of the youths and presents his own negative views of the police through his representation of them in the film. The film came out in 1995 at the same time as serious rioting in the banlieues in France. The film acts as a way of showing the serious issues in a way that prevents the government from just ignoring that they exist, which is what they had been doing, although Kassovitz said that he wasn't making a political movie.The film follows three youths, Vinz, an explosive Jew, Hubert, a thoughtful powerful black and Said, a streetwise Arab who represent the different cultures brought together by location and class. They reject French culture and look to America for their escapism through the film industry there and hip-hop/street culture. They even adapt their language to resemble black 'hood' language as they call each other 'homeys' and 'homeboys' regularly through the film. This is because they see themselves as being 'disowned' by France, their own country has pretended they don't exist and ignored the social problems present in the inner city areas. The result is environments that are like a separate country in the middle of big cities where the culture and motive of the inhabitants is very hostile to the outside. The proximity of this world to the financially successful, structured, policed areas breeds a hatred that may be subdued on the surface on both sides but inevitably overflows in outbursts of heavy violence, and the balance of peace is very fragile. At the beginning of the film we see the protesters being peaceable but making their points while the police are seen preparing for violence. Then we see a policeman throw a missile at the demonstrators kicking off the violent riot, so the police are shown by Kassovitz as being the perpetrators of the violence in the film.Mathieu uses the conflict between the police and the youths of the banlieues as a pointer to people in authority across the globe, as similar problems occur in most if not all major cities in one degree or another so the film is very relevant. A major reason for the films huge DVD sales in different countries was this relevance that people can associate and recognise with problems nearer to home.The film is cinema-verite as it aims to show a realistic portrayal of inner-city life, and it does this effectively. Kassovitz also uses some stylized touches in the film such as the Molotov cocktail hitting the world and blowing it up, which is imagery designed to symbolise the violence in the film, the image of the world means that this kind of violence and hate is a problem worldwide, a point I mentioned that this film is particularly relevant as a socio-political text throughout the globe.Kassovitz uses techniques used by Hitchcock in 'Vertigo' (the zoom in pull out shot) and Martin Scorsese with almost completely diegetic music reminiscent of 'Mean Streets', which is Kassovitz favourite film of all time. The film is filmed in black and white, which has been a feature of a few 90s French films. The effect of using black and white film stock is realism, but it also makes the film come across as 'arty'. I personally feel that the filming of this film in black and white was Kassovitz following a trend and seeing that people would view the film as being 'arty'. It is a little irritating and I much prefer colour film.All in all, this is a film from an era of French cinema that reflects the new freedom of directors to reject the previous romantic films that provided escapism for audiences and make films that highlight the darker, often shunned aside aspects of life. I feel that the film has some nice touches that reflect cultural interest across the world and that the actors really managed to immerse themselves into their roles in portraying believable frustrated youths. The film is a little tedious as not much happens, right up until the very end, but this reflects the lives of the youths, it is just time passing by doing nothing. If you're looking for a couple of hours of sheer escapism, don't choose this film, but if you are after some mental stimulation it's worth a look.


                
24 hours in the lives of three young friends from the French suburbs after a violent riot the day before.Extremely advisable to all teenagers and young adults (and not only), because although the film does not have a conventional story line, being more a series of events over 24 hours, those events are things that could happen to anyone, to with which we can identify, and has a final with a deep message.It is true that the film offers no solution to the violence and problems it depicts on disadvantaged minorities and social classes, and the characters sometimes do not seem at all pleasant, but it does provide a glimpse into the human condition in how "the social environment and behavior shape matching behavior".I believe this is a movie that can touch the soul, a movie to reflect upon feelings and prejudices that have to be overcome if we are to have a more just and peaceful society.Truly recommendable watch. Haven't seen it yet? What are you waiting for?


                
Three young friends are hanging out after the immigrant housing projects exploded against the police in a riot the night before. Vinz (Vincent Cassel) is a Jew and sees himself as a gangster. Saïd (Saïd Taghmaoui) is a loud-mouthed Arab. Hubert (Hubert Koundé) is a black boxer. Their friend Abdel was arrested and hospitalized after getting beaten by the police. Vinz has a gun and vows to kill a cop if Abdel dies. Rioters had looted a police station.This movie tries to take on some compelling modern issues. The problem is that the group of friends is so diverse. Instead of realism, the movie seems to be trying to be PC. The movie is missing the religious aspect of the fighting and basing it solely on social class. On the other hand, it tackles the police issue head on. Vinz really needs to be something other than a Jew. The rest is great.


                
I find it interesting that the film uses the names of most the actors as their character names. Perhaps by doing so, it adds more of an authentic feel to the film. The trio (Vincent, Hubert and Said) have good chemistry on screen, and what really ties them together is Said, as Vincent and Hubert are constantly butting heads; one the angel and the other the devil. Said plays the cheerful innocent young boy without much of a care and does not take sides with either, trying to maintain the peace. Vincent's expressions are really intense and though he does talk of violent acts, he does not engage in many. Hubert thinks of the bigger picture and with his calm demeanour is the image of morality in the film. The trio can be seen as gangsters by the way they walk and talk and the influence of American hood films is apparent here.This film is in black and white and that makes the atmosphere constant throughout. It has this bleak tone to it, and can even be seen as Expressionistic for both its visual style and narrative. The film expresses social issues in France at the time, and this film greatly portrays that. Set in a time when the citizens were conditioned to fear and despise the police, Kassovitz impressively shows both police brutality and sympathy.The cinematography is noticeably appreciable as well. There is this one scene, where I had to rewind to appreciate it some more. This is when Vinz is in the bathroom acting all macho, and testing out his toughness in front of the mirror. We are led to believe that we see him through the mirror, but then the camera should be in the reflection too, and it is not. That is truly ingenious.Though the film did keep me quite engaged, I just felt that it was a bit heavy for me, and that it wasn't leading anywhere. Then the ending came and it was just so unexpected that it left me feeling empty. Not sure how I feel about that.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
After local youth Abdel (Abdel Ahmed Ghili) is beaten unconscious by police, a riot ensues on his estate during which a policeman loses his gun. The gun is found by Vinz (Vincent Cassel) who threatens he will kill a cop if Abdel dies.This film was written, co-edited, and directed by Mathieu Kassovitz, and championed by such folks as Jodie Foster (unusual but true). Powerfully done in black and white, it presents a slice of French life with a mix of race and class. In some ways the film (released in 1995) is prescient, because the class conflict was not well-known to Americans until after the 9/11 attacks.In a way, it could be seen as a companion piece to "Kids", which came out about the same time. Though they deal with different issues and different cultures, both strongly express what it means to be a youth who is struggling.


                
Just as relevant today as when it was made, La Haine (or Hate) captures the difficulties faced by disenfranchised youth in France. The news of rioting in France a couple of years ago made the film seem all too real. Looking back on the film, the film seems very prescient in foreshadowing the problems percolating beneath the surface in France. I imagine the economic slowdown since 2008 probably has made it even worse than what it was in the 90's.Powerful,gritty, and quite realistic portrait of contemporary France. The film is sort of a precursor to the rise of social realism in French films, with the Dardenne Brothers' works being the most successful example. The plot is a bit weak but the acting and the realism more than make up for it. Recommended for those who like social realism in films.


                
Sometimes when watching a particular film, be it a good one or a bad one, it is impossible to get a similar film out of one's mind. Such was the case when I viewed writer/director Mathieu Kassovitz's Hate. Hate reminded me in many ways of Walter Hill's 1979 cult favorite The Warriors. Both films take place over a 24 hour period and both concern tough guy-type young men (a young gang in Hill's film) who must find a way to make it back home while avoiding trouble with the police as well as other antagonists (skinheads in Hate, rival gangs in The Warriors). While The Warriors was more action-oriented than Hate, the main journey in both pictures remains the same, as does the attitude of the characters. The characters in The Warriors, being gang members, are not good role models. Likewise, the protagonists in Hate, Vinz, Hubert, and Said, aren't the most savory of characters either. They constantly try to pick fights, argue, and insult each other mercilessly. This is where Hate encounters a bit of a problem. While Walter Hill is considered somewhat of a master with tough guy talk, Kassovitz doesn't seem to have much of an ear for such dialog. Throughout Hate, it seems whenever Kassovitz doesn't know what a character should say, he simply has them spit out a mouthful of profanities, whether they make sense or not. The routine gets tired quickly. Tough characters in films are known for having foul mouths, but there's a certain lazy and amateurish quality to the way it is placed in the dialog here. Kassovitz was clearly trying to write characters similar to those in Martin Scorsese's pictures (there are a few nods to Taxi Driver). It didn't work out too well. Half the time, the characters sound like a bunch of twelve-year-old boys cursing, like they only recently discovered swearing. At certain points, I actually felt embarrassed for the actors as the words in the script made them look bad. However, when Kassovitz sticks to his own sort of style and doesn't try to push the tough guy talk on the audience, the dialog seems more natural and clever. There's a scene where the three main characters discuss various cartoon characters from Tom and Jerry to Sylvester and Tweety. In that scene, the dialog works because there is a better flow along with a more distinct feeling of voice from Kassovitz. Another nice dialog exchange comes when the three guys attempt to steal a car, only to be stalled over an argument about who should drive. In this moment, the three come across as real friends. The argument itself seems real as it's a conversation that friends have with each other all the time. It is in these instances that Hate is a good film. In these moments, the characters and dialog work, bringing a strong sense of reality to the proceedings and strengthening the relationship between the trio.That being said, the best moment of Hate is one that doesn't seem grounded in reality at all. Throughout Hate, Vinz talks about seeing a cow walking on the streets except nobody truly believes him. Later, Vinz, as well as the audience, sees the cow walking. It's absurd, but also mesmerizing in a what-is-going-on sort of way. The scene could have been out of place and stupid yet somehow Kassovitz makes the scene work within the context of the rest of the picture. The cow makes for an awe-inspiring visual, one unlike any I've seen in any other movie. There are many way ones could interpret the cow and it is certainly symbolic in terms of Vinz's state of mind at that point in the story, but it works just as well to pretend that the cow is real. With all the craziness going on involving the riots, police corruption, and random violence, a cow wandering in the middle of nowhere surprisingly doesn't seem like a gigantic stretch of disbelief. With everything else going on, it could be possible.There is an awful lot that goes on during the 24 hours in which Hate takes place, so much that it would be hard to mention it all here. Some of what happens is interesting, some of what happens feels too familiar to be all that compelling. From a technical standpoint, Hate works. From a story standpoint, Hate could have used a bit more work. As it is, it is a watchable, occasionally compelling, little drama with a few nice dialog moments and some unique visuals.7/10
This is an interesting, low-budget French film that depicts a Paris most Americans have not seen.  I never even knew there were housing "projects" in France until I rented this video.  Definitely check it out.  The acting is excellent and the ending is profound.


                
