I have seen La Haine a handful of times now and with each viewing it just gets better.The first thing that stands out about the film is the cinematography. It's rare that a film like this is considered both genuine and a good example of it's art but La Haine is both.The plotline is compelling and realistic and neatly shows the way that inner city life has gone in the big cities in France as well as proving that despite the romance of Paris, it suffers from the same problems as any other major city.The characters are above all believable and the cast did a great job. The quality of acting is simply stunning from several actors and it would be a shame if it was simply dismissed as "just another foreign art-house movie" by audiences outside France.Above all the film whilst showing the influences of American films and society has a very clear sense of it's own identity and at no time does it feel like another US Ghetto film transposed to France. This is a major boon to the film and it stands out of the crowd for this, even though many people will dislike it because of this. It is, however, their loss.It's hard to recommend this film highly enough, but I should add that more than one viewing is required to get the best from La Haine.


                
"La Haine", probably one of the most momentous French movies of the nineties caused a stir when it opened in 1995 so much so that it became a big social phenomenon. It heralded a genre: the "film De Banlieue" whose backdrop is high-risk French suburbs and in its wake, other movies emerged like "Bye-Bye" (1995) or "ma 6-T Va Crack-Er" (1997). "La Haine" remains Mathieu Kassovitz's best moment. Afterwards, he didn't cease to disappoint me. "Assassin(s)" (1997) left me uncomfortable and queasy and "les Rivières Pourpres" (2000) was an absolute turkey. I haven't seen "Gothika" (2003) but he shot it with the Hollywood presence on his back and I fear the worst.To better be immersed in his plan, Kassovitz shot his film in one of these high-risk French suburbs (I can't remember its name but you can check it in the "filming locations" rubric when you arrive on the page of the film on this site). This gives his movie an ultra-realist sensation which rings true. In the space of a day, his camera follows a threesome of ruffians. There's Vinz (Vincent Cassel) who acts the tough guy. He is proud of having stolen the gun of a cop and hopes to make good use of it. When he is asked to make an effort of reflection, he loses his temper. Hubert (Hubert Koundé) a pacifist who craves to get out of this daily hell but where to go? He also knows that hate breeds hate. It's both the catalyst of the riots and adds fuel to the fire in the incessant conflicts. And also Saïd (Saïd Thagmaouï), a brazen teenager. The three of them wander in their neighborhood and in Paris between visiting of friends, relationships with the riffraff, the police, arguments, reconciliations and foolish things. An ordinary day during which the trio appears as prisoners of their suburbs and have a life with no horizon. A day which will lead to the inevitable, marked out by the time which often appears on a black screen.Kassovitz did his best to create a stylish film and it paid off well. It was a good idea to have shot his film in a black and white cinematography because it bestows it with a very gritty aura; sometimes there's a documentary whiff which pervades the film. His camera work which commands admiration makes juxtapose travelings, static shots and circular movements according to the vibe a sequence could convey. It also helps to enhance the scenery which is perhaps the fourth main actor of the film after the trio. Overrall, his film is a hard-hitting assessment of a faltering universe (the high-risk suburbs) in which latent tensions and hate reign and it can awake at any time in violence. This hate in question which the inhabitants of these suburbs feel towards the cops is also smoldered in the cops and I wonder if Kassovitz indicts their sometimes intolerable demeanor, especially when some ruffians are kept in police custody. In the beginning of the film, the audience learns that a suspect, Abdel is in a coma at hospital because he was badly injured by the cops during questioning. When they learned this, the toughest guys of these suburbs sparked off a riot. In a way, the attitude of the police helps to fuel the hate and to separate farther the gap and the incomprehension between the inhabitants of these suburbs and the police. That said, Kassovitz doesn't generalize. Not all the cops are monstrous. Check the two sequences when in the first one, a policeman tries to make the riffraff understand in a sensible manner that they can't stay on the roof of a building and the second sequence when Vinz, Hubert and Saïd are in Paris and they ask their way to a policeman who guides them in a polite way.The actors were discerningly chosen and perfectly directed. It seems that Kassovitz fostered improvisation. It was the right method to confer his film with an authentic feeling. They deliver dialogs full of slang, coarse lines and sometimes they're inaudible so you'll have to be very attentive to catch what they say. However, this drawback isn't really irritating and was surely wanted by the director to reinforce the unique spontaneity of the film. With his build and his face of ruffian, Vincent Cassel was ideally cast as the stubborn Vinz while his two main partners are amazingly true to life. And there are some famous French actors who have cameos and who weren't afraid of having demeaning parts like Vincent Lindon, a drunkard or Zinedine Soualem, a sadistic cop.Kassovitz remains as objective as possible and doesn't offer solutions to solve these problems. More than ten years after it reached the streets, his films is still a topical one and the riots and violent incidents which broke out in high-risk suburbs in many French cities the last fall alas show that these tensions aren't alas ready to subside.


                
When the youth Abdel goes to the hospital in coma due to a battering he receives at the police station, there are riots in the outskirts of Paris and one policeman loses his revolver. On the next morning, the Arab Said (Saïd Taghmaoui) summons his Jewish friend Vinz (Vincent Cassel) and they meet the black boxer Hubert (Hubert Koundé) in the slum where they live. Soon Vinz shows the missing gun that he found in the night before and he tells that if Abdel dies, he will revenge his friend killing a police officer. The trio of troublemaker and pothead friends head to the downtown of Paris where they spend the day asking for trouble. On the end of the long night, tragedy happens.The awarded "La Haine" is an impressive French movie that follows along 24 hours, the lives of three idle friends from a poor suburb of Paris that belong to a lost generation. I saw this movie in the 90's and today I have decided to see it again to compare the situations shown in the movie with what is recently happening in Brazil with several riots and it is amazing the similarities: lost youths with neither instruction nor job; unprepared and brutal police force; low quality of life in the slums or ghettos in the outskirts of the big cities (in Brazil, there are several slums also in the noble areas). The only difference is basically that France belongs to the First World and Brazil to the Third World; the rest is identical. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "O Ódio" ("The Hate")


                
France is slowly becoming a poor European country and many French people are not so happy with this film.If you pay a visit to any of the so called French cultural centers you will be surprised to find that this film will not be in the space meant for DVDs. Why is that so ? The decision to exclude La Haine from DVD space is due to the fact that France is the only nation in the world which relies heavily on its past glory.In our modern international world,it still talks of Moliere, Balzac etc knowing fully well that no one (at least French youth) is interested in them.France has nothing latest,recent,modern, contemporary to showcase to the whole world.French language books are always devoted to its writers,singers,new wave cinema etc.There is no chapter,no description of its immigrants,ghetto life and racism. Whatever that has been depicted in this film is the naked burning reality.Such was the impact of this film at the time of its release premier Alain Juppe had to call for a special screening to know what all the fuss was.One final word:three male leads:one Arab, one Jew and one Christian, isn't that bit intentional as well as obvious.May be Kassovitz wanted to reach as many communities as possible.


                
In general I liked the movie very much . Realistic ... If you distance yourself from the movie and the message it wanted to put forth. Sure in general . At first glance you have to side with order,system & police. But, when you indulge in the less popular side.... You have to get upset & sad.... I personally related to Hulbert character . Hulbert character wanted to do whats right , but then he was forced into a situation .... I tend to feel very sad ,because I witnessed so much similar cases. But then sadness turn into anger. Why ...Why was he forced into situation like this??!?!someone has to take responsibility!! I don't want to give too much spoilers . Whats really more upsetting . The fact that this movie is entirely based on socio-economic difficulties . Ya...What about others who suffer this and more...!!!!!! What's your take on this?????Or do they have to make a movie to get their message conveyed????


                
The movie follows three young men in the suburbs of Paris. Violent riots have plagued the neighbourhood for days after a police officer shot another young man with immigrant background. And thus the movie becomes a story about the struggle of those that are trapped in the suburbs, with very few prospects and no way out of their second class dwellings.The movie is shot in a very stark manner, both visually and thematically. It is made clear that although these immigrants and their descendants were at least somewhat forced into the suburbs and it has not been made easy for them to get out, the boys themselves are also to be blamed. They're all grown men, albeit just barely, but none of them seem to have any plans, barely any education and only a bad attitude to sustain them from day to day. And this aimlessness is reflected in their rioting. They talk a lot about eye for an eye, but even they can admit - even if they will not say it aloud - that it won't solve anything. They're stuck. Not to say that the police are guiltless. Bad attitudes and learned habits plague both sides and set them against one another.The movie however doesn't offer all that many answers. Its central question is in the form of "What?", not "Why?" or "How do we solve this?". And that is also important. We need to understand the problem before we can go about solving it. And that is why this film was so relevant back on its day, and why it is still relevant over twenty years later. Because we are still struggling with these questions, these problems.La Haine is an important film. It in a very real manner showcases exactly how we are failing as a society and what there is to fix. Very good watch for all looking for grit, asphalt and lonely streets.


                
I am studying this film for my exams in January, i was a little downhearted to begin with as I'm not world cinemas biggest fan, and wasn't looking forward to watching it.How mistaken could i be, this film has the gritty realism that reminds me of films like Trainspotting, with the style of guy Ritchie, but under this hides a very important statement about french life.the film follows three friends through a day, a day which started with their friend in intensive care following riots during the night, where he was beaten by the police.The start of the film was great, the shots taken seemed as if they were real footage from riots, and was accompanied by a great Bob Marley song 'Burnin and Looting' The three characters are all visually introduced then you see them cause trouble, and be obnoxious, Vincent Cassell plays the part of Vinz, a lad who had found a cops gun in the riots, and has an obsession with using it,Hubert Koundé plays Hubert, Hubert and Vinz don't see eye to eye in the film and seem to have very different outlooks on the present situation, but start to become closer as the film progresses Said Taghmaoui plays Said, not as a strong character as the other two but is very important as the film gives the impression it through his eyes, as it opens with his eyes opening and closes with, yes you guessed it, his eyes closing.I wont tell you the end, i heard an absolutely ridiculous comment about this film from a film critic who labelled the film as predictable!! anyone who has seen this film knows that is certainly not the case.if you haven't seen this film yet, go out and get it. its certainly worth it, its changed my pessimistic views on world cinema.A beautiful and stylish film, but not surreal.


                
A French bomb that blows a hole through all the images of berets, baguettes, cancans, cafes, Deneuves, Delphys, Depardieus and French film from Jean Renoir to Jean le Florette, which has at times rather tiresomely persisted in projecting. This is France's answer to Scorsese and Spike Lee. "This is the story about a guy who falls off the top of a 50 storey building(or the Eiffel Tower)," recounts one of the film's heros."As he is falling, he is telling himself,'So far, everything is fine....so far, everything is fine' But in the end he has to land." Kassovitz tells the story of that descent through 24 hours in the lives of three friends, a symbolic trio of Black, Arab and Jew. Hubert, Said and Vinz are homeboys for whom home is one of the countless suberbs outside Paris, The housing estates, shoe boxes or pigeon holes if you ask me. They are members of that singularly exclusive class which Presisent Chirac labelled les exclus: unemployed drifters who hang out, get high, steal the odd car, deal the odd deal. Their friend Abdel is on death's door after being beaten during a police interrogation, a night of rioting has ensued and now the cite is in a state of siege. And now it is Vinz not the Cops who have the gun, lost by one of the riot police during the insurgence. Stumbling upon it has transformed atimid teenager who "feels like an ant lost in an intergalactic space" into a swaggering Titan, rumescent with power, a rebel with, at last, a cause. This is black and white cinematography, bursting with rhythm, almost schizophrenic in its scope, this is La Haine and a hugely effecting film it is. Frozen in boredom and slow motion shots of Hubert hitting a punching bag, all gleaming sweat. An accelerated montage of the frantic mob backed by Bob Marley's music that turns banal televised violence into a massive mournful, comunal dance. the rappers do a different kind of dance, and the camera ups the tempo chasing jumps and pirouettes of such energy and artistry that seem to resurrect a thousand lost hopes. edgily it follows that the three friends who play, joke and provoke because although they are street wise, finally they are only boys and there jokes are about farting and sex. the gags dry up when the boys arrive in Paris. The city's famed charms are lost on them, they are hopelessly alien as the hordes of American tourists, scorned by the girls they try to pull and finally brutalized by a sadistic interrogation officer whose hard-on swells with every blow. The screen screen fills up with a terrible close-up of a face rabid with hatred. It is Vinz, tentatively, fondling the ever present gun, its a chrome-plated Smith and Wesson 44. Vinz is hallucinating about using it on the next cop he passes by. Vinz at the movies, holding up his face to raining images of violence, inviting them to drown him and at the same time empower him. Vinz and a recurring mirage: a lone cow grazing in the cite's concrete fields. In the end, it is Hubert - the trio's voice of reason, the mediator, the one with the most tolerance and faith and the greatest moral sense - who is most inhabited by hatred. the gun is in his hands. The shot reverberates. The screen goes black. The audience does not know who has been shot. and doesn't care. Because in the end, the audience too is inhabited by hatred. This is the story about that falling man....


                
Gritty.  A film that attempts to be truthful, and more so, tries to really say something about issues many are afraid to confront.  The acting is believable-considering nearly everyone casted in a non-actor (they're just playing themselves), this makes sense.  The references to American culture, particularly, Hollywood cinema, puts an interesting slant in the movie-who knew that French kids could break-dance that well!  Worth seeing a few times-for the insight into alternative youth French culture and for the acting realism.


                
a kick in the nuts !!!! a social scream !!!!"Hate hurts the hater more'n the hated." <U+2015> Madeleine L'Engle"I hate you, God. I hate you as though you actually exist." <U+2015> Graham Greene, The End of the Affairso i see this movie like this quotes , hate kill the hater and god don't do nothing about it , its like if he doesn't care aboutits and end from the very first scene of the movielike if they were dead at born , like if life is a jokehate kills life and bring more deatha brutal end to a life that is a void to a city in social hell and no salvationwhen you end the film you will think in life and hate and i think you will love more your life and less your hate !!!


                
I have always wanted to see this movie for so long. It was very successful on representing the modern resistance spirit which is shaped generally by the fear of being in isolation. This isolation isn't just the problem of our era but its consequents can never be seen so explicitly. The camera, colour and the character choices are very well chosen. The attitude of the director about the movie isn't precluding the enjoyment of watching a movie. This can be seen in the scenario which is realistic, humorous and unpredictable.The acting of all three actors is superb and very suitable for the ideas, conflicts and feelings of real mankind.The story isn't just containing a day and a night of a three friends but it certainly uncovers the nature of violence by a cop rifle which determines the criminal and guilt.At the end I must admit that the music was very beautiful and astonishing.The beginning with Bob Marley and the scene of Cut Killer in the neighborhood is unforgettable. If you like political dramas, French aura and an ending like a smash It will be a very good choice
"It's not fall that kills you , it's the landing" is the premise of this excellent french movie , directed by Mathieu Kassovitz. Basically this is a film about three young men who have been falling from the day they were born , living in a run down area of Paris. It's just a matter of time until they hit the floor. There are three brilliant performances from a young Vincent Cassel, Hubert Kounde and Said Taghmaoui . Shot in black and white this looks fantastic and feels very real. What i like about this is you know it's not going to end well but you just not quite sure how it's going to end. If you love gritty urban movies then Le Haine is perfect.


                
French director Kassovitz was awarded the Palme D'or for Best Director at Cannes 1995, for this film. La Haine (released as Hate in the US) tells the story of a day in the lives of three youngsters, living in a council estate (banlieu) at the outskirts of Paris, in the aftermath of the beating of one of their friends by the police, which had lead to riots and confrontations with the armed forces. The film was shot in black and white, on a very low budget, using many non-professional actors. The scenes are mostly shot on location, in the Parisian suburb of Chanteloup-les-Vignes, with extended use of a hand-held camera, and plenty of stock footage of riots happened in the region in the 10 years preceding the film. The editing is adventurous and dramatic, and this provides a balanced and reliable point of view to the audience, even when the camera point of views are sometime incongruent.The setting of this film is a Parisian banlieu, a term loosely meaning suburb, but which in France assumes a different connotation, because the suburbs of Paris are normally inhabited by lower-income citizens,living in affordable blocks of flats and, in those areas, the social unrest is high, also because normally a high number of immigrants or naturalized citizens live there, almost in a ghetto situation. The movie rides the wave of the atmosphere of social unrest of the early 90's all over Europe, and especially France, Spain and Italy, and, undoubtedly, a lot of the its success arises from this situation. In those years, many so-called Social Centres appeared, and youngsters started to revolve around them, and be active in politics, especially of a left-wing orientation. And a certain type of socially-engaged art started to become stronger and more organized, and it gained consensus; however, the feature possesses high artistic merits, and its place amongst some of the greatest films is definitely deserved.


                
Very much a young person's film both in style and temperament stunningly shot in wide screen monochrome by Pierre Aim and covering 24 hours in the lives of three friends from a Parisian housing estate in the aftermath of a riot in which a fourth member of their clan has been shot and seriously wounded by the police. Fundamental to events is a gun lost by the police and found by Vinz, one of the boys in question, who has vowed that if his friend dies he will kill 'a pig'.It's an exciting, visceral, nihilistic picture influenced by the likes of Scorcese and filmed with much the same documentary like precision that Pontecorvo applied to "The Battle of Algiers" and an influence in turn on the work of British directors like Shane Meadows. A pre-credit prologue in which we are told of a man falling to his death from a 50-storey building should alert us to the fact that no matter what the outcome it isn't likely to be a happy one for anyone concerned. Writer/director Mathieu Kassovitz has no illusions about happy endings and violence and the prospect of a sudden, early death figures large in the lives of the protagonists.It's not a great film; it's too much of a patchwork quilt of outside influences but it is brilliantly made, it's full of energy and it clearly marked out Kassovitz as a director worth watching.
Called France's answer to "Do the Right Thing," 20-year old Matthiewu Kassovitz rocks the screen with this opus.Technically dazzling, the black and white photography, editing, and acting come together in a remarkable piece of social commentary.The underlying issues here speak to a universal audience. Here's a film that moves, with some notable tracking shots. Where other directors would have cut, Kassovitz's camera continues with fluidity.The film reflects the youthful energy of its director, cast and crew, and makes an indelible statement.Special thanks to Jodie Foster for her support in bringing this striking French film to us.


                
Unrest in the housing projects of France. Three male youths, Vinz, Hub & Sayid represent the multicultural aspect of poverty and desperation found in the projects. Kassovitz captures the boredom with amusement, aided by the creative use of the camera. When the going gets tough the camera jolts you to awareness. But you can never relax when the boys are having a laugh because anything may and can be around the corner, giving you a sense of perspective of their unpredictable lives hanging on razor's edge. Only when the boys venture to the outside world does the film lose its edge, slowing the tension down and showing how the other side differs no less than the projects when it comes to racial intolerance.


                
Beautifully shot in black and white, you soon forget about having to read the subtitles. Sometimes even forgetting that this is a fictional film and not a documentary. Excellent acting from everyone, it is totally believable that the three lead characters hang out with each other every day. There's not really much else that can be described in words, as it is a visual experience that is greater than the sum of i's parts. Down to its shocking and abrupt ending, I enjoyed this as much this time as the last two


                
Great movie. It describes one day and when you are watching you feel like wow my day is boring so many bad things can happen in one day.


                
Have you heard of the story of the man falling from the skyscraper? As he falls he reassures himself repeating, "So far so good... So far so good... So far so good." But it's not the fall that matters. First time film maker Mathieu Kassovitz writes and directs the controversial tale of three residents of the French housing estate La Banlieues. These residents represent three different ethnic and religious backgrounds. We have Vinz, the aggressive young man of Jewish descent, Said, an Arabian man whose power comes from his graffiti vandalism. And Hubert, the boxer and voice of reason of African descent who may stand a chance of escaping the poverty and criminal lifestyle residents of La Banlieue resort to.The film is a-day-in-the-life of three La Banlieue residents. The narrative reflects this as it essentially is just three friends hanging out but engaging in criminal activity, anti social behaviour and being targets for police brutality. By having a-day-in-the-life narrative it brings a real sense of reality as events take place rather realistically while also acting as powerful statements about the state of France and the professionalism of French police at the time. Kassovitz perfectly creates scenes highlighting the disenfranchisement of youth, the class division, the anti youth bias of the media and conflict in France as well as the abuse of power from French law enforcement. Scenes like; the Opening, the interrogation scene and the unforgettable closing scene.Kassovitz's direction is fantastic as he portrays the isolation and alienation of the disenfranchised youth of La Banlieue. Specific moments that deserve mentioning is Hubert and DJ Killa scene. Kassovitz definitely earned his Canne film festival award for best director that year for this film. His writing is also great at creating characters that people can relate to and that feel real. This is also in part down to the great acting from leads, Vincent Cassel, Hubert Kounde and Said Taghmaoui. Their on screen chemistry feels extremely authentic and you believe that these three people from three different backgrounds but bonded under one political issue are able to become friends rather than breed the hate further.Overall, La Haine is a brilliantly directed, written and acted film about poverty, power and conflict in Paris and La Banlieue, highlighting that their is a problem that needs to be addressed. 20 years on and the issues in La Haine are still very much issues and so La Haine's messages and representations are still very accurate and relevant to this day. Kassovitz does a fantastic job with his debut as he tells the audience and French authorities to open their eyes as french society is falling, but it isn't the fall that matters. Its how you land!
Hate begets hate and ignorance leads to fatal. 'Hate' and 'ignorance' are two pillars of racism which we observe today while its foundation was laid far years ago. The main question arises while watching this story is, first, "What exactly are we facing due to the effects of racism?" and second, "What urges us, we common people, to get trapped into the maze of racism?" We have been living in the world of togetherness and unity with a motto of 'oneness for all', unknowingly of our society which is still diseased by the plague named 'racism'. We don't observe, while we are in our own peace, that someone superior to us is injecting a fluid in our hearts that is developing more and more hatred for the ones who are either of different casts or of different races. 'La Haine' translated as 'Hatred', directed by Mathieu Kasosvitz is very firm on the issue of racism and is by far the most occupied film ever made on the subject. The story set in the city of Paris is righteously motivated through its director and cast. Watching this, it rarely makes one feel numb and pity towards the crew; and it is as rough as it gets as emotional we feel in the end. I was stunned to see Vincent Cassel in his early days, how beautifully he has crafted his work in the form of acting. In "Irreversible(2002)", he was mature enough but less bold than in La Haine. Hubert and Said Taghmaoui have played their roles brilliantly. Said is another face to watch throughout the film if you enjoyed Vincent. Each of them being young, they have been so perfect and artistic, one may never find such acts in other French movies. Pierre Aim is another brain on whose shoulder, cinematography was staged. And guess, that leaves us spellbound to see very different angles of Paris. This is not all for we see this movie. We got to take something back after viewing this, we ought to apply positivity we gain from it. Because, "the world is dying, the society around us is degrading and we are making it happen too soon."
The story of La Haine is not so clear from the outset. What is this film about, who are these people, what are the rules of their world and why? These are questions that I was asking myself for the first half hour of the film and then I realised that the film is not going to blatantly give me the answers as I'd expect. Instead it's going to slowly unravel them, intriguing me every so often and making me feel smart when I work something out. And that's exactly what happened. I found the story and plot to be fairly original in the sense that we haven't seen this type of story telling before this film. The shape of the dialogue could have been inspired by the likes of Tarantino but it stands on its own. Although the film can deal with brutal themes at times it is very comedic. There are little references to other films as well allowing the viewer to feel clever when they recognize them. The only issue with the story is that it is obviously a story for a specific audience. Not much context around the world of the characters is given making it difficult for westerners to feel sympathy for what the characters are going through because they simply don't understand the gravity of the situation.Technically, the film works okay. I understand the decision to make this film black and white but I don't think it needs it. It's not a subtle reference to the world of the film so it just feels like one of those wanky artistic decisions. Additionally, some of the shots could have been very beautiful but they simply weren't as they looked cheap. Perhaps the film makers were a little to ambitious and acting outside of what they could actually accomplish neatly. For the most part though the film looks and sounds like a documentary but this really works with the films gritty context.Acting: Exceptional.Overall, a nice independent film with an original concept of narrative structure and story telling techniques.


                
Matthieu Kassowitz's LA HAINE (Hate) is a portrait of youth disenfranchisement and the ensuing rage set in the public housing projects outside Paris. Before this film was released, many foreign viewers knew only the well-dressed, white, reserved and educated France depicted in e.g. films of the 1960s New Wave. Even many French people were unaware of the darker undercurrents of their own society, as no film had dared to handle this subject matter before. LA HAINE was a bombshell. While shot in 1995, it remains entirely topical today, as riots have continued to make the news in recent years.LA HAINE follows one day in the lives of three young men of different ethnic backgrounds all born and raised in one particular housing project: the aggressive Jew Vinz (Vincent Cassell), the insecure, clownish Arab Saïd (Saïd Taghmaoui) and the more level-headed, pensive sub-Saharan African Hubert (Hubert Koundé). The film opens on a spring morning, in the aftermath of a riot which has rocked these youths' housing project. Some cars and buildings are destroyed, and the news reports that a police officer has lost his gun in the chaos of the night before. During the 24-hour period before the film's shocking ending, this trio tours the bittersweet environment of their housing project (violence and poverty on one hand, loving families on the other) and, in an effort to pick up money owed to them, they navigate the alien environment (rich, educated, white) of downtown Paris.This is not only a revelatory film in showing viewers a side of France they had never seen before, but it is also extremely entertaining. The performances by these relatively unexperienced actors are totally convincing, Vincent Cassell in particular. Kassowitz shuns his country's own film tradition and instead sculpts the action under inspiration from the USA. However, the "urban", "hip-hop" aesthetic he employs does not lower the film to the more vacuous Hollywood productions but instead is at the level of Spike Lee and Scorsese. The director's decision to print the film in black and white has imbued it with a gravitas that makes it timeless. That said, in spite of the fine acting and ethnographic detail, the plot itself is rather mundane, which holds me back from giving this a full five stars.


                
La Haine is a political film directed by Mathieu Kassovitz which deals with the constant riots in the projects of France. It focuses on three young boys living in the suburbs and follows them for a few hours during one particularly chaotic day when one of their friends, a protester by the name of Abdel gets critically assaulted by the police.Kassovitz successfully manages to capture the feel and the bleak nature of life in these projects. The conditions that the boys of the neighbourhoods grow up in are completely unsuitable for children and the violence and chaos existing all around them after a point engulf them all whether they like it or not. Gyms getting damaged, schools getting burnt down and constant fighting with the police are part and parcel of the lives in these ghettos. Vinz, Said and Hubert are boys who also during their lives have been exposed to this violence and as a result they have also become violent, although Hubert is the most sensible among them. They constantly feel the need to act like badasses just to prove that they are brave and bigshots, although they are all boys who are pretending to be something they are not. The direction is stylish. The film is in black and white. A reason for that might be to show the hopeless nature of life in these projects where colour as a symbol of hope has not entered. Mathieu Kassovitz uses fast zooms, Raging Bull-esque slow motion and some other techniques which work well.The screenplay for the most part works well and I remained engaged. But during the last 30 minutes the story sort of lost its way a bit and lost the intensity that made everything that came before very captivating and the climax felt a bit contrived.The acting is very good and every one looks natural and at ease in front of the camera. Vincent Cassel deserves a special mention.La Haine is a very good film depicting the hardships that come along with living in the ghetto. While it may not be perfect, it certainly does manage to provoke the viewer to think about the world at large.


                
Quiet possibly one of my favorite ever foreign language films and surely the rebirth of the French film industry that captivated millions around the world for so long. That's why I call this film; the French new wave part 2...To those outside France, it's the French version of Boyz N The Hood, to those in it and to myself, it's a unrestrained urban thriller that moves at such a ferocious pace, you often find yourself on the edge of your seat, clingy on to your arm rest for dear life. Mathieu Kassovitz effectively uses black and white to create art out of the all the crime and violence, mastering a fine tight rope between the rawness of a poor, urban backdrop and a piece of art work that would not look a bit out of place, if it were hung in a gallery next to painting by Picasso. Uncompromising in his attempt to tell a story loosely based on actual events, about riots that lasted for more than 10 years in the French capital, Kassovitz want to portray a story in a manner that makes the whole world stop, not only to serve as mere voyeurs, but instead to actually think.La Haine tells the story of three vastly different and conflicting characters; a Jew, an Arab and an African. That seems to come effortlessly together like a barber shop quartet. As they have to deal with the aftermath of events that lead to a young Arab teenager being beaten into a coma on the outskirts of a riot - Adding fuel to the ever growing, racial and political tension between the people in charge and the powerless individuals of the projects. While most of us feel safe watching violence, as long as it's on TV or film, as we are for the most part detached from what we are experiencing, but instead the aim of for this film, throughout the entire duration of the film, about a world that takes place in the course of one day, which is the time span in the film that seems to last a eternity, we are engrossed in the action throughout, so we are not comfortable or assured at all, instead we are almost bullied into reacting and reciprocate a feeling of tension, as is endured in the film between the cops and the residents of the project. But ultimately the underlying theme of the film is a sense of hopelessness, that is nothing will ever change! It's just a cycle. This is best represented during the opening monologue, and in the final few scenes, as a story is told and narrated, consisting of a man who jumps of a 50 story building, but to reassure himself he keeps repeating "so far, So good, so far, So good" as he hurtles to his death. This is used to show that this never ending cycle of violence and hate is never going to stop, soon enough resulting in society's demises. But no one seems to care. As long as they are surviving, they don't care when it's falling, but when it crashes, that's when they panic. Magnificent, awesome, a compulsive viewing! This is a poignant yet humorous reminder of the harsh reality of people living in the ghettos of France. Boyz N The Hood was a great film, but it is almost eclipsed by this masterpiece and that's saying allot. A must watch. 'The world is ours'


                
La haine characterised a 90's strand in French cinema where there was a focus on depicting contemporary social issues. A particular point of interest was the banlieue; this is the suburbs of Paris where the working classes were moved to from the 1950's onwards. These housing estates in the outer areas of the city were made up of high-rise blocks and the quality of accommodation was poor. This segregation of the working people from the higher income brackets led to an alienation that was felt especially in the younger generations who only knew this situation. La haine looks at three young men from this very context.After a riot the police lose a gun. This weapon falls into the hands of three young men from the ghetto. These guys represent three ethnic groups prevalent in the banlieue, one is Jewish, one is black and the third is Arabic. This gun gives them a sense of power which they ordinarily do not feel they have. They feel disenfranchised and seeing that France has rejected them they do not look to France for cultural icons; they look to America for this, particularly Hollywood films. This film looks at a highly-charged day in the life of these three young men. It considers what happens when you try to cage an animal. The animal will attempt to fight back. The French riots that happened a decade after this film was released are testimony to the wisdom of this lesson.Mathieu Kassovitz's film isn't just about gritty realism though, as despite the subject matter and urban drama genre, it's a very cinematic film. There are quite a few audacious camera moves and the influence of Martin Scorsese's Mean Streets in particular is hard to avoid. Like that film. there isn't really much of a story in La haine, so if this is what you need out of a film then it may disappoint. It's much more of a character and environment study. I guess it's where social-realism meets cinematic style.


                
