*** CONTAINS MILD SPOILERS ***Alan Moore's graphic novel V for Vendetta is an elegant, thought-provoking and complex exploration of the meaning of freedom and the politics of protest. The Wachowski Brothers and James McTeigue have somehow reduced this to a film that pretty much says 'Whoa, dude! Terrorists ROCK!!!111!'It's hard to imagine how anyone who is a fan of the book could have produced this film. The novel is clever where the film is dumb, engaging where the film is boring, and subtle where the film simply blows stuff up. Where Moore's V is erudite and sophisticated, the best McTeigue's V can manage is a big speech of words mostly beginning with the letter 'V'. Principally to blame for this must be the screenplay, which is full of unwieldy clunking additions which are supposed to make you think REAL HARD YOU GUYS about how this is LIKE RELLEVUNT to NOW. The screenplay takes a piece which is about Thatcherite Britain and tries to use it to bang home a message about George Bush's USA. So, instead of Moore's extreme conservative regime, we are presented with a 'British' government of the religious right, which seeks to ban homosexuality and Islam in the name of Christianity. Anyone who is actually British will find this confusing and nonsensical, as there is no popular religious right in Britain. And Americanisms like 'lever' (pronounced 'levver' rather than 'leever') and 'elevator' don't help.Still, no one could really have expected the Wachowskis to produce a subtle or clever screenplay. But you might reasonably expect that this would be a super-stylish, high-action thriller. It isn't. The production design is sloppy - we're expected to believe that, thirty or forty years into the future, people are wearing exactly the same clothes and using exactly the same technology as they are now, with the sole exception of a little red bleepy machine which doesn't seem to have a function but might perhaps be a dictaphone. And, as for your high-octane thrills, well... don't get your hopes up. The action moves at around a quarter of the pace of the Matrix, and fight scenes are few and far between. In the climactic fight at the end, wherein V slays a whole troop of men, the film's signature visual effect finally kicks in: and it's... *drumroll*... knives leaving vapour trails. Wooooo. No need to bring a spare pair of pants to the cinema. Bullet time, it ain't.There are many problems with this film: poor editing, appalling performances, the pointless addition of a love story. But the main crime is undoubtedly the sheer stupidity that the Wachowskis have brought to the table. Moore's novel deliberately does not end with firm conclusions, but asks you to consider relative evils: the government is obviously oppressive and fascist, but V is no less totalitarian in his own convictions. When he blows up symbols of democracy and justice like the OId Bailey, murders those who don't agree with him, or tortures Evie to 're-educate her', he becomes more and more like the government he despises. In the film, this duality is forgotten, and V is presented as a straightforward hero. The conclusion, therefore, is that terrorism works, terrorism is good, and the ends always justify the means. The film of V for Vendetta misses the principal point of the novel, and ends up being offensive as well as boring and rubbish. Read the book, please, but don't waste your time watching this. And let's pray they never make Watchmen.


                
If this had been a children's-movie rated by children getting the 8.3 it got, I would have understood. But grown-up boys and girls surely have better things to do with their time than to overhype this celebration of averageness into the top 250 of this website.The grown up boys 'n gals haven't rated a movie, they have rated subject-matter as it would appear. I guess that showing some concentration camp imagery, an evil Hitler-like character (a grumpy old man version of an Adolf anyway) and rehashing '1984' is enough these days to make something profound.I mean, why else would a movie which has obvious pacing-flaws, a script so full of nonsensical alliteration that it would even make a Vogon gnaw off his own ears, anything but a lavish plot, a pedestrian view on politics and an agonizingly bad performance by one of its leads (Nat Portman (God bless her soul and looks) couldn't act her way out of a high-school drama even if she tried it without a fake foreign accent.) be regarded so highly? Watching this borefest, my eyelids cramped from fighting gravity. I won't get into all the complaints I have with this talky and plodding twaddle, it has all been pointed out by other reviewers in the 'hated-it' section. These are just my two cents to warn anyone with an education about the incredibly inflated polling-numbers for this cringeworthy exercise in film-making, scripting, casting etc. It certainly isn't thé worst movie ever made, but it's average rating shouldn't be higher than a 5.5 and not a decimal more.


                
I had no idea the Wachowski Brothers were still students. No really, I honestly didn't. I thought they were accomplished film-makers, but judging by the pretentious bombast that is here presented as something profound, I'll approach any further work of theirs with the same wariness I would work by any other bunch of opinionated undergrads.We're in Britain, 20 or 30 years in the future, and the Conservative Party has returned to power, now with sufficient mandate to do what it has clearly always wanted to do, transform the country into a brutal Nazi state <U+0096> even though it was a Conservative government who stood up so bravely to the real Nazis (I'm not a Conservative by any means, but you immediately understand the sort of targets this movie is taking pot-shots at, and if you prefer your cinematic entertainment not to be filled with unsubtle student politics, then you're already irritated). Anyway, a superhero thankfully arises, one of those guys of many inexplicable talents: he can breeze his way through the most advanced security systems (without ever feeling the need to show us how); he can perform all kinds of acrobatic hi-jinks and is also a master of weapons and technology (again, without telling or showing us how or why); he is hugely well financed and is always three or four steps ahead of his blundering foe. He even manages to break into the government's own television channel and broadcast a message of hope (as they so often seem able to do in these dystopian sci-fi thrillers).Anyway, all this is a good thing because Britain is now an Orwellian police state full of dark alleys, creeping spotlights and crashing jackboots, where anyone and everyone is likely to get it in the neck, but the staunchly right-wing, Christian authorities mainly pick on intellectuals, homosexuals, Moslems and all the other minorities that student activists like to imagine are persecuted in the present-day West. As a result, our hero <U+0096> 'V' <U+0096> is a guy proud to wear the moniker of 'terrorist'. He openly admits that his war against the state is born of a personal vendetta, and he'll go to any lengths to force his views on people <U+0096> even imprisoning and torturing innocents in order to show them how terrible the enemy are (yet another half-baked student philosophy, where any means are justified by a righteous end). Of course V has a softer side too. Naturally he's a lover of the arts (students can never conceive of a hero who isn't at least as well-educated as they are). He fills his house with paintings and sculptures, and (completely irrelevantly to the plot) quotes the great works of literature at tedious length. He also appears to idolise 17th century 'freedom fighter' Guy Fawkes, a mask of whose face he wears 24-7.And yes, you've got it. This is basically a hollow, ostentatious, politically outdated lump of pseudo-anarchist propaganda. We could blame Alan Moore's original graphic novel, but hardly anyone read the graphic novel, whereas lots of people have seen and commented on the film, so it's the film we need to concentrate on. In any case, Alan Moore had the good grace to disinherit the film, so he's divested of all blame.Even at a purely technical level, it's flawed. The narrative is weak and full of holes: why is a simple chief-inspector of police investigating a case that has the potential to bring down the whole of society?; why does the state bother with a police force at all when it has it's 'finger men' <U+0096> all-licensed thugs whose job is simply to terrorise people and who are above the law themselves; despite there being spies and surveillance cameras everywhere, how is that free-thinkers are still allowed to provide rays of hope? <U+0096> in this case it's Stephen Fry's character, a closet gay and Koran reader (!), who regularly mocks the government in his television show, yet only now seems to attract their attention. Why do the British public, who are constantly shown scoffing at government broadcasts and disbelieving everything the politicians say (got to remind the working-class that we're not having a go at them, I guess) do nothing about the terrible conditions in which they live, when the authorities' hold on power is patently so tenuous?And if that isn't enough, the whole thing is massively overwritten, and overly talkie, and it uses lots of big words and Shakespearean quotes to show how clever the movie's authors are, and as you'd expect from a bunch of students, it preaches, boy how it preaches. But just in case the preaching isn't enough, there are lots of other bits and pieces thrown in to ram the message home: every symbol of evil seems to have a crucifix attached to it; Britain's clergy are shown to be child-molesting phoneys; her war-heroes are cruel sadists who would rather be concentration camp commandants.The acting is risible. John Hurt does his usual shouting madman thing; Tim Piggot-Smith is his usual sneering bureaucrat; Natalie Portman <U+0096> presumably because she thinks she's at last made it into a 'real' movie <U+0096> screams and cries a lot; while Stephen Rea plays a cop so stricken with conscience that it's a miracle he even lasted one day in his job let alone rose to the rank of chief-inspector.It certainly looks good, as befits the budget. But at the end of the day, it's all pretty empty and silly. The stuff and nonsense about November 5th, and the lauding of Guy Fawkes <U+0096> who in reality was a religious zealot of the sort this film seems determined to loathe <U+0096> shows how shallow and poorly researched it really is.In short, and in keeping with the World War Two feel, this is a pile of corny old tripe
When I first heard that Alan Moore's V FOR VENDETTA was being adapted for the screen, I enjoyed a brief frisson... but this quickly turned to a cynical wait-and-see attitude after I read that Moore himself was asking to have his name removed from the project. Alan Moore is known to be rather rigid in his scruples, but there are those who feel that his rigidity is overblown, and that the man is some kind of bitchy primadonna.Count me in, Alan. This film is a piece of garbage.Sure, it *looks* good. The cinematography, costuming, makeup, sets, and all around technical merit can't be faulted much, although the film does suffer slightly from touches of a misguided Matrix-like darkness. Many of the shots in the film are startlingly like panels from Moore's original graphic novel... but looks are not everything, and sometimes they're not anything at all. Moore's V FOR VENDETTA is a piece of work with a serious, vibrant, important, and challenging message, not a wretched excuse for the usual Hollywood explosion porn that one might find in any Bruce Willis action abortion. Director James McTeigue and screenplay writers Andy and Larry Wachowski should be ashamed of the gutting they've given Moore's work. They have hijacked a truly inspiring piece of truly subversive art and cranked out a hollow, incoherent, castrated, de-fanged and de-clawed mockery of it. Their adaptation is a dark triumph of idiot form over intellectual substance, an arrogant slap in the face laden with product placement to add insult to the injury. This is carefully preripped punk rock fashion being sold in Macy's. It's Pat Boone singing a Little Richard song. This film is Velveeta being advertised as top-shelf Camembert.I just don't know where to start digging into the fetid, cannibalistic co-opting that I see here. The only value this film has is as a touchstone for those of us who have read the graphic novel, and then only if we can overlook the utter debasement that has been perpetrated by McTeigue and the Wachowskis. Perhaps if we turned the sound off while watching.Before seeing the film, I figured that no matter how badly they botched and bungled it, no matter how cynically they sold it out, it would still be a worthwhile thing if only V's televised speech was preserved intact. And of course, they gutted and polluted that too.It could be argued that the politics of the film are nicely pointed, and pointed in the right direction: straight at the whorish corporate hearts of Bush's America and Tony Blair's England. The problem is that that point is (like the rest of the film's plot) muddied and blunted by an incoherence that makes one wonder how much of their zillion-dollar budget went up the noses of Mssrs. McTeigue and Wachowski in the form of entertaining white powdery substances. This is aside from the fact that Moore's V FOR VENDETTA was clearly, overtly, and unapologetically a manifesto of Anarchism as a polar opposite of Nationalism-cum-Fascism, while the McTeigue/Wachowski version is a thin, watered-down gruel that has rejected Anarchism as too radical, too controversial, and tossed it unceremoniously into the lime-pit in favor of an inchoate tissue of vague and fuzzy Democracy Lite... in fact, it turns our hero to the cause of exactly the sort of poorly defined emotional-response pseudo-Democracy that has been rammed down our throats by crypto-Nationalist neocon flag wavers like Bush and Blair for most of the last decade. The only relief here is that they didn't shove any pious Christian dialogue into V's mouth... I guess they felt vindicated in totally blowing off the original political message by keeping the story superficially hostile to the Christian Right (John Hurt as the leader of Britain's Fascist/Nationalist government is still clearly a jerk who doesn't believe in the separation of Church and State, the kind of pig who is busily ruining America by insisting on the legislation of Christian morality in all contradiction of the concepts of religious freedom and "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness").Vendetta against those who would co-opt our nobler impulses and our rebellion in the name of corporate profits! And while we're at it, all hail Alan Moore... not so much for creating V FOR VENDETTA in the first place, but more for refusing to allow his ideals to be compromised by mere money, and for having the stones to disassociate himself utterly with this bowdlerized, bastardized, perverted, and ultimately worthless adaptation instead of taking the money and spreading his artistic legs like every whore in Hollywood who drops trou and bends over for big money business transactions. Woe unto those who actually paid to see it, and had no chance to make a similarly informed decision; for them (in an intellectual and political sense) this film is nothing more than a brutal symbolic gang-rape at the hands of counter-revolutionary corporate goons.If you ever needed a justification for using BitTorrent to preview a film before coughing up your hard-earned money, this is it.


                
What annoys me most about this empty, vacuous film is that it started so well, and seemed like it was going to be an intelligent comment on the war on liberty that the British government is currently engaged in. The main character is a caricature, sure, and the dystopian state an exaggeration, but there is sufficient reference to the political smoke and mirrors of today ("rendition", "terrorism" and so on) to make it clear that the directors clearly think they have something worthwhile to say on the current situation. God knows, someone needs to start saying it.Yet the ultimate message of the film is that violence is acceptable provided you think you're right. The hero, V, foments an anarchist revolution as vengeance for having been used in a secret biological weapons programme - he says that "I am what they made me" - and the opening sequence, where he takes control of a TV station and urges clichéd, typecast, idiotic proles to take the power back, certainly flatters to deceive.Yet the film fails to notice that the gestures of V are as stylish, empty, and utterly image-dominated as the government that he is supposedly against. It's no use railing on, as the hero does, about how "ideas are bullet-proof" - this is exactly what totalitarian states rely on, the idea that their ideas are common-sense and utterly beyond debate or disagreement. What are V's ideas? It's never really clear, beyond the (again) clichéd trope that revolutionaries have the best style, the best clothes, the best pads and the best lines.If the Wachowski brothers really want to rouse us from our slumbering disregard for the extent to which our lives are controlled by power, which seems to be the message of this film and the Matrix (remember the closing credits of the first Matrix film, with 'Wake Up' by Rage Against the Machine blaring forth), then what do they offer besides some vague idea that you can overthrow the powers that be using nothing more than some stylishly choreographed fight scenes and explosions, a dashing cloak, flaccid literary quotes and monstrously cool set design? That's all this film has, and while it's entertaining and fun, at its heart is not steely resolve but a pathetic emptiness, as deep as that it claims to oppose.Complete crap.
I can't point to a single film by the Wachowski brothers that wasn't cheesy, over-hyped, unoriginal, and just downright pathetic. I guess the first Matrix film was alright, but that's the closest they have ever gotten to deserving even half the acclaim they get from mindless "fine cinema"-whores. Or, in other words, "People who do not have the ability to disagree with the critics, because they have no brain to make their own judgments." If they critics call it original and daring, they call it original and daring, even though they've seen a hundred other movies just like it. That is the only reasonable explanation I can see for the mass love for this film.Here are my ABCs of V for Vendetta: A for Annoying. The directing and camera-work are so bland and typical I felt like I was watching a children's TV show. The two main leads are okay acting, but every single secondary character, EVERY single one, are so bad at acting I occasionally had to pause the movie so I could stop and laugh. And I'm not someone who usually cares about bad acting<U+0097>this was just terrible. What also annoyed me was the level of pure cheese the movie carries and sustains. Gunshots don't bleed, typical stabbings are off-screen, and even some fistfights are off screen. It just added to the children's TV show feel the directing and acting started. How did this movie get and R-rating? I've seen PG-13 movies (like Cloverfeild and The Dark Knight) that have more violence/blood than V for Vendetta. The MPAA puts this on the same level as Saw III and Hostel: Part II? Dear God, our rating system is so screwed up it's not even funny. V for Vendetta did not deserve and R-rating by any means, and I think they honestly slipped the MPAA a little cash to rate it such.B for Boring. Just so anyone out there who hasn't seen this yet knows: this is not an action movie. If anything, V for Vendetta is a political drama. There are maybe two main action sequences that last about five minutes each, and the rest of the runtime is old men rambling about terrorists. The plot is no more complex than you're standard, cliché James Bond plot: terrorist appears, and old men with guns talk about him for the majority of the movie, then in the last ten minutes when the "climax" starts they finally stop talking about the terrorist and try to do something. In V for Vendetta, when I say the majority, probably 95%, of the movie is nothing but repeated dialogue, I mean it literally. If you were to fast-forward through all the all talking scenes, you'd still understand the plot because it's so generic. You'd also have a fifteen-minute long movie.C for Cliché. As I said, the plot is a rip-off of the books that ripped-off 1984. Giant speakers, evil dictator, TVs used to make mass announcements, people have no freedom . . . blah, cliché, blah, blah. V leaves a rose after he kills, just like every cliché "sentimental" killer in movie history. The reason he wears a mask and why he seeks vengeance is also the biggest cliché in movie killer history. Also, the "government lies" jokes were so cliché and annoying I was about to turn it off. As if we haven't heard a thousand times that the government is evil! The movie doesn't even give the audience credit for having basic intelligence of political issues. I cannot name a single aspect of this movie that was original, or even close. The entire movie is the biggest cliché ever.Overall, V for vendetta is a waste of time. It is just a boring drama with a cliché "moral" that we've heard all our lives. Sure, V himself is cool for a few minutes, but when you realize the knives he carries are just a sales gimmick because there is less action than you could see walking down the street, just know I told you so.1/10


                
V for Vendetta is quite literally one of the very worst films I have ever been subjected to! It has to be in my bottom 10 movies of all time. This is not an idle statement, nor is it a rash decision biased by the fact that I have just been robbed of two hours of my life. I am not the kind of person to give a film 1 out of 10 simply because I do not like it (I gave Crash a 3), but this film should be flattered that I have given it that 1.Why, you ask? In the documentary Hearts of Darkness (which is about the making of Apocalypse Now, for those who don't know), Francis Coppola says that, if you try to make a profound film and fail, you end up with the very worst kind of aesthetic crime. Case in point.The story is fine as a concept, but so badly set out that it's more like a spoof than a serious socio-political message movie. The characters are all - note ALL - entirely one-dimensional caricatures. The worst of these is V, whose dialogue sounds like it was written by a GCSE drama student (high school drama student to our friends across the pond). The glib references to Shakespeare were an insult to both him and the millions of lovers of his work.Natalie Portman, who cannot act her way out of a paper bag unless she is given 100% of her character in the script (as she was in Closer and Garden State - the only two movies in which she doesn't suck) suffers all the more for the fact that her English accent is awful. It's laughable to think that her character, Evie, is meant to have grown up more or less on the streets, yet she sounds like she's impersonating a BBC newscaster from the 1950s. Is this the way Americans think all Brits speak?!? Beyond this, the character was dreadfully written, leaving the audience feeling totally ambivalent toward her.V was a complete waste of time too, as it is impossible to empathise with someone through a mask. Is this supposed to be an allusion to Greek theatre, or is it just an ill conceived visual choice? Did it not occur to anyone that people would switch off after a couple of minutes looking at that stupid grin?The 'relationship' between Evie and V was so insultingly non-existent that they might as well have not even been in the same film. And the dialogue between them?"Will you dance with me?""I remember the man...""He was my father, my mother, my brother.." My arse!PATHETIC!!!! The whole film was so utterly contrived that even its (limited) entertainment value was shat away in an orgy of unnecessary special effects and totally generic action sequences.And let's talk about visual clichés; the mask siting in front of the broken mirror, the shot of Portman raising her arms to the sky in the rain, the hundreds of masked civilians gathering in Parliament Square, the pseudo film-noir lighting in the interrogation scenes... Need I go on? Speaking of the prison sequences, were we really supposed to believe that a) he would have done that to her? b) she would forgive him and still fall for him? c)she'd be more concerned with her hair than with having been tortured and privated? Ludicrous! Is this what passes for character/relationship study in modern cinema?P*ss poor on every conceivable level, and made infinitely worse by the fact that it takes itself so damn seriously. It fails here most of all, coming off as nothing more than utterly pretentious. Furthermore, this film does nothing but commodify the very serious issues it is supposed to be addressing.There is not one redeeming thing about this over-produced mess - not one - hence Alan Moore removing his name from it.I am embarrassed for everyone that likes this film.
The Wachowski brothers confirm their standing, commenced in 'Matrix' with 'Mr. Reagan', who 'used to be an actor' and 'would prefer not to remember anything' (remark made when Ronald Reagan was mortally ill from Altzheimer).Now they have adapted a cartoon (made by people protesting this way against 'ultra-right' Thatcher government in 1980s) and cast leading left-wingers (e.g. Stephen Fry) in order to protest against Tony Blair - once a favourite of the left, who now 'betrayed' them.One wonders why dictatorships shown in a contemporary movie always have to be the same: lesbians are of course persecuted, government uses the sign of cross (Lorraine, slightly similar to that used by right-wing French Gaullists) and is supported by bishops. Of course not a word of 'englightened atheism' and dumbing political correctness, so omnipotently present - not to say running rampant - in the world we REALLY live in...The rest is just a consequence: unarmed hero with knives, somehow still standing after a hail of bullets; he manages to live at least for a year in a huge apartment filled with all possible kinds of art and memorabilia - not to mention training martial arts (otherwise he couldn't be possibly fit enough for all the things he does) and doing communication tricks - while he is chased by all the 'totalitarian' (i.e. supposedly very well-informed) police; childish plot to blow up the Parliament (and why??? under any dictatorship it would clearly have not had any role) and rather humorous idea with thousands of masked men (who by the way spread crime and disorder - true revolutionaries, indeed).On the film's website screenwriters claim they wanted to show what happens 'when governments do not reflect the will of the people'. No matter that Margaret Thatcher or Tony Blair have been elected many times by great majorities. But in fact their governments have not (or not enough) reflected views of the people like this movie's authors - tiny, unelected clique of 'artists'. And this is the real reason why this movie's been made - to deliver yet another portion of political crap.If you're a far-left activist you're gonna enjoy it. Otherwise, it's just a loss of time.


                
In the original graphic novel, V is an uncompromising, cold blooded anarchist with a singular aim to bring down the totalitarian establishment to exact his revenge. In the film adaptation, he became a soft, crying (WTF!) "freedom fighter" who fights a caricature of neo-conservatist totalitarian government. There were a lot of details missing from the movie which weaken the plot, and the pacing of the movie seems chaotic and uncontrolled. The acting was horrible all around, Hugo Weaving's interpretation of V was horrendous, V in the original graphic novel is a cold, calm, calculating genius mastermind, who is unemotional, and ruthless. He represents the purity of his anarchist ideology, uncompromising, like a story narrator, without any internal conflict. Hugo Weaving on the other hand, portrayed V as a soft, cry baby, with conflicting emotion, unsure about his own ideology, and unsure about his plan at times. These irrational interpretation of V's character on top of Hugo Weaving's over acting, makes this film completely unwatchable.Natalie Portman's portrayal of Evey was equally horrendous, She was too old for the character, and her acting was wooden and unnatural. Her character interpretation was completely one dimensional too, and completely unconvincing. (or zero dimensional if you can believe it, she does not emote!, she stares!) Her acting reminds me of her recent role in the film "Brothers" which was completely unwatchable by bad acting all around (especially her). I simply cannot be convince of her transformation inside V's mock prison. There is simply no substance or depth to her acting/character. It is as if in her role, she is merely an observer, not a participant of the drama. Stephen Rea and John Hurt's characters are as forgettable as their acting in this movie. They were greatly under performing/underused (due to the streamlining of the plot). All I remember was John Hurt's gaping mouth when he was in shock. That's the singular moment I remember him in the movie. In the end, this is a sacrilegious adaptation of a brilliant graphic novel with so much depth and substances. I only wish this movie was never made in the first place.
I have just seen this at a private screening and was hoping for great things. The general consensus was - How on earth did this get made??? 'V' is easily the longest 2 hours 10 minutes I've ever spent in a cinema. The whole thing is very short on action, and ridiculously long on tedium. A colleague I saw it with - an apolitical Australian - dubbed it 'The worst film I have ever seen..' He wasn't alone. Where to start?1/. Well, FOUR script writers. And not one of them with a decent writing credit to their name. Yes, I know there are loads of sad guys with no girlfriends out there, who think The Matrix is a work of mystical genius. It isn't. It is a film that stupid people think is clever. 'V' is the same, but without the good bits. I haven't read the comic novel on which it's based, but I understand the author has disassociated himself from it. AFter five minutes you can see why. From the off we are hit with ranting, heavy-handed, pretentious, meaningless drivel masquerading as commentary or satire, or allegory? God only knows. But given the hysteria of the writing teams' message, you wonder what sort of government such rabid parochialists would form given the chance.. What is obvious, after an interminable first third is: THE SCRIPT IS A MESS. The writers cannot tell a story and leave vast holes in the plot. My guess is they had neither the money, nor the will, to hire a decent script doctor. It would have been expensive.2/. Hugo Weaving in a rubbish mask is irritating after two minutes. After two HOURS, you've lost the will to live. 'Hey Larry (and the other one). PLASTIC MASKS CAN'T ACT. They're static, and in movies, static=boring. But even his fight scenes were badly choreographed and badly directed.3/. The whole film looks like it was made for TV. The first scene has a set like a 1970s Hammer horror. We in Britain were used to this sort of thing 20 years ago. Is London supposed to be desolate and oppressed as it would be under a totalitarian regime? If so, what was the production designer doing? 4/. What year is it set in? It's meant to be 20-30 years in the future and yet the police are still using old Dell computers, driving five year old Rovers and using current mobile phones. Details like these added to the veneer of cheapness.5/. Plot. In Wachowskis' England there is one family, one grotty pub, two policeman who live in an office, five politicians and this girl - Ms Portman - whose parents have been killed by an evil totalitarian government because they protested against the war or something. But the government are bioterrorists experimenting on dissidents until one day there's a big explosion (not sure why) and then a nerve agent kills 100,000 people, (or is it 80,000, we get told both figures) which is falsely pinned on Muslim extremists and then John Hurt becomes Hitler on a chat show and we've still got an hour to go..... I MEAN IT IS SO MUCH JUVENILE RUBBISH. How old are these writers?6/. Actors. Natalie Portman. Yes, she does a perfectly decent job with a script so full of holes and containing so many terrible lines you actually feel for her. Her accent was fine and I hope she got paid well for this, because she is at sea with this ludicrous script. Scarlett Johanssen and Bryce Dallas Howard - count yourselves lucky. John Hurt is great in these sorts of roles (Contact) Here he was terrible. One dimensional, shouty nonsense does not a performance make. Not in the least bit convincing, or unlikeable. The other bit part actors were pretty low rent, you don't even see them on TV in the UK. Even Stephen Rea was laughable on occasion.7/. OK, what is the point? Governments are evil? Totalitarianism is a bit unpleasant? Revolution will save us all? Or worse - and I think this is what our angst-ridden writers are getting at - 9/11 was a Bush plot. How original. Simplistic, Hollywood liberalism is eating itself alive right there, up on the screen.....8/. Cheap, cheap, cheap. 'V' for Vendetta cost $50m. Natalie aside, the acting is so second rate you know the budget didn't go there, the production values were sub made for TV standard, there are no Matrix sfx to speak of, so I guess the cash went on blowing up the Houses of Parliament (still not quite sure why) and shutting down St James' on a Monday night. $50m is cheap by Batman Begins standards. But it looks like it cost half that. And BB is a ten times the film this mess is. The good side? It will make money for fat Joel and his band tedious fat cats.9/. Do we really need a movie for spotty, Chomsky groupies? The downside of the web has been the growth of the conspiracy theory racket. This has always been lucrative Wachowski territory and their constituency will flock to this nonsense and proclaim it a work of genius. For these people, movies like this aren't really entertainment, they are a confirmation of their own simplistic, childish beliefs in scenarios created out of low self-esteem, paranoia, social failure, limited intellect and laziness. This one's for them.10/. V for Vendetta commits the greatest crime in movies. It is boring. Bad story telling is boring. Bad preaching is boring, bad acting is boring. This has all three. I was a guest at the screening I saw so I couldn't leave, and had to watch the whole thing. Someone behind me summed it up. With 30 minutes to go, they hissed 'For the love of God. End now.'


                
This film was dire. I don't mind the religious symbolism, I don't mind the fact that the protagonist was a terrorist. After all - it's only a film. I DO mind the fact that it was poorly acted, comically scripted, populated with pantomime villains, and so 'sledgehammer' unsubtle as to insult the intelligence of anyone with more than a couple of braincells to rub together.Pathetic.The fact that this is in the IMDb top 250 says something dire about the tastes of the world, It's not fit to wipe the arse of most films I've seen, and I've seen literally thousands.I'm sure this post will garner some reaction from people trying to defend it. Heaven knows, enough people seem to like it. I don't really care about any of that. My intention on posting this comment (my first on IMDb) was simply to readdress the balance of good reviews this film has somehow gathered and appeal to people with taste - this film is NOT for you.To reiterate the title of my post. I don't understand why people liked this film.Maybe those who didn't were laughing at the script too much to string a review together......


                
This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Maybe the worst.First, the acting was horrendous. Evey (Natalie Portman) was a terrible lead character. She is never believable nor likable. Worse still than her acting is that you can never feel any sympathy for her situation. Hell, it must suck to have parents that were killed by your government, but after her trying to warn a pedophiliac bishop that a masked man was coming to kill him...I don't know, I just stopped caring about her character. Then she falls in love with this verbose villain (haha using V words really makes this dramatic!).V...ah our villain/savior V. Why is it that he looks like the Last Samurai merged with the Joker? Behind that silly mask he is really a "bulletproof idea", this might explain how he gets shot multiple times manages to Zorro-chop the police and make it back to Evey in time for the ridiculous finale. Really, don't waste your time.Wait, did anyone find these two parts funny? 1) in the opening scenes V spouts off the most ridiculous V-word strung out 8th grade prose I have ever heard. Want to hear some silly poetry? Read Shel Silverstein....this at least doesn't pretend to be for older audiences.2) OK, so Evey has just spent some amount of time being tortured and brought to the supposed last moments of her life. When she finally confronts the person responsible, V, she is upset about her hair being cut off? HER HAIR (and oh yeah, and the torture too)! She was just reading stories on toilet paper ready to march off to her death...and her hair was her first concern?The Benny-Hill type scene was uncomfortable to watch. I mistakenly believed this had to be the lowest point of the film. No, hold on for the domino scene. Last, I will briefly comment on the plot. Is the villain really upset about the political situation or the fact that he was "burned" so badly? His life sucked, but to try to apply his misguided anger towards politics is weak at best. He is nothing more than a terrorist, with no plans set in place to make his world any better. Let's destroy the Parliament! Let's wreak havoc! Let's make an empty movie!And the political situation is reminiscent of the Bush regime, Nazis, and guess what, any other uncomfortable situation politics might involve. This is much like V being "my mother, my father, my brother, me." Gag. This movie tries to hard to be deep and dramatic, and deliver a message. I think you should heed the message: DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME ON THIS MOVIE!
........"V," THE MAIN CHARACTER (played brilliantly by Hugo Weaving) acts from two contradictory motives, Revenge and Social Justice, while expecting the viewer to experience him as whole:V switches between acts meant to serve one or the other without it being easy to identify during the watching experience which he is trying to fulfill. When acting from the motive of Social Justice he kills innocent policemen who have done no one any wrong. When acting from Revenge he kills an old woman while giving her a rose and having a tender conversation with her........."EVEY," THE OTHER MAIN Character (played very well by Natalie Portman) acts toward V with two contradictory motives, Revulsion and Love, while expecting the viewer to experience her as whole:After initial anger at him for trapping her, she decides to cooperate with him. But while cooperating with him she tries to give him away to an evil priest. V then kidnaps, imprisons, and tortures her, for which she reviles him, calling him a "monster," only to switch almost immediately to loving him.........THE MEDIA IS PORTRAYED as in the absolute control of the Government:As a production of the Media, the Movie itself tells you not to trust the Media. The Movie tells you that what the Media tells you is sugar-coated lies about what are actually terrible atrocities.But in real life it is the Media who tells you there are terrible atrocities going on, and that these atrocities are the Government's fault. It is the Media that criticizes the Government. One of those Media Outlets that does this is Cinema (witness George Clooney's recent movies). And this Movie belongs to said Cinema. And this Movie tells you not to trust the Media because it is controlled by Government. Confused? I know.........CONSERVATIVES ARE PORTRAYED AS an evil One Party Dictatorship:Thus the opposite of Conservatism is what the Movie is trying to drive you to. The opposite of Conservatism is Liberalism. Liberalism as a Theory of Government is Socialism (while Conservatism is Libertarianism. Liberals are never told there may be other ways of living out their Liberal Ideals than Socialism, and Conservatives are never told there may be other ways of living out their Conservative Ideals than by hating government.). Socialism, as it has played out around the world, turns into One Party Dictatorship.So the Movie tells you Conservatives are evil by showing you what evil Socialists have done in places like the USSR, China, North Korea, Cuba, etc. Imagine if the point of 1984 (a novel of warning of Socialist policies) or Animal Farm (ditto) was to beware of Mutli-Party Democracy. This is what this Movie is trying to do. Confused? I know.........IN LIVING THROUGH A Movie, one is meant to identify with the Main Characters, to live the Story with them. This is the fun thing about Stories:But the main characters in this movie are fundamentally internally conflicted without admitting to the Viewer that they are so. Thus you are left feeling turmoil at the end of the movie without being able to identify why.This is called "disequilibrium" and is a method used by cults to break in their new recruits. The feeling of internal split, contradiction, "disequilibrium" becomes so powerful that those who experience it will do anything to make it stop. (Thanks to a Psychologist acquaintance for explaining this phenomenon, used in brain-washing and cult-initiation).Leaving the theatre what is most clear in the Movie-Goers' minds (though mostly their minds are confused) is that the People In Power are evil (because the way the Movie-Goer feels is terrible). And so the way to stop the terrible feeling the Movie-Goer has inside is to get rid of the current People In Power.........THE MOVIE TELLS YOU the way to end Dictatorship is through Anarchy:But what comes of the power-vacuum which is Anarchy (the word Anarchy does not mean "chaos" ((no matter what my Conservative friends might tell you)) but means "the rule of no one," or "no ruler") is a power-grab. Whoever has the most initiative grabs the most power, and a Dictatorship arises.The day after this Movie ends is the day a new Dictator rises and fills the power-vacuum the destruction of the Government has left. But the Movie wants you to think the next day Democracy suddenly revives.(The difference between this kind of revolution and the American Revolution is that the overthrow of the figurehead government ((England)) left the functioning governments in each State/Colony still in power. There was no power-vacuum to be seized by a dictator. In this Movie,the government is destroyed, leaving no power-structure at all. And where there is no power structure, power is seized.).........THE WACHOWSKI BROTHERS WANT you to vote Democrat in the upcoming elections, they're just not quite sure why. Anyone who's had to write "thesis"/"argument" papers for school has had similar experiences. The only thing that makes the Wachowski's different from the average student is that the Brothers W are doing things on a much larger scale.
Although an interesting premise I did find this movie very gooey and heavy. Natalie portman was good despite her accent her acting was superb but V himself made me shudder with flowery over-the-top word usage, as if the director felt we needed V to go into endless Soliloquy's to define his personality. Then with the "end justify's the means" attitude that is so common in movies made nowadays, that a cruel world can only understand cruel answers. I personally think George Orwell's 1984 did it better using common people and real situations. I would seriously worry about a guy that has to torture and make a specially built cell for the woman he loves to be converted to his view point (this is a movie against totalitarianism but his high-handed use of the girl was a bit pot calling kettle black). Hmmm ever heard of the Stockholm syndrome where prisoners fall in love with their captors.....i'm not even gonna mention the worshipfully mask kissing scene ewwww. Politically this movie is dated at best, down-right pushing the viewer to a misguided view of current British political trends, It might just be that this is 80's comic book politics pushed into current American politics, melded uncomfortably together making us squirm without realising why. Currently in the UK the politically-correct mob won years ago, religion is dying out, sexuality is anything goes from a very young age, std's on the increase and the nice movie scene where 2 parents are sat watching TV with their daughter who says bollox just wouldn't happen in todays single parent society where marriage is also dying out. If your gonna give us a bleak future ahead PLEASE gives us a realistic oneThe police officer was well done! his simple exploration of the facts and where the blame of the terrifying crime really lay was good but felt underused, just to have him turn up and give the nod to the girl. In the end this whole movie felt hammed up to me but judge for yourselves guys...the fireworks were pretty :)
It seems appropriate that the 1812 overture is part of the soundtrack for this movie: Tchaikovsky might dazzle for a short while, but you wouldn't want to listen to it for over two hours.Even those who have not yet seen the movie, probably know that the Wachowski brothers have jumped on the anti-Bush bandwagon. The political message is not too blatant, but knowing about it helps to understand the symbolism.The movie is set in a future dystopian Britain (confusingly called "England": perhaps Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland have become independent?). There is a second civil war in the USA, and "England" has fallen under a dictatorship with Christian theocratic overtones. By the look of the regime logo, the official religion seems to be Eastern Orthodoxy.For some reason, the title character thinks that blowing up the Old Bailey and the Houses of Parliament would help to restore the rule of law and democracy. He styles himself after Guy Fawkes, a Catholic terrorist who tried to blow up Parliament with everybody inside.Actually, the entire script appears to be written in blissful ignorance of the real world. For example, the dictatorship bans the Koran. What are the reactions of the 1.6 million Muslims in Britain? the movie does not acknowledge that they even exist. Another example: the movie opens with a British televangelist saying that America has fallen because it is more Godless than Britain.The internal logic of the movie world is just as shaky. The regime is only nominally Christian, so why does it waste police resources in persecuting apolitical homosexuals? and why does it impose a late-night curfew?It gets worse. One might think that an American civil war would generate enough fear to sustain a few dozen dictatorships, but the British regime fakes a few terrorist attacks for good measure. This conspiracy looks useless twice over when it transpires that people do not believe in the regime propaganda.On the other hand, people immediately believe the first TV broadcast from a masked man who speaks against the government without offering any evidence whatsoever. This is what I call the "Running Man" plot device: an anti-government video is shown on prime time TV, and popular opinion is immediately turned around. It is becoming a popular plot device.One might also wonder why V prefers knifes to guns, or how he manages to live in style in the very center of London, but this is nitpicking.There is a pretense that the plot devised by V is very clever. To support this idea, we are shown how very clever he is with falling dominoes. In practice, the entire scheme devised by V can be reduced to the following:BEGIN SPOILERS: The regime Security Chief has been plotting to murder the Dictator and take his place; V asks the Security Chief to carry out the execution in front of him; the Chief obliges (for reasons known only to him); finally, V kills the Security Chief. Incidentally, this is the only significant action scene, and it is poorly choreographed: the Chief's bodyguards stand like mannequins, waiting for their throats to be cut. END SPOILERSThis is not much of a plot, so it had to be padded with a revenge sub-plot, some prison scenes, and some explosions.In summary, this movie has two confused and illogical plots (the movie plot and V's own plot) which show no knowledge of the real world; and no points of interest other than a character with a cool costume. If you want to see what life might be like under a modern theocracy, see The Handmaid's Tale: it has a low-budget look, but what do you expect in a theocracy? If you want a well-told dark story with a masked super-hero, see Batman Begins. And if you want exciting sci-fi action with a decent plot, see Terminator 2: Judgment Day.


                
If the Matrix movies made you suspect the Wachowskis are political morons, this movie makes it official: they are political morons.Their ultimate symbol for popular resistance to oppression is blowing up the English parliament buildings while one of the most sympathetic characters in the movie, the naive homosexual Gordon Deitrich (played by Stephen Frye), is killed for harboring a 14th century Koran in his home."Are you Muslim?" asks Evey (Natalie Portman)."No, I'm in television." Yuk, yuk, yuk.Deitrich keeps a Koran because he is moved by its poetry. This is quite like singing "Deutschland Uber Alles" because you like Haydn's tune. (I wonder just how poetic a real homosexual finds the Koran's attitude towards homosexuality.)So, the world is filled with fascism and oppression, most of it not in the West, and the Wachowskis' brilliant idea is to blow up the very prototype of parliamentary democracy, that one thing that virtually defines freedom. File this movie under "C" for Cowardice, right beside the movie of "Sum Of All Fears", whose real terrorists are magically converted into fake terrorists.Yes, yes, I know the movie is based on a comic book (you can hardly miss that message), but the Wachowskis had a choice to make. By their choices do we know them.But for the fact that nearly every word, every move, is predictable from start to finish, the movie itself is technically good. Even Portman manages to emote, just a little, although you never really believe she is ever in serious trouble.
This movie was c for clichéd...i couldn't wait to leave the theater. And all of this for a guy who loves everything from comic adventure films, to silent oldies, to foreign language, or Errol Flynn swashbucklers, or anything written by Robert Bolt. I've seen a lot of movies and this was at the top of the list for how many times I checked my watch. The only film I've seen in the last 10 years that was more annoying was "The Happening."Why was this film so bad? It was predictable at every level and surprising at none. Further, it was filled with every politically correct cliché in the book..really? A religious right group that takes over the world, and persecutes lesbians? And the only way to stop them is terrorism? I kept wondering if Michael Moore was behind V's mask (now that would have been a truly surprising ending).


                
I'm not one to come onto IMDb to stir things up and I know a lot of people get very angry on these boards when someone comes on and slates a favourite movie of theirs but my opinion's as valid as anyone else's and I thought this was a ridiculous film.Argue all you will but I saw nothing original in this and nothing particularly entertaining. For the most part, I thought the actors were poor quality and the story so formulaic in delivery that I can't believe how high this is rated.I found this to be deeply flawed and desperately uninspiring. I had no idea the Wachowski brothers were involved until I saw the end credits roll, which added further to my disappointment. It could've all been so much better.


                
If you enjoyed Alan Moore and David Lloyd's graphic novel from 1988 -- as I did -- do yourself a favor and avoid this pale rendition. Alan Moore has disassociated himself from this film, and with good reason. A few of the character names are the same, and a couple of sequences bear a slight resemblance -- but that's it. The fire, the passion, the heart and soul that so infused the novel is completely absent. The screen story was already written, and the filmmakers ignored it, rewriting whole scenes, cutting out others, eliminating a good 75% of the story's power, meaning and resonance. The characters are shallow, empty husks of their original selves, and the pacing is abominable. Nowhere in this superficial yawnfest is the true understanding of revolution made manifest. Nowhere is the audience truly brought in to and made a part of V's tormented motivations or Evey's harrowing journey. That would require some creative camera lingering, and sets that didn't look like sound stages. If this had been made 15 years ago -- as a mini-series -- perhaps some of the gritty integrity and enduring strength of the human spirit might have been retained.Shame that it ended up in the hands of overpaid incompetents.


                
Although it fails as a film in multiple ways (e.g. boredom, repetitions, predictability, ..) I think it is a total failure because it is a political agitprop piece and not an actual movie.A fascist-catholic law&order government somewhere along the lines of Franquist Spain which eliminated all Muslims, the Labor Party and homosexuals runs Britain in 2020. Yea, right, ..., that's what is to fear judging from the last decades of British politics. Cameron is Hitler and Bush' war made it possible.I expected a deep study on contemporary authoritarian tendencies (which hold a grip on all(!) parties all across the political spectrum) but was treated to a partisan Liberal agitprop vehicle. Thanks a lot, I'd like to make my own conclusions. It's not like it was the Labour party which holds the reigns since 1997 which has enacted all current anti-Terror laws and has greatly enhanced the power of the state and reduced privacy and freedom of the individual.Iraq anyone? Nah, people, fear a Catholic-Conservative dictator ...I'd like my movies thought-provoking and free of at least blunt in your face partisanship. V for Vendetta is lousy.


                
Now, I don't usually have it in for films as much as this one, and indeed, I thoroughly enjoyed to work of the rest of the cast, but Natalie Portman! what was she doing? I've seen balsawood give better, more nuanced performances than her, and what was going on with that accent? Evey is meant to be a working class girl from inner city London, with an estuarine or cockney accent, but half the time she sounded Australian, and the other South African! she continually managed, throughout the entire film, to single-handedly wreck ever single scene she was in! Even V, with that Guy Fawkes mask had a less wooden face, she comes across like a plank of wood mistakenly cast into one of the movies most pivotal roles, nary a worst bit of casting have I seen.


                
I saw this article on a site and it says it all.Saw the film over the weekend and its total crap and apologetic justification for Islam. The film is set in the future where the koran is banned ( hip hip Hooray) ..http://www.hinduvoice.co.uk/Issues/3/vendetta.htm V for Vendetta V for Vendetta is yet another appalling translation (or lost in translation) of an Alan Moore graphic novel. Don't be fooled by the presence of some acting heavyweight or by the fact that it is written by the Wachowski Matrix Brothers. Weak plot, cheesy dialogues, Bollywood style fight choreography, unsuitable music, awful acting (yes even by John Hurt), lack of character development, bad lighting - I could go on; this film will disappoint no matter which angle you look at it from. If it's of any measure, Alan Moore chose to completely dissociate himself from the film and even have his name taken off the credits after being horrified by the script.Its 2020. The United States is the "world biggest leper colony", the world is supposedly in turmoil and England is a totalitarian state led by an animated Tony Blair style dictator, Adam Sutler (John Hurt). The population is under curfew, a secret police (called the Fingerman (who look more like football hooligans) stalk the streets, television is filled with rabid propaganda dispensed by a news show host called Lewis Prothero (Roger Allam) and surprise surprise, Home County prisons have become concentration camps for dissenters.In walks V, a Guy Fawkes mask-wearing vigilante with a not-so-original terrible past and a personal axe to grind. Armed with an incredible amount of verbiage, some knives and a beginners training in martial arts, he plans to save the day, all within a year. His plan - kill some top-members of the government, get everybody to wear the same Guy Fawkes mask and blow up stuff starting with the Old Bailey - democracy and freedom will be restored. The iconoclastic scenes that feature in the film, especially the destruction of the statue of the Goddess of Justice reminded me of the destruction of the Bamiyan Buddhas (by the Taliban in 2001). As Hindus, this glorification of iconoclasm should be doubly disturbing, in light of the thousand-year destruction of important Hindu temples, images and monuments.The film displays a case of manic confusion on part of the filmmakers who show absolutely no understanding of either socio-political issues or of film-making. To begin with, the supposedly sinister and ruthless totalitarian state is reduced to a few cheesy cases of demagoguery and thug like behaviour by the authorities. Perhaps the writers need to read a bit about the erstwhile Soviet Union or even visit Bangladesh and witness the genocide of the Hindu minority to have some notion of what totalitarianism really is.But the crimes of this film go far beyond moronic understanding of social and world affairs, deep into the world of film-making infringing on the very human rights of viewer to good entertainment by subjecting them to two hours of this mind numbing boredom. As far as the action goes, it seems choreographed more by somebody from Bollywood than by someone who has worked on the Matrix. Even the music, which may be good in itself, is completely unsuitable to film.Overall I have been trying to scrounge at least one reason to suggest to the people to watch this film and he only one I have managed is that people should see this (maybe on a pirate DVD) to see how a film shouldn't be made. In the end I would apologise to the viewers if this review seems a little dull or lacklustre but my mind was just too rattled after seeing this film to write any better. It is just that bad. The filmmaker seem to be in dire need of the concept of Dharma in his life to stir his imaginative and creative muscles; they might just come out with something like V for Vedanta instead of this "" for an Abomination.
I'm from San Francisco. When I went to see V for Vendetta, I had heard both positive and negative comments about this movie. Most of the comments I had heard, however, were positive. So I went to see this movie expecting it to be good. My brother and I were both sorely disappointed.People think that this film is brilliant. The truth is, even the author of the original graphic novel, Alan Moore, was not willing to cooperate with the conversion of his work into a screenplay by the Wachowski brothers. The screenwriters I find far gone from professional, this movie rushed and executed terribly by James McTeigue, and an all-around terrible movie. Though I always agree with anti-war and anti-totalitarian politics, this I find an ignorant liberal stab at its own party and nothing more than a pretentious action flick.Maybe I saw the wrong movie, who knows, but the glowing sign said "V for Vendetta". It's strange, really, whenever I tell anyone I didn't like it, they say that I didn't understand it, that I don't understand revolutions. I find it kind of funny that they think that's how revolutions work. People these days are so desperate they'll accept anything on the subject with starry-eyed enthusiasm.


                
If you haven't advanced beyond the second grade, and therefore require that your vilification of the Bush administration be bereft of the slightest modicum of subtlety, then "Vendetta" is your cup of tea. Its message hits you over the head like a billy club, and no surprise, the message is pure Hollywood propaganda.John Hurt (the protagonist from Orwell's movie version of "1984", no coincidence) is the head of a police state that ruthlessly exploits public safety fears to implement totalitarian measures. We learn Hurt's character started out as a "religious conservative" who rose to power in the wake of public safety concerns over supposed terrorist attacks (no, I am not making this up).Big brother is evidenced in force as government trucks roam through the city randomly eavesdropping on citizens' conversations (gee, no intended Bush administration parallel there).Citizens are constantly assured that heightened security / diminished civil liberties are for their own protection, as they are surrounded by peril at every turn around the globe. But have no fear, "England Prevails" is the mantra people are taught to repeat. Gee, Bush has never said anything like that either.The "regime" has eerie parallels to what else, Nazi Germany. We know from the beginning that people whom the state deems "undesirable" have been imprisoned, and the movie's own Joseph Mengela has performed unspeakable experiments on the prisoners - all for the supposed greater good of the state, of course. Homosexuals (who else?) are prime targets of the state. Soldiers/stormtroopers goose-step down a main street as their leader/Fuhrer pounds on a rostrum in the background. There is even a Swastika substitute.Enemies of the state are imprisoned, re-educated, or in the case of a subversive element found with a Koran, shot dead (Nope, not making that up either).So in case you didn't get it (as I will concede it is never written in boldface across the screen), the Bush Administration is exploiting your fears (and perhaps even manufacturing events to put you in fear), and is taking your beloved country down a road towards becoming a ruthless, police state where dissent equals death.This movie isn't a poor man's Dr. Strangelove. This move is a 1st grade imbecil's Dr. Strangelove. This Cinematic polemic is the equivalent of a political cartoon with all the subtlety of a picture of Adolph Hitler superimposed on George Bush. The far left can, and HAS, done a HECK of a lot better than this. It is a woeful sign of the times that more than 40 years after the release of a great movie like Dr. Strangelove THIS is what ranks as compelling political cinema. Cinematic social commentary has made a sad reverse evolution - from Lincoln/Douglas 160 years ago to Sharpton/Kucinic today.


                
With all the comic based films to have hit the big screen over the last few years,this film is one of those films that does not stand up against some really good films. It is very fragmented and leaves you asking to many questions.I am unable to say what these questions are as they break the spoiler rule so i have to leave it at that. The acting is nothing short of embarrassing.I am a big fan of Natalie Portman but this is not a film she should have got involved in. The action scenes are nothing special but if you want to see a big clock exploded then your in for a treat. I am sorry but this film is a lame duck and a waste of money.The only good thing about wasting my money to see this is i don't need to worry about it when it comes out on DVD.


                
