I have always liked the concept of an idea living on past one person or even an event. I think it's fascinating to think about how one idea can shape an entire race or population. It was tackled in The Dark Knight Trilogy as it was here in V For Vendetta. While I think this film does a brilliant job at portraying that idea, I don't think the film itself is quite as good as it's made out to be.It's based on a graphic novel of the same name published by Vertigo and DC comics written by Alan Moore. I hear it's a great read so perhaps I will one day give a try, but I cant help but think that the film could have done more with it's source material. Apparently Evey's transformation into V's protégé is much more clear in the novel. I definitely found that in the film, their love seemed a bit forced. I never felt like they had this deep relationship enough to want to go through with these crimes of rebellion. V is also a character that has a fascinating back-story, but one that could have been explored even further than it was. But I do realize that revealing any sort of identity to him ruins the whole point of an idea outweighing one particular person.Major props to Natalie Portman who gives a much vulnerable and daring performance. This was before Black Swan, so I think this was her first major step into dark roles as a young adult. She is terrific as Evey, a troubled and emotionally destroyed woman who soon becomes the face of a revolution. But I have to say I wish the actual revolution was shown more explicitly. We had maybe one big scene of citizens rebelling but that was it. The action looks great in the few scenes we had and it definitely seems more like the Wachowski's directed this than McTeigue. And of course the score we all know is just incredible.+Without fear you are free +Ideas +Portman's dark performance +Action-Could have been even more daring -Could have shown the rebellion in depth -Not sure I believed their love 7.3/10
I saw a preview of V for Vendetta at WonderCon 2006 in San Francisco, CA. When I found out there would be a screening at the Metreon - I was excited! See - for me V for Vendetta, the comicbook, is as important (if not more so) as Alan Moore's Watchmen and Frank Miller's Batman: The Dark Knight Returns. Each of those works deconstructed a society in desperate need of change or a savior. But where Watchmen and DKR gave more definitive and heroic resolutions, V for Vendetta allowed itself to end on a bleak and very downbeat note. It is a brilliant and subtle piece of work commenting on how anarchy and violence might be needed to bring about change.I give the movie credit for trying.It delves into the harshness of its iron-fisted government and the lies it is built on. It gives us Evey Hammond as someone we can relate to as she deals with the madness that is the masked and mysterious V. It gives us an authority figure in Finch, who uncovers the plot that lead to the fascist government's ascension.And it gives us V - a terrorist. Bad word for anyone in this day and age, but is someone who terrorized an unjust society a bad person? Would we feel bad if someone terrorized the Nazis or Al-Qaeda? We see V's back story - would we be justified in horrific acts of death and destruction if we were treated so terribly? Its the mid-point of the movie which contains its greatest and quietest moments - where Evey Hammond frees herself of fear. Fans of the comicbook will be thrilled to see this sequence is nearly identical to the text.Its the ending where the movie falters. It doesn't give any sense of just how things might change. Also, I wish more was made of how the people of England was changing in its attitude towards their government.Perhaps I'm being overly harsh due to my love for the book.But this movie is still worth watching - especially in today's political climate. It may spark some debate and get you to think about the people that govern us - and tell us what to do.
The movie tells how a strange freedom fighter named V (Hugo Weaving) in a ¨Guy Fawkes¨ mask -who was a historic terrorist who tried to blow up the British Parliament- wants actually emulate him . As ¨V¨ utilizes terrorist action against London landmarks but his objective results to be the fighting against the fascist state ruling over Great Britain and governed by a dictator , chancellor Sutler (John Hurt) . The authoritarian tyranny rules over citizens with oppression and violence and ¨V¨ is urging the London citizens to rise up and overthrow the government . Meantime , he saves a beautiful girl named Avey (Natalie Portman) from the violent deputies . She decides becoming his ally and confront the atrocities of the nasty chancellor and his underlings (Tim Piggoth Smith) . Meanwhile , a detective (Stephen Rea) and his helper (Robert Graves) are investigating the terrorist events .This is a thoughtful and broody story containing a clever political criticism and is based on a graphic novel by Allan Moore . The film gets diverse influences , as the myth of ¨the beauty and the beast¨ ,¨The phantom of Opera¨, the anti-Utopian literature of ¨1984 ¨ by George Orwell and , of course , ¨The Count of Montecristo¨, but we are seeing images from the classic film and ¨V¨ acts like Edmond Dantes . In fact , the screenplay of the film is remotely similar to that of the Alexandre Dumas novel 'The Count of Monte Cristo' as both stories revolve around characters who escape from imprisonment and proceed in seeking revenge on all of those responsible for their incarceration . The original comic series was originally created by Alan Moore . However, following his negative experience with ¨From Hell¨ (2001) and The league of the extraordinary men¨ (2003) , Moore decided to reject all money and credit from Hollywood on any adaptations of his work . Thus , he gave all the money he would've gotten to the artist who drew the character with him, and rejected his own "created by" credit from the film . The movie has a stagy and carnival stylish but with a breathtaking production design by Owen Patterson . Colorful cinematography by Adrian Biddle , he died during the filming and is dedicated to him . The motion picture was well directed by James McTeigue . James , previously , was assistant direction of Wachowski brothers (Larry and Andy) , film producers in high budget along with another great producer , Joel Silver . The flick will appeal to the comic books enthusiastic and Natalie Portman fans . Rating : Above average , well worth watching.


                
Sometimes the world throws a snowball so perfectly it both amazes and depresses me.Imagine a story of an extreme threat, delivered through the visual media, with all sorts of personal triumphs woven into it. Suppose you gather groups of people by the millions to overtly support your enterprise, wrapped in gloss and foreshadowing. Suppose you decide to make it humorless and obvious; and to make it whole and logical not because it is those things but because your confidence makes its seem so.Well, you'd have what this film has built itself against. But you'd also have what this film is.Will we never learn? Do the brothers suppose they aren't paving the way for simplistic munchkin politics? If you want a subversive film, go to Greenaway.Yet, I can admire how this thing is put together. It is highly cinematic visually even though most of the thing is talking. But even that is tricky because the talker is behind a mask, so we largely invent the images in our own minds, prompted from time to time with inserted visions.The first half is the Count of Agatha Cristie, where we are presented with an old fashioned detective story except presented from the criminal's perspective. Serial killings are ticked off and we want to know why. Though we follow the killer, our inquiries are handled by the on screen detective.This is followed by an "Oldboy" segment, a radical shift, perhaps equally well done. And then we shift into "Irreversible" mode as we slide into the sappy movieland happy ending. Fireworks.Along the way, we are pounded with self-reference to video media: our heroine and her pal work in TeeVee. The central Valerie character is a filmmaker who incidentally creates the film we are watching indirectly by writing it on toilet paper and passing it as if behind a mask.Our hero is motivated by a certain old movie. Until the very end, we only see our political nemesis on a huge video screen, as his millions of victims do.This IS worth watching, but only for the way it is constructed. Generate your political philosophies the old fashioned way, okay?Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Dwight Eisenhower warned us of the military-industrial complex, and George Orwell warned us of Big Brother, Terry Gilliam illustrated full bureaucratic control of our lives in Brazil (and later with The Zero Theorem), and V for Vendetta reminds us that every now and then, we need a revolution. Recent revolutions in the world include the American Revolution, the French Revolution, The Russian Revolution, and the Chinese Revolution. One could even say in 1989, there was an Anti-USSR Revolution. The producers and directors of this film were most likely influenced by Lech Welesa and Solidarity with its revolt against the USSR. It is ironic that countries that were created by revolutions eventually become countries that need them again.
England has not really had one of these revolutions; so the premise of the film is interesting. As a film, standing on cinematic standards alone, it is entertaining, uneven, has problems with pacing, but has strong character development, a good story, and excellent production values. The cast is excellent as well. Natalie Portman is superb, as is John Hurt. Today, we obviously have Anonymous as a new revolutionary force in the world order. How effective they are is a matter of opinion and conjecture. However, they would appear to be a healthy outgrowth of the need of countries to give themselves a good enema once in awhile. Well worth viewing.


                
Perhaps the only example of a 'Bonfire Night' film I can think of, this graphic-novel adaptation casts Hugo Weaving as the vigorously verbose avant-garde anarchist known only as 'V' and places him within a bleak dystopian Britain ripe for an uprising, making a meal out of the whole 'ideas are more powerful than the men behind them' theory while also providing plenty of verbal and visual splendour in the form of a tight script and some even tighter stylish set-pieces. While 'V For Vendetta (2005)' certainly has its faults, especially in its rather slow second act - not to mention the fact that Natalie Portman's English accent is almost criminal, this is an entertaining and, at times, thought-provoking piece that manages to maintain a decent distance from its somewhat touchy subject matter and to exist purely as a piece of fairly intelligent but equally enjoyable filmmaking. 7/10


                
...but not a touch on the comics though, and Natalie Portman sounds South African not English. Hugo Weaving is brilliant as ever. Worth a watch but not a challenging one all together.


                
An alternate futuristic vision of England has the country being run by a ruthless totalitarian government who will stop at nothing to remain to in power. People live in fear and are remarkably passive as a result, save for one masked freedom fighter known as V who fights with cunning and cleverness to rally the people of England to end the dictatorship.Visually this film is quite a stunner. No excessive computer effects, but nonetheless the sets and cinematography are first rate and do a great job and creating a dark world. Also there are many visual symbols as well as creative uses of words that start with 'V.' Added on top of solid acting and direction. For such a faceless performance, Hugo Weaving (who's behind a mask the whole time) plays very well at conveying the character V. However that's the movie version of V, the one in the source graphic novel is quite different.The problem is the film's message and it is ridiculously shallow - "facism is bad." That is really it. For a such a lengthy and well produced film it is a real shame, though not much a surprise, that the attention was on the visual, but the metaphorical and philosophical are hardly attended to. There is a lot of dialog and room for for what could have been interesting thoughts of characters reflecting on their world, but it ends up being just routine. For instance when Finch is discussing with his partner the possibility of a government conspiracy they do nothing, but state the obvious - is it worth going against such a powerful government, are we afraid to, and so on. Nothing really that hasn't been done before in countless other stories.Added to the fact that the film ends in an amazingly dull and ridiculously cliché big explosion. It makes sense as you watch the film, but that doesn't mean that it is interesting. How much more interesting would it be when the shadowy freedom fighter V would think of a way to topple the government by not using methods that it uses against it's own people? The film just ends up being almost a more mature version of the Star Wars story - eventually the good triumphs over the evil with a big bang. Star Wars had the Death Star and here we have several buildings in London. So it is good, but retreading on old ground with nothing new to present has never scored a film big points. 7/10Rated R for violence


                
When I first saw the preview for this movie I was immediately disinterested because of the man in the mask. However after sitting down last night and watching it I was quite taken with not only the performances of Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving and Stephen Rea but the premise of the storyline.This movie is so out of the ordinary and frankly a bit weird that you are glued to every minute of it to see where the hell it's going. I found it started out somewhat slow, but its momentum picked up and never stopped straight through to the very memorable ending.Definitely rent this film, watch it with someone who doesn't like to talk throughout a movie, someone that can handle a decent conversation at the end, because this movie will almost certainly provoke dialog... consider the rule of any government who dictates through fear, be they democratic or otherwise.http://suggestamovie.com/


                
V For Vendetta is based on a graphic novel (comic) by Alan Moore, who was also the creator of The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and From Hell. Much like those two films, V for Vendetta has it's roots in British history as V takes his inspiration from possibly the most well known terrorist in our history, Guy Fawkes. Even though his story only plays a very small part in the film, it's actually nice to see such an important piece of our history finally getting a accurate mention in a mainstream Hollywood movie.The film is written (but not directed) by the Wachowski brothers, who were also responsible for the grandiose mish mash that was the Matrix Trilogy and much like those films, V For Vendetta is a film that's made to make you think, question and discuss. Some may argue (as my wife did) that it glorifies terrorism and maybe it does, but I guess that's all in the interpretation.The plot revolves around a man consumed by Vengeance, a man with a tortured past, that is driven to fight for his and his people's freedom in a fascist country, where the government determines what you think and feel. His ultimate goal is to unite the people under his banner, destroy the government and ultimately to blow up the Houses Of Parliament, much like Guy Fawkes had attempted to do all those years ago.Although the plot is well constructed and some of the performances are exceptional the movie does have it's failings. It's leading lady (Natalie Portman) seems bizarrely miscast as a an English girl that V saves, enlightens and eventually falls in love with. Even though she does excellent work in the second half of the movie, the first half leaves a lot to be desired. There is also a distinct lack of emotional connection with her, something that would have helped drive home the themes and ideas that run through the movie. Fortunately though, V (Hugo Weaving) is simply fantastic, proving that even a man wearing a mask can display a multitude of emotion. I'm led to believe that he wasn't first choice for the role and even as great as he is here, I can see why. The biggest problem with casting Hugo is the sound of his voice or rather it's because that voice is so reminiscent of his most iconic character to date, Agent Smith. However, if you can push that thought to the back of your mind, you will enjoy his performance immensely. The supporting cast also do good work here, especially Stephen Fry, John Hurt and Tim Piggot-Smith.Although the film deals with very serious issues there are some enjoyable moments of humour, especially one involving Stephen Fry and Benny Hill. The action is also well executed and the special effects while mostly minimal are also applied perfectly. Overall, it probably deserves to be seen on the big screen, especially for the final scenes and if you like films that make you think, this is definitely for you.Almost great, definitely good.
Was it just me, or was the movie really really fast, blurry, and kind of drifted. I felt as though everything was going so fast, I couldn't breath, listen, register, and sink in the words and thoughts of the movie. And it was surprising how Eve & V from the beginning were so comfortable with each other. Natalie played Eve as though there was no real character choices. Like it was her portraying herself instead of the character. The movie makes me want to read the book, and see for myself. And I've read and watched F451, 1985, etc... and this movie reminded me of a combination of those books. Movies these days are so sensationalized, and even audiences are getting tired of it, and seeing past the hype and are laughing at the style.


                
Exquisite, passionate action-romance-melodrama from screenwriters Larry and Andy Wachowski has the U.K. under martial law and a fascist regime in the 2020s. Working girl Natalie Portman (in a charming performance without too much Sturm und Drang) chances to meet a masked vigilante named V after he rescues her from thugs; turns out his hit list is full of government officials, and she is asked to comply with V and be his accomplice. Despite some confusion in the latter portion of the plot (as well as an unnecessary recap of visual highlights, as if from a TV mini-series), the film is slick and smooth, easily consumed, and often very exciting. Director James McTeigue carries us through the nastier elements of the plot without dwelling on the excesses (this isn't "RoboCop"), and Portman and masked Hugo Weaving are a scintillating pair. Brilliantly designed and photographed, with amusing soundtrack choices and a satisfying finale. *** from ****


                
It starts off with a testimony to the importance of free speech; i.e. IDEAS. The movie purports to show the power of that basis for all freedoms: the freedom to speak your ideas, your insights, your criticisms. Since these freedoms have been suppressed by a conservative-style government (anti-immigrant, homophobic, anti-Islamic, etc.) , kept afloat with the help of servile media, the answer lies in "V" as freedom-fighter. So far, so good - and it IS good, but where Hollywood (always) turns the blind eye is that IN REALITY, it is on the nation's liberal left campuses for example, that any opinion other than that of say, gay activists, is condemned as homophobic; any opinion contrary to unlimited abortion-on-demand is seen as anti-feminist; to oppose racial quotas is to be seen as "racist." The media is continually in the hip pocket of the left, and the IDEA of free-speech that "V" is championing are the very ideas liberal left-wingers will literally not allow to be spoken on campuses, in most Hollywood movies as well as the mainstream press. Having lived 4 years in the mideast, let me say it is obvious neither the Wachowski brothers, the director or the screenwriter had actually read the Koran, which they make a point of protecting from the angry xenophobic gov't. Had they done so, they would have seen that everything "V" id FOR is OPPOSED in a book that would suit well on any fascist's shelf. Mein Kamp would have been the same choice. Aside from turning real-world politics 180 degrees on its head, it's a fun movie that demonstrates Natalie Portman is the real-deal and hopefully we'll be seeing and hearing a lot more from her.


                
I can't say I've ever heard of the graphic novel by Alan Moore, but I hear he wasn't too pleased with this cinematic vision of his work. I cant say I was too overly impressed with it either; I saw it mainly because Natalie Portman thought the project was good enough to shave her head for, and even though the last two films by the Wachowski Brothers weren't very good, the first Matrix film made it obvious that they have a flair for action sequences. The plot is based on numerous ideas, all of which focus on government. V for Vendetta is supposedly a commentary on Thatcher's Britain, and this is mixed in with ideas stemming from Guy Fawke's plot to blow up the houses of parliament, and a revolution against the Government. The ideas are mostly very good; but there's too many of them, and many of the themes get lost in a convoluted plot that mainly sees a masked marauder calling himself 'V' picking off various members of government, while finding time to plant bombs and share a tentative near romance with the angelic Evey, played by the very talented Natalie Portman.The film constantly nods towards more intelligent work, such as plays by William Shakespeare and Johann Wolfgang Goethe's 'Faust', and this serves to remind the audience of the shortcomings in this work. It has to be said that the technical work on the film is very good; the dark and brooding atmosphere works very well when coupled with the doomed vision of London. It would seem that The Wachowski's couldn't be bothered to direct their own screenplay, so that honour falls to James McTeigue, otherwise known as the first assistant director on The Matrix Trilogy. His direction is largely pretty good - he has an eye for aesthetics, and constantly makes use of the dark locations and many of the characters' dark clothing. The masked central character makes for a memorable anti-hero; but his spectre does look a bit silly, and seeing him constantly deliver convoluted dialogue in the style of 'The Oracle' soon wears thin. Natalie Portman looks stunning as always; even when she loses her luscious locks. The action is loud, brash and entertaining; and this provides the film with its biggest strong point, but it tries to be too clever and often ends up looking silly, as the plot is never deep or engaging enough for all the elements to really shine through. A shame; with the right handling, this could have been great.


                
What happens when the politics of a movie overpower what is otherwise a moving, relevant, and even (at times) beautiful message? Everyone tries SO hard here...Portman becomes wonderfully cockney, Weaving emotes mystery and power with every gesture and head tilt, and Hurt channels Hitler and any other tyrannical dictator with a frightening authenticity and ferocity--this film shares with us by far the best performances of their careers. Technically speaking, "V" is better made than any other film in the past 3 years, and much, much better than other Wachowski/Silver collaborations (read: the Matrix trilogy). Throw in what is a perfectly twisted plot, and what we SHOULD have is a movie catapulted to every top 10 list for the next 20 years, right? Well...not so much. You see, intolerance of the intolerant is very dangerous, especially when the filmgoing public wants to be entertained, not indoctrinated. Buried beneath the faux message of love and acceptance, behind the flashy special effects, Panavision gloom, and the painful smile of a ghastly Guy Fawkes mask is a hatred more malignant than anything Hollywood or comic books could ever dream up. This film teaches that learning to hate is how we learn to love, that vengeance is the only way to achieve justice, that fear of anything--including God--is akin to torture. Democracy begets war, Christianity begets terrorism, and freedom may only be found through Anarchy in the world according to V.One question: is that a world where you want to live?


                
Based on the 1980s graphic novel by Alan Moore, "V for Vendetta" had tremendous potential: A fabulous source book, top-notch actors, and brilliant directors. And then they blew it. The graphic novel, which was more libertarian than liberal, was very even minded, not truly siding with either point of view. It contrasted two extremes: anarchism and fascism, and let the reader decide which was preferable. Most importantly, it was most definitely about England, not America. This was their first mistake. They changed the plot to appeal to modern audience, but what they ended up doing was injecting US politics into a British story. Not nearly as even minded either, the film completely sides with the title character, who has gone from a libertarian anarchist to a liberal revolutionary. Worse still the plot line's back story is now a thinly veiled analogy of the 9/11 attacks though the eyes of conspiracy theorists. A tragic waste, considering the film's good points. The acting was phenomenal, especially Hugo Weavings, had to do the entire film masked, depriving him of the benefit of facial expression. The special effects were impressive too, reminiscent of the Wachowski Brothers work in "The Matrix". Unfortunately all this is lost in the poor storyline, which reduces this potentially operatic masterpiece to a sloppy political satire.


                
'a work of monumental genius' 'an amazing feat of cinema' 'truly unique' 'a bloody masterpiece!'...just some of the things said about this film.IMDb rates this 125th best movie of all time. i don't think so. its heart is in the right place, but let's get a couple things straight to start with.now i'm a Natalie Portman fan, but as it says on the rubric 'evey, a working class girl...' i'm afraid Nat's accent is worse than Rene Zegweller in Bridget Jones' diary. even radio 4 would reject her for being too posh. sack the casting director for starters.and whilst it is fairly obvious we are sleepwalking towards fascism, to hold Guy Fawkes up as a shining beacon of freedom is incorrect to say the least.this is a film adapted from a comic and unfortunately that's exactly how it ends up. comic book like. superman at that. not in it's look but in it's heart.yeah there's some nice touches, but that makes it even worse for not being completely bad which would be OK if it wasn't trying to be serious, but it was.about three quarters of the way through i thought 'aha! Ian Hurt HAS TO BE v, now that makes some kind of sense!' but no it descended into ridiculousness and in the end i felt it became: 'how one man can stand up to a fascist regime and end up justifying it whilst still remaining totally cool.'but hey i guess it IS called v for vendetta not r for revolution. maybe it should be called y for why or b for bol**cks.it's sad that in 2007 that this is what passes for revolutionary cinema (i will forgive you if you're under 15)oh and a tip for future fascist dictatorships: avoid red and black in your backdrops. it's really unappeallingseen alongside 'brazil', 'nineteen eighty-four' and 'richard III (1995)', v for vendetta can be forgiven for attempting to update these classics. it cannot be forgiven for falling way short.


                
After a disappointing attempt in making The Matrix into a totally forgettable trilogy, the Wachowski brothers write a new film tackling the issues of terrorism and corruption between the bureaucratic governments in this futuristic look of Britain. I am a big fan of the original Matrix and how they tackle the contextualized version of religious undertone of Neo as "the one" was great, so I would have only high expectations for this film. As for new cumber James McTeigue, who served as an assistant director on the Matrix films, I was impressed with the outcome of his new born film.In a state of government that is controlled by a tyrant and is in a state of civil war, there's nowhere safe for anyone that is a possible suspect of terrorism. With corrupt leaders and crooked officers, there is only one thing that is suspected of this and that is the right to rebel against the government. Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman, Episode 3: Attack of the Clones) becomes cornered in a dark alley by several government officers who have only one thing on their mind. Luckily she is saved from the power hungry officers by a man in black that wears the a Guy-Fawkes mask and whose weapon of choice is the dozen of daggers that he carries around. She's intrigued by the man in black, who has no second thought of using violence as a mean of expression for his rebellious ideas, who latter has been labeled as the terrorist of the new generation and given the name "V". With her curiosity, Evey is kidnapped by V and learns of his lifestyles that he carries on. Meanwhile, Inspector Eric Finch, (Stephen Rea, Breakfast on Pluto) is questioning the authority of the nations dictator Creedy, whose face is blown up on a large movie screen as he dictates his committee, displaying his ego and attempt to be intimidating to his council. All I can picture is that this guy is probably 5'1'', drives cars that are large and fast, and makes sure to be yelling and/or frowning at the same time. As the film continues, you begin to learn the reasoning for V's acts of terrorism involving explosions of national monuments and the mentality that violence is the only way to rebel.The pace of the film isn't what you would expect from the previews but that doesn't change anything. Coming from a comic strip of the early 80's, the film shows the stylistic traits of a graphic novel that seems to be the new wave of interpretation as seen through most recent films such as The History of Violence and Sin City. There are several high class references in V's humble layer, underneath the rocky ledge near the coast of some river, being that there are rare paintings on the wall, operatic music playing in the background and other nick-nacks that show the intellect that V truly is, giving him the approval rating for his actions. Even though he seemed to be justifying the rights of all mankind in this totalitarian government, it seems like I've heard or seen this story before at least a half a dozen times, I don't seem to mind. The ending is what ties everyone together and the effect that V had on society is what is special about the film and shows the overpowering force of the people against a tyrant. To sum it up John Locke would approve with the idea, disapprove of the actions, while Machiavelli would be frustrated beyond belief. A great look at the rise and fall of power in a time were the nation is trying to understand what there future might evolve into.


                
Make no mistake, this is a politically motivated movie. If you are one of the dwindling number of people who still support George Bush, don't waste your money and time. You would probably think that V for Vendetta is rubbish. On the other hand, if you liked "Syriana" and "Good Night and Good Luck", it's a safe bet that you'll like this one. This movie shows that democratic institutions are no protection against totalitarianism if the people of a country are willing to trade their civil liberties for security. It shows where America could be headed if the president is allowed to continue to consolidate his power and ignore the laws of the land, all in the name of security.So much for the message, is the movie any good? Surprisingly, yes. I was not expecting much based on the previews and the mixed reviews. I just couldn't imagine enjoying a movie with "V" in the title and a main character who wears a mask the whole time. But my son likes Natalie Portman, so my wife and I took him to see it.I'm glad we did. The movie grabbed me from the start and got better as it went along. This is one of Natalie Portman's best performances and she has never looked more beautiful. Hugo Weaving makes a good intellectual hero despite the fact that he has to act without ever showing his face. That outlandish mask didn't bother me as much as I thought it would. The directing is good. McTeigue has a particularly effective street scene at the end of the movie. I liked the unpredictability of the plot. It has some totally unexpected twists. Sure, the movie is overly dramatic, but given that the stakes are so high, that didn't bother me.If you are worried about the future of America or if you are apolitical and want to see a thinking person's action flick, I can highly recommend V for Vendetta.


                
I must admit, I expected something completely different from this film. Instead of a "Matrix-esque" type of action film, I found myself in a political statement film. Based on a hugely popular comic book, this movie shapes the viewers into thinking about today's political society. It presents "Ideas" as they stated throughout the film as the beginning of regaining control of your government. Many obvious shots at the Bush administration, Bill O'Reilly, and the Fox Network as all propaganda factors for today's government. Obvious characters formed after George Bush and Dick Cheney. They also visit terrorism in all forms, and actually state " sometimes you have to destroy a building". Hmmmm. 9-11 reference ? Or just trying to stir the pot on what brings HATRED. Because our masked hero admits to being a MONSTER and he had so much hate. Are we supposed to have some sympathy for those who attack us ? Or just look deeper ? Why do they hate us so much. A lot to handle from one action film, but worth the price of admission.You will be disappointed if you expect all action. Some great explosions and a great grand finale showdown between the man who represents Dick Cheney, and the masked hero. Natalie Portman is superb in this by the way.An above average movie, and one that will speak volumes about the political societies today..........I'm sure each country can relate some of the factors in this film to their own government's, past and present. And the movie at the end will remind you that all this just represents an "idea". An idea can change history and many people will die to protect or live up to an idea. The masked hero known as "V" actually just represents all of us. An idealistic people who will and can demand change when we need too. Do we need too demand this change now in real life ? And don't other cultures and countries have this same right too ? The viewer is left to ponder .........


                
This movie is very good and Natalie Portman is good in it as well.


                
This movie seems to tear me in two. On one side, it was well done and well implemented from my perspective, though I have never read the comic therefore digressing on it's true implementation is beyond my scope. On the other hand, this movie is almost too much to stomach, unless one is a true conspiracy theorist. My entire post-screening group interview was filled with people discussing how closely linked the government in "Vendetta" was to America's own. This could in no way be the case, though the crazies are always around.While I would say that the audience reaction does not damage the film, I will also say I saw blatant motive for feeling the movie was a political message to support these theories. While I found the abundance of this message weighed the film down, it also carried with it a very film-noir/Victorian-esquire feeling. There are goodperformances and some good action (though it was well done). All in all, very stylish, but it tried a bit hard and hurt itself at the same time. 6/10 overall, but worth a watch for fun.


                
I have mixed feelings about this film. There are aspects that I really enjoy and others that I despise.Hugo Weaving's performance is my favorite part of the film. The fact that he had to do it all behind a mask makes it doubly impressive. He has a great, expressive voice, and he makes full use of it here. He is able to be engagingly delightful one minute, then become terrifyingly intimidating the next. Natalie Portman is a good actress and a beautiful woman, but she's too petite for a movie like this. I feel like a stronger actress would have been better (both physically and emotionally).The story is not very original, which ties into my biggest complaint with the movie. Instead of being a new take on an old idea, V For Vendetta's story feels more like a political statement than entertainment. I understand and even admire the writers for taking such a strong stance on their politics, but I feel like the story is riding on top of the political statement.When it comes down to it, I like this movie. The acting and the execution is impressive. However, the imbalance between the story and the politics leaves a bitter aftertaste in my mouth.


                
In the near future, after the United States collapses and England is plagued by a biological terror attack, a Christian fundamentalist (John Hurt) is elected chancellor, and immediately enforces Nazi-esquire restrictions and curfews. He creates a propaganda ministry which controls all media, and a secret police called the fingermen.Evey (Natalie Portman) is an aspiring actress who works as an assistant at the state-run TV station. One night, she is accosted by three fingermen. Out of the shadows comes a mysterious man (Hugo Weaving) wearing a cape and a Guy Fawkes mask, and referring to himself only as V. He is trained in hand-to-hand fighting and speaks poetically and articulately.The following morning, he attacks the TV station where Evey works. He forces them to play a DVD, in which he explains his admiration for Guy Fawkes, his grievances with the government, and his intention to do what Fawkes failed to accomplish 400 years ago: blow up Parliament. Feeling obligated to help the vigilante who saved her, she helps him escape when the police surround him.As Evey and V become friends, we learn that her entire family fell victim to the government, as did V. He is not just fighting for the freedom of England, but for his own personal vendetta against those who made him the monster he knows he is.Stephen Rea is well cast in support as Inspector Finch, assigned to find V and bring him to justice. Hugo Weaving creates a sympathetic vigilante, despite the fact that we never see his face. Natalie Portman is perfect as Evey, the character she famously shaved her head to play.Many of the themes have been examined before, most obviously in George Orwell's masterpiece "1984," but also in the second "Star Wars" trilogy, in which politician uses a crisis to force himself into the position of a supreme leader. What is new is the dilemma of who is a freedom fighter and who is a terrorist."V for Vendetta" is intelligent and disturbing. The imagery is beautifully artistic, the characters complex and sympathetic, and the future frighteningly Orwellian. The final battle between V and the police is gratuitously violent and unrealistic, but it makes a point: Ideas cannot die and one man can make a difference.


                
Phenomenal film! I couldn't take my eyes of it, partially because of the fascinating action but mostly because of the incredible plot that got me thinking days after the film...Character of V is really incredible and well presented in the film by Hugo Weaving.As a reader of the comic i have to say that film has more action and it's kind of...faster, you know what i mean? Natalie Portman also has a significant role as Evey, V's only helper. Best scene, to me, is the one on the beginning when V is destroying all those buildings while the classical music plays loudly in the background.It really looks as a perfect introduction to the spectacle that follows...After all, you got to give credit to Alan Moore who deserves all the praise for the story. James McTeigue made it big time, and as for the Wachowski brothers, you can only say...THEY DID IT AGAIN!


                
