There are some that will, upon seeing this film, say that it was akin to Andrew Lloyd Weber attempting to make a political statement: overly dramatic. These people would be well served to remember that the symbol of drama is a mask, which certainly begs one important question- Why, if you are so put off by an overtly dramatic motion picture, would you choose to see a movie that stars as the (anti)hero a man in a mask? I just saw this film at an advanced screening and I must say it is nothing short of uniquely brilliant. Entertaining from the start, V manages to combine a strong socio-political message in a compact and highly intense experience. Infused with issues and concepts that pervade in the global political climate of our times, this movie is endowed with a tremendous timely relevance that belies its trappings as a mere action adventure.The acting, the cinematography, the effects, and the general vision of this film all lead me to believe that it will likely receive a cult following. It is only my hope that the message of this film will come to summarize the history of our future ascendancy to true liberty.Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country. In the meantime, go see this movie.


                
On the eve of the suppression of freedoms following 9/11 and the government spying and intrusions this was just the film we needed.
Over ten years later it is still exciting and riveting.
Whether seen as entertainment or a polemic against right-wingers: V is a hero.


                
V for Vendetta rating: 3.5 out of 4V for Vendetta is a swift and smugly entertaining portrait of revolution. Albeit, this is a Wachowski Brothers revolution, meaning there must be wildly theatric heroes and crisply tailored CGI stunts all set comfortably in an oppressive Totalitarian society. But this is more than The Matrix with a Victorian flare. V for Vendetta offers up a convincing vision of the near-future paired with an operatic comic book tale of love, mystery, and a Guy-Fawkes-masked rebellion. Our hero is V (Hugo Weaving), a masked terrorist with a mind for the subversive, a taste for the eloquent, and a hand for knife-wielding acrobatics. His accidental apprentice (or maybe hostage) is Evey (Natalie Portman), a young woman V saved from the fondling grasps of corrupt Fingermen (kind of the CIA for the V for Vendetta world) as she hurried across town past curfew. Our oppressor in this world is High Chancellor Stutler (John Hurt), whose persona is shown primarily through a five-story tall projection of his ever-angry head. The exposition for this near-future lies mostly in the implosion of America after the middle-eastern war expanded into a world war that reached its tendrils even through Western Europe. America folded into civil strife while Britain became the final bastion of modern civilization after a biological attack isolated the island into a zone of quarantine. Stutler rose to power in the chaos and now rules Britain with the mantra "England Prevails!" Rest assured, however, this is not a reality governed by rolling robots and giant overhead blimps; it's a world that's, instead, very similar to ours. The technological innovations are hidden subtly into the film's environment, refusing to take precedent over the historically opulent flavors of England's architecture. V for Vendetta has a flare for the theatric and operatic, after all. There's no room for bleeping robots and bounding technology. On the eve of November 5th, when Britain traditionally celebrated freedom and truth, V launches a subversive plot to topple High Chancellor Stutler and his surrounding administration. Hijacking the British Television Network, he broadcasts a speech that sets the date one year from November 5th as the date of the revolution. Our story takes place in the interim year leading up to the supposed revolution, with the evolution of Evey's politics, the ongoing vendetta V has set against the players of a mysterious government plot, and the deepening hole V digs for Stutler and his boys to stumble into once that fateful date arrives. "Remember, remember the fifth of November." What separates V's rebellion from the teeming hordes of other cinematic coupe d'etats made over the years is that V for Vendetta approaches the topic with one eye held straight at the politics of the present. Hot button headline topics continually rear their heads here. Bush is paralleled to Stutler, the news media is heavily clouded, our hero is paired with images of suicide bombers and subway attacks; not to mention the undeniable fact that we are asked to sympathize with an outright terrorist. Is terrorism justified when paired against a strict oppressor? In the political climate of today--where the title of terrorism is threatening to mirror the clout McCarthy granted the title of Communism--V for Vendetta's answer to that question is a sure-handed yes. But V for Vendetta is no heavy-handed political allegory. At its heart, V for Vendetta is entertainment. And as any entertainment with a hand in Victorian elegance, V for Vendetta must have romance. But before you conjure images of the Fawkes mask flying in a sweaty bald-headed scene of lust, realize first that there also is a master-grasshopper dynamic between Evey and V. The romance is formed as an understatement and rarely addressed, let to simmer below the surface and lend more chemistry to scenes that would otherwise ring hollow.Natalie Portman may have stolen the tabloid exposure with her shiny shaved head, but Hugo Weaving is the masked performance that steals the show. Much of the role's success lies in the writing, for V is made not to be simply a mask. There's a theme throughout the film asking whether behind masks of revolution, there lie fighting men and women, or only their ideals. V answers this question with charisma. Contradicting the common mantra that masked figures must be laconic, V, in fact, probably has the most lines of all. The character is full and rich with quirks and personality, but still exists with that essential air of mystery. Weaving achieves the same level of iconic performance that he did with Agent Smith in The Matrix. It really is that good.There's been debate over the quality of adaptation the Wachowski Brothers offered to Alan Moore's original graphic novel. Moore has publicly separated himself from the film, quoting in the New York Times last week that "the screenplay's rubbish." Well, before we all walk away from the ticket line, remember primly that Alan Moore will be the first to tell you himself that he is a selfish, pretentious prick. He knows it, and we know it. Let's move on. The screenplay's fine. In fact, it's a near-masterpiece. What the Wachowski Brothers have done is find the right balance between the theatrics of the graphic novel, and the solemnity to the richly Victorian narrative. They form a dynamic that plays to both sides, allowing for a story that sparks both political debate and giddy entertainment. We'll first shake our heads at the sentimental, soft-focus flashbacks and silly sub-plot for "nuclear human experimentation"; but when mulled over, we realize it's just the comic book mentality showing its spots. After all, V wouldn't start all his sentences with v-words had this film shunned its comic roots. And anyway, V for Vendetta is a vividly vivacious and voluptuous volley of a very violently fun time.
well... all i can say is goddamn.keeping in mind that anytime you see a movie as part of a major film festival world premiere, where the cast and creators are present, along with hundreds of avid film fans and press, it tends to raise the experience a notch or two... but having said that - i found it to be a work of monumental genius. i thought it was so amazingly good in fact that i actually had to say something as extreme as that to express my current mood towards it, which is still only a mere fraction of how i felt when i actually left the theatre. it was seriously that good.and yes, i'm biased, if you can call it that. but i like the wachowski's for a reason, not blind admiration. they're geniuses, and they've trained mcteigue well.naturally, i think it will be under-appreciated by much of the general public as its not nearly as action-packed as the trailer would have you believe, but whether it makes 100 mil or 200 mil, it should at least completely redeem the wachowski's legacy in even the most critical of critic's minds.i have to say, the rush of adrenaline i felt when...well, you know if you've seen the trailer - made me want to stand u and cheer. when a movie can make you feel like that, it's succeeded.


                
You want to see where the "Nationalist" movement around the World is leading us? Think "it can't happen here"? Watch this and despair - or grow a pair.


                
Amazing acting, visceral action, great special FX, and faithful yet creatively interpretive of the graphic novel.


                
I love dark vigilante films and this one takes the cake! Hugo Weaving is magnificent in this. It's one of the most unique films of the 21st century!


                
Movie Review: "V for Vendetta" (2005)Under a major production effort with Hollywood insider Grant Hill and Joel Silver producing, former-assistant-director James McTeigue, receives his break after an mission-impossible back-to-back job-assignment for George Lucas "Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones" (2002) and The Wachowski's "Matrix Reloaded" (2003), getting a promise fulfilled by the overly-demanding producer and directors, who then in return adapted the instant-classic graphic novel "V for Vendetta" written by Alan Moore in years of 1986/1987/1988 and simultaneously illustrated by David Lloyd & Tony Weare (1912-1994), when "The Wachowski" present a powerhouse of a Anti-Totalitarianism Science-Fiction-Action-Movie, which stars Natalie Portman as compromised media-indulged character Evey, whose eyes get open by a man hidden behind an early 17th-century-terrorist mask, acted in heavy dark-colored costume and vocal-beats-striking actor Hugo Weaving as anonymous character "V", when this exceptionally-paced and visually-demanding deliverable of a motion picture with polishing haunting score by composer Dario Marianelli distributed to excellence by Warner Bros. Pictures despite real-life terrorist-attacks sweeping Europe in years 2004/2005/2006.The supporting cast convinces throughout with John Hurt (1940-2017) as nemesis dictactorship-indulging character Adam Sutler, who seems to fight his demons of a career-defining character defeated-by-the-system Winston Smith in Michael Radford's George Orwell adaptation of "1984", when on the other side Stephen Rea as Detective Finch and Stephen Fry as all-symparthy-owning character Deitrich in a world-going on course for total controlling the society by fear of not-being enough as an individiual. The cinematographer Andrew Biddle (1952-2005) on his last job after a fulminate career as lighting cameraman, starting out with visualizing James Cameron's "Aliens" in season 1985/1986, for further benefits with "Matrix" production designer Owen Paterson, who creates unique world of clean-rectangle shapes in black/red color majorities, when the cave-like establishment of "V" gathers splendors of a lost era of living with analog technology as record playing devices, medieval properties of metal armor and weaponry to just seating on in a couchchair watching censored motion pictures."V for Vendetta" strongest suit becomes Natalie Portman's full-submission into a role that demands a complete transformation not only in physical appearance, but emotional openess of the unknown as controversial world of fighting dictatorship with acts of terror as wake-up call for a society, which seemingly seem happy and fulfilled in their microcosm of convenience, which makes this motion picture rich in attitude towards a certain way of life to be reached by a minority of people, while the majority watches and applauds or denies. In this case the outstanding as stand-alone graphic-novel adaptation had been put in capable hands of director James McTeigue, who seems to have been peaking in directorial vision already from this exceptionally-fulfilling debut for any movie-going audience.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Set in the not too distant future in a world with a totalitarian ruled state, V, the masked rebel looks to reek havoc and battle against his oppressors.


                
Briliant. Love this movie. It is so breathe taking.


                
Much has been said about the genius behind the script and ideas of V For Vendetta. They are all true and speak to the power of cinema when done with intelligence and purpose.
I would like to note the amazing action, entertainment, realism and most of all the acting as well. When one compares the acting in V with films like Star Wars The Force Awakens or The Last Jedi or any of the silly Marvel films it becomes so evident that there are actors and there are actors in this world. A film can be replete with special effects yet the actors could be deeply stirring.
The elite hate this film. The working class, the citizen, the human will love it.


                
This film has become a symbol for all free men in the Arabic countries, I think it affected the Arabs more than the West, Egypt likes young people wearing this mask does not know that they were fully insured, once wrote a news website HTTP://Iraqi-website.com/ story guy wearing this mask for fun police had arrested and imprisoned for three years and he's locked up yet. Maybe the revolutions were not created for the weak, but I like this movie because he found me a fantasy I liked to live in it, perhaps state fair and the distribution of wealth but nice fantasy fiction, I watched the movie 5 times and each time I discover I forgot certain detail, hoping to produce again with a new vision might include Arab revolutions and violent religious extremism


                
It is the year 2020. England is reigned by a fascist government, ensuring safety at the expense of freedom. How did it come this far? Not by a hostile takeover it seems, the British voted for it. But they voted under the influence of the most powerful force in the world - Fear. Some may argue that love is more powerful, but even love can be conquered by the fear of losing someone dear to yourself.This is the scenery that is painted by James McTeigue. But there is one who opposes it: V. Wearing a Guy Fawkes Mask, blowing up the old Bailey, attacking those who build this regime. It is not just V's biography that is told in this movie though. He's more than person, he stands for an idea maybe an ideal and we watch the story unfold around him as he guides us through London. Main characters are the absolutely wonderful Evey played by Natalie Portman and the inspector hunting V (Stephen Rea), slowly realizing that too many coincidences have happened in the past. V himself, played by Hugo Weaving never shows his face, but still convinces and puts on a great show.The message this movie sends is (and no doubt has been hundreds of times) to be debated as it glorifies chaos and the rebelling against the government even though the people do not know of the horrors their government has committed to gain power. But then again, do we know all about our government? Thankfully the movie dodges the problem of having a government overthrown only because of the revenge of one man and focuses on the essential: Act if you think there's something wrong.
Combine this idea with a dagger wielding masked man whose speeches could have made him a poet in a normal life and you got yourself one hell of a movie. Some movies want you to think, some are pure entertainment - V for Vendetta gives you just enough of both to have you sitting at the edge of your sofa in excitement while keeping you from sleep thinking about its message afterwards.
I would love to see a prequel and a sequel. How about F for Fake News (how a to grasp for power) and B for Building up Britain before Brexit cocks it up again?
The Wachowski Brothers are back at it again.  After their big hit with "The Matrix" in 1999, they decided to do another film, and to be honest, it won't let you down. This film is intensely thrilling from beginning to end, and really gets the adrenaline pumping. This futuristic story follows a man known by the alias 'V' (Hugo Weaving), a masked freedom fighter, who battles for justice against the government in London.  Put up against the totalitarian British government, a mild-mannered woman, Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman), was rescued from an urgent situation by V. Very captivating and tremendously skilled in the arts of combat and deception, V, using unconventional and questionable methods, urges the citizens of London to rise up against the tyrannical rule of Britain's chancellor, Adam Sutler (John Hurt).  As Evey slowly uncovers the truth about V's mysterious past and that of her own, she emerges as his unlikely ally in the culmination of his plan to overthrow the British government to bring freedom and hope back to society. Hidden behind the Guy Fawkes mask, Hugo Weaving really proves he is a versatile actor. His character provokes thoughtful questions in a dystopian future, and every emotion of his character is brought out with such elegance. Portman also excels as she really is the heroine of the film, and she handles the role quite well. The overlying plot to bring justice to Britain is taken aback at times by the unlikely bond between V and Evey, and the scenes between them are touching and well handled. The film's use of darkness effectively displays the dystopian state of Britain. Although a lot of scenes were shot outside, they were always dark and in tight corners to give you the feeling that you were constantly being monitored, which you were. Also, the use of camera angles help distinguish the powerful from the weak. In the beginning of the movie, the camera always angled up towards the chancellor from the point of view of the people. This exemplifies the authority the chancellor has over the citizens of Britain. As the movie progresses, the camera angle slowly rises and eventually is directly overhead all the people in the streets. V is an idea, a symbol, a metaphor that cannot be destroyed.  A man can be killed, but as an idea, he is indestructible. His message becomes more powerful as people gaze upon him, but not the man underneath the mask. One man can only try to make a difference in society, but as a united force of men and women, great change can be achieved. An exciting adventure to say the least, this film has all the works: great directing, captivating script, phenomenal acting, and is in its own way, breathtaking.


                
18 March 2006. What will be interesting regarding this movie is how Hugo Weaving as V will be assessed, not Natalie Portman's performance as Evey. Hugo plays the mysterious, quite literate, masked man who emotes with a fixed smiling mask. This sharp looking action thriller with political overtones to the terrorist policies of America today even though the exclusive focus on the movie is the action occurring in Britain. V echoes back to 1984 (the movie) and even Phantom of the Opera. The introduction of a stylish mask hero and a female heroine subjected to vile torture with a twist makes for compelling film-making. Yet for all the heroics, consistent script, the exaggerated and graphic novel appeal is also its distraction. Unlike 1984, V doesn't have that believability component. Unlike Brazil, V doesn't have the complete ethereal feel. Unlike Sin City, V doesn't manage to hold true to its comic roots. Eight out of Ten Stars.4/28/2016. Perhaps it is the times. Like a resurrection, V dramatically presents an eerie sense of contemporary political times. with the mutant viruses, the civil wars, terrorism, big brother surveillance, and now the fear-plagued Presidential election of the United States, V seems to resonate even more poignantly and relevantly since its initial release. This movie now brilliant shines as an emotive, political statement as well as a smoothly, entertaining statement of timeless and important ideas.


                
The message is clear in this film and a decade after it was made it is as relevant now as then, and as in the past and the future.Today across the world people are being misled by 'fake news' by the press boosting inconsequential stories by fear of 'others'.Yet we sit there in our own little ignorance pretending it is fine, it is normal to think that children being locked up for no crime is 'right' and 'just'.Is it a pure coincidence the late and never forgotten John Hurt appeared in V and 1984 from both sides of it ?We see people march on parliament and the White house, and it does change the narratives, you can not ignore hundreds and thousands from marching but where is today's V to save us ?


                
V for Vendetta directed by James McTeigue based on the graphic novel by Alan Moore is an exciting story about a dystopian future where a fascist government has taken control of England. V is the anarchist and main character of the story who has made it his goal to topple the government and let the people rebuild. He is soon joined by a woman named Evey, together they will both work together to uproot the corruption and return power to the people. Watch this amazing movie and experience a unique story crafted to show Fascist England and V's anarchy
V for Vendetta is amazing. There is no other word to describe it. It's a visual feast with a gripping plot and a message. You'll be glued to your seat all through-out the movie, and you'll come out sweating with your head filled with ideas. This is easily the best movie I have seen so far this year.I had my reasons to doubt the quality of this film adaptation of the graphic novel by Alan Moore at first. Although, I must confess, it is reading about this movie that made me interested in the graphic novel, it was simply written so brilliantly I was afraid it would be spoiled. Indeed, it wasn't an easy adaptation. The original graphic novel has very little action, and a mind-boggling amount of text, not to mention many numerous characters and subplots. There was also the matter of the Wachowski brothers. I did enjoy the first Matrix movie, but I was terribly disappointed with the sequels. To say the truth, this was a movie that was easy to screw up, and I had a feeling it would get screwed up. I was wrong, and I am oh-so-glad I was.The plot was changed for the film adaptation. The year is no longer 1998. The nuclear war was replaced with a deadly virus. But the idea behind the movie remains, even if the chain of events is different. But the film also added something I felt the graphic novel was sorely in need of: more action. I enjoyed the graphic novel immensely, but I felt it would have been more interesting with more action. And the fight scenes in this film are incredible: swift, stylish, and exciting. I did not like the changed made in Lord of the Rings. But in V, I did not mind the changes. The Wachowskis created a story of their own, based on Alan Moore's original, but different. And it works.There was, however, one change that was for the worst. In the graphic novel, V was insane, and there was no doubt about it. He wasn't simply weird, he was also unpredictable, mysterious and eccentric. V's character was brilliant in the graphic novel, and it was slimmed down in this movie. Hugo Weaving was great as V, of course, but by making the character of V more human, more sane, by making him romantically involved with Evey (who was also portrayed perfectly by Natalie Portman), he became less mysterious and less interesting. Not to mention, they made him more of a man with an idea, than an idea in itself. And that is a shame.All in all, this a spectacular piece of cinema. It's highly recommendable for anyone who enjoyed the original graphic novel, for anyone who enjoys comic book movies, and for anyone who enjoys movies in general. But if you want a different, yet more fleshed out plot, with a more interesting protagonist, pick up the V for Vendetta graphic novel by Alan Moore. It's worth it.


                
Too often films that intend a message become mired in details, and performances suffer, becoming mannered. "V for Vendetta" deftly avoids these pitfalls and stands out both as a thinking film and as pure entertainment. The plot is driven by thought and action, increasing its appeal to a wide audience. Upon its release I thought "V for Vendetta" would be a sleeper, a cult film appealing only to those of a certain oeuvre; the huge positive response it's generated from film goers of all bents is proof of its success. I attended the theatre with my teenage children who each enjoyed it for different reasons. Viewers familiar with the graphic novel may take umbrage to deletions and changes within the story but the spirit of Alan Moore's vision is intact. Few actors can carry a starring role without benefit of facial expressions but Hugo Weaving is delicious...his mellifluous voice carries just the right weight for the hefty speeches his character makes, never over the top. Natalie Portman surprised me: I always considered her a lightweight actress but she gave a well measured performance, earning kudos as her character develops throughout her ordeal. I've always liked John Hurt; he adds interest to any film and is perfectly cast in a mercurial role. There's no doubt the years will be kind; this kind of film holds up well and is destined to become a classic.


                
V for Vendetta is an adaptation of a graphic novel by Alan Moore. While V can be seen as an action film, it's much more. Although set in Britain, and originally conceived and written by a British artist, this film seems designed to speak to American political sensibilities. V probes the purpose of government and brings up themes which contemporary Americans seem to have forgotten - the basic concepts of the separation of church and state, government by and for the people, the right to overthrow leaders who exercise their own will at the expense of the nation. V reminds us of our duty to resist and rebel against megalomania and totalitarianism. Though grown in England, and tapped into English history, the message applies everywhere and to everybody, but seems especially appropriate for those of us living with the Bush administration and fearful of its legacy.Natalie Portman plays a young woman who is afraid of her own shadow. Out after curfew one night, she is approached by a pair of ruffians and rescued by the verbose, masked V (Weaving). V is a man who has lost his identity as a result of events in his past which are mysteriously connected to the fascistic government (presided over by John Hurt). He draws his identity out of a relatively obscure event in British history, an attempt to blow up parliament, and dons a mask which is a caricature of the leader of this gunpowder revolution.The plot and characterizations are complex, with adequate but not overbearing back-story. The script is occasionally goofy but excellent - retaining many elements of the comic medium without losing any credibility. The acting is simply wonderful. Natalie Portman is phenomenal. Weaving carries a difficult role very nicely, giving powerful humanity to a man who remains shrouded in mystery. Stephen Rea and John Hurt - always great - both lend strong support. The cinematography is very good and fits the story nicely.Since this film involved the Wachowski's many have seen fit to compare it to the Matrix. Although there are some similarities, I think the comparison is unfair to both films. V is a much less subtle and, in a purely practical political way, a more intelligent and less playful film. It is also less cinematographically innovative and less reliant on scope. Where The Matrix unfolded in the playground of ontology, V is firmly situated in the gladiatorial arena of social psychology. Besides, V was directed by James McTeigue, not the Wachowskis.Even if you don't get it from a political point of view, you are very likely to enjoy this film. I recommend it to all free-thinking individuals who have not lost hope for humanity.


                
When the people fear their government, there is tyranny; when the government fears the people, there is liberty. Thomas JeffersonThat quote, modified by V in the movie, hints at my opinion of the film- (call it a simplistic one if you will). I loved this film. The Count of Monte Cristo revenge plot is given an interesting twist by the immersion in fictitious national political scene. The tyranny imposed on the citizens was inspired by both the past AND present, both fact AND fiction. The writers should not *mask* (bad pun) nor NEED to mask their political views. Everyone should be able to freely and openly state opinions and ideas! This is a key point of the film. The Count of Monte Cristo revenge plot is also transformed by a romance. Evey becomes V's conscience by the end of the film, in addition to becoming his love. Both changes were enjoyable to watch. The actor who played V gave an Oscar worthy performance without having access to the main tool of an actor - facial expressions. Astoundingly well done.And for those who criticize because V for Vendetta b/c they believe it to be a poor adaptation of the graphic novel I say this: No movie adaption of a book is made for the people who "loved the book." It's made for people who like movies! I love both so I count myself lucky. I just look at the movie as being inspired by the novel only. ...as one interpretation by a set group of people... just as Blade Runner was inspired by Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep by PKD. I'm not saying the movie is perfect. Suspension of disbelief is quite necessary at many points! But if you keep an open mind I bet you'll find yourself enjoying it!


                
Before I tell you about the movie,I just want to ask you some questions that may have already raised in your brains at some point of you.Did you ever think that your government is going in a wrong way in many of the situations? Did you ever thought of protesting your government for its wrong deeds? Did you ever question yourself that you are living in a wrong way in disguise? Do you have any enough courage to question your government? Well there may not be perfect answers to these questions but V for Vendetta will make you think and think out of the box if you sit tight to watch it!!!Every goddamn thing in the movie is a plus point for the audience to watch it. It makes you sit tight on your seat from the beginning to the end with the acting, the cinematography, the effects, and the general vision of this film and the twists and the marvelous dialogues. Entertaining from the start, V manages to combine a strong sociopolitical message in a compact and highly intense experience. Infused with issues and concepts that pervade in the global political climate of our times, this movie is endowed with a tremendous timely relevance that belies its trappings as a mere action adventure.The screenplay is great and awesome. In fact, it's a near-masterpiece. What the Wachowski Brothers have done is find the right balance between the theatrics of the graphic novel, and the solemnity to the richly Victorian narrative. They form a dynamic that plays to both sides, allowing for a story that sparks both political debate and giddy entertainment.Despite the problem of never seeing Weaving's face( the hero V ), there was good acting and an interesting plot. I bet this is the only movie where you love the hero without even knowing his face.You will love the hero's character and the words he utter.Hidden behind the creepy mask ,Hugo Weaving really proves he is a versatile actor.His character provokes thoughtful questions in future ,and every emotion of his character is brought out by Weaving's performance.Natalie Portman on the other hand also excels,with a convincing accent.She really is the heroine of the film and she handles the role quite well.The scenes between Evey and V are touching and well handled.The rest of the film is superb in its execution.A spellbinding adventure , exciting action, superb directing and writing and a Sci-Fi film with a thoughtful message,and the first fully satisfying Moore adaptation.This is one of those movies that really sticks in your head long after you watch it though... and it continues to stir and grow... Everything looks beautiful, dark yet vibrant. The cinematography is top notch. The final battle scene brought tears to my eyes.Do not miss 'V for Vendetta'. It's one of the best movies of all time, an eternal classic.


                
Originally set for release November 5, 2005, this movie is rumored to have been re-scheduled due to the seemingly-pro-bomber/pro-terrorist aspect of its theme which may stir controversy with regards to the London bombings on July 7 and July 21, 2005. The film-makers have denied this, and say it was delayed to allow more time for production, explaining that the visual effects would not be completed in time.But as terroristic as some articles and features may accuse it to be, the main character of this movie, a masked vigilante who calls himself "V" really is just a rebel extremist bent on toppling the current dictatorial government that is reigning in tyrannical power over an oppressed nation. Set in a dark & grim not-so-distant-futuristic Europe, the storyline centers upon its two main characters; the vigilante V, who's scarred by a traumatic horrific past, and Evey Hammond, who's also a victim of her own traumatic past when her family all perished in political violence. When they both have become wanted by the government, the Police Inspector hunting them down uncovers dark secrets that may prove the depth of how evil and corrupt the government he works for really is.This movie is based on the graphic novel from DC's Vertigo comics, written by Alan Moore and illustrated mostly by David Lloyd. The film is directed by James McTeigue, who has served as assistant director and second unit director in many big films such as the Matrix movies and Star Wars: Episode II. This movie marks his first project as the director, and indeed has done a great job, balancing the darkness of V's character with his more sympathetic side. McTeigue was also able to create a realistic totalitarian Britain, as well as the struggles, the torment, and the sense of vigilance that ignites among its citizens. This film is produced by respectable filmmakers Joel Silver, Grant Hill, and the Wachowski brothers; Larry & Andy Wachowski, who has gained mass popularity with their revolutionary Matrix movies, and has written a draft of the script in the '90s before they worked on the Matrix.The central character V, draws inspiration from Guy Fawkes, a legendary Catholic revolutionary in the early 1600s who intended to blow-up the British Parliament, his conviction was to create chaos and disorder in the country from which, it was hoped, a new monarch and political regime sympathetic to the Catholic cause would emerge. But he was captured on November 5, 1605. He was tortured and publicly hanged. Evey year across England on November 5th, bonfires blaze and fireworks light the sky in celebration of the foiling of Fawkes' plot to overturn King and government. There are also elements of Victor Hugo's "Phantom of the Opera" in V's storyline, as his tale poses parallels with the characters of the Phantom & Christine Daae.What sets this film apart from other futuristic fictions is that it is highly political and is very reflective on many of the nations and governments of our times. As do many existing governments, the government in V demands an unflinching loyalty from its citizenry, warning them not to question the government or else they will be met with the highest penalties of law. These are the governments that brand those who seek and intend to reveal the truth as seditionists, and destabilizers. These are the governments that brand activists and freedom fighters as terrorists and anarchists. These are the governments who control the media in order to restrain doubt and a sense of check & balance, and propagate their own manufactured versions of truth. This is the kind of government that drives V to struggle against. His quest for vengeance is fueled by his desire to topple the existing corrupt and totalitarian government, hoping that in its ashes will rise a government for the better future of his country.V is played by Hugo Weaving, who's well-known for portraying Elrond in the Lord of the Rings movies and the cool icon villain Mr. Smith in the Matrix movies. As V, Weaving proves that he can still be an absolutely expressive actor even when he's wearing a mask. His physique, body movement, and his cool and calmly malevolent voice all add up to truly bring a charming, well-educated, and even often poetic, but lethally dangerous assassin, to life.Natalie Portman is not only alluring, but is also a flawless actress with focus and quite a solid performance, as a woman with her own conflicts and a convincing awakening, as she allies herself with the cause that V is fighting for. Portman struck media attention when she had her head shaved for this movie, but then again, she revealed that she has looked forward to shave her head for quite a long time. Her character represents those who have become victims of government abuse and has grown to succumb to the fear and the silence that is implemented, but later awakens to the call for struggle and rebellion.Stephen Rea plays a great third-person protagonist, playing the analytical game & solving the puzzles of the past, as a chief inspector hunting down V, but unravels the dirt & evil of the government that he works for. He represents that character who, is never himself a victim of the government's abuse, but does not go against it so as to preserve a sense of orderly peace.And then, there's John Hurt whose attention-shattering performance as a dictatorial chancellor of Britain is obviously patterned after Hitler.This movie is truly a great political epic without resorting on unnecessary explosions, dull chase scenes and expensive stunts that other blockbuster borefests would have. Its impact is more on the storyline and the thrill. V FOR VENDETTA is, by far, the most profoundly-spectacular movie I've seen this year. Highly-dramatic despite its action genre image, and thought-provokingly reflective. V FOR VENDETTA is SUPERB!
Just saw it and was DEEPLY impressed. Yes, acting and cinematography were top-notch, but it was the updated socio-political commentary that gave the film its punch. The novel, written in the Thatcher/Reagan 80's, was projecting the politics of conservative corporate greed into the future, and look how far we've already come since then.... Most thought-provoking was Finch's comment to his colleague upon uncovering administrative malfeasance -- if your government facilitated and/or perpetrated actions against its own people that were subsequently blamed on domestic/foreign terrorists, "Would you want to know?" (Such a question exposes the root of national denial, through which we're all going to hell in a hand-basket....)V's liberation was by fire, and Evey's is by water. His is mythical, impossible to grasp except through enjoying the fantastical world created in graphical novels. Hers is real and intensely moving. It is the kind of freedom from fear that is faced down by untold others throughout history. Even now as I write this, and as you read it, someone somewhere is coming to terms with the ultimate value of some truth beyond one's own life. Evey experiences and surpasses that unspeakable terror which others (i.e. the great majority of us) prefer to project out into the world as "terrorism" -- and without facing such a fear we acquiesce to almost anything in order to believe we're "safe." Evey's name isn't merely similar to that of V, but is a metaphor of the first woman as life-giver, and thus subject to the natural and inherent "temptation" of preserving life. Is there ever a war worth fighting for, dying for, killing for? This film says yes.While the faceless V behind his mask is a virtual No One, he emerges as the voice of Every One -- and the movie's final moments express this beautifully. Only problem is, most folks have to be much worse off before they rise up, with or without leaders and cool costumes. Bread and circuses (i.e. "Britain") will indeed prevail a good while. But perhaps some day when a barely literate populace no longer has easy access to graphic novels, and global warming brings the seacoast lapping up the sides of abandoned coastal cities turned slums, the revolution will come....


                
I have, not one hour ago, just seen a screening for V for Vendetta. I was blown away. It seems that after the controversial conclusion of the Matrix trilogy, the Brothers have decided to get their act together, so to speak. As you well know, the movie follows the comic quite closely. What is most pleasing about this film is how strongly it resounds with today's state of affairs. While I'm reading the news saying that the Patriot Act has passed into legislation, I am instantly reminded of the message of V (and many before him), Those that would sacrifice freedom for safety deserve neither.Enjoy the action (absolutly dripping with Wachowski flare/style) Enjoy the character's Journey (although truthfully V's background was not explained well enough to satisfy the newbie crowd) Enjoy the political statements if you care to. Whatever you enjoy in a movie, go see V for yourself.
