Goodfellas makes a strong case for itself as the most overrated movie of the 80s or any decade. Never in my life have I encountered a film less deserving of its critical and popular accolades. After watching it for the second time recently (to make sure my impression from a viewing years earlier was accurate), I feel every person involved in the picture, and particularly Martin Scorsese, deserves to be punished severely for inflicting Goodfellas upon me.Goodfellas has absolutely nothing to offer. It has neither the wisdom nor the compassion to say or reveal anything about life or human beings. Anyway, Goodfellas is not interested in that. It just wants to be smart, hip, and funny. With such lofty goals, it's a wonder this entire star-studded cast of actors and filmmakers fell so very, very short. Goodfellas is not smart. It is not intelligent enough to understand what it think it portrays on an individual or larger basis. It does not somehow explain or explore the mob psyche, the existence of organized crime in America, or anything else for that matter. Despite the fact that it is taken from actual events and people, it seems to desire no contact with reality.Goodfellas is not hip. Apparently Martin Scorsese was not aware that there is nothing less cool than trying hard to be cool. Goodfellas is full of flashy camera moves, tough looking guys in swank suits, and more fast, colloquial dialogue than you could beat out of Dashiell Hammett, but none of it adds up to anything but slime. Yes, that's right: slime. Goodfellas is so obnoxious you want to take a magical eraser and scrub each of its characters back into the pure white on the page from which they sprang. Is this an honorable aim for a film? To make you hate its characters, to make you hate its voice? Let me be the one to say that cynicism is generally a good cover for laziness, and as an approach to life it is one step above nihilism. Real cynicism has no place in art. Goodfellas is not funny. A complete lack of respect for human life is not a secret recipe for brilliant ironic comedy. It is disgusting, really, and those who laugh reserve a spot for themselves in the grime between the cracks under the bottom of the barrel of good humor.The performances in Goodfellas, much lauded, are ridiculously one-sided. How wonderful they managed to span the chasm between looking tough and looking smug - all except for Ray Liotta who has to do the balancing act between being paranoid and annoyed. Bravo.Of note is Scorsese's choice to play pop music over 95 percent of the film, presumably so that we have something to listen to while we are busy ignoring his movie.Goodfellas is trash. Utter trash. The only thing I took out of it is that it is unwise to let a gangster stand behind you.


                
This is actually quite a nasty film, with no likable characters at all - it's made from Henry Hill's perspective (played by Ray Liotta) but I didn't like him; I'm not sure whether he was supposed to come across sympathetically but he didn't to me.The film has some scenes of extreme violence, which I found pretty distasteful - watching someone get repeatedly graphically stabbed, having their head bashed in with a pistol butt, or having their head kicked in, isn't an enjoyable experience for me, call me weird.There is little plot to the film, and what there is is slow and drawn out. You don't really care what happens to any of the characters, in fact I wanted them all to be put behind bars personally! This film sends out entirely the wrong message: being in the mafia is cool, violence is cool, being a criminal is cool. The 'Tommy' character is especially nasty and violent, and some of his scenes provide for uncomfortable viewing.At the end of the film, Henry Hill avoids prison by ratting on his friends, not because of any high principles or because he's seen the light, but just to stay out of prison.I know it's probably news to some of the people who have given this film high ratings but violence and crime are not glamorous and not something to be celebrated.4/10 overall
Semi-spoilerOn a personal note...this movie was filmed, in part, in front of my family's home (the red house across from Bracco's "home" in the movie...you know the scene...Ray Liotta runs across the street and pistol whips the neighbor's son, who is polishing his red Corvette - since I was, in reality, the son who lived across the street, I suppose, that was me taking all that punishment).  Anyway, I was home visiting when they filmed for over a month on my street.  It was interesting to watch the care (bordering on fanaticism) that Scorcese took in endlessly rehearsing minor scenes and then finally filming them.  Which leads me to my point.  So much time, money, and effort spent to produce such an unpleasant film. Lord knows, it's not that everybody needs to be Pollyanna...we all are aware how truly wretched life can be...but why spend time watching loathsome, worthless characters act out pointless violence?  There just has to be some better way of spending our time.  Yep, we are base animals...as Scorcese incessantly likes to remind us in this and his other films...Thank you!  We get the idea!  However, why not take all that talent and time and produce something the uplifts the human spirit rather than denigrates it?  "A man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?"  Glorify gangsters, not me!OK...Goodfellas lovers...come on and pistol whip me...I'm waiting.
By one of the most overrated directors ever. Mindless, incoherent, unceasing violence. Narration is almost always a bad idea in a movie and this movie is no exception. A little narration can be okay but when it is such a dominant part of a movie, it subtracts and doesn't add. But, more importantly, about half way through, I was sickened by all the violence AND depravity that I just couldn't stomach any more and basically "skimmed" (fast forwarding about 5 minutes to watch 30 seconds, repeatedly) to the end just trying to see something redeemable that would validate all the unwarranted hullabaloo that was given this piece of crap.The shame is that Scorcese has the ability to make great movies that include violence and violent personalities (Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, Raging Bull) but these are exceptions which everyone seems to remember and not the stinkers like The Color of Money, The Last Temptation of Christ or Goodfellas.


                
Here in Crete Greece there are many films shown during the night on TV so my wife and I use the users comments to decide which films to record to watch at a decent hour. This film being 19th in the top 250 film was a must to record.Without a doubt this is a well made film, with atmospheric photography and very good acting. The violence which we saw although harsh was artistic and thus a bit detached from reality. In fact we found the style of the film rather too artistic and atmospheric and after a 40 minutes we looked at each other and agreed we were bored by it. We could not relate to any or the characters in the film nor did we care what happened to them. So we turned it off and deleted it to make space for another film.


                
So is anyone else sick and tired of over-the-top "Cool Gangster" movies? I am completely burnt out on hearing about what a great movie this is. I watched it for the first time recently and was blown away by the ridiculous pervasive language and big ego-ed tough guy mobsters. Yeah, Joe Pesci is the epidomy of intimidation! This movie ranks right up there, floating around at the top of the toilet bowel with Scarface, and this mornings used breakfast burrito. I can't believe I hear people talk about how great this and some of those other gangster movies are. I doubt any real gangsters get to behave in any fashion remotely close to this without being arrested. My favorite part was when stupid little Joe Pesci gets murdered, as the end was undoubtedly near. Untouchables was better. So was Space Jam. Whatever goodfellas people. Your favorite movie of time belongs in the garbage.


                
Maybe I was so disappointed in this movie because I'd already seen the Godfathers and the Sopranos, but this movie couldn't have disappointed me more.I don't even know where to begin. The plot was dull and predictable. I realize it is based on a true story, but it was still boring.For the caliber of actors in it, I wasn't moved by any of the performances.The pace was choppy. The final half hour felt like an entirely different film.Very disappointing mob saga and one of the most overrated film of all time.


                
The worst thing that could happen when you are watching a movie is that you don't care, you couldn't care less. That is what happened when I saw it and mind you this is no lousy production or a B-movie, I mean the main actors are people like Deniro, Sorvino, Pesci... It doesn't work.There is nothing intriguing, there is nothing ironical. Ray Liotta starts jazzing right away taking himself oh! so seriously and I couldn't care less. All characters are unpleasant. This movie is completely off balance.The inside scenes are too dark. The light is terrible. And I am sick and tired of these Scorsese movies with the background music so loud! Hasn't anybody noticed that the voices of the actors are barely audible?


                
I can not believe the accolades this film received. I never saw it until today, so maybe I am tainted by the greatness of Sopranos and Godfather I & II.The acting was of course, stellar..but the story..the film...so amazingly dull and boring. I forced myself to sit through the entire thing. And when the credits started rolling I was like..what? That's it?? I now see where Sopranos got it's entire look and feel (and cast) and see now that Sopranos is essentially 'Goodfellas: The TV Series'.At least Sopranos did it right. They focused on the boss. The focus in this film of a boring two-timing drug dealer who is about as interesting as the wig commercial occurring during the film.I won't ever understand why people enjoyed this movie so much and hope all prints are destroyed for the good of humanity.
At a most general level the movie is about a dilemma of an average gangster. At certain point in his career if things go wrong, an average mobster faces a dilemma. A dilemma of becoming either a 'rat' or a 'martyr'.At the story level the most of the characters are all too 'rationalistic', in the sense that most of the time they are doing whatever they got to do to stay fit and survive. Probably the only exception is Tommy DeVito, whose overcompensating, psychotic aggression makes him the only interesting character. However, even in his case, the all too 'rationalistic' social milieu makes his fate far to predictable. Everybody except Tommy know the rules and know the limits. There are rules to rob, rules to kill, rules to betray and rules to go to jail. Tommy is the only person that challenges the order.Overall, contrary to romantic stereotypes, the portrayal of mafia world gives a picture of strict subordination and 'law-abidingness'. The story gives the picture of the mafia world that is exactly the opposite of what the narrator's childhood memories describe. What seemed to be the world of the free, daring and interesting, strong men, appears as a world of socially conditioned, 'rationalistic' and predictable world of predator mammals, who do whatever their dominant cultural environment permits or commands them to do.
Think back: has Scorsese ever made a good film in his life? No, he hasn't. You don't even need to think about that one. Does anyone ever wonder why Scorsese has never won an Oscar? It's because the movies he makes are terrible. End of story. In this train-wreck of a film, Scorsese has the actors bumble across the screen for 2 and a half hours muttering in God-awful "Italian" accents. Scorsese probably thought he could capture the brilliance of the Godfather trilogy when he made this film. To say the least, he failed miserably. I pity those who consider Goodfellas a classic. This film is FAR from it. So if you rent this movie, anticipating 2.5 hours of entertainment, approach with caution.


                
I was bored in study hall, it was a Friday before a long break, so I decided to watch this movie. Have you ever listened to a song compressed to an unreasonable size? This is what this film is. Crushed to a time of around of 72 minutes, this story could really use two. The truth is, this film doesn't convey anything. There's no central point or conflict. "Pulp Fiction", a much better film, pulled off the lack of a main central conflict, but without any characterization, or a sense of a real journey this film suffers the same fate as the boring "Aviator". The story of a real person with a lot of glitz and gloss galore in every seen but a severe lack of content. Every seen moves very fast and everything happens instaneously and they use a narrator to fill in the blanks of information they use narrators. Characterization dies and a quick and painless death in this pointless script. I'm pretty sure the book writer and writer of the script had a central conflict or point of the film in mind when they wrote it, however, it never comes out in the film. This movie is just bad.


                
Great acting, good action scenes, but about 30 minutes too long. "Goodfellas" is basically synonymous with "Casino", and "The Godfather 1, 2, or 3", because they're all the same movie.  A bunch of mob guys running around, killing people, and they're all longer than they need to be.The best thing that can be said about this is that Joe Pesci dies.  He's got to be the most annoying actor.  The same goes for "Casino" (Goodfellas 2 as far as I'm concerned, they have so many actors in common).Scorsese should stick to movies like Taxi Driver.
The movie is an insight into mafia life. It shows you the different characters a gangster could be rather than the "so cool" impression you can get from a film like "Analyze This". The performances are all excellent, but the movie lacks a solid plot - there is no story to follow or anything to want you want to continue watching. I basically kept watching to see if anything cool would happen last minute or something.Not impressive at all, I am actually surprised it was on the list. I would say, watch The God Father again or The Sopranos and don't waste your time.


                
HOW IS THIS MOVIE IN FRONT OF THE MATRIX ON THE TOP 250?This movie is the worst ever, and the Matrix was the best ever! This movie was simply pathetic!Just because Robert Deneiro was in this movie doesn't mean that it's good. Just because he was good in other movies does not mean he was good in this one. This was just not a part for him. And Martin Scorsese really screwed. I just can't express how much of a dissapointment this was, and how much of a dissapointment it was seeing it rated so high.Do not see this movie. Give it a 1 on the rating.


                
I did enjoy this film, but I think it gets a little too much praise. All three Godfather movies are far superior. This was innovative, but it ranks too high in all lists.Goodfellas is based on the memoir "Wiseguy" about Henry Hill's life as a gangster. Ray Liotta plays Hill and gives are star-making performance. Robert De Niro plays Jimmy The Gent and Joe Pesci earns a well-deserved Oscar as Tommy DeVito. Hill grew up in urban New York and wanted to be a mobster his whole life. Only, he wasn't cut out. Tommy and Jimmy were his best friends and extremely brutal. There was reluctancy sometimes in Henry. He marries Karen (Bracco) and their family life is well-documented. As Henry becomes more like the other thugs, bis life crumbles and surrenders to the witness protection program. I thought that the story was great as it cover major parts in Hill's life and some infamous crimes in American history. Scorsese also recreates some bits from the book that come out better in the movie. For example, he adds lots to the scene with Spider. I'm not saying this is the best mob movie ever like Roger Ebert said and I'm not saying it sucked. It will never reach The Godfather heights. Although the editing and film techniques were top- notch, it was not enough. One thing I didn't like was that it practically glorified being a mobster. There's so much loyalty and it makes it out to be fun. Being a gangster is not fun. Sure it's good that everybody is treated better, but they do horrible things that puts everybody in danger. Goodfellas does show that the mafia can be bad, but there's so many circumstances surrounding them that can be learned from. Another thing I didn't like was the music. The music was too loud and too good. Great music such as the Rolling Stones and Bobby Darin were playing. They proved to be distracting and did not fit well with some bit. Why not just use regular background music instead of hit songs that are overpowering? Then there's the flow and story. As I mentioned above, the story is good but does not come across to its potential. Some of the scenes go great by themselves but not all work well as a whole. They jump around too much without giving leads in or out. It just goes from thing-to- thing-to-thing-thing over the course of minutes, plus there's the distracting music. I don't mind 146 minutes, but it seems like 5 hours was condensed in half its time. Some parts could have been cut out and replaced with more flows and better plot development. Goodfellas is a brilliant flick, but not one of the best.


                
The more De Niro does movies like this, the more he proves he ISN'T a good actor. he was MUCH more interesting in The Intern. I'd watch him in that 100 times before I'd watch him in another one of these types of movies.Scorsese: just because you CAN tap into the most base part of the male psyche, DOESN'T mean you should. Evolve please. Waht does it say about you that you can do movies like these easier than films without drugs, sex, and excessive violence? If you can do this good a job on this kind of movie, try doing something as uplifting as a Shawshank.Scorsese, I'm embarrassed to share a first name with you:( Can't wait for....... The Irishman!!! NOT:(


                
This movie/story is repulsive! Disgusting movie! When I first saw it, I was disgusted. Decades later, I'm disgusted again! I was curious why this movie still gets such high acclaim, so I watched it again. Now, I think I understand why so many claim it's the best movie of all time. Racists! Racists and gangster-minnow-minded would like this movie! They get to bust their chops over the dialogue of this crap movie! No wonder we still have so much hate and violence in our American society! We don't care about others. "We" like or tolerate the savage killing and mutilation of other human beings. Entertainment has to be shocking, brutal, with inconceivable dialogues. The laughter was equally repulsive. It was so many years/decades ago, when I first saw it. And I'm glad to know I still feel the same. For my character, it's a good thing. I still care about people in this world that has found ways to exist without actually communicating with people. We text! We "chat". We Facebook snoop! Are we immune or obsessed?


                
So the main character, betrayed his street dad, who took him in when he was young, built his career, gave him money, fame, protections. He was told not to do drugs and touch the business because it brings danger to the family, it will harm the family that took care of him, not only he didn't listen to his street dad, he went and used drugs, went against the order, brought danger to the family and then when he got caught, he ratted them out instead of just run for his life when he was bailed, if it was anyone out there who is righteous, the right thing to do was to run away and live poorly, not ratting out the people that took care of you....


                
