This is the gangster film at its finest. Scorsese is on top form as are Pesci and De Niro. Liotta has never bettered the performance he gives here. The film starts as it means to go on - violent, full of profanity, fast paced and very stylish. The story follows Liotta's character from boy to man as he climbs his way up through the ranks of organised crime. We see all the highs and lows of his life and meet a host of very believable and very undesirable characters along the way. It's a film full of memorable scenes whilst remaining much more than the sum of its individual parts at the same time. This is what all movies should be like. It draws you in and won't let you out of its grasp at any point. When it finishes you feel exhausted and exhilarated at the same time. If ever the word 'masterpiece' was meant to be used, it was for this film.


                
Sad to say, almost everyone I know - at least, the males - who has seen this movie likes it very much. I enjoy it, too. I say "sad" because it's a sick film in many ways. Also, when you have 240-plus f-words in a movie, I mean, come on! In that respect alone, I'm embarrassed to say this movie is part of my collection. That's simply because it's a fascinating story, for the full 145 minutes.This is a rough film, to say the least. It's not just the language; there are some brutally- violent parts. Joe Pesci's "Tommy DeVito" seems to be involved with some of the worst of that violence Supposedly, the movie is a based on a true story but how much of this is true, who knows? It certainly provides a vivid portrait of Mafia life in New York City. I really loved the narration by Ray Liotta - who doesn't? - and enjoyed the music in here. Most people comment about the music; it's a good soundtrack. Pesci, Liotta, Robert De Niro and Paul Sorvino all make for extremely interesting gangster characters. With all the language, which includes at least 15 usages of the Lord's name in vain and some subtle religious cheap shots (not surprising considering who directed the film), the gory spots this film gets a little too rough-edged at times. I've watched thousands of crime movies, and this gets to be a little much here and there but if none of the above offends you, you're in for a treat with an intense crime story that is very watchable.


                
The gangster film has been redefined so many times in cinema history it will be interesting to see how it is redefined once again. Goodfellas is a milestone film in that regard because just as Public Enemy and Little Caesar defined it in the Thirties, The Godfather trilogy in the seventies and eighties, Goodfellas set the standard that all other films including Martin Scorsese similar Casino try to meet. The interesting thing is that Martin Scorsese is young enough to redefine it again with another work.With Ray Liotta narrating his own life in crime in a flashback as real life criminal Henry Hill, Martin Scorsese offers us one fascinating glimpse of the criminal life in the Eisenhower to Reagan era. Henry Hill even as a child got sucked into the criminal life as a kid, as he said all he ever wanted to be was a gangster. Tutored by both Robert DeNiro and Paul Sorvino, Liotta takes part in one of the biggest heists of all time of Lufthansa Airlines at JFK Airport during the seventies. Goodfellas is the story of the events from Henry Hill's perspective leading up to the heist and the aftermath.For myself I've never seen the gangster mentality better expressed on screen except maybe by Sean Connery in Family Business. Liotta and Connery operate from the same mindset. If you work hard and hope it pays off in success, you're a dope. If you want something, just take it. When you come right down to it, that's how criminals think, it's the rest of us who are fools.Goodfellas was nominated for several Oscars, but came away with only one winner, Joe Pesci in the role of crazy Tommy DeVito. He's another criminal type, one who's driven by a terrible inferiority complex due to his short stature and does terrible things even to his own peers. And those peers don't forget as you see what happens to Pesci in Goodfellas. This turned out to be a career role for Pesci. He's a multi-talented man who's got an incredible range and can play everything from the Home Alone comedies to stone killers like here in Goodfellas or in Casino.There's usually a contest in which Scorsese fans argue whether Casino or Goodfellas is better. I happen to like Casino, but without the success of Goodfellas, Casino would not have been made.For a fascinating look at the criminal mindset, Goodfellas is an absolute must.


                
I recently watched Goodfellas.This movie unlike The Godfather which shows the viewers and critics what mafia life is like higher up the ranks of mafia life. Goodfellas tells the viewers and critics what mafia life is like lower down the mafia food chain.Goodfellas also gives the knowledge that murder and other serious crimes in mafia life happens a lot of the time. When Billy Batts is murdered by a rage of fury from Tommy De Vito (Joe Pesci); and when Paulie (Paul Sorvino) asks Henry Hill (Ray Liotta)did he know what happened to Billy Batts. And Henry replies with numerous incidents. The power expressed in the this movie is an outstanding feature of the brilliance of a Martin Scorsese's directing. Example: When an innocent young man called "Spider" is killed by Tommy. Another feature of which I noticed of Martin Scorsese's directing is that he can place the middle of the movie. This skill is also shown in Casino. Not many directors can do that, but Scosese does it perfectly in both Casino and Goodfellas.A sad part of mafia life is shown in Goodfellas, this is the fact that children such as : Henry Hill, Tommy and Jimmy ; when they are young can join the mafia.This movie is basically a biography of Henry Hill that an innocent young school boy is falling deeper into mafia life. He ended up doing a prison sentence for his love of mafia life. Even at the end court scene he still loved the mafia life even thought he nearly got killed for it. Even to this generation of movies getting greedier of special effects. The modern generation can appreciate film such as Goodfellas.
Scorcese's masterpiece, that's probably the best way to describe it; he takes us on a journey through Henry Hill's (Ray Liotta's) life, from boy to man, as he climbs through the ranks of the mobster scene, and Ray Liotta gives the performance of his life. Supported by great characters portrayed perfectly by Robert De Niro, Lorraine Bracco and the star of the piece Joe Pesci; this movie simply overflows with style, talent and guts.It's incredibly violent and it's brimming with vulgar language, but every bit of it is warranted as a piece of the picture. Now i am the first to admit that i am not a big fan of gangster movies, but i cannot fail to appreciate the magnificence of this excellent film.It's better than Casino (7/10) and it makes the godfather (6/10) look tame by comparison.Goodfellas (9/10) and its genuinely worth it


                
The movie itself its notorious for being one of the best gangster films ever made. Centred on the book 'wise guy', it focuses on how Henry Hill a former gangster worked his way up through the mob family. Without reading the book I didn't know what to expect from the ending which I thought was brilliant. The combination of De Niro, Liotta and Pesci work excellent in this film as you witness them grow into the film as like brothers working under Paulie. I think this movie provides everything you would want to keep watching....Action, Romance, Suspense and even a bit of humour thrown in. Ultimately I would argue this as one of the best movies I've ever seen. If you haven't seen it, its a must watch!


                
Based on a true story.  I drove a truck (younger years) daily through Idelwild Airport before it was renamed JFK Airport.  Rest assured - the mob ruled.  Forget the goofs, this was real life in the late 50's, early 60's. I also had conversation with Henry Hill in a cocktail lounge in Manhattan (New York City) in the 80's.  This flick works!


                
One of the best Mob movies ever. Robert De Niro can always look dangerous. Ray Liotta, as always, looks like a total weasel. Good casting. Lorraine Bracco was great here, as was Paul Sorvino. But the real performance came from Joe Pesci, as the Academy recognized. I first saw him as the buffoon in the "Lethal Weapon" movies. Here, his unstable dangerousness (it's a word, look it up) oozes menace right off the screen. This film is very different from the Godfather films in that these characters are blue collar hoods, rather than top bosses. To me this brought home even more the evil, law of the jungle, credo of the mob. Very powerful stuff.NOTE: I have the DVD, and the sound on it is not so good. The voiceovers and music are very loud, and the regular dialogue much too soft. It had me adjusting the volume throughout. C'mon, guys, for what DVD's cost, you can do better than that.


                
Ah yes gangsters  , a bunch of misunderstood criminals , or at least popular myth would have us believe . They`re nice to their moms , kind to animals and children and if they have to kill someone ..... well it`s business , no hard feelings . You know the cliches and Hollywood is more guilty than anyone of propping up these myths and it`s great to see a Hollywood movie deconstruct these fictions . GOODFELLAS shows gangsters as they are : Violent thugs and contemptable cowards . Very few films have come up with a bloodchilling villain in the shape of Tommy and the most terrifying thing is this evil little b@stard existed in real life . Oh and despite all these hard men strutting around letting everyone know how tough they are in reality they`re sh*t scared of doing hard time , there`s no honour amongst thieves and these tough guys would cut their mothers throat to stay out of jailScorsese directs in a MTV inspired way . With the exception of Spielberg all great American directors were doing this at the time . Oliver Stone did it with BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY , HEAVEN AND EARTH and NATURAL BORN KILLERS , Francis Ford Coppola did it with his version of DRACULA and Scorsese would continue the style with CAPE FEAR and CASINO . Scorsese directs in this style with just the right amount of excess so the movie doesn`t suffer from being overdirected in the way CASINO was ( CASINO is basically an overlong , inferior remake of this film ) while the script by Scorsese and Nicholas Pileggi is just about the right length and - Unlike CASINO - is beautifully paced and allows the audience to make up their own mind on Henry Hill who only seems to be an innocent bystander throughout events - Yeah right
Warner Bros are rightly remembered for their classic gangster flicks of the 30s and 40s . They made another gangster classic in 1990 , and this time they made a truthfull one


                
It is the best gangster movie based on true events and it deserved to be in the top 10 of iMdB 250.


                
Truly there hasn't been a better gangster film since Godfatgee than this one. Scorsese does it again.


                
Goodfellas is the best ganster film ever solid 9/10 ....!!


                
Absolutely great movie,highs and lows, the price of crime and the cost of family.


                
This review contains spoilers.Goodfellas premiered in 1990. The movie is directed by Martin Scorcese and stars Ray Liotta Robert De Niro, and Joe Pesci. The movie follows three men in the criminal underworld that they want to ascend. The movie follows these three characters as they traverse the criminal world across the 145 minutes of running time.Goodfellas is a masterpiece movie by Martin Scorcese. The movie is incredibly well directed. Martin Scorcese should deserve a lot of accolades for directing this movie so well. Every scene in this movie has a nice rewatchability to it. These scenes take on a new meaning on multiple watches. This is also helped by the highly energetic style of the directing. The entire movie moves at a fast pace and there is never a dull moment. Even the scenes that are more on the quiet side are directed in an interesting way to bring out the best in the actors.The three main leads in Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci do a phenomenal job in this movie. Ray Liotta plays Henry Hill as he climbs the ladder of the mafia. It is fun to watch Henry as he lives a criminal life and interacts with characters played by the other two leads. Every scene that has any of these leads is well-acted and directed. Joe Pesci plays a hot-headed mobster in Tommy DeVito. This character is incredibly memorable. Joe Pesci absolutely puts in a performance of a lifetime into the character of Tommy DeVito.The story in this movie is rather simple to follow and has many fun twists. The entire movie is narrated by Henry Hill and incredibly well edited As said before, this is a movie that does not have a dull moment. Much of this is owed to the editing, directing, and acting. The story has no problems showing loads of gore and unpleasant scenes to the audience. This is expected from looking into a mobster's life. The movie does not only focus on crime. It also focuses on the home life between Henry and Karen. This drama that arises from the life of crime is engrossing to watch.I highly recommend Goodfellas.Four stars out of four stars for Goodfellas.
"GoodFellas" may be the most important film of the 1990s in the fact that its incredible success led to some of the other great movies of the decade. Films like "The Silence of the Lambs", "The Crying Game", "Pulp Fiction", "The Usual Suspects", "Fargo", and "L.A. Confidential" would have likely never been made as well as they were without the influence of Scorsese's "GoodFellas". The film is an intense study of a Mafia family over a 30-year stretch.


                
The greats gangster film for ever. this film have nice story, actors and great director. watch it in first moment.


                
This film is the continuation of a whole series of films about organized crime.
 
A young man from a poor family begins to serve the local mafia. Starting with the execution of small orders, punishing the enemies of mafia, he becomes the organizer of large schemes for selling alcohol and cigarettes. He becomes one of the leaders of local mafia group.In addition to the general romanticism inherent in all the feature films about the mafia, this project reveals the existing problems within the mafia society. The authors concentrate viewer's attention on the problem of loyalty and betrayal, price of friendship, role of women and goals of creating organized criminal groups. In addition, the film highlights the inevitability of tough struggles, clashes and reckoning for crimes. A deeper motive is the experience of the main characters. Despite the deep storyline, the film is easily perceived, has unobtrusive everyday colors and a cheerful composition.Summary: Definitely, the film deserves attention of the audience. Guys from the street who "climb the career ladder," living by their own laws - the Code of Honor, and, at the same time, have kind heart - always capture imagination and are an example for imitation. At a minimum, deep down.
Ranks up there with the Godfather trilogy. One of the greatest masterpieces in the genre of crime. Inspired the writing of The Sopranos (1999) as much detail and a total of 27 actors therein also featured in this epic mafia movie.


                
Well done film with unforgettable dialogues, scenes and acting. The movie is packed with stars of gangster world - my favorite actors. I personally grew up on the streets on Long Island New York so I can relate to this movie.


                
Few movies purely about the life in the mob can truly capture perfection as Goodfellas manages to do so well. It has less sugarcoating compared to the more tame and inaccurate The Godfather ( Which is inferior to Goodfellas objectively speaking. ) and it has more brutality and realism. The movie starts off with a flashback to a later scene in which a certain character is beat up, dumped into the back of a car and driven to a spot to be buried by the three main protagonists. However, when the movie starts all the audience hears is a thud, we don't know what is happening yet. As everybody gets out of the car they find this character is not dead yet, and continue to respectively stab and shoot this person to death in cold blood. After which, the iconic line 'As far back as i can remember i've always wanted to be a gangster' is said by Henry Hill's ( Ray Liotta ) narration and the story starts with a young Henry Hill. Now what Scorsese has done here is introduce us to the brutal nature of both the mob business and the three main characters in an introduction lasting for a bit longer than a minute, it is the ultimate beginning to a movie which instantly sets the tone for everything else there is to come.
You know during the entire movie that anybody could get killed at any time, and what happens is far from predictable, especially when Tommy DeVito ( Joe Pesci ) enters the screen, you have absolutely no idea what to expect. One of the other reasons Goodfellas is such a masterpiece is due to the incredible cast it has. Robert de Niro, Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci & Paul Sorvino in the lead all seem to actually be mobsters, instead of acting like them. Enhanced by further excellent performances by Lorraine Bracco & Frank Vincent, it really is an acting masterpiece of film.The movie follows the life of Henry Hill together with excellent narraton provided by Ray Liotta from the 50s all the way up to the very start of the 80s, and as the movie starts out with the mostly positive and beneficial terms of the mob life for Henry, which usually has 50s love songs playing in the background, later in the timeline of the movie things get bloody and ugly and Scorsese both changes the tone of the songs to give it a more serious vibe and he also changes the generations of them ( for example, 50s songs for the 50s parts, 60s for the 60s.. etc. ). It immerses you into the film and the timeline that is being played at that point.Ofcourse the single greatest sequence is the Copacabana steadycam shot through the kitchen. Trackingshots are always impressive, but even more so when it also tells the story of how popular Henry is. With a fantastic screenplay, dialogue that never seems to be out of place, superb acting, brilliant music choices, lack of sugarcoating and actually showing the facts of how brutal the mob life can be, it is an absolute masterpiece of cinema.


                
"Goodfellas" (1990) is a crime drama masterpiece. The film is from the perspective of Henry Hill, played by Ray Liotta, as he rises through the Italian Mob. His Jewish-Italian heritage may not allow him to become a Made Man, but his drive and puts him in position to be the right-hand man of Mob Boss, Paul "Paulie" Cicero, played by Paul Survino. His eventual partners James Conway, played by Robert De Niro, and Tommy DeVito, played by Joe Pesci, may have bigger plans than just being a right hand. Martin Scorsese paces this film as if the viewer has been implanted into the film. Through his pacing, he helps the audience feel what it would be like in a crime family. Times where you would anticipate fast paced action, he provides a calm similar to a professional hit. While other times, if the situation is out of control, he makes you feel like its out of control through his timing. The point of this film can flow in any direction depending on the viewers interpretation. Since the film is based on a true story, Scorsese may have wanted to simply tell an enlightened story of Henry Hill. I believe the film is a heavy hitting look inside a crime family. The payoff was unexpected in relation to the knowledge of certain characters. Depending on the viewers personal morals, the payoff is magically all over the place. The viewer may even be torn, like myself, who believes in honor and justice equally. This film should be on everyone's watch list. "Goodfellas" is the gold standard.


                
I normally don't like movies that portray Italian immigrants as gangsters, but this movie was an exception. Don't get me wrong, I love a good pizza pie just as much as anyone else. And this movie did a pretty job of embracing Italian cuisine while not playing up business suits too much. So, that's good.
Joe Pesci's character is good because he loves his mother. Maybe they could have had more construction workers in it, like with the Sopranos- would have been too much like Grand Theft Auto though. That is probably the appeal of the movie. It focuses more on the family... ha, ha, ha. I like how Paulie never rides in a car, but will still use a phone. Watch the movie to find out how they are able to make a quick buck in America while avoiding the authorities.


                
This movie has everything.It has crime,a love story,drama,comedy everyone can enjoy it in a way or another.I love when a movie starts directly with the main character's backstory,this thing makes me to "feel" the movie better because I can empathize in a way with the character(Martin Scorsese does a beautiful job here).The movie action is pretty slow in comparison with the events(in my opinion) but this makes the movie even better because this "slow action" shows the way that gangsters are,they do crazy things but they are very calm when they do this.
The characters are memorable.
Acting is just too good.
Camera job even better.
Is a great movie.
Watch it.


                
I really enjoyed this movie about the mob that took place in the 1960s Robert De Niro was a good mob boss that's his little sidekick Joe Pesci I think it was one of their best films to date I really recommend this film for adults I don't recommend it for children at all too much violence I gave it 9 Stars
This movie is held up as one of the great Mafia movies of all time, and for good reason. Over the course of the film, we are the shown the Mafia lifestyle through the eyes of our narrator, Henry Hill. Our other main characters are Tommy DeVito and Jimmy Conway, Henry's mob partners who often show the more gruesome parts of Mafia dealings. Ray Liotta (Henry), Joe Pesci (Tommy), and Jimmy (Robert De Niro) bring in brilliant performances that makes truly invested in these characters and makes them feel more than simply actors within the film.The plot of the film follows Henry through his childhood through to his adult life and his associations with the Mafia. This film does a fantastic job at first sucking the viewer in to the sense that the mafia isn't so bad as we see the mobsters accepting Henry as their own and their seemingly affable nature, which can be seen especially in Jimmy. As Henry grows up however the audience begins to see the more violent and amoral dealings of the Mafia that shatter the image of the romantic life that was presented at the beginning as well as other portrayals of Mafia in the media.Something that also has to be mentioned is Martin Scorsese's use of music and sound within the film. Music within the film helps to both capture the time period of the 50's all the way through to the 70's as well as relate to the situation at hand. It gives the film a good rhythm and pace that makes each scene interesting to watch and flows easily into one another, leaving you on the edge of your seat as it makes the two and a half hour run-time feel short as every minute engrosses you into the reality of the film. Overall, a quintessential film for any fan of Mafia movies or film buffs, as well as one of the best films to introduce you to Scorsese's work.


                
