Okay, okay, maybe not THE greatest. I mean, The Exorcist and Psycho and a few others are hard to pass up, but The Shining is way up there. It is, however, by far the best Stephen King story that has been made into a movie. It's better than The Stand, better than Pet Sematary (if not quite as scary), better than Cujo, better than The Green Mile, better the Dolores Claiborne, better than Stand By Me (just barely, though), and yes, it's better than The Shawshank Redemption (shut up, it's better), I don't care WHAT the IMDb Top 250 says.  I read that, a couple of decades ago, Stanley Kubrick was sorting through novels at his home trying to find one that might make a good movie, and from the other room, his wife would hear a pounding noise every half hour or so as he threw books against the wall in frustration. Finally, she didn't hear any noise for almost two hours, and when she went to check and see if he had died in his chair or something (I tell this with all due respect, of course), she found him concentrating on a book that he had in his hand, and the book was The Shining. And thank God, too, because he went on to convert that book into one of the best horror films ever.Stephen King can be thanked for the complexity of the story, about a man who takes his wife and son up to a remote hotel to oversee it during the extremely isolated winter as he works on his writing. Jack Nicholson can be thanked for his dead-on performance as Jack Torrance (how many movies has Jack been in where he plays a character named Jack?), as well as his flawless delivery of several now-famous lines (`Heeeeeere's Johnny!!'). Shelley Duvall can be thanked for giving a performance that allows the audience to relate to Jack's desires to kill her. Stanley Kubrick can be thanked for giving this excellent story his very recognizable touch, and whoever the casting director was can be thanked for scrounging up the creepiest twins on the planet to play the part of the murdered girls.
One of the most significant aspects of this movie, necessary for the story as a whole to have its most significant effect, is the isolation, and it's presents flawlessly. The film starts off with a lengthy scene following Jack as he drives up to the old hotel for his interview for the job of the caretaker for the winter. This is soon followed by the same thing following Jack and his family as they drive up the windy mountain road to the hotel. This time the scene is intermixed with shots of Jack, Wendy, and Danny talking in the car, in which Kubrick managed to sneak in a quick suggestion about the evils of TV, as Wendy voices her concern about talking about cannibalism in front of Danny, who says that it's okay because he's already seen it on TV (`See? It's okay, he saw it on the television.').
The hotel itself is the perfect setting for a story like this to take place, and it's bloody past is made much more frightening by the huge, echoing rooms and the long hallways. These rooms with their echoes constantly emphasize the emptiness of the hotel, but it is the hallways that really created most of the scariness of this movie, and Kubrick's traditional tracking shots give the hallways a creepy three-dimensional feel. Early in the film, there is a famous tracking shot that follows Danny in a large circle as he rides around the halls on his Big Wheel (is that what those are called?), and his relative speed (as well as the clunking made by the wheels as he goes back and forth from the hardwood floors to the throw rugs) gives the feeling of not knowing what is around the corner. And being a Stephen King story, you EXPECT something to jump out at you. I think that the best scene in the halls (as well as one of the scariest in the film) is when Danny is playing on the floor, and a ball rolls slowly up to him. He looks up and sees the long empty hallway, and because the ball is something of a child's toy, you expect that it must have been those horrendously creepy twins that rolled it to him. Anyway, you get the point. The Shining is a damn scary movie.Besides having the rare quality of being a horror film that doesn't suck, The Shining has a very in depth story that really keeps you guessing and leaves you with a feeling that there was something that you missed. HAD Jack always been there, like Mr. Grady told him in the men's room? Was he really at that ball in 1921, or is that just someone who looks exactly like him? If he has always been the caretaker, as Mr. Grady also said, does that mean that it was HIM that went crazy and killed his wife and twin daughters, and not Mr. Grady, after all? It's one thing for a film to leave loose ends that should have been tied, that's just mediocre filmmaking. For example, The Amityville Horror, which obviously copied much of The Shining as far as its subject matter, did this. But it is entirely different when a film is presented in a way that really makes you think (as mostly all of Kubrick's movies are). One more thing that we can all thank Stanley Kubrick for, and we SHOULD thank him for, is for not throwing this book against the wall. That one toss would have been cinematic tragedy.
The Shining, you know what's weird about this movie? This is the movie that everyone, for people who claim to not like horror films, will always say that The Shining is a terrific film. This is Stanley Kubrick's classic vision of Stephen King's horror tale of madness and blood. This is just an incredible film and wither you have seen it or not, you have heard of it, know a few lines from it, and know some of the classic images. Who could forget Jack's "Here's Johnny!"? Who could forget "All Work and No Play Make Jack a Dull Boy"? Who could forget that chilling ending? This is the film that is unforgettable and honestly in my opinion is Kubrick's best work. I know there is a lot of argument in that department, a lot of people say it's 2001: A Space Odyssey or Clockwork Orange or even Dr. Strangelove, but if those film pioneered film making, then The Shining perfected it. This is the tale of isolation, madness, terrifying images, and the ultimate ghost story that will crawl underneath your skin. Jack Torrance, Jack's son Danny, and Jack's wife, Wendy arrive at the Overlook Hotel on closing day. The elderly African-American chef, Dick Hallorann, surprises Danny by speaking to him telepathically and offering him some ice cream. He explains to Danny that he and his grandmother shared the gift; they called the communication "shining." Danny asks if there is anything to be afraid of in the hotel, particularly Room 237. Dick tells Danny that the hotel has a certain "shine" to it and many memories, not all of them good, and advises him to stay out of room 237 under all circumstances. Danny's curiosity about Room 237 finally gets the better of him when he sees the room has been opened. Danny shows up injured and visibly traumatized after Jack tells Wendy that he loves his family. Seeing this, Wendy thinks Jack has been abusing Danny. Jack wanders into the hotel's Gold Room where he meets a ghostly bartender named Lloyd. Danny starts calling out the word "redrum" frantically, and scribbling it on walls. He goes into a trance, and withdraws; he now says that he is Tony, his own "imaginary friend." Jack sabotages the hotel radio, cutting off communication from the outside world, but Hallorann has received Danny's telepathic cry for help and is on his way. Wendy discovers that Jack has been typing endless pages of manuscript repeating "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" formatted in various ways. Horrified, Jack threatens her and she knocks him unconscious with a baseball bat, locking him in a storage locker in the kitchen. Jack converses with Grady through the door of the locker, which then unlocks releasing him. Danny has written "REDRUM" in lipstick on the door of Wendy's bedroom. When she looks in the mirror, she sees that it is "Murder" spelled backwards. Jack picks up an axe and begins to chop through the door leading to his family's living quarters. "Here's Johnny!", and Jack's legendary image is born.The Shining is one of those films that you seriously have to make time to see, this is an incredible film and still gives me nightmares. Jack Nicholson's performance is timeless and unforgettable. But one I also feel is extremely overlooked is Shelley Duvall, her scene of finding Jack's rant All Work<U+0085> is incredible, that's a look of horror and you can see that fear in her face after realizing her husband is mad. Also another incredible scene is when Jack sees a ghost woman in the bathtub, it's honestly one of the most terrifying scenes in horror cinema. The reason this film is so well known is because it's a film of perfection, it's been on The Simpsons, it's been shown in other films and it's a film that will forever stay with you when you see it, trust me.10/10
Sometimes all good horror needs is a good idea. But sometimes, rarely indeed, a horror masterpiece will reach us by the hand of a Kubrick, with the adept, elusive touch of a great artist to guide the vision, and we know what separates it from all else.Okay, the story has enough promise that even a hired gun would have to try to fail. Heck, even Stephen King himself didn't fare so bad. It's how Kubrick perceives King's universe however, how he fills the frame with it, that renders THE SHINING a feast for the senses.Horror that will reach us through the mind and body alike, an assault as it were, tending eventually its pitch to a crescendo, yet curiously not without a delicate lull.Kubrick's cinema is, as usually, a sight to behold. We get the adventurous camera that prowls through the lavish corridors of the Overlook Hotel like it is some kind of mystic labyrinth rife for exploration, linear tracking shots exposing impeccably decorated interiors in symmetric grandeur. The geometrical approach in how Kubrick perceives space reminds me very much of Japanese directors of some 10 years before. In that what is depicted in the frame, the elements of narrative, is borderline inconsequential to how they all balance and harmonize together.Certain images stand out in this. The first shot of Jack's typewriter, ominously accompanied by the off-screen thumps of a ball, drums of doom that seem to emanate from the very walls or the typewriter itself, an instrument of doom in itself as is later shown. A red river flowing through the hotel's elevators in a poetry of slow motions. Jack hitting the door with the axe, the camera moving along with him, tracking the action as it happens, as though it's the camera piercing through the door and not the axe. The ultra fast zoom in the kid's face violently thrusting us inside his head before we see the two dead girls from his POV. And of course, the epochal bathroom scene.Much has been said of Jack Nicholson's obtrusive overacting. His mad is not entirely successful, because, well, he's Jack Nicholson. The guy looks half-mad anyway. Playing mad turns him into an exaggerated caricature of himself. Shelley Duvall on the other hand is one of the most inspired casting choices Kubrick ever made. Coming from a streak of fantastic performances for Robert Altman in the seventies (3 WOMEN, THIEVES LIKE US, NASHVILLE), she brings to her character the right amounts of swanlike fragility and emotional distress. A delicate, detached thing thrown in with the mad.


                
+Wonderful Cinematogtaphy +Beautiful Horrific Images +Fantastic Performances +Great Characters and Scares +Suspenseful Soundtrack +Ending That Will Leave You Speachless


                
Saw this movie recently in my mobile have to admit guys I was really scared while watching this fillm and on top of that i was watching this in the mid night in darkness so I got really very scared and therefore i put on the lights of my room for the next 15 mins man.Based on the novel written by Sir Stephen King.Really guys the story was really very creepy and the atmosphere too was very teriific.The direction was awesome from Mr Kubrick.The screenplay,editing,location and the cinematography too were good.The acting from the male lead was superb and the female lead as well as the child too were good in their acting.And all the remainings too acted ok.And also guys the hotel or the manison too was very creepy.So a must watch for horror movies lovers.But guys a warning especially to kids don't watch this movie alone and at the mid night in darkness.


                
When i first went to watch The Shining I was expecting a decent film from what I had heard about it and I liked a lot of Stanley Kubrick's other work but when I started to watch it it was so much better than I thought it would be.At times I seriously felt ridiculously uneasy and I couldn't take my eyes of the screen still there's something very disturbing about everything in the film. Now some people don't like Kubrick's version of The Shining since it doesn't entirely follow Stephen King's book but in my opinion both Kubrick's version,the mini-series and the book are all great.Jack Nicholson gives an awesome performance.If you are looking for a good original movie that will keep you thinking even after the movies over then watch The Shining.


                
*!!- SPOILERS - !!*Before I begin this, let me say that I have had both the advantages of seeing this movie on the big screen and of having seen the "Authorized Version" of this movie, remade by Stephen King, himself, in 1997.Both advantages made me appreciate this version of "The Shining," all the more.Also, let me say that I've read Mr. King's book, "The Shining" on many occasions over the years, and while I love the book and am a huge fan of his work, Stanley Kubrick's retelling of this story is far more compelling ... and SCARY.Kubrick really knows how to convey the terror of the psyche straight to film.  In the direction of the movie AND the writing of the screenplay, itself, he acquired the title "Magus" beyond question. Kubrick's genius is like magic.  The movie world lost a great director when he died in 1999.  Among his other outstanding credits are:  Eyes Wide Shut, 1999;  Full Metal Jacket, 1987; Barry Lyndon, 1975; A Clockwork Orange, 1971; 2001: A Space Odyssey, 1968; Spartacus, 1960 and many more.The Torrences (Jack, Wendy his wife and Danny, their son) are living in the Overlook Hotel for the winter; Jack has been hired as the caretaker.  It is his job to oversee the upkeep of the hotel during the several months of hard snow, until spring when the Overlook reopens its doors.  It seems there are many wealthy and jaded tourists who will flock to the Colorado Mountains for a snow-filled summer getaway.The Hotel was an impressive piece of architecture and staging.  It lent to the atmosphere, by having a dark, yet at the same time "welcoming" atmosphere, itself.  The furnishings and furniture was all period (late 70's - early 80's), and the filmography of the landscape approaching the hotel in the opening scene is brilliant. It not only lets you enjoy the approach to the Overlook,  it also fixes in your mind how deserted and isolated the Hotel is from the rest of the world.The introduction of Wendy and Danny's characters was a stroke of genius.  You get the whole story of their past, Danny's "imaginary friend," Tony, and the story of Jack's alcoholism all rolled into this nice, neat introductory scene.  There was no need in stretching the past history out over two hours of the movie; obviously, Kubrick saw that from the beginning.Closing Day.  Again, the scenic drive up the mountains to the Hotel (this time, with family in tow), the interaction between Jack and Danny was hilarious while also portraying a very disturbing exchange.The initial tour through the Overlook is quite breathtaking, even as the "staff" is moving things out, you get a chance to see the majestic fire places, the high cathedral ceilings and expensive furnishings, dormants and crown moldings in the architecture. "They did a good job!  Pink and gold are my favorite colors." (Wendy Torrence)  Even the "staff wing" is well designed and beautifully built.The maze was a magnificent touch, reminiscent of the Labyrinth in which the Minotaur of Crete was Guardian.  When Jack Nicholson stands at the scaled model of the maze and stares into the center, seeing Wendy and Danny entering, it's a magickal moment; one that tells you right away, there are heavy energies in that house; there's something seriously wrong, already starting.  "I wouldn't want to go in there unless I had at least an hour to find my way out." (The Hotel Manager)Scatman Cruthers, as Dick Halloran, was genuine and open in his performance.  His smiles were natural and his performance was wonderful.  You could actually believe you were there in the hotel, taking the tour of the kitchen with Wendy and "Doc."  His explanation of "the shining" to Danny was very well delivered, as was his conversation with the child about Tony and the Hotel.  It was believable and sincere.The cut out and pan scan of the hotel itself, with the mountains looming behind, the cold air swirling about, mist coming up from the warm roof of the snowbound hotel, adds so MUCH to the atmosphere of the movie.  It also marks the "half-way-to-hell" point, so to speak; the turning point in the movie.Shelley Duvall's portrayal of Wendy Torrence was masterful.  (So WHAT if she also played Olive Oyl?!  It just shows her marvelous diversity!)  Honestly, before I saw the movie on the big screen in 1980, I said," What?  Olive Oyl?  *lol*  (Popeye was also released in 1980.)  But I took that back as soon as the movie started.  She's brilliant.   In this Fiend's opinion, this is her best performance, to date!  (Although I did love her in Steve Martin's "Roxanne," 1987.)Once Kubrick has established the pearly bits of information of which you, the viewer, need to be in possession:  the Torrence's past; Danny's broken arm; Tony;  the history of the Hotel itself; the fact that Danny is not "mental," but rather clairvoyant instead, and the general layout of the Hotel; all of which you get in the opening 3 sequences; the movie never stops scaring you.The two butchered daughters of the previous caretaker, Delbert Grady (the girls having appeared several times to Danny, first by way of Tony in the apartment before the family ever left for the hotel) were icons with which Danny could identify, and of which he was afraid, at the same time.  They were haunting (and haunted), themselves and showed Danny how and where they were killed, in a rather graphic and material way.Kubrick's Tony was written as an attendant spirit, like a spirit guide which he acquired as a result of his arm nearly being wrenched off his body by his own father.  He was..."the little boy who lives in my mouth."  He would manifest in the end of Danny's finger and physically spoke through Danny in order to speak TO Danny.  NOT like in the book, I realize, where Tony was intended by Stephen King to be the projection of Danny as an older boy, trying to save his father.  Kubrick left out that little twist and it somehow made it more frightening when Tony "took ... Danny ... over."  The idea of Danny's older self projecting back to his younger self isn't...scary.The "Woman in the Shower" scene, done by Lia Beldan (about whom I can find no other credits for having done anything before, or since) as the younger woman and Billie Gibson (who ALSO appears to suffer from a lack of credits for works before or since), was seductively obnoxious and thoroughly disgusting.  It was dramatic, and frightening.  Abhorrent and scary.  When Nicholson looks into the mirror and sees her decomposing flesh beneath his hands; the look of sheer terror on his face was so complete and REAL.Jack quickly embarks on his trek from  the "jonesing" alcoholic to a certifiable insane person.  The degradation of his character's mental state is carefully and thoroughly documented by Kubrick. Jack's instant friendship with Lloyd the Bartender (as only alcoholics, would-be mental patients and drug addicts do) portrays his pressing NEED of the atmosphere to which Lloyd avails him; namely, alcohol ..."hair of the dog that bit me." (Jack Torrence)  In Jack's case, it's bourbon on the rocks, at no charge to Jack.  "Orders from the house."  (Lloyd the Bartender)  Nice play on words.When Wendy find's Jack's "screenplay" is nothing more than page after page of the same line typed over and over, albeit in 8 or 9 different creative styles...when he asks from the shadows, "How do you like it?" and Wendy whirls and screams with the baseball bat in her hand...is so poignant.  It's the point where she realizes how messed up the whole situation is...how messed up Jack is. It's very scary, dramatic and delivers a strong presence.  That coupled with Danny's visions of the hotel lobby filling with blood, imposed over the scene between Jack and Wendy, and with the confrontational ending to this scene, make this possibly THE strongest scene of the movie.The "REDRUM" scene.  Wow.  What do I say?  What mother would not be totally freaked by awakening to find their young, troubled son standing over them with a huge knife, talking in that freaky little voice, exclaiming "REDRUM" over and over?  Even if it HAD no meaning, it would still be as scary as the 7th level of HELL.  It was something everyone could (and has) remember(ed).  Speaking of memorable scenes...Nicholson's final assault on his family with an axe was perhaps one of the scariest scenes of movie history.  His ad-libbed line, "Heeeeere's Johnny!" was a stroke of brilliance and is one of the most memorable scenes in the history of horror.  It also goes down in horror movie history.The ending..?  Kubrick's ending was perfection.  I felt it ended beautifully.  No smarm, no platitudinous whining, no tearfully idiotic ending for THIS movie.  Just epitomized perfection.  That's all I'll say on the subject of the ending.Who cares what was taken out?!  Look what Kubrick put IN.  Rent it, watch it, BUY IT.  It's a classic in the horror genre, and for good reason.  IT RAWKS!!*Me being Me* ... Take this movie, and sitck it in your Stephen King collection, and take the 1997 "Authorized" version done by King and stick it down in the kiddie section.  That's where it belongs. .: This movie rates a 9.98 from the Fiend :.
... This isn't the first time Stanley blurred the distinction between genres to such great effect, either. In Dr. Strangelove you had a comedy about a horrific situation, and here the basis is a terrifying scenario which actually yields some very funny moments. Slow-burning madness and attempting to kill one's family isn't hilarious of course, but the dialogue is very knowing ("five months of peace is just what I want... ") and there is a terrific drinking scene which would be riotous if you included just one type of spirit, but is spine-chilling when you factor in the other.I disagree with those who say that the hotel has a negligible effect on Jack Torrance in the filmed version. The cues Nicholson provides the audience as an actor merely hint at the potential for madness, which is only reinforced when we learn that the head of the family has struggled with alcoholism and is emotionally distant from his wife and son. The environment that he is in, however, then absorbs those personality defects and unleashes them upon his consciousness. In much the same way as buildings are sometimes thought to soak up events that happen there, the hotel feeds on the frailties of a troubled but sane man, and uses his weaknesses against him to eventually take him beyond the point of no return. He may have dormant flaws in his personality before he arrives, but to me the Overlook itself is the trigger that sets them off.Kubrick's cold and detached approach to directing works splendidly for a chilly horror film, and the unpredictable force of nature that is Jack Nicholson teeters all the time between making you giggle and scaring the wits out of you. When he explodes, you won't be sure how far he can go. Together they made a great team and with a blend of their talents gave us a classic. If you want a great viewing experience, then this is an example that well and truly shines...


                
Horror films are associated with extreme and sickening violence/gore, lunatic killers and mostly focus on teenagers. They are mostly just poor excuses to put extreme violence on film to appeal to younger people, and nearly all, with a few exceptions such as Saw, are totally crap. Violence doesn't make a film good. In making The Shining, Stanley Kubrick has shown the world how horror films should be made.There are none of the predictable bad-guy-jumps-out-of-the-dark scenes to try and scare you. Instead Kubrick builds up suspense with the chilling musical score, and Jack Torrance gradually gets driven insane. Jack Nicholson is perfect to portray the character of Torrance. Not only is he a brilliant actor anyway, but he looks perfect for the part. He isn't your stereotyped perfect-looks actor, I don't think someone like Brad Pitt would be as effective playing his part. Pitt is a great actor, but you can't imagine someone like him going insane in a weird hotel! I think the cast is important to this film. Kubrick cast a proper leading actor and actress, rather than the randomly assembled casts of young 20 year olds you get in most horror films. And hey! The result is way better.There are a perfect amount of genuine horror scenes, such as the famous axe scene, and the scene in the maze, and it never goes over the top. There is also some unique horror scenes, such as when Jack writes about 1,000 pages of the same words, and the visions of the blood from the elevator and the little girls. They are bizarre but very effective in building suspense.The storyline is also much more effective than the usual story of teenagers being pursued by a lunatic murderer. A man stuck in a hotel for the winter with just his family who gradually goes insane is much more original and much much much more effective. Horror films are meant to be scary, and this really is. There are many scenes showing Jack's willingness to give in to temptation, and how he wants to get away from his wife and weird son. The camera-work is also excellent, as it builds up tension by moving along the corridors, and it also emphasises that Jack is feeling confined in the hotel.Stephen King didn't like Kubrick's interpretation of his novel, I can't believe how. Kubrick just made it better! This is a top film and is a landmark for horror films.


                
I've never been a big horror fan, but I think I'm converting. Knowing the legendary status of "The Shining" I chose to watch it on Halloween. I was not disappointed. It's become one of my all time favorite films. I think I enjoyed it as much as I did because it wasn't a simple horror/slasher film. What blew me away was Kubrick's mastery of genre and his ability to incorporate so many different genre conventions into one story.Here are some reasons why I think "The Shining" is the Best Horror Film Ever (Contains spoilers):It creates iconic surrealistic images. I will never forget Jack Nicholson hitting the door with the ax, or chasing his son through the maze, or Danny riding his big wheel through the halls.It is also an adventure with a sort of happy ending. The driving momentum of the story is the hope the audience has that Danny and Wendy Torrance will somehow escape the madness. Danny in particular becomes the protagonist that we are rooting for, caught in a crazy adventure that may be a nightmare for him to experience, but is thrilling for us to witness. He must use both his special power and ultimately his wits to save himself and his mother. He saves them with his power by calling the chef who brings them the snow cat. And he saves them by his wits by outrunning Nicholson in the maze. When all is said and done, it's a satisfying adventure. It is also a sci-fi fantasy where the hero has a secret power that gives him some sort of edge in this creepy struggle. Credit for this must go to Steven King, a master of sci-fi horror. By giving the boy supernatural powers it gives him a fighting chance against the horror.It's the best ghost story I can think of. Ghosts in the movie look like real people, making them that much more creepy. Seeing a ghost all translucent and obviously a ghost would hardly be scary because we'd know that they are a ghost. It's the fact that they look real but we know logically that they aren't real that makes them scary. I loved the friendly and cordial British caretaker who slowly reveals his evil madness and gradually influences Jack.It has a slow measured pace, but always stays interesting and entertaining. It's a consistent slow burn. I really don't know how Kubrick does it. He creates a movie that is relatively slow by today's standards, yet the movie doesn't feel like an old film with a plodding pace. It's constantly interesting and continuously revealing tidbits of info, and so compelling in the performances, that we are sitting on the edge of our seat the entire time, wanting to know what's going to happen next.It's more scary than gory. Kubrick relies more on mood, odd/surrealistic images, and brilliant cinematography than gore to make the movie creepy. The parts that are gory are quick and intense flash cuts, given by supernatural revelation. And they aren't typically gross but unusually gross. For example, the only thing grosser than a rotting woman is an old ugly naked rotting woman.It's a unique take on the "Haunted Mansion" genre. Rather than choosing a stereotypically scary hotel, like "Psycho" or "The Haunting" it creates a big luxurious ski lodge, where the horror is lingering somewhere in the big vast spaces and corridors. In other words, Kubrick creates fear out of an environment we've likely experienced, where there's nothing overtly scary, but covertly, our imaginations due us in. We've all been to hotels and motels, and there's something intrinsically creepy about being in a place with so much unknown history. The imagined horrors are far scarier than anything that could be depicted. It has a certain logic that gets more and more hazy as the film descends into madness. Kubrick gives a lot of exposition in the beginning of the movie, laying the ground rules for everything that is to come. We understand that the child has a supernatural gift for seeing things and hearing things. We know the chef shares that power. We know that the hotel has some bad things that are lingering and haunting the place, namely the vicious murder of a caretaker's family. We know that there's a history of mild domestic violence in the Torrance family. Everything plays out through its set-up, while creating more questions than it answers. Like, what is really making Nicholson go mad? What is the blood rushing out of the elevators? Who's the rotting woman in the room? Why exactly is Jack going mad? And eventually, we wonder why Jack's image is seen in a picture from the 20's. The logic keeps the adventure and suspense grounded and the audience involved, while the mystery keeps the horror alive.The movie doesn't rely on conventional camera tricks to scare us. Most of what we think is scary in horror films is really surprise. You know the feeling. You're sitting in the theater and suddenly something comes out of nowhere and the entire audience jumps, screams, and then laughs. But there's nothing to laugh about in "The Shining." Kubrick is so confidant that his story is genuinely scary, he doesn't have to trick us into thinking we're scared.In the end, what is horror? Horror is facing the illogical nature of madness and being trapped in it. Our dreams are the most illogical experiences that we encounter on a regular basis, so it makes sense that he would tap into that collective experience for this film. I can't think of a film that better expresses what it feels like to be in a nightmare than this film.


                
Probably the most popular and easily accessible Kubrick film in existence, THE SHINING is a film I've seen plenty of times over the years and yet it's a movie that never gets old. Part of the reason for that is the professionalism of the director; his cinematography is exceptional, really bringing the Overlook Hotel to life so that it becomes a character in itself.As well as being superb-looking, THE SHINING is both a creepy and exceptionally entertaining movie. It's far more effective than the Stephen King novel on which it was based, purely because it takes a more realistic approach to the material: you can argue perfectly correctly that this is a psychological tale of terror in which all of the events take place in the minds of the protagonists. Gone are the living hedges of the King novels, elements which Kubrick rightly realised wouldn't translate to the screen very well (check out the '90s THE SHINING TV miniseries to see how they did).Kubrick's main beef with the film is that the Jack Nicholson character seems psychotic from the outset, a contrast to his rational character in the book. But Nicholson is what makes this film a real delight to watch; he's a fantastic psycho and probably the most entertaining cinematic psychopath, better even than Anthony Perkins's Norman Bates. Duvall and Lloyd are fine, of course, but it's Nicholson who makes this such a compelling production. Finally, Kubrick throws in plenty of creepy stylistic techniques, like the subliminal images and some truly grotesque imagery, which makes this a chilly, frightening classic and one of the best 'haunted house' flicks in existence.
What a great horror film "The Shining" is! It is a well-known fact of film trivia nowadays that Stephen King "hated" the adaptation of his novel, and was bothered by Stanley Kubrick's "creative liberties" (his main complaint: the lack of hedge monsters). I hate to point this out to Mr. King, but his novel was a rather simplistic horror yarn - a classic of its genre? Maybe, but I feel there is far more depth in the movie -- and we saw the result of a faithful adaptation in the form of a late 1990s television miniseries starring Rebecca Demornay - the result was enjoyable but nowhere near the greatness of Kubrick's vision.In general, I'm not a Kubrick fanatic and I don't devour everything he's done. I consider "2001" and "Full Metal Jacket" to be overrated - but this is probably my favorite film of his (but then again, "Clockwork Orange" and "Paths of Glory" are superb, too). This was perhaps only the second truly epic horror film (the first being Alfred Hitchcock's "Psycho") - and the direction is really amazing. The eerie nature of the movie is unsettling all at once without showing anything at all.Simply built on music alone, Kubrick manages to convey so many feelings. He pulls out to an overhead shot of a boy playing on a red rug. Coupled with the soundtrack it's terrifying. This is how all horror films should be. It shows what an impact subliminal terror has - an axe-yielding maniac can only have shock and jump value; seeing something this psychologically mind-screwing is utterly gut-wrenching.See this movie. Honestly, if you haven't watched it yet, please do. And avoid the edited TV version, which omits some of the more terrifying moments (I guess they're considered too "scary"?). Some omitted scenes are simply too risqué for television. One of these moments happens towards the end - I saw it as a child and it still disturbs me and has stayed with me after all these years. Shelley Duvall is running through the Overlook and she comes to a hallway, and in one of the rooms two party-goers (one dressed up as a lion or something) are performing some strange sex act. You only see it for maybe two seconds, and they're fully clothed, but it's impossible to forget. The TV version simply shows them sitting next to each other on the bed - odd enough, and still freaky, but the uncut version of the scene is even more so.Truly, the only word to describe this movie's vibe is "freaky." I'd place it as one of the top five horror films of all time, and in my own personal opinion, I'd probably rank it right below "Psycho" as the most masterful and epic of them all.


                
'The Shining' is one of the finest horror films ever made, and one of Stanley Kubrick's most amazing achievements (however there was many more). It was the only horror movie Kubrick ever made, which may be positive on our part; because he was always motivated by a style that seldom had seen reproduction from other filmmakers, this allows one to look at the product from a neutral perspective, canceling out all standard comparisons to other horror movies, especially those that were also tailored from Stephen King novels (although King himself thinks Kubrick's adaptation of his novel was butchery, for some reason?). To say that the picture is one of a kind is accurate, but one in a million feels even more appropriate. It is in that small handful of the scariest horror movies ever made, and it distances itself from the typical 'slasher' genre, which is now very tiring, because no remake in made in the 2000s can beat out the original 1970s/1980s version.Another equally amazing thing is, after all this time, is how well Kubrick used his actors, music and visuals to underscore the themes of the story itself. The technical details are prototypes in themselves, helping the story build massive tension; the long hallway shots, the eerie musical score, the use of words written backwards, the implication of a blizzard, and the tall, wide staircases establish a sense of uncertainty for both the audience and the individuals in the movie. Each of the characteristics are also evidence of the haunting craftsmanship<U+0097>the photography of the hotel, for instance, creates a portrait of breathtaking beauty long before the breakdown of the characters' lucidity chars our attraction to it.The performances are just brilliant, but with the exception of Shelly Duvaull, while her performance as a caring mother is good, her mousy screams get very overacted, and tedious after a while. But Jack Nicholson was AMAZING in this film, his performance was strong, believable and terrifying. It is easily his best performance to date!Overall, everything in The Shinning works brilliantly. Full of brilliant psychological scares and flawless imagery.10/10
Kubrick's The Shining will go down in my book as the best horror film ever, even beating The Exorcist which I thought was great. First off, the story makes for such a great horror epic. It stays pretty loyal to the book and did not disappoint me for a second. Many people complain about the pacing and how slow it is, but I believe that even heightens the terror when some real climax scenes happen. Jack Nicholson is absolutely incredible in this. I can't think of another actor that could have done a better job than him.If you have not seen The Shining by now, I urge you to do so.Great Horror Classic.
The Shining is a weird example of adaptation: it has very little in common with the source novel, written by Stephen King, yet it is widely remembered as one of the best cinematic renditions of the horror master's work. This is due to two factors: Stanley Kubrick's masterful direction and Jack Nicholson's chilly acting.Nicholson plays Jack Torrance, a writer who accepts to take care of the Overlook Hotel in Canada during the winter period, unaffected by the gruesome stories surrounding the place: he claims a nice, isolated location is just what he needs to finish his new book. Therefore the Overlook becomes the new home of the Torrance family: Jack, his wife Wendy (Shelley Duvall) and their five-year old son Danny (Danny Lloyd). The boy in particular senses right from the beginning that something's wrong: he has been told by the cook, Dick O' Hallorann (Scatman Crothers) that he is endowed with a mysterious psychic energy, the titular Shining, which allows people like him and Dick to see flashes from the past and the future, among other things. Because of this "gift", the forces that inhabit the hotel immediately take an interest in Danny, even though he is quite capable of resisting them. That is not Jack's case, however, as he gets increasingly paranoid regarding his wife's affections and seeks comfort in the company of what can best be defined as ghosts, triggering a chain of insanity and dread which is very hard to break.The Shining works as a horror movie because Kubrick, though having never worked on this kind of film before, knew exactly what was effective and what wasn't, hence the larger focus on atmosphere and psychological shocks than gore and creative bloodbaths. King criticized the director for changing most of the story, omitting most of the Jack/Danny subplot (merely hinted at in the film) that led to the book's emotionally strong climax, and while his disappointment is valid, the omission was actually necessary: the novel dealt with redemption, albeit in an unconventional way, and redemption is a theme Kubrick, one of the most famous analysts of human decay, never had a soft spot for. What he is interested in is the mental, and subsequently physical, unbalance that threatens the characters, and he keeps the creepy tone even thanks to a very cold approach and expert use of the steadicam shot (Danny's encounter with two ghostly twins being the best example).Another criticism King raised was about the actors, especially Nicholson: in the writer's opinion, his trademark grin at the start of the movie seemed to indicate Jack already was insane, thus undermining the rest of the story. Now, it is true that Nicholson looks a bit goofy from the very beginning, but it is equally true that Martin Sheen (King's ideal choice for the role) probably would not have been able to deliver a performance as terrifying as Nicholson's: from the moment he starts grinning in a more unsettling way than before to the immortal "Here's Johnny!" scene, it is impossible to picture another actor playing that part, and even though the TV version of The Shining from 1997 isn't bad the Torrance character is indelibly linked to the One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest star. As for Duvall and Lloyd, both add terrific support, the latter especially deserving a place alongside Harvey Stephens (The Omen's Damien) and Haley Joel Osment as cinema's great horror child icons. One might complain about Duvall being completely different from the book counterpart (blonde and beautiful) and not having much else to do but scream and run, but two things ought to be considered: a) back in 1980 the "scream queen" cliché wasn't one yet; b) rarely has any actress looked so genuinely terrified on camera, making the book-movie differences secondary compared to the real fear that emerges from Wendy's eyes.Irvine Welsh, the author of Trainspotting, once said there is no such thing as a completely faithful adaptation of any literary work (and he should know, given the liberties Danny Boyle took when his junkie masterpiece was brought to the screen), yet that doesn't mean the movie is necessarily bad. The Shining proves said point to perfection: very little from the novel, approximately 5%, is included in the film, but in Kubrick and Nichlolson's hands this masterclass in loose cinematic translation becomes one of the finest, most original horror pictures of all time, which really is saying something given the genre's current poor form.


                
The movie is amazing from the beginning to the very end. You simply can't stop watching and the tension is present at all time. The first time I saw it, I couldn't move an inch, because I didn't want to miss a moment of it. I've seen the move for a few times now, but it still takes my breath away. It is amazing, that a movie, which was made in 1980 can get your attention at it's every second. Jack Nicholson appears as a real psycho and every time you see him appear on screen, there is this slightly uncomfortable feeling. His acting is of course astonishing! He can convince you completely through out the whole movie. But the thing I find most interesting is the ending. Because you have to think for a while to figure out what the photo means. And when you do...it just gives you the chills!
The movie The Shining is a psychological horror film directed by Stanley Kubrick. This movie is definitely one of the most scariest horror movies of all times! The eerie music always made me tense during the film. Nowadays, there are some good horror movies, but most of them are jump scares and the chills don't last that long. However, this movie gave me so much chills and freaked me out throughout the movie and even after the movie! Jack Nicholson did a great job acting as Jack Torrace and I was especially impressed with Kubrick's determination. Apparently, he made Jack Nicholson do method acting which was why his acting was outstanding! Another interesting fact was that the kid didn't know that this was a horror movie until he was 17! Finally, there was this one scene where an elevator door opened and blood flooded the entire set. And according to an article from MoviePilot, that blood was actually real blood and it took 6 months to completely clean up the set!Overall, this movie was eerie and I recommend this movie for people who are obsessed with horror.96/100


                
At times, this overtakes The Thing as my favourite horror film. While Carpenter's film is the more efficient and more entertaining flick, Kubrick's is more artistic, more thought-provoking, and probably scarier. It's one of the few films where I can look past its flaws and truly and wholly love it. I try not to compare it to the book <U+0096> which I've only read once, a number of years ago, and which scared me to death <U+0096> because the two don't have a lot in common, besides the story and characters obviously. It's almost as if Kubrick was banking on people's love of the novel in order to make his film more frightening. And it that way, it's certainly one of the most interesting book adaptations ever made, as well as one of the greatest horror films.What makes the film so terrifying is not the jump scares, not the blood and gore, not the various ghosts that pop up from time to time. It's the destruction of Jack Torrence. Some people have complained about the casting of Nicholson in this role, saying that it's too obvious that he's going to go crazy in the film, given his past roles and his appearance. I disagree. We know he's going to go crazy <U+0096> since most of us have read the book <U+0096> and Jack's appearance only furthers this notion. But it's the way he acts at the beginning that makes us truly scared. He's calm, quiet, patient. He engages in inane small talk with the hotel managers and even with his own family. And with a wife and son as irritating as his, it's a small wonder that he manages to do so. But once he gets to the Overlook, he changes. He becomes irritable, angry, on edge. The scene that always shocks me is when Wendy interrupts him typing, and he utterly loses it, telling her to "leave him the f*** alone". This is the first f-bomb dropped in the film, and it's a shock to the system. From then on, all bets are off.Another thing I love is the multiple interpretations present in the film. We're never really sure if what we're seeing is actually happening. Many critics have noted that whenever Jack talks to a ghost, there's a mirror present, showing that he may as well be talking to himself. But what of the other characters? Wendy never sees anything until the film's climax, until she is given a tour of the hotel's many ghostly inhabitants, but she is well aware that something is wrong, while Danny connects with the place almost immediately. His psychic powers are not in question <U+0096> how else would Hallorann know to come to the hotel? <U+0096> but does he ever see any of the ghosts that his parents witness? It's easy to claim that Jack merely loses it, being trapped in a hotel with his family, and Wendy later does as well <U+0096> seeing your husband attempt to kill you with an axe will do that <U+0096> but what of Danny? It appears that his body is taken over by Tony, but how do we know for sure? None of these characters are reliable witnesses. Hallorann probably would be, and he warns of the dangers in 237, but he's killed as soon as he arrives at the Overlook (a scare Kubrick achieves by playing on the assumptions of fans of the novel). And that final shot. Has there ever been a more enigmatic ending in cinema? Has Jack really been there before? Or was his body merely 'absorbed' into the hotel? When talking about the acting in this film, any discussion begins and ends with Jack Nicholson. Shelley Duvall gives one of the most annoying performances in cinematic history <U+0096> probably on purpose, to give Jack's character more of a reason to snap <U+0096> and Danny Lloyd is no better, but Jack is a powerhouse. Part method, part improvisation, he's simultaneously terrifying and appealing. For better or for worse, he's the character with whom we identify with, not the annoying kid or nagging wife. We all want to have a hotel to ourselves for a season, be able to do whatever we want. Who cares if it's haunted? Of course, the technical aspects are terrific. Kubrick's long takes, strange angles, and bizarre imagery all contribute to the horror. The use of colour, mirrors, long hallways, and every other motif only heightens this. And don't even get me started on that score. I don't know if the film would be half as scary without that haunting, electronic tune. Its strangeness perfectly reflects the hotel, the mood, and the entire film itself.I know King doesn't like this film, but King's input on cinema is nothing to brag about. As great of a novel writer he may be, his screenplays are terrible, and his attempt at directing is better left unnoticed. This is not a very faithful book adaptation, but it doesn't need to be, and it really shouldn't. Part of the horror of the film is that the viewer doesn't have the book to fall back on; there's no reassuring source material. Kubrick masterfully alters the narrative to terrify the audience even more. If only for that, this is one of the most innovative films in any genre. And it's got everything else on top of that.
What a terrific film. When you let Kubrick have his way with a story like this one, you can almost guarantee success. The book is<U+0097>if possible<U+0097>even scarier than the movie version because there's a frightening topiary scene and a scarier subplot that Kubrick didn't or couldn't explore. But the movie is still one of the best horror flicks ever made. I think it works so well because the Torrence family is so isolated. They are essentially beyond help once the snows come, and if you've ever traveled on mountain roads on which you may run into a forest service gate blocking the roads in the winter, you know what that isolation feels like. Go past that gate, and they may never find you. So I think that's what is effective in the original book, and Kubrick masterfully employs that theme throughout (isolation of the family from society, isolation of the family members from one another, and isolation of the individual). Between Danny on the tricycle, dead twins, bleeding hallways, a creepy dead bartender, one of the scariest still photographs ever, the decaying chick in the bathtub, Jack hacking through the bathroom door, Dick getting axed in the chest, Wendy seeing Jack's "novel," and the final scene with him frozen in the maze, the film has more than its share of scary moments. Wow.
I have not seen many horror films, simply because i never seemed it to be a watchable genre, then i watched misery, i thought i was scared then. But 'The Shining' took me to new levels of psychological terror.The entire film, works together as one tense, frightening atmosphere. From the moment Jack Torrance says that his family will 'love it', the viewer is plunged into the dark and unpredictable story of madness and blood.Kubrick uses incredible visual techniques. I find myself skipping a breath each time Danny turns a corner on his tricycle. I found myself skipping several more where Kubrick makes two twin girls seem utterly terrifying.Enriched with colourful ideas, a closed set (used to amazing effect), fantastic acting and the most memorable madness and supernatural experience you can find in modern cinema.This fantastic and iconic story, with startling music and fine dialogue remains one of Kubrick's finest pictures
Besides the fact that my list of favorite movie makers is: 1)Stanley Kubrick 2)God Allmighty 3)the rest... this movie actually is better than the book (and the TV miniseries though this is an easy feat, considering the director). The flawless filming stile, the acting and (Kubrick's all time number one skill) the music - make it THE masterpiece of horror. I watched the TV miniseries a few years ago and liked the story and I had my hopes about this when I got a hold of it. IT BLEW ME AWAY!!! It is far better than I ever imagined it. It starts slow (Kubrick trademark) and has a lot of downtime that builds up the suspense. The intro scene is a classic by all means and I watched it about 20 times just for the shear atmosphere it induces to the whole film. Also the film doesn't offer a lot of gore (it has just enough and it is by no means tasteless) a trend that I hate in recent day horror films. Just watch it!


                
the cinematography, the acting, the suspense, the visual stimulation..everything just bleeds awesome. i've seen this movie countless times and each time it keeps me absolutely glued to the screen. kubrick's best movie, in my opinion, and have seen them all. "i'm not going to hurt ya. i'm just going to bash yer brains in." just an example..everything from this movie is quotable, and awesome. nicholson's best performance. the boy, danny lloyd, commands the screen with his alternate personality. nicholson's wife's terror also commands the screen. the symmetry, the sounds, everything about this movie is perfect. the horror, which is immense, is overlooked by the masterful film-making. words cannot truly convey how captivating this film is, it must be seen to truly appreciate the "wow" that this film captures. without a doubt 10 stars.
I'm a big fan Stanley Kubrick and this is my favourite movie of him. The Shining is in my opinion the best horror movie ever with excellent atmospheric direction from Kubrick a good score and effective performances from Danny Lloyd, scatman crothers and Shelley duvall though there is who criticizes her but i liked her here even jack is good but sometimes goes a bit over the top and the ending is a bit strange but no one can deny it it's creepy, atmospheric and sometimes scary the best elements with a good score to make a great horror movie the 1997 version was good too though it's not good as this one even if it is more faithful to King's book but it isn't scary as the Kubrick version


                
Everyone should totally see this movie! It's freaking scary, but doesn't resort to lame "jump-out-at-you-just-to-surprise-you-and-pass-it-off-as-scary" things. It really is great. See this freaking awesome movie!!! The director is Stanley Kubrick, easily the greatest director who ever lived. Every single one of his movies are masterpieces, including this one. The Shining is about this family that goes to a hotel in the Colorado Rockies as caretakers for the winters, and get snowed in. Well, the house is haunted. The kid is psychic. The husband is easily impacted by evil haunted hotels, and...well...HILARITY ENSUES!!!! Not really. It becomes this gripping thriller where stuff gets thrown at the viewer from all different directions, and it gets scary. Not just the classic, "Here's Johnny" scene. It's memorable, but can't speak for the whole movies. It's one of those things where words don't explain it adequately, and you just gotta see it. So go on Netflix, and get it! GEEEEEETTTTTTTT ITTTTTTTT!!!!!!!


                
Kubrick proved his brilliantness again, now in a suspense-horror film based on Stephen King's book titled the same way. Jack Torrance is a man in his forties, married, with one child, and with a past of trouble and alcoholism. The Overlook Hotel in Colorado suspends service during the winter because of its extreme weather, and there is a well-paid job for the person who takes care of the facilities during those five months; and Torrance, who was looking to become a writer, found it perfect. But, the manager advised Torrance about the loneliness in this place during the winter, potentially dangerous, and told him that some caretaker in the past went crazy and murdered his family. Even before they got there, his son Danny, who has some sort of imaginary friend who illuminates him the future (shinning), knew the place wasn't good and didn't want to go. Once they installed themselves in the hotel, things started right but within a month, Jack began acting strange, irritated, and depressed. At this point, we know something is going to happen, but don't know when and how. Scary things happen such as the appearance of two twin girls talking to Danny, and someone who attacked him violently. They are not alone in this place. Later on, Jack started to see other people and immediately felt good with them, like if they were his family; among them the famous psychotic caretaker, Delbert Grady. Grady tells Torrance that he must kill his family because they are "intruders" in the hotel. Obeying this order, Jack went for the objective and many of the most scary things I've ever seen happen here. The ending is spectacular and the viewers will stay interested and shocked until the last minute.


                
