Hard to disagree with Stephen King on that point. Highly disappointing if you're a King fan, but if you're another robotic Stanley Kubrick worshipper you will love this thing. Some haunting and stunning visuals as usual but the story doesn't gel, and (spoiler alert) you'll want Shelley Duvall to be disposed of in the most gruesome manner possible. What were they thinking casting her in that part. Nicholson was great in his prime, as usual but this movie could have been so much better. Read the book. 6/10
No other director has had every one of his works so ridiculously over-analyzed as Stanley Kubrick. Endless throngs of critics have spent page after page after page poring over every minute of every one of his films, scrutinizing every frame for possible nuances of meaning that Kubrick subtly worked into the film. Most critics, when reviewing any Kubrick film, hardly ever mention the actors' performances, all they talk about is Kubrick, and how every nose twitch that every actor made was cunningly crafted by the director, and communicates volumes. If an actor gives a bad performance in a Kubrick film, it's the actor's fault. If they give a good performance, it's the director's doing.I am not saying that Kubrick was bad. He most certainly was NOT bad, in fact, he was darn good... most of the time. Kubrick had his ups and downs, and this was one of his downs.Anyway, enough general comments about the director, and now for the film. Maybe I would have liked the film better if I hadn't read the book first. As is, I was expecting a film to stick at least SOMEWHAT close to the original story, and for the first half it sort of did (although there was only one scene in which the dialogue was really the same as in the book, and that was the party scene), but in the second half, Kubrick changed the story from a spectral ghost tale into a psychological terror/thriller, which in itself is a bad enough decision, but the ending itself... well, I don't want to spoil it, but let's just say that someone besides Kubrick should have made the decision about how to change the ending. Kubrick was excellent with ambiguity and loose ends, but he seemed a little too aware of that talent, and so he insisted on working those elements into every story he worked with, even the ones where an ending didn't fit.What I mean is, when a book has a, unhappy or unresolved ending, it is a bad thing to change the ending to a neat-and-tidy happy one for the film version (because it's Hollywood and stories have happy endings in La La Wood). But it is equally as bad to change a happy ending in the book to a scary and ambiguous ending in the film, just for the sake of being "shocking."Most of the performances were good (Shelley Duvall hammed it up a little, but not too badly, and the actor playing Danny was terrific), except for, unfortunately, the most important one: the performance of Jack Torrance. I'm sorry, but Jack Nicholson was an incredible ham, he overdid almost everything, almost a parody of his best performance (as Melvin Udall). His line delivery is so absurd as to be comedic, and his movments... not much to be said.A few parting words: Roger Ebert finally got around to writing a review of this film, and, of course, he does exactly what everyone else does with a Kubrick film: Reading way too much into every little thing in the film. I think I can sum up my opinion of this whole issue with this parable:Suppose, just for a moment, that some other director had made this exact same film. No, I don't mean that they would lend their own creative vision to the film, what I mean is, suppose some other director made this EXACT film, word for word, shot for shot, expression for expression. Suppose the only difference between this mythical film and the actual one was which director's name was stamped all over it. What do you think would have happened?I'll tell you what would have happened: The critics and audiences would have ripped this other director to shreds. Fans of the book would be out in angry mobs over the ridiculously changed ending, and the film critics would be shaking their heads at Jack Nicholson's incredibly overacted performance. The film would not be anywhere near any critic's "top one thousand films of all time" list. No other director would get away with this film. Stanley Kubrick got away with it for one reason and one reason only: He is Kubrick.Now, many people who adore this film haven't read the book, which I strongly recommend they do. The ambiguity and changes of the film would probably have worked fine were the film not pretending to be based on the novel (if Kubrick had just changed the title, character names and the dialogue in the party scene, he could easily have passed it off as an unrelated movie and I probably would have liked it much better), but I did expect something that at least SOMEWHAT resembled the book. If it weren't for the party scene, I wouldn't have believed that Kubrick and Diane Johnson had read anything in the book besides the blurb on the dust jacket.
If you haven't seen it, don't bother.  I have no trouble understanding why Stephen King hated this movie so much he had it remade (though I haven't seen his version, so I don't know if he actually did a better job than Kubrick).Jack Nicholson does a fairly good job as Jack Torrance; although he seems incapable of acting normal when he's supposed to (mostly in the beginning), his character goes mad fairly early, and mad is Jack Nicholson's middle name.  The best scenes are definitely those that show Torrance's gradual descent into madness; they almost (but not quite) manage to save the movie.The rest of the cast varies from fair (Philip Stone as Delbert Grady) to passable (Danny Lloyd as Danny Torrance) to indifferent (the hotel staff, the firemen) to bad (Scatman Crothers as the stereotypical genial black cook with the most annoying laugh you've ever heard) to abysmal (Shelley Duval as Wendy Torrance): Lloyd is so-so, with on one hand his laughable conversations with his imaginary friend Tony, and on the other the excellent "Redrum" scene, which is slightly reminiscent of The Exorcist, while Duval - well, let's just say you'll spend most of the movie hoping she gets brutally murdered at the end.The plot is simple, predictable and uninspired, and is not without its fair share of holes, which is surprising (and disappointing) for a Kubrick movie. There is also a distressing number of continuity errors, though some of them can be explained if one assumes that more time passes between scenes than it seems - but either way, they're annoying.One of the movie's few saving graces is the photography - ranging from good to excellent - which manages to convey the strangeness and isolation of the Overlook Hotel very well, and help set the mood in those scenes that actually have mood (which excludes most of the scenes featuring Duval, Lloyd or Crothers).


                
What are you people thinking. This has to be Hollywood's biggest joke on the public since Cleopatra. An absolutely horrific film. The only thing scarier than just looking at Shelley Duvall is Danny's constant spastic drooling and shaking. REDRUM my ass! People were actually scared by this thing? Oh yeah, Scatman Crothers would be the guy I'd want to rescue me from a remote haunted hotel with a mad killer roaming around the place. Pitiful. And the comment about the hidden "Native American" theme here really takes the cake. Is that the last bullet in you robotic Kubrick worshipper's gun? Absurd, and this definitely qualifies as THE most overrated movie of all time, along with 2001 of course. 2/10


                
I believe the perfect way to describe The Shining is to describe Stanley Kubrick. He is a man with vision and original ideas, but he lacks a purpose. While The Shining aims to be a horror movie, and by the way, fails in that miserably, in my eyes, it takes the worst and most typical horror movie route. That's not necessarily bad, but.There is always a mystery and the great unknown behind horror movies. This is what The Shining builds up in an impressive manner. The sole terminology and amount of mysteries and mystery elements leads the viewer to think all this build up will lead to an epic conclusion where the great reveal finally tells us what is going on, why is Jack getting insane, why does the boy see those things, who is Tony, what are these shining people and will the black man die first. Nope. Instead we are shown scenes where ghost sets Jack free from the stockroom because that's the only way for him to get out, okay? He needs to get out so he gets out. Of course that is never explained. And this leads to the biggest problem with the story. Nothing is ever explained. "Too many answers will just ruin it." Yeah? I see this as nothing but a terrible excuse for a lousy storytelling and lack of brains since there was hardly anything to get beyond what was told.The loose ends, unanswered questions and all the other spooky stuff that was in the movie just to make it more spooky and mysterious are, in a one word; cheap. And with few more words; a waste of potential. I guess many of us have seen a meme picture of a dog sitting on an airplane, it looks like the dog is flying it and then there is a text "I have no idea what I am doing." When I imagine Stanley Kubrick directing this film, I recall that picture. I see him behind the camera, the cast, the hotel, the stairs and a text "I have no idea what I am doing" and that's what we call The Shining. Not that the story was even the biggest problem, nor that the ending scene makes no sense due this not being a movie about Jack, but the characters and the sounds too. From this point on, I will act like there are no loose ends, and the story telling and plot is flawless, and I will get into why this movie is bad solely because of it other merits.In the beginning, I mentioned this failing miserably to be a horror film. The sounds will kill the theme quicker than Kubrick creates a loose end. (This is a joke, so I did not lie 2 sentences ago). I find it incredibly hard to get in the horror mood when the "music" can be described as wheezing. One thing they did miraculously well; they captured the feeling of tinnitus. Seriously, when you hear sounds like that, you go to the doctor and wish for the best. Then suddenly my bass is yelling, I hear the exact sound C-Class horror movies use when jump-scare scene is executed. What does this movie do with a sounds like that? They show us a black frame with a text "Thursday" in it. I ask myself, "Do these guys take this movie as a joke?" but I do not know the answer. I am not sure if these sounds are supposed to be spooky and scary, create atmosphere even, but one thing they do is remind you that you are sitting on your sofa and that you can always turn down the volume because it is just a ridiculously bad sound directing in a movie.Now, let's get to my favorite part. The cast. Jack Nicholson, what a bastard, I love him. But I see The Shining as his worst acting, not even acting, a role. He looks insane in every single picture that was ever taken of him. How is a man who looks insane a suitable person to be character in a movie where the character changes from your average fellow to a completely insane psycho? Well, he is not. He was a bad pick. I can only say that this is not the story it was supposed to be. There is good acting too. Shelley Duvann does an amazing job acting out a dull retard. Then a question. Who likes dull retard characters? This movie is her story, her family goes insane, she is in the middle of it all, she experience the horror. Then a second question. Why should we give a damn about what happens to a retard like her? This leads us to final and one of the biggest elements I am going to analyze. The kid. He is shining, he hears Tony, he can contact other shining, he is the reason why Jack does anything, he sees the horror, glimpses of past, future and future past, he is everything this movie is about. He drives the story towards the truth behind the hotel and towards everything this movie is. But what is he exactly? He is called a plot element. This is not a bad thing in my eyes, I think it is great. What is bad is what he wasn't. Imagine with me. He makes Jack shining, he makes Tony talk to Johnny, he resolves Jack's humanity, he is the one who experiences the horror while being the horror itself. After this the movie ends the same way, but now it has changed to a story about Jack who was inflicted by the horror of the kid and Tony. Instead we get an ending where Kubrick is basically saying, "Since we don't know how to end this movie, let's insert bunch of stuff which makes it look deep." Cop-out. That's how you confuse a shallow mind.
I love That 70's Show, probably the best comedy series ever in TV. Each one of its episodes, specially that on Halloween, when Eric tries to scare the guys telling them one ghost story; but then a deadpan Fez says: "When I was six, the mayor of my town was hanged from a tree. Your story is not scary". That's how I felt after seeing TS. Years ago, a similar massacre occurred in this city: the police was called to an apt. were a man was stabbing his whole family. When they arrived they found a small boy shaking, terrified, half naked, in a balcony, where he had taken refuge; the only survivor. The truly terrifying news came later when it was revealed that, up to then, the murderer was the most loving, caring, father and husband. He had just flipped off from one moment to the next. That's why--as a horror story—this film was ruined from the beginning. As some have already said, Nicholson's casting did it--and that demented grin during the car trip didn't help. From that moment on the mystery was gone; and what's left of a horror movie when it becomes predictable<U+0085>? Later, when we are walked around the hotel we already know that that would be the maze in which rooms, halls, corridors the beast would stalk and haunt his prey, his wife and son. And all what's left when they are finally left alone: to see how the drama unfolds; and also a chance for Kubrick to make instead a faux docu on domestic violence. Which he did at the end. Because don't tell me that all those lame ghosts served any purpose at all (did they?) or that Niagara of blood coming out of the elevator for that matter. No, we all know--Kubrick, the actors, us--that we focus will be from then on the incoming explosion of violence from the part of a deranged man against his family. The rest is red herring, filling material. But wait: this isn't even a family! Remember the beginning in TTCM, when the 5 kids in the van pick up a nut? Now, imagine there's just one woman in that vehicle, with her son, and she picks up the bum and makes him drive. That's how that car trip feels like, with Jack as the bum. Technically the film is impeccable. As always, Kubrick shows here his passion for the visuals, the magnificent sets, the vast spaces, the sumptuous halls, which serves--so he seemed to think—-to mask his inability to give human features to his characters--the only exception being when victimized, as it's the case with Wendy. Anything else is intolerable to him. See how the only character showing generosity, courage, is murdered just as he's about to become active in the plot. That's no coincidence: such an individual is intolerable for the misanthropic Kubrick. He must disappear; he can't be allowed to be part of his world. (And no wonder he gives so much camera time to men like Jack Torrence, Sgt. Hartman; he allows the actors to chew every bit of scenery as they correspond well to the image he has of mankind). And he couldn't help either concerning his hatred for blacks and women. Like he did in FMJ. According to a reviewer quoting Nicholson, he used to verbally abuse Duvall, to the point of bringing her to tears. Not to mention that gratuitous, disgusting--rather than horrific--bathroom bit, which constitutes his Poe moment (and a delight for a psychoanalyst). Concerning blacks, he prematurely killed Hallorann, as said, even a the price of such an absurdity as having a psychic capable of sensing danger from a thousand miles being unable to detect it at three feet away; and the use 3 times in a dialogue of the N word, for no reason whatsoever. At the end, Kubrick is all about visuals, facades, scenery, as that's all he got for the showing, nothing else: just empty shells. Now, there are two mighty annoying things about this "Kubrick Is a God" cult. The first is that, while its members claim to be so open minded and smart as to thoroughly understand each one of its films--and get every nuance, symbolism, subtlety--on the other hand they are so closed minded and intolerant as to feel free to gratuitously insult all those who disagree with them with comments like '"I can't believe there's anyone who didn't love this film" or "If you didn't like it it's because you are not smart, or for your personal hang ups". That's pure self-aggrandizing, pretentious, garbage. The second thing is that, while there's much talk here about the symbols and hidden meanings in his films, no cult member seems to be able to decipher those symbols and codes. For ex.: what's the meaning of a ghost in bunny suit doing a sweet job to a businessman ghost in a film about a man who goes berserk and murders his family? If someone is able to explain me that maybe then I could start taking seriously all the pompous babble (BTW: the back to back Kubrick reviews is just a coincidence, not a project I'm into; and I'm not even a King's reader).Conclusion, for a pathological misanthropist as Kubrick was the horror genre should have been a second nature; yet that wasn't the case after all, no matter what KIAG say. At the end, a simple plot with so many useless distractions in its way. 4 on 10, only for its (dubious) value as documentary.
I've never understood why everybody thinks Stanley Kubrick's movies are the best thing since sliced bread. Though I loved Clockwork Orange, and I thought a couple of his other films were okay, I don't think he's worthy of the slobbering worship he tends to get.While I'll grant to Stephen King's detractors that he isn't the most sophisticated writer in the world (there are only so many books about writers that take place in Maine that one can stand, correct?), however, he knows his genre well, and knows how to touch your deepest sense of foreboding. The Shining wasn't anywhere near close to his best work, but the novel was LIGHT YEARS better than this movie.I wasn't going to bother with the mini-series remake of this flick, because I've felt that when Stephen King puts his sticky fingers on film adaptations of his books, he ruins them (there are perhaps 4 exceptions)...but I wanted to see Steven Weber go from his goofy Brian Hackett persona on the sitcom "Wings" to Jack Torrance. I was thrilled. The mini-series was far superior to the crap version that Kubrick produced for the big screen.Maybe it isn't so much Kubrick's directing skills (I like the way shots are set up, I like the contrasts...his style really is maverick), perhaps it's his screen writing skills that should be called into question. He had a hand in development of the screenplay for the majority of his movies...maybe that's where it all breaks down.Kubrick's the Shining was marginally average. By no means brilliant, and certainly not scary in any way, shape or form (not to mention a far cry from King's book of the same name), the acting didn't impress me a whole lot (don't even get me started on Jack Nicholson - who plays the exact same character in every bloody thing he does...though I must admit that I liked Chinatown). Its saving grace was Kubrick's directing style (if not his directing talent, per se), and a pretty original bent by King on the typical yawn of a ghost story upon which Kubrick loosely based the movie.4 stars, 5 yawns...Take my advice: if you haven't read the book yet, read that first, then rent the TV mini-series, THEN rent this one. But don't expect to be scared, not even mildly. At most you'll probably just be annoyed that you wasted one of your Netflix choices on this clunker.


                
Well, I'll give The Shining it's dues... it has excellent creepy sets and meticulous cinematography typical of Kubrick now armed with a steadi-cam but it is all mostly wasted in a underwhelming average horror movie.Because the film lacks a strong psychological backbone, in fact, it is spineless. The Shining does not play on audience's minds like I feel it should have. The problem lies in the fact, Kubrick lent his own interpretation to one of Stephen King's greatest novels ever. A book that shouldn't be adapted into film anyways. He stuffed this movie -to-the-gills with not even remotely terrifying "ghosts-in-sheets" shocks.The Shining fails because the director never leaves any room for the imaginations of his audience, it is not an option apparently to Kubrick. The Overlook is never presented as a nebulous threat and thus the claustrophobic excitement is absent. Kubrick fails to enliven the gradual degradation of Jack's sanity in the lens of his camera, there is no intelligent and plausible mounting horror, it lacks episodic precision key to ante up the level of terror and suspense.And Jack Nicholson is pure ham and beans. Life imitates art.Kubrick's choice is to formally introduce the Overlook Hotel with "Ello, I am the Overlook Hotel, a place with a dark past, please shake my hand" William Castle glee.The offerings are a balderdash of flash floods of blood down corridors, two ugly little dead girls stalking Danny for a playmate, a little boy that talks to his finger, a mousy wild-eyed helpless mother (Wendy in the book is a strong independent personality and a looker), and a father that never had a strong grasp on his sanity to begin with.In the book, Jack Torrance is a recovering alcoholic and aspiring writer, whom broke his son Danny's arm when the boy was younger and just recently fired from a comfortable prep school teacher job both during alcohol fueled binges. Jack Torrance in the King novel is both terrifying (while he loses his mind over the course of the book) and a pitiful tragedy (as he does prove to love his family). In contrast Kubrick's Jack Torrance is not merely "possessed" but remains disconsolately distant to both wife and son. Danny is often playing alone unsupervised or with his mother. This all boils to the surface in the Overlook Hotel of course. In fact, Jack Torrance pursues this seething hatred unrelented to his own death. Halloran gets axed for trying. Perhaps, Kubrick's imbalanced vision of Jack Torrance had always held his family responsibility for all his shortcomings and failures. I spare no pity for any of these characters.The Shining leaves me cold, detached, and unperturbed by this overlong banquet of cheap visual scares.


                
Ah, they sure don't make 'em like they used to--and thank goodness for that. This movie is not scary by today's standards, and it is so absolutely boring that I wanted to turn it off after 20 minutes. Do not listen to the hype! This is your standard lame and uninteresting Stanley Kubrick film. Why people call him a genius is beyond me, because I find most of his films unbearable. If you want a better scary film, see _The Ring_.


                
I am a massive horror/ thriller movie fan, HUGE!!!! So I finally decided to watch this old classic and really don't understand what all the fuss is about ? Jack and Wendy play such a weird couple! Shelley Duvall, who plays the wife has got to be one of the worse actors!!! Makes her look even worse when she is in scenes with a good actor like Jack Nicholson. I also don't understand how anyone could find this movie scary?? There are so many more better horror movies from the 80's that out do this one by far!! Like, The Evil Dead, A Nightmare on Elm street, Children of the Corn and Pet Sematary. The constant music and sound affects throughout this movie just give me a headache, it makes you feel as though something scary is about to happen when nothing scary at all ever does happen.
Stanley Kubrick's the Shining is a powerful cinema experience and a fine adaptation of Stephen King's novel, but I think the high status it enjoys is rather questionable. Too easily this film is labeled as the `scariest' horror film ever and many of the sequences are a bit overblown, if you ask me. Recently some website published the hundred scariest movie moments and multiple parts of the Shining positioned high in this list. True, legendary sequences like Jack Nicholson screaming `Heeeeeeeeere's Johnny!' and the little boy approaching room 237 on his tricycle look impressive when seen separate, but when you watch this film as a wholesome (like the way it was intended, naturally) it loses some of its power. I think Stanley Kubrick himself is to blame for this. Often during the Shining, he undercuts the tension himself by showing repetitive images and underdeveloped ideas. The cause of Jack Torrance's madness isn't explained like it should be and comes a bit sudden (in case you're not familiar with the plot: Jack Nicholson's character suffers from a writer's block and accepted a job as caretaker in a famous Colorado hotel, during the dead-of-winter. Along with his wife and son, he spends the winter up there while the isolation and impact of previous drama's that took place there slowly cause Jack to go insane and threat his family with an axe). Not a bad word about Stanley Kubrick and his (almost) flawless career, but I feel he's to blame for the partially missed opportunity that is The Shining. All the other necessary elements to create a horror milestone are there. The setting is uniquely isolated and perfect for the story. The cinematography (by John Alcott, who previously worked with Kubrick for Barry Lyndon and A clockwork Orange) simply is outstanding and the acting is GREAT! That surely has to be said: Jack Nicholson gives one of his most amazing performances of his already brilliant career. Really, Jack's facial expressions often make you wonder whether he isn't the reincarnation of the devil himself! Especially in The Shining, he's the kind of guy you don't want to mess with! Good film and certainly recommended but<U+0085>think twice before ranking it as `essential'


                
I expected better because the film was rated so high, plus the movie was confusing, what's with the 2 girls stalking Danny?, and why does Danny keep on saying 'REDRUM", Why did the dad became evil?, they should have shown the backstory of the dad (who is the killer), the movie was kinda boring, and it's not really worth the watch, the ending was the fun part of the movie thou, overall i don't think you should watch this if you like modern horror, because Danny (the kid) didn't have good acting, the confusion you will have in this movie, and it will be boring, thou i gotta say i like the atmosphere, i'm sorry but i think i will give this 4.6/10
The movie has a very good photography, but the plot left much to desire!... because of his length, one can think that it'll be a good film... however, its a very flat story, a total lack of good complexity,...it has an artificious and pretentious argument that lead nowhere.<!--------- SPOILER STARTS ---------> the movie, as time goes by, is gathering certain good elements, that when you see them, you could think that are the signs of something big is gonna happen, it has a hedge maze, the twins... the ghosts... well.. several things that suddenly kubrick decides to trash it all... for example .. when the black man dies.. i mean... he had the shining... he tries desperately to save the child.. and then just die... if the shining was warning him about the child.. why couldn't warning him about himself?.. i don't know.. maybe just a little flash premonition.. something like that.. whatever.. also at the scene when jack begins to attack his wife... when she just read the sheets that he was writing and it was just an endlessly repeated sentence... there wasn't reason yet to make her cry like that... she allegedly should not know nothing at all about his plans, it was just maybe a premonition or suspicion .. why she'd to start to cry?... and even they write the days in some scenes.. as if that were important...i mean.. does not affect anything at all! i know.. maybe i should read the book... but also, maybe Kubrick should adapt it better... and what about the final scene when jack is dead in the cold with a ridiculous expression?!.. what is this game about? thank you!
Yawn.... Like, was this so-called "horror" movie really supposed to be scary? Was it!!?? Why does it seem to me that about every story that's ever been adapted for the screen from a frickin' Stephen King novel has somehow been destined to become a pathetic, little dud? Eh? Why? And, yeah, I know (all too well) that Stanley Kubrick was considered to be one of the absolute greatest Directors of his time, but, all the same, The Shining was an unquestionable misfire on his part.My opinion about The Shining's dud-factor comes from a clearly obvious flaw in Kubrick's directorial abilities. Yep. That's right. Put quite plainly, Kubrick did not, I repeat, did not understand the genre of Horror, at all.Had Kubrick comprehended the Horror genre to its fullest, then The Shining would've (most definitely) ranked right up there (in my books) with such brilliant horror classics as The Innocents (1961) and The Haunting (1963). But, unfortunately, Horror was not Kubrick's forte and this sadly showed, like a literal black-eye, in The Shining's final product.It didn't help matters much that actor Jack Nicholson was cast in the lead role. As the caretaker, Jack Torrance, Nicholson, like some amateur comic, went right off the wall at warp-speed and this preposterous transformation of his left us no bloody time to get involved in his plight.Yes. The Shining did deliver some mighty eerie moments throughout its rather lengthy story, but the overall effect of horror was, ultimately, a pretty dismal one. And being offered this sort of mediocrity just wasn't satisfactory enough for me to stay very interested, in the long run.To add insult to injury, I quickly found that I couldn't stand the kid who played Danny Torrance. Yeah. This irritating, little brat really got on my nerves, like you wouldn't believe. And, besides that - Well, let's face it - Danny's supposed ability to "shine" really ended up having very little to do with the story, anyways.All-in-all - When each one of these negative elements that I've described above were all thrown together and combined into The Shining's mix they clearly produced one of the dullest horror movies that I've ever seen.Yep. A very forgettable film, indeed.


                
dull, pointless, lots of overacting, cheap horror, drags on forever.
It has some nice shots in it, but does that make a film a "masterpiece"? I don´t think so. This movie has high scores mainly because of the name "kubrick" and because there are too many people that think liking each and every kubrick film will make them appear intellectual.4/10


                
My first review.PROS Jack Nicholson - wicked actor, does it perfectly. The acting in general. CinematographyCONS Not scary Too long Too many 'ways out' - so many opportunities for them to escape/do something differently. They are in a MASSIVE HOTEL, Jack hasn't slept, he's hated them both from the start - it is not a surprise, the kid is telepathic, Jack yells wherever he goes so you know where he is... blah blah. Too easy.Perhaps I am hardened to modern movies that have been forced to remove all options of escape for characters (moving house in Sinister springs to mind as an example).I find scary movies SCARY. My boyfriend doesn't like me watching them because he has to deal with the nighttime fallout after. This did not scare me one bit.Finally, the characters are too hard to relate to for you to really sympathise with them - connected to the 'too easy' discussion above.Glad I watched it because it is a classic, but unfortunately I was quite disappointed. It is far more drama than thriller/horror.
The Book "The Shining", is an amazing book. It has suspense, terror, and an awesome plot with unexpected twists. The movie while having its moments in suspense and "scary" parts there are times when the affects are over- done and trying to hard to have a impact on you. I have had read many of Stephen King's works, and the Shining is one of my favorite. In an interview he gave, King had stated that he was not able to voice his opinion of the movie, now he says after a time he just does not care to share his mind and I agree 100%. King stated that the movie added things that did not add to the movie and also added that the plot barely stuck to what he was trying to accomplish in the book. I think a good rule of thumb when turning a book into a movie is that you consult the author and READ the book you making a movie about. I know there will be those that disagree. I however tend to agree with the person that wrote the book that the movie was based on.


                
I rented this flick, and was really excited, thinking I was gonna watch a classic. What a load of garbage. This was a waste of 3 hours of my life. OK, so Jack Nicholson did a good job in the lead. So what? The script was a disorganized mess that made WAY too much use of foreshadowing. You can't really use spoilers in reviewing this movie, because it spoils itself so much: much of the first half of the movie consists of clips of several scenes you see in the second half. The foreshadowing used absolutely destroyed any suspense/horror that would have existed for me (I can't be scared of it if I know it's coming).Next there's the music track: I'd like to say it consists of several great pieces of music that adequately set the tone for the scenes they accompany. Nothing could be further from the truth. Half of the instruments used I couldn't recognize and most of the musical effects seemed pointless.Finally there's the acting. As I mentioned above, Jack Nicholson's performance was superb. He's the only reason I don't give this movie a 1. The other characters? Except for the little boy, they were used as cardboard cutouts, and most of them acted that way. Even Scatman Crothers couldn't save the other acting performances: his considerable acting talent was underused.In short, not a classic. Just a gore-fest wanna-be dressed up as a masterpiece, and WAAAAY overrated.I give it a 4, for Nicholson's performance.
Jack is an aspiring writer who takes a job as a winter caretaker for a huge, historic hotel, bringing along his wife and son for some peace and quiet. As he starts to learn more about the hotel, he discovers that the former caretaker killed himself and his family after going crazy due to the intense seclusion. But, he is yet to be discouraged from taking the job. The little family treks up to the hotel and the father immediately begins losing his mind.To make the long story short: wife discovers husband has been writing about his decent into madness, husband gets violently hostile and tries to kill his family. Starts off pretty well, but it has far too many flaws to be anything special. First of all, Nicholson plays intense to it's hilt during his introductory scenes so it's impossible to tell at what point he actually goes insane. Second, this was not tailored for Stephen King fans. From watching this, you can tell this was made strictly for fans of Kubrick. The two styles clash and this film is unlike most of King's films because of the mind games Kubrick is always playing with the viewer. Third, it's overlong and doesn't make good use out of the time it has. Except for the opening credits, this film is perfectly skip-able.


                
I think it was definitely not a horror movie, but indeed a psychological thriller. Stephen King wrote it as horror, but this movie doesn't do it justice. The music is horrible and very repetitive. The acting was worse, except from Jack Nicholson...He performs a very good role portaited as an insane man. In my honest opinion, this movie is more annoying then scary. I even turned down my sound, because the music is very high pitched and long and basically gives away what is going to happen.Also the movie is two and a half hours long with basically nothing happening until the very end. And even then, nothing horrific about it.I realize it's made in 1980, but think of the Exorcist. That movie is pure horror, this is not! The techniques are there, the skill is not. Overall a bad movie and not worth seeing...Horror fans, keep reading Stephen King books and watch pure horror movies. Don't watch movies that ruin the books or the horror genre!
As a stumped writer is in the midst of "writer's block", Jack decides to sign a contract stating: he would be willing to take care of the Overlook Hotel for the winter. With the pen to the paper, and signing the contract, Jack has the idea and motive that taking care of the Overlook Hotel will help him push through writers block and help him continue his profession amidst the struggles his family deals with amongst each other. As time continues to tick, the block remains with Jack for an extensive sequence of time, leaving him stressed and more frustrated each minute that passes by. Jack is a recovering alcoholic who isn't too focused on the "recovering" aspect so much when the stumped feeling he's struggling with leaves him sitting in the Gold Room, acting crazy. Throughout the movie, Jack becomes more insane and chooses to make some irrational decisions. We also are introduced to Jack's wife-Wendy, and his son Danny. Danny is psychic and having disturbing visions throughout the movie, because of the hotel being haunted. Although disturbing things happen with Danny, this is not the main focus of the movie. Where Jack is insane and mentally ill, this becomes the focal point. Throughout the movie we see how unethical and immoral it is that Jack's justifying many issues and events that many "normal" people wouldn't choose to participate in. As the wife thinks her son, Danny, is just "hurt"; she thinks it would be best to take him to the doctor's office. She decides to confront Jack and let him know she wants to take him to the doctors. When she goes down to the main lobby-where Jack seems to always be working on his book- Wendy comes across the pages he has been writing through their stay at the Overlook Hotel. When Wendy looks over his work, all which is written for pages, states: "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." She automatically sees and feels that there is something wrong. As Jack discovers she may have found his secret. With much chaos going on throughout the movie, it only adds to the suspense and excitement that we expect to come from a movie such as this.
I think this film has a very vocal and loyal following that explains the overwhelmingly positive nature of the IMDb comments, but speaking as a huge fan of both the King novel and Kubrick the director, this film is a butcher job. The countless changes, both trivial and consequential, that Kubrick and Johnson made to King's story were timid, superficial attempts to add "zing" to a story that needs nothing if handled by a subtle, canny genre movie-maker.Consider the change from roque mallet to axe as Jack's weapon of choice. Ostensibly the axe might be more viscerally frightening with a higher damage-per-swing ratio, but the mallet offers a much slower, more measured punishment, a more appropriate dosing out of Jack's "medicine". Or the pivotal scene in which first Danny and then Jack confront the long-dead menace in Rm. 217 (237 in the movie). This is the key scene in the novel, when the hotel's power crosses the threshold from merely unnerving to physically threatening, and Jack's psychological separation from his wife and son becomes complete. However with Kubrick's calculated disconnection of any and all overtly supernatural elements in the story, the vignette merely becomes another ambiguous manifestation of the shared psychosis between Jack and Danny. Or does it? Kubrick spends the entire movie seemingly wanting to have his cake and eat it too, almost entirely eliminating the power of the hotel's supernatural consciousness, but never quite crossing the line that would have made the story entirely about Jack's mental breakdown. This might have been a more credible and coherent story, but instead we are left with scenes such as Wendy's witness to the ghostly sexual encounter or the elevator full of blood, scenes that make no sense unless there is something happening in the hotel outside of the three living people inside it.Of course the story is not the only problem with the film. The acting is uniformly awful, with the woodenness of Duvall and Lloyd in no way compensated for by Jack Nicholson's wildly over-the-top (and utterly wrong-headed) characterization of Jack Torrance. I suspect Nicholson sensed early on the awkward, lethargic dynamic he was going to get from his co-stars and director and believed that flaming out was going to be the best thing for the picture, and to his credit, his performance is the most interesting thing about a mostly dull experience, but give me Steven Weber's Jack 24/7/365, thank you very much. There are any examples of Kubrick's legendary inability to elicit warm, involving performances from even the most accomplished acting talent, but this is one of the few examples where such performances were absolutely needed to tell the story correctly.Kubrick did not comprehend what made the King novel a subtle masterpiece. He only understood that it was a hot commodity at the time, and in his zeal to add a horror movie to his oeuvre, he grabbed for it.
I realized some things this month."Just because a movie is the top 250 list of IMDb it doesn't have to be a great movie necessarily." "Just because US voters gave high points a movie it just doesn't have to be a superb movie necessarily." "Jst because some big screen play writer or some great director was included in the total cast of movie it just doesn't have to be one of the best movies. I have seen a couple of movies by Stanley Kubrick so he was for sure a good director but I always found S. King's writings preposterous. In the movie We are introduced to Jack Torrance, driving up to the Overlook Hotel in the mountains of Colorado, to be interviewed for the position of caretaker for the winter, where the snows often completely block the path to the hotel and make it inaccessible. Jack sees this as an opportunity to start off a writing career. However, the manager informs Jack about the previous caretaker, Charles Grady, who killed his wife and two daughters, cutting them into pieces. Jack, however, seems unfazed by this, saying his wife, Wendy, is "a confirmed ghost story and horror film addict." Now after we saw that introduction it is not difficult to predict the rest of the movie at least if you are a fan of horror movie it is not supposed to be. Maybe I am living in a relatively balanced society, maybe it is just some unrealistic crap but the screenplay seemed stupid to me.What is real or what is imaginary? An isolated man who is on the verge of madness is trying to chop his wife and his little kid and there is no one at the hotel no one ever who will hear his noise and the noise of his axe? Wait a minute should we just reduce ourselves to the enjoyment of the movie? After all Jack Nicholson is doing his job great? I don't think so. Jack Torrance's monologues may be redolent of Protestant Work Ethic. Grady character may represent skewed commentary upon American history. you cans say something on the White Man's burden but if you can't realize all of these things in a reality-this is what we are living- it turns out to be a just a horror movie who over-loves horrors. And there is nothing more to that movie.


                
This was a total waste of 3 hours of my life. OK, so Jack Nicholson did a good job in the lead. So what? The script was a disorganized mess that made WAY too much use of foreshadowing. You can't really use spoilers in reviewing this movie, because it spoils itself so much: much of the first half of the movie consists of clips of several scenes you see in the second half. The foreshadowing used absolutely destroyed any suspense/horror that would have existed for me (I can't be scared of it if I know it's coming).Next there's the music track: I'd like to say it consists of several great pieces of music that adequately set the tone for the scenes they accompany. Nothing could be further from the truth. Half of the instruments used I couldn't recognize and most of the musical effects seemed pointless.Finally there's the acting. As I mentioned above, Jack Nicholson's performance was superb. He's the only reason I don't give this movie a 1. The other characters? Except for the little boy, they were used as cardboard cutouts, and most of them acted that way. Even Scatman Crothers couldn't save the other acting performances: his considerable acting talent was underused.In short, not a classic. Just a gore-fest wanna-be dressed up as a masterpiece. Very avoidable and I will do so in the future.
To paraphrase Frank Rich's assessment of Stephen Sondheim musicals, to be a fan of Stanley Kubrick is to have one's heart continuously broken. Considered by many to be a masterpiece of eerie, psychic horror, I've always found this picture to be an ambitious, yet pretentious, bore, with a shamelessly overacted lead performance by Jack Nicholson, one of the best actors of the past half-century.While diverging substantially from the source material in the character department, Kubrick makes the fatal mistake of overindulging himself on his own concept -- the detachment from reality (or convergence with an alternate reality -- i.e, Jack merging into the "spirit" of the hotel) caused by isolation. For example, Kubrick repeatedly shows us shots of Danny (Danny Lloyd) riding his Big Wheel down the endless, cavernous hallways. What Kubrick confuses is the difference between conveying the tedium of the characters' lives with inducing tedium in the audience. The nearest parallel I can find comes in Henry Jaglom's "Broken Flowers", which derails substantially with the repeated (and seemingly endless) shots of Bill Murray's sideview mirror. This type of overindulgence reflects the inherent problem with a director like Kubrick, whose devotion to detail tends to overwhelm the need to keep the audience engaged.Yes, I know the fame of the "Here's Johnny" and "Wendy, I'm home" moments. Yet these are comedic relief, not terrifying -- and the film really has only a few truly terrifying moments, one of which (i.e., when Shelley Duvall reads Jack's "work") is nearly submarined by the overly dramatic music. In truth, the few redeeming factors to the film are an engaging supporting performance from Scatman Crothers, and being able to spot some of the ideas Kubrick had in mind before he beat them into submission. Nonetheless, a true disappointment.


                
