I was never a big fan of horror movies. They usually try cheap tricks to scare their audiences like loud noises and creepy children. They usually lack originality and contain overacting galore. The only horror movie i like was Stir of Echoes with Kevin Bacon. It was well-acted, and had a great story. But it has been joined and maybe even surpassed by Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, quite possibly the scariest movie ever.The movie follows a writer (Jack Nicholson) and his family who agree to watch over a hotel while it is closed for the winter. There were rumors of the place being haunted and the last resident went crazy and murdered his family. But Jack is convinced it will be OK and he can use the quiet to overcome his writer's block. After months of solitude and silence however, Jack becomes a grumpy and later violent. Is it cabin fever or is there something in the hotel that is driving him mad?One of the creepiest parts about the movie is the feeling of isolation that Kubrick makes. The hotel is very silent, and the rooms are huge, yet always empty. It is also eerily calm when Jack's son is riding his bike through the barren hallways. Jack Nicholson's performance is also one of his very best, scaring the hell out of me and making me sure to get out once in awhile. My favorite scene is when he is talking to a ghost from inside a walk-in refrigerator.The Shining is tops for horror movies in my opinion, beating the snot out of crap like the Ring and The Blair Witch Project. It may be a oldie, but is definitely a goodie. 8/10


                
The Shining is possibly the greatest horror movie ever made. It's cold, atmospheric, and lonely. It takes place in a giant, upscale hotel where only the greatest people have stayed. And during the wintertime, it has employed a lowly ex-drunk writer and his family to be it's caretaker.Now the plot is a little tricky. This film could be a ghost story, or it could all just be a writer's imagination. The characters words are so concentrated upon, and the camera concentrates on it's situations so much that the audiences feels like a bit of a peeping Tom. As if we don't belong there with them, and we are only the observant.So much more could be said about this movie, that you'd feel like frozen Jack at the end of the movie once it's complete. But the story is generally good, and it plays out very well.8 stars. One of my personal favorites


                
A family formed by a father (Jack Nicholson, Stanley Kubrick considered both Robert De Niro and Robin Williams for the role of Jack Torrance but decided against both of them) , mother (Shelley Duvall) and son (Danny Lloyd , first choice to play was Cary Guffey, because Danny was so young and since it was his first acting job, Kubrick was highly protective of the child, during the shooting of the movie, Lloyd was under the impression that the film he was making was a drama, not a horror movie) heads to an isolated hotel for the winter where an evil and spiritual presence influences the father into violence, while his psychic son sees horrific forebodings from the past and of the future. The struggling writer named Jack Torrance accepts a position as the caretaker of a great summer resort hotel called Overlook during the winter season . But then the writer becomes possessed by it .Having turned down directing a sequel to The exorcist (1973), Kubrick made his own horror film: The shining (1980) , today regarded as one of the best terror movies ever made. Stephen King (whose novel the film was based upon) reportedly didn't like Kubrick's adaptation . One of 'Stanley Kubrick''s favorite films was Eraserhead, directed by David Lynch , he cited the film as a creative influence during the making of The Shining and screened Eraserhead to put the cast and crew in the mood he wanted to achieve for the film. The director keeps things at a snail's pace , but he carries out scary moments and amazing scenes . Nicholson' s performance approaches high levels . There is a great deal of confusion regarding this film and the number of retakes of certain scenes . According to the Guinness Book of Records, the scene where Wendy is backing up the stairs swinging the baseball bat was shot 127 times, which is a record for the most takes of a single scene. The picture is shot in the Academy ratio (1.37:1) and features shots down the length of tall, parallel walls, the maze and hotel corridors in . And Steadicam operator Garrett Brown accomplished many of the ultra-low tracking corridor sequences from a wheelchair on which his invention was mounted. Excellent costume design by Milena Canonero and magnificent production design by Roy Walker , all of the interior rooms of The Overlook Hotel were filmed at Elstree Studios in England, including The Colorado Lounge, where Jack does his typing. Because of the intense heat generated from the lighting used to recreate window sunlight . To construct the interiors of the Overlook, Stanley Kubrick and his production designer, Roy Walker purposely set out to make it look like an amalgamation of bits and pieces of real hotels, rather than giving it one single design ethic. Kubrick had sent many photographers around the country photographing hotel rooms and picking his favorite. For example, the red men's bathroom was modeled on a men's room in the Biltmore Hotel in Arizona designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, and the Colorado lounge was modeled on the lounge of the Ahwanee Hotel in the Yosemite Valley. Indeed, the chandeliers, windows and fireplace are nearly identical, so much so that people entering the Ahwahnee often ask if it's "the Shining hotel". Colorful and luxurious cinematography by John Scott , Kubrick's usual filmed on location in Colorado, Glacier National Park, Montana,Going-to-the-Sun Road, Glacier National Park, Montana,Saint Mary Lake, Glacier National Park, Montana, Timberline Lodge, Mount Hood, Oregon, (Overlook Hotel exterior), Yosemite National Park, California and Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, England, UK . Creepy and eerie musical score , Wendy Carlos and Rachel Elkind wrote and performed a full electronic score for the film, but Kubrick discarded most of it and used a soundtrack of mostly classical music , only the adaptation of Hector Berlioz's "Symphonie Fantastique" during the opening credits, a few other brief moments survive in the final version . Rating : Above average , it is considered to be one of the history's best horror films . Despite receiving generally unfavorable reviews upon its initial release, the film is today deeply regarded In 2001, it was ranked 29th on AFI list. In 2003, Jack Torrance was named the 25th greatest villain on the Villains' AFI list. This well produced film by Jan Harlan was named the scariest film of all time by Channel 4 in 2003, and Total Film had it as the 5th greatest horror film in 2004. The motion picture will appeal to Jack Nicholson fans and Stanley Kubrick buffs .


                
The Shining starts with Jack Torrance (Jack Nicholson) driving to an isolated hotel named the 'Overlook' situated high in the Colorado mountains for an interview with it's manager Stuart Ullman (Barry Nelson) about becoming the Winter caretaker. Ullman tells Jack that he will be responsible for the basic upkeep of the hotel but will be almost totally isolated from the rest of the world for six months as the harsh Winter sets in. Together with his wife Wendy (Shelley Duvall) & young son Danny (Danny Lloyd) Jack moves into the hotel & at first everything seems fine, it's a beautiful hotel, absolutely huge & whatever they need is at their disposal. However the Overlook hotel has a murky past with a previous caretaker murdering his entire family before committing suicide & Danny has the ability to 'shine' which means he has psychic powers that let him see & hear things 'ordinary' people can't. As the days, weeks & months begin to pass Jack become more & more insane, Danny keeps 'seeing' things & people while Wendy becomes frantic as she doesn't have a clue what's happening to her family, as a heavy snowstorm leaves them trapped Jack finally loses it...This English production was co-written, co-produced & directed by Stanley Kubrick & is a fine horror film. It appears that The Shining is another film that exists in two distinct different versions & the one I will be commenting on is the shorter European cut that runs just under 2 hours in length. The script by Kubrick & Diane Johnson, is based on the novel by Stephen King which I have not read so I can't compare them, goes for psychological horror rather than visual with only one murder during the entire film. There are very few character's in The Shining with Jack, Wendy & Danny the only ones that really matter, since the film concentrates on them almost exclusively you care for them, become involved with them & what they go through. The pace is somewhat slow but this is one film that didn't feel that long & keeps you interested throughout. On the negative side I don't think the reasoning behind Jack going crazy & wanting to kill his family was strong enough to convince me, the fact that Jack escapes from the freezer without any explanation bugs me & I don't know if I missed something but that ending didn't make any sense to me whatsoever, I'm still trying to work out what that picture is all about! There is very little in the way of violence or gore, a couple of rotten zombie ghosts & someone is killed with an axe but The Shining is a horror film that doesn't need to rely on blood & special effects as it has a gripping story. With a budget of about $19,000,000 The Shining is technically flawless as you would expect from an obsessive filmmaker such as Kubrick, the cinematography is brilliant with some fantastic free-flowing & smooth steadicam shots as the camera effortlessly follows the character's around the maze of corridors, the sets look absolutely real & instead of clichéd old haunted house themes like dark corners, basements & cobwebs Kubrick brings things right up-to-date with brightly lit corridors, massive open expansive spaces & a modern decor (well 80's modern, just check that red toilet out!). The acting is good from everyone involved although as usual in horror films the little kid is highly annoying & Nicholson seems crazy from the very start. The Shining is an absorbing film that I enjoyed watching although I'm not sure I'd watch it again anytime soon. For those looking for explosions & fancy special effects you will be disappointed, for those looking for a good haunted house type horror with a strong story I definitely think The Shining is for you, well worth a watch in my humble opinion.
I saw this film in 1981 and, just recently, decided to see it again before I wrote a review.Time hasn't diminished the effect: this is still a scary movie from one of the industry's greatest directors.After seeing it for the first time, I sourced Stephen King's novel and sat down to have good read. Boy, was that a mistake? I gave up trying to read King's dense narrative that seemed to be all over the place, leaving it aside so that I could remember the effectiveness of Kubrick's screenplay. Only much later, did I learn that Kubrick's script deviated markedly from King's novel. Well, I guess that's art...There are many striking features about the film. First, who would expect to see a true horror movie shot mostly in bright daylight and at such an idyllic setting? Quite the opposite to all the Dracula type schlock that had been so common and that graced cinema screens up till then. Recall Psycho from 1960... The effect for me was to make the narrative all the more horrifying.Did I say idyllic setting? More like modern Gothic, in a way. Or maybe Kubrick was subtlety poking fun at prior so-called horror flicks that had the inevitable dark castle sitting on hill, with lightning crashing around most of the time?And then there's Jack Nicholson, one of Tinsel Town's eccentrics, if not crazy, playing a role tailor made for him. How could it not be, after seeing how well he did in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975)? Some might argue he was over the top, a caricature almost, of a man who truly goes insane. Watching him for the second time, however, I think his performance reminded me all too well of insane people I've met in real life.As a study in abnormal psychology, I think it works very well <U+0096> in fact, it's a tour de force. And that's why I'm still also a mite disappointed by the way the narrative turns to use supernatural elements to explain the reasons for Jack's descent into his private Hell. (I suppose I'll have to read King's novel to sort this out.) I'm prepared to accept the idea of telepathy between young Danny (Danny Lloyd) and Dick (Scatman Crothers) because I've come across situations that strongly suggest its probability. I see no need, however, to introduce the supernatural, except to appeal to the gullible.Shelley Duval is well cast as the already nervous wife, Wendy; and, I read that Kubrick made her even more nervous with his need for perfection. Scatman was suitably impressive and mysterious; a fine actor and composer. And, hats off to young Danny Lloyd.If this is a movie you've missed, I recommend it thoroughly.


                
''The Shining''is one of my favorite horror movies of all times. While Jack Torrance's madness increases, you stay more and more tense while the movie develops. And the movie really makes you scared in some scenes. Being the work of a perfectionist(Stanley Kubrick) and a plot by Stephen King, this movie who gave a lot of trouble and work to be ready,is a good option for everybody who is a horror genre's fan!Jack Torrance got the job of caretaker of the Overlook Hotel,since it is going to be closed down during winter.Jack and his family will be the only people in the hotel for a long while Danny, the little boy, is the one who sees things that no one else sees: he is the one who first sees the ghosts in the hotel and also sees what is about to happen in a near future. Danny is what we call to be ''the shinning'' as well as Halloram, the hotel's cook. But the hotel is full of bad spirits,and many of them are helping Jack to become crazy...Jack Nicholson is great and really looks a mad man. Shelley Duvall has a strange type, but has nice screams.Danny Lloyd, that plays Danny Torrance, is my favorite character. :)
After his greatest achievement in the sumptuous period drama Barry Lyndon, Stanley Kubrick moved on to make his statement on the horror genre. A massive shift in focus, but perhaps not such a surprise since there were elements of horror in 2001: A Space Odyssey and A Clockwork Orange.Kubrick's greatest strength is probably in that he always followed his own muse, regardless of what was going on in cinema at any one time. Of course, he was sometimes influenced by his contemporaries, but he never followed a trend. The Shining is at once bold and innovative, yet also nostalgic and old-fashioned. In a way this mimics the story's theme of history repeating itself and the overlapping of past and present events <U+0096> a typically Kubrick-esquire mixing of style and content.The atmosphere of The Shining is created through use of space and place. Kubrick shows us two kinds of space at the Overlook Hotel. There are vast, empty spaces such as the grand hall and the gold room, generally revealed to us in slow zooms. Jack is more often shown in these rooms, and they represent his growing isolation from his family and his detachment from reality. Then there are the winding passages like the corridors and the maze, which Kubrick's camera explores with steady tracking shots. More often than not it is Wendy and Tommy whom the camera follows through these passages, and this gives us the sense of confinement and helplessness of their situation.In terms of place, The Shining is in a way a Heart-of-Darkness style journey into hostile territory. The opening credit sequence tells us this right at the start, as we see Jack's car travelling higher and higher into the mountains, a tiny dot from the helicopter shot. The Overlook Hotel resembles its mountainous surroundings, both in shape and colour. Kubrick's construction of space and place combine to create the nightmare situation <U+0096> a place which is in itself massive and spacious, but which is also a prison, cut off from the outside world.Kubrick is perhaps best known for bucking trends, and rejecting by-the-book approaches, and The Shining does go against the horror grain in several respects. Perhaps most notable is the light. Whereas virtually every horror film prior to this had exploited the darkness, The Shining (as its title suggests) is filled with light and brightness. It's also something of a return to the early days of horror, largely favouring creepy atmospherics over slasher shocks. In fact, there is a very direct and obvious reference to DW Griffith's Broken Blossoms (not actually a horror, but it's still got the axe moment) and even Shelley Duvall's performance towards the end slips into wonderful Lillian Gish-style melodramatics.The Shining is tightly constructed, and it certainly stands out from its contemporaries in the genre, but like many of Kubrick's films it is seriously overrated. For all its supposed sophistication some of the horror moments are terribly camp and corny <U+0096> for example the old woman in the bathtub does the most ridiculous zombie lurch I've seen outside of B-horror. Those quick zooms and that snare thing on the soundtrack that accompany every shock moment are massively overused and soon become tedious. For my money the supernatural horror elements do not really work <U+0096> he just doesn't get the creepiness right. It's only the real-life, psycho-killer aspects that have any impact here, and this is mainly down to the intensity of the acting performances. I'm risking flak by saying this, but maybe the film would have been better if Kubrick left out all the ghosts and just told a story about a man's journey into murderous insanity.


                
Forward: to be frank, I know that Stanley Kubrick is highly regarded as a director, his work has won many awards, and he inspires many to be and existing directors. Yet, I think he has a pattern like many of his other films, that display his own ideas and his personality even when may not have wanted to display them. The shining has already been heavily critiqued and digested since it's inception, what I'll add is my personal opinion.The shining is a Kubrick classic. Well known for his critical use of dialogue and long-takes and moving imagery, the shining is a "shining" examplar of all this. Oh yes, and it's horror. I'm not the biggest fan of horror but The Shining isn't really the scariest movie out there in terms of what it is.I think the movie is essentially a movie about retellings. This movie foreshadows a lot of its horror aspects. It tells the audience what to be scared about. But it also shows the audience clues of common horror themes. What I'm trying to say is that, by saying something like the hotel was built on an Indian burial ground, our idea on the film is already shaped by our preconceptions. It makes us seem to understand what is going to happen as we have already come to understand common tropes in movies. There's an idea that the movie is entirely imagined and I think that idea is important as it places the importance away from that story and to look at it like a skeleton of ideas. We get a lot of cycles in the movie. Jack is perhaps living a cycle of madness as he reincarnates over and over. Death is a cycle in the hotel. When Dan is scootering he can always turn right in the hallway. I think that it shows that ideas are often repeated, that it's what happens naturally and we shouldn't let that affect the movie but accept it as a concept of human ability.Ideas are often repeated and that's a common theme in literature. Because they are pervasive in our identity. Thus the movie wants to show that, that we have to accept that, in a way it's kinda meta.Anyways, that's just a theory, one that I thought about as I reflected about the movie as the ending so brutally called me to. Asking me to critically evaluate the film. The best part? Everybody has their own ideas about the film, and that's one of the reasons why Kubrick is so respected: he's movies are open ended, open up to interpretation.Which brings me to my main point. Kubrick wants his movies to be open ended, he wants us the audience to come up with our own ideas, because as ideas are repeated and repeated the way they are delivered always changes. And what better way to incite that than by film?Thanks for reading!
A very good film that is turned into a great film with jack Nicholson's performance


                
I remember my mom taking us to a drive-in to see this film upon original release but it was sold out and we were resolved to watch some 2nd rate National Lampoon comedy on the 3rd screen. While the rude/raunchy comedy entertained us, both me and my sister kept sneaking peaks at the Shining screen and mesmerized by the images sans sound. I've seen the film many times on video and really liked it but it wasn't until many repeated viewings on video increased my love of this film in the last few years. Even knowing what's coming up next doesn't take away from the viewing experience. Kubrick is still unmatched as a filmmaker. Never having read the book but hearing the changes made to the script, I can't imagine enjoying the book more than the film, but that's just me. Stephen King would argue that point. 
The film contains all the classic, if not cliché, elements in making a typical horror film but Kubrick, as always, puts his unique spin on things to make it refreshing on every single viewing elevating this far and above all the slasher horror films that came and went in the ensuing 80's and beyond.


                
The directorial artistry of the late Stanley Kubrick and a powerhouse performance by Jack Nicholson are the primary selling points of 1980's The Shining, a chilling and atmospheric psychological thriller based on Stephen King's most famous novel.This version of the story stars Nicholson as Jack Torrance, a severely blocked writer with a wife and child, who agrees to take a job as the off-season caretaker of an isolated hotel called the Overlook, located in the snow-buried rocky mountains of Colorado. He thinks the isolation might aid in his writer's block, even after learning that the previous caretaker went crazy from the isolation and killed his wife and twin daughters. We then watch Jack move his wife, Wendy and his son, Danny into the Overlook and the viewer watches and wonders if the same thing is going to happen to Torrance. We also learn that young Danny has a connection to the hotel that his parents know nothing about.Despite the fact that this film is basically a shell of the novel it is based on, it is still bone-chilling entertainment, thanks primarily to Kubrick's ability to unfold such an intimate story on such a huge and menacing canvas. The claustrophobic atmosphere that Kubrick creates here is so effective...the Outlook almost feels like it's on another planet, it seem like it's a billion miles from civilization and the fact that everything we see is blanketed in snow makes it seem even more removed from reality. Kubrick creates a cinematic atmosphere here that is chilling and completely engrossing.Jack Nicholson is absolutely electrifying as Torrance, an everyman with issues that he would like to bury but his isolation at this hotel and unhappiness with his own life, which he is in denial about, that makes Torrance's journey into insanity so riveting...it's not just the big moments but watch Nicholson when he learns abut what happened to the previous caretaker, or when his son begins to question his and his mother's safety, or my personal favorite, his conversation with the imaginary bartender in the hotel's elegant ballroom...even though we know this is all going on in Torrance's mind, Nicholson's investment as an actor makes us believe everything we are watching. Shelley Duvall is shrill but effective as Jack's wife Wendy, a woman who begins unraveling, torn between devotion to her husband and protecting her life as well as her son's.Almost in the tradition of Scorsese and De Niro, Kubrick and Nicholson created a formidable director/actor collaboration that, sadly, didn't develop into further work, but it should have. Kubrick and Nicholson created a classic here that should not be missed. Later remade by ABC television as a 4-hour miniseries with Steven Weber as Jack Torrance.
A family heads to an isolated hotel for the winter where an evil and spiritual presence influences the father (Jack Nicholson) into violence, while his psychic son (Danny Lloyd) sees horrific forebodings from the past and of the future.What is most interesting is that this film has gone from bad to good. When it first came out, the reviews were not so positive, and there were even some Golden Raspberry nominations (but no wins). Today, this is not only considered a top horror film but one of the top 100 films of any genre... what a turnaround.Then we have King's disappointment, and I think he raises serious concerns: he did not like the casting of Nicholson, and he did not think Kubrick made the film as horror-focused as it could have been. On the first point, it is true that the lead should have had a greater transition. Nicholson just looks crazy from the first scene. I would love to have seen Michael Moriarty...As for the Kubrick criticism, it is true... he bent over backwards to make an artsy, stylish film, but maybe not a horror film. It is a great film, but maybe not a great horror film. If you want a good haunting film, for example, "The Changeling" has this one beat...


                
"The Shining" is one of the most chilling and memorable horror movies I've seen, and I have seen a lot of horror flicks. The movie follows a writer (Jack Nicholson) and his family who agree to watch over a hotel while it is closed for the winter. There were rumours of the place being haunted and the last resident went crazy and murdered his family. But Jack is convinced it will be OK and he can use the quiet to overcome his writer's block. After months of solitude and silence however, Jack becomes a grumpy and later violent. Is it cabin fever or is there something in the hotel that is driving him mad? One of the creepiest parts about the movie is the feeling of isolation that Kubrick makes. The hotel is very silent, and the rooms are huge, yet always empty. It is also eerily calm when Jack's son is riding his bike through the barren hallways. Jack Nicholson's performance is also one of his very best, scaring the hell out of me and making me sure to get out once in awhile. My favourite scene is when he is talking to a ghost from inside a walk-in refrigerator. The Shining is tops for horror movies in my opinion, beating the snot out of crap like the Ring and The Blair Witch Project. It may be a oldie, but is definitely a Good. 8/10


                
I've heard many claim this to be a failure, either due to it straying too far from the book(something that apparently ticked King off, though he wasn't the first writer to be less than satisfied with Kubrick's adaptation of their work) or due to Kubrick's love for setting a mood and building atmosphere ruining the scares, at least if you're into sudden shocks, gore and stuff like that. Personally, I don't care too much about the source material... of course, that's probably due to my distinct dislike of Stephen King. But a good story is a good story, no matter who or where it came from. And the better part of the good story here may have come from Kubrick, and it may have come from King. I don't really care. I will admit that the film does fail in some areas, though, as a horror film. The scares are not as constant as they feel they should be, and the film only really works on the atmospheric level. The atmosphere and mood is great. No doubt about that. The film has a nice mysterious feel to it, nothing is explained in too much detail. The story is pretty good, as well as thoroughly interesting and involving. I saw this film once before, years ago... and even though I didn't understand too much of it, I liked it a lot. Particularly because of the story and the atmosphere. The plot is very good, interesting and involving. The pacing is quite good, there are only a few scenes where you're somewhat bored. I believe this is mainly because Kubrick wasn't too used to horror movies... or maybe his approach to the genre just wasn't the best. Through his career, Kubrick went through just about every single movie genre, often only making a single movie in each genre. That might be the reason some of his movies(this one and Full Metal Jacket, mainly) aren't as good as his better movies(A Clockwork Orange, 2001: A Space Odyssey, Dr. Strangelove). The acting is good, though it can be argued that the two leads, Nicholson and Duvall, overplay and underplay, respectively, at times. The characters are well-written and credible, though it can be argued that some of them are a little thin. The special effects are great, and still hold up today. All in all, a pretty good horror film, and a very good Kubrick film, but definitely not for all tastes. I recommend it to fans of Kubrick, atmospheric horror films, atmospheric films in general, and possibly fans of the actors involved. 8/10


                
The most cerebral horror movie ever. It's more of an interpretation than an adaptation of the Stephen King novel. Easily one of the best and most effective horror film ever made, yet there is a very small body count but lots of blood. It's eye-witnessing a man's slow descent into absolute madness. One of Kubrick's best. Transcends true terror into art.


                
The Shining is one of the best films of the decade of 80, every movie I see that Stanley Kubrick was very wronged in the Oscar, even though he is not being my favorite director is undeniable its ability time to shoot, your ideas are brilliant, the Shining has a good cast, Jack Nicholson this incredible, perhaps his best performance with catchy phrases, and great moments, his best performance in the last act of the film, the cast still has Shelley Duvall, Danny Lloyd, etc., the film will better every minute, I thought the first slow middle act, the better from the second, the movie does not scare if you go thinking it will be scare, will be disappointed a bit, the soundtrack is very good, the script is based on the book of Stephen King (who did not like the film), and the picture is good, the Shining is one of the best movie of Stanley Kubrick, has a great time, even with a slow pace that will better the progress of the film, last act of the film is very good, a mandatory film. Note 8.8


                
Like many other Stanley Kubrick movies this one is a thought provoking masterpiece with many hidden gems that lie within. From the very begging this movie distills a feeling fear and loneliness from begging to end. On the surface it can be seen as a man going mad from isolation, until finally snapping and attempting to kill his portrayed dumb wife and innocent child. But alas their can be many interpretations of this film, like many other Stanley Kubrick films. If the watcher has a keen eye and an open mind. There are many hints that the mysterious Stanley is trying to convey, some as serious and unfathomable as genocide.


                
Director Stanley Kubrick managed to take a Stephen King novel and turn it into an essential movie for the horror genre, and somewhat of a timeless masterpiece of terror and despair. And despite it being from 1980 then the movie still holds it own by today's standards, both in storytelling, terror factor and as a wholesome movie.The movie is every bit as thrilling and disturbing as the book. And that accomplishment is well-owned by the director, but also to the actors who were in the movie.The story told in "The Shining", which I assume that you should be more than familiar with already - and if you are not, shame on you, is about Jack Torrance, a former teacher turned writer, who takes on the responsibility of being the caretaker of the Overview Hotel as its secluded location makes it impossible to reach during the snowy winter months. Locked away at the secluded mountainside hotel, the desolation plants a seed which is fermented by the isolation and the Torrance family find that strange things take place at the quiet Overview Hotel.Running at 2 hours and 26 minutes, "The Shining" might be a bit too long for some viewers, especially since this is the type of horror movie that slowly builds up the dread and suspense. So don't expect to be thrown into a movie filled with scares from the very beginning.And it is this slow and foreboding building up of dread and suspension that really makes "The Shining" such a great movie, because it is done in a very skillful manner. And the progression of Jack's descent into madness is so amazing to watch on the screen."The Shining" is also the movie that really made me open up my eyes to the acting talent of Jack Nicholson. He is nothing short of spectacular in the role of Jack Torrance. And his mannerisms, charisma and physical appearance is so well-cut for this particular role. It really felt like the character was custom made with Jack Nicholson in mind. I can't really claim to be familiar with Shelley Duvall other than her work in "The Shining", but she really did a good job in this movie right alongside with Jack Nicholson.The setting for the movie really also adds a lot of depth and atmosphere to the movie. The Overview Hotel is a grand spectacular building in itself both outside and inside. And its secluded location in the mountains just adds so much to the feel of isolation and desolation that permeates the movie."The Shining" is an effective horror movie because of the build up of the isolation, dread and terror. And director Stanley Kubrick really cemented himself in the horror history with this 1980 movie. I dare say that he put a timeless horror classic to film with his accomplishment here.I am rating "The Shining" a well-deserved 8 out of 10 stars. And I can honestly say that "The Shining" is a movie that you can watch again and again with a few years in between.


                
A family stay in a hotel, which is located in the depth of a mountain, as the caretaker for the winter. The father is a writer and tries to finish his work during the stay. The son has something special gift which is called shining; he perceives spiritual things. They enjoy the stay at first, but gradually the father goes mad. It's related to the miserable murder happened at the hotel before. I'm sure that no one could act the madness except for Jack Nicholson. Just small his behavior makes us scared. This is the deferent point from other horror movies in America. Kubrick creates the best madness without monsters and zombies. Also I guess this film has similar but different atmosphere from J horror films. We can see both of them show human's or ghost's curse, but in this film something beyond the curse is described and Jack Nicholson creates that point. We see the madness, but does it come from only the apparition of the hotel? Is there no relation to his loneliness or pain?


                
This movie is a masterpiece of horror and suspense. It's sad that Stephen King didn't like it, along with a few others....I really don't understand why it's gets the treatment that it does. What's not to like? I love the characters, the effects, and the plot. It's full of scares, terrifying images, and perfectly placed music. It's sure to please any horror movie lover. So, why do people treat it so badly? Here's my suggestion; if you're gonna watch it, make sure you're in the right mood. Like on Halloween. That's the best time to watch it. Treat yourself to The Shinning if your in the mood for a horror ride.


                
I don't mind watching this once in a while for a few reasons.First. This movie is in format 1.33:1 fullscreen which means that the screen of my old TV set is completely filled whereas almost all movies of the last 40 years are more or less panoramic or "widescreen".Second. The light in this movie is excellent along with the quality of the images. Kubrick, unlike some directors, handled with care the original negatives of his movies. That is why today Kubrick's films are the most outstanding from an "image quality" point of view despite the fact that they all aged. (Space Odyssey is from 1968). This means respect for the viewer.Third. The fact that Jack Nicholson looks half crazy from the very first scene rather adds something to the movie instead of penalizing it. From the very first scene we are already tuned on the upcoming outburst of Jack Torrance. We just can't wait till it happens.The atmosphere is very particular. Some scenes are really the ones of a "horror movie" and by this I mean that the term "horror movie" is very abused.But I did notice a few things that I didn't like. It happened during the sequence of Jack Torrance with the bartender. I noticed that when Jack is talking, the bartender is out of the picture and we only see a very small portion of his shoulder. When the bartender is talking, Jack is also out of the picture and we only see a small portion of his shoulder also. What kind of a technique is that? Was Kubrick too lazy to work with the 2 actors together? I bet you that when the bartender was filming his scene, that small shoulder we see was the one of a technician and Jack Nicholson was relaxing in his dressing room.The same thing happens in a more dramatic scene, when Jack Torrance has gone definitely nuts and is about to attack his wife. Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall are never pictured together. If we see Jack, Shelley isn't there and vice versa (except for that famous small portion of shoulder). I think this scene looses much of its dramatic intensity. In the scenes where Shelley was blubbering I couldn't stop thinking of Nicholson probably having a day off.The scene of Nicholson definitely going nuts is where the movie ends. Every mechanism of the movie drops. The tension of the movie is now uniquely in a physical match which appears right away almost ridiculous. We have a too slow moving Nicholson opposed to a very awkward and clumsy woman. The final part is really without any surprise as we all know what will happen.From very good to excellent. But not a masterpiece.


                
***mild spoilers***When I saw this as a kid, it inspired me to read the book, which, at 11 or 12, scared the bejesus out of me! I realize the film didn't stay as accurate to the book as the mini-series in the 90's did, but some of the scenes in Kubrick's version stay with me to this day - like the twin girls talking to Danny, and the blood rushing down the hall from the elevators.As I grew up and became more interested in movies, I realized how amazing those tracking shots are - the ones with Danny on his big wheel, riding through those giant empty corridors. Also, the opening credits that show the vastness of Colorado, and then it ultimately zeroes in on the Volkswagon with the family.Now I love Jack Nicholson as much as anyone, and he was a madman in the film, no doubt; however, I didn't like how he pretty much started out as a madman from the beginning. It would have been scarier to show the family as more 'normal' than Crazy-Jack, Weak-Wendy, and Creepy-Danny. Then have Jack slowly evolve into the monster. Incidentally, Shelly Duvall said that Kubrick would scream and yell at her and treat her like crap on the set if things didn't go his way. I think maybe he was trying to get her in character to appear extra-meek, and scared.I think the character of Jack in 'The Shining' symbolizes the monster that someone becomes when they're affected by alcoholism. The 'haunted hotel' symbolizes how scary a home can be for the family that lives there. Jack's drink of choice was Jack Daniels. His name is Jack. The son's name is Daniel. There's more evidence to support that theory in the book, that Kubrick chose not cover....like maintaining the boiler, and its ultimate explosion. That's my theory, anyway.All in all, it is a great film. Not The Greatest Film Ever Made...but still effective, scary, and unsettling.
i absolutely loved this film, i thought that Jack Nicholson was brilliant but sadly this was not a HORROR movie just a good film. there was no points in this film that made me jump or frightened me. i read the book before i actually watched the film and all i can say is that in a way it was a bit of a let down. i had imagined the whole thing while reading it and then when i sat down to watch it on screen what i was confronted with is a pretty funny film with all the suspense of a soap opera. i would just like to ask, what was the point of Stanley Kubrick doing an adaptation of a book if he isn't really going to use the events from the book? is it because he couldn't think of a story of his own so he simply stole the outline of someone else's? or could he just not be bothered to do the book justice and create a quality film. like i said i thought this film was fab in itself but maybe Mr Kubrick should have omitted the fact that it was 'based' on The Shining and just called it something else.


                
Who Better to portray Jack Torrance, a family man and writer, who takes the caretakers job at a haunted mansion through the winter months, while it is closed for business; while it is isolated.Who Better to depict a man's fall into madness, and personify that madness, with such rage and character.Who Better to take the brainchild of such an accomplished Horror Writer, and create a movie with his own interpretation of the book.Who Better than the pairing of Jack Nicholson and Stanley Kubrick.Who Better? It's simple, NOBODY! A Solid 8/10
Writing is hard business, and there's a great scene in "The Shining" which shows it all. If you've seen it, you know it. Jack Torrance is typing away in this terribly non-conducive writing space, huge and imposing. Just then his wife Wendy walks in, asking him if he'd like some sandwiches, maybe let her read what he's written.Jack Nicholson is a marvel in this moment, letting her have it with both barrels for "breaking my concentration." Whether she hears him typing, or doesn't hear him typing, she's not to walk in and disturb him, he tells her, not putting it nearly so pleasantly.As a writer, I laugh with recognition. But it's kind of a problem moment because it kills dead any concern I have for Jack Torrance 30 minutes into the movie. He's a bully as well as a deadbeat, who has cooped up his wife and kid in a snowbound old hotel with bad mojo leaking out the vents and then springs some heavy 'tude on the old woman for simply trying to offer him friendly company."The Shining" is the horror film by Stanley Kubrick, a mega-talented but overrated auteur of several very well regarded films, five of which are in the IMDb Top 100 list (and a sixth, "Full Metal Jacket," hovers just outside.) "The Shining" is the fifth most popular, but next to "A Clockwork Orange" my favorite, and probably the most enjoyable.It's a very disturbing and violent film in parts, more a mood piece than a gore fest but with some scary moments. Kubrick never had much of a sense of humor, and the film sleds quickly over a lot of territory author Stephen King explored more compellingly in his great novel. Certainly Jack Nicholson, who seems to be doing some kind of Bruce Dern imitation here, doesn't really give us a character so much as a caricature, and of the three principal actors, his manages to be both the weakest and most memorable.But "The Shining" is a great film once you realize Kubrick's vision here is to create an absorbing entertainment. For all his faults, he was a master of control, and demonstrates that here with shots that have become indelibly etched in cinematic history, like little Danny riding his Big Wheel across carpeted corners, Jack taking an axe to a door, and Wendy cowering in a corner screaming. It's a bitter story, and while I miss at times the humane angle King brought to the book, it's probably good that a movie version was helmed by someone as legendarily hard-hearted and unsentimental as Kubrick.I think "The Simpsons" have raised this film much higher in general estimation with their many nods and parodies in "The Shining's" direction. But "The Shining" speaks well of its creator Kubrick on its own terms, kind of as his goofball effort amid heavier-themed pictures and kind of as his demonstration of supreme technical craft. There's a great documentary attached to the DVD of this film which shows Kubrick setting up scenes, coaching little Danny Lloyd as Danny, and arguing with Shelley Duvall, who for my money gives the best performance as the only relatively normal denizen of the Overlook Hotel. It's really something to watch Kubrick so in his element."The Shining" is all about Kubrick in his element, isolated, cold, squeezing the viewer's field of perception from every angle. It's a memorable ride from its opening fish-eyed tracking shot of a river road to the final black-and-white image, and a masterpiece that is impossible not to love on its own, unembraceable terms.


                
