Wtf people. I was just reading like several one reviews and how do people get a movie so wrong?! It should be pg-13? It's not for children? Are these people out of there freaking mind? For all of you who feel that it's not for children, take a look again. You severely underestimate of how much emotion a child can handle and you would be suprised. The 1 star reviews are almost laughable about how inaccurate they are. These people should be locked up in a jail for attempting to stop bringing this movie to the world. I absolutely love Inside Out, it was one of my favorite movies of 2015, and I hope you 1 Star people live your lives full of misery.


                
Before I start, I will say this; I'm writing this after coming back from a second viewing of Inside Out. Both viewings were out of choice. That's not a unique thing, but I very rarely watch films more than once at the cinema, mainly because life is short, or rather, life is too quick for me. But there's two main reasons why people watch some films more than once at the cinema, especially where I come from; either the film was interesting, detailed, or multi-layered and needs to be seen again to sink in properly, or, it was really, really good.In this case, for me, it's the latter. That's not to say that the film isn't interesting, detailed or multi-layered, but the reason that was repeating in my head to see it again was 'it's really, really good.' But is it? Yes, yes of course it is... Speaking with a bunch of friends with whom I saw it the first time, a risky phrase was unanimously agreed upon, which was that we 'trust the Pixar team to do the right thing.' Needless (totally needless) to say that expectations were high, and frankly, they were surpassed.Even though the film is what we come to expect from Pixar (the universal moral themes, the perfect balance between comedy and sadness, and visually stunning animation and action sequences), I didn't feel that I had seen it all before, and neither was it repetitive nor 'ordinary'. The film hits all the high notes, with perfect intonation, and with discipline and passion. As touched on before, the balance between humour and sadness is strong and impressive; the amount of emotions that the film displays and takes us through is varied and immersive, yet not overwhelming. The film executes such clever ideas with simplicity and ease, leaving us to feel for the characters rather than worry about the 'science' of it all, or even being worried about 'not getting it'.The animation is constantly eye-drawing and detailed; the characters' glistening skin is particularly wondrous. And what great characters they are. Riley is brilliantly sympathetic throughout, even with her difficult mood swings, and the supporting characters are perfectly entertaining. One might think that the superficial nature of the characters (Anger is angry, Fear is always scared etc.) would become old quickly, however the fun never diminishes, thanks to a witty script, expressive animation, and very strong voice performances from the entire cast.However, to top all this off, the real gem comes from the character of Joy, surely a strong contender in the list of Pixar's greatest characters. Even though we are inside the head of Riley for the majority of the film, and the events that drive the movie are essentially her reactions to her new world (moving from Minnesota to San Francisco), the story is Joy's. Being probably the most flawed character in the film (paradoxically, maybe), it's her journey we care about the most, and she ends up being the most in-depth character in the film, occasionally questioning her actions in the first half (well, the cynics will be), and becoming the most sympathetic by the end. Amy Poehler's outstanding performance makes Joy simultaneously the strongest and weakest character in the film (emotionally, that is).After all of this, the freshness of the ideas, the simplified neuroscience, the technical brilliance (saying that, Giacchino's score is probably the most subtle thing in the film, exquisitely putting the finishing touches on the most emotional scenes), fleshed out characters and universal themes, all of this comes together simply to entertain us, to let us escape, and to release us emotionally, which it does by making us laugh and cry in an even and fair manner.And you will laugh. And you will cry. And it is fun to do so. Thank god we're living in a time when Pixar is making these films.


                
I've noticed a plethora of negative reviews all saying the same thing- their kids did not enjoy/ understand the movie and it was too dark. Yet they also say that the movie was well made and had an excellent concept. My question to these people is this- If you wanted to see a happy meaningless movie with adult toilet humour, why didn't you take your kids to see Minions? Inside out is for those who like quality cinema, to be entertained as well as taught challenging concepts. It is an artistic film. Why do you people always have to assume that all animated films have to be for kids and filled with stupid toilet humour? This is Pixar we are talking about, those who have created Wall-E and Up. Review this movie on its own merits, rather than be biased in your judgement that the film was too dark and confusing for kids. It was never marketed as a film for toddlers and little kids. I went with my brother who is in high school and it was one of the best experiences we had in the cinema in a very long time. Kudos to Pixar; it was truly an amazing, advanced conceptual, artistic film.


                
After some ho-hum years and too many sequels, Pixar is back and better than ever with Inside Out, a boldly unique animated film that renews our faith in what a giant studio can do with an original concept. Docter combines the strengths of his two Pixar masterworks here: the endless inventiveness of Monster's Inc. and the poignant strength of Up. A truly fantastic mixture of fantasy-adventure-comedy and small-family-drama, it's a genius work of conception, execution and emotion that will go down in the annals of Disney animation as an instant and enduring classic. It follows Joy, the leading-emotion of an 11-year-old girl, as she tries to navigate a big change in her young life. Much like Toy Story 3, we're shown the inherent difficulties of growing up through a fresh viewpoint, learning what makes you "you". It's a convoluted idea that's nearly impossible to explain, and yet Pixar nails it, perfectly shifting between its parallel universes with ease. The humor throughout will undoubtedly have kids and adults in equal stitches, with fantastic turns from everyone, notably Poehler, Smith, Black, and Kind. However, this film's high-point may be the multiple emotional gut-punches that will reduce parents to tears. That fearlessness to be gloomy is basically the thesis of the film: true joy comes when every emotion is allowed to be recognized and dealt with healthfully. It's quite a psychologically complex stance to take for a film that manages to be so kid-friendly. This wonderful balancing act helps make Inside Out worthy of the "M" word (masterpiece) and gives it the distinction of being Pixar's best since the unparalleled Toy Story.


                
As an adult, I love animated films but the trailers made this one look like it was really just for kids. I gave it a shot anyway and I didn't expect to love it--but it's depth absolutely shocked me. Not only is it a whimsical, funny film, but the poetry is off the charts.The creators of this film truly remember what it was like to be a child and continue to express understanding to children's feelings today. Riley is a light hearted little girl on the cusp of adolescence, approaching that turbulent age where everything changes and it seems like there is no one there to help you.Riley's emotions are portrayed using colorful creatures inside her head. Joy has been the ringleader of the emotions up until now, but Riley's life changes are starting to shake things up and Sadness has begun to take over. Truly amazing how this was depicted! Absolutely brilliant.As a kid, adults are often dismissing your emotions and never listening to you when you need them most. Often times kids cannot express themselves and turn to anger, panic or disgust, all emotions that will only heighten your problems as Riley comes to learn.When Joy finally lets Sadness take the reins and Riley opens up to her parents and they actually LISTEN to her...it is breathtaking.Don't miss out on this movie, definitely a must see! Amazing voice cast, beautiful visuals and a wonderful message to people of all ages.
I did exactly what I was supposed to when watching this brilliant movie, I felt all the emotions at some point. Pixar did it again with Inside Out. For a long time I had stubbornly repeated that Toy Story would always be my favourite from Pixar, but I changed my mind shortly after watching this one. Like Toy Story you were offered a setup every adult can identify. Growing up learning how to control your feelings and learning the importance of every one of them. It is okay to be angry, sad, happy and afraid as long as we are taught how to manage them. The idea of having this control panel inside a human body has been done before by Osmosis Jones (2001), but let's say with much less success. Inside out takes it to the highest level of perfection. I loved the way Pixar made this world inside the main character of Riley, it is very creatively done and was in some ways just how I had imagined it. I must admit that I cried a couple of times during the movie, because it has some really touching moments. You should be feeling all emotions when watching Inside Out. It is a must watch.


                
It's been nearly a year since I first saw this film. I would say I had pretty low knowledge in films before I first saw Inside Out (not to say that I'm highly intelligent on films now). I only saw about 200 films prior. I hadn't seen a lot of classic films or even know that film can be an art form just through its camera work among other aspects. So you could say that I can't speak for everyone on my views of this film. And you may be right because opinions are subjective anyway.This is my favourite film ever.Like I said above, I didn't see a lot of films that were deemed as masterpieces at that time. While I still have a lot more to see, I can say that I have caught up with many notable ones now. I've seen The Godfather. I've seen 2001: A Space Odyssey. I've seen Casablanca. I've seen The Shawshank Redemption. I've seen Pulp Fiction. I've seen Lawrence of Arabia.Yet this is still my favourite film of all-time.80 years from now, this won't change. I felt something extraordinary that will never be felt again. This to me, was a revelation. In honest words I've never experienced something like this before. Only because of Inside Out I was able to kick myself off of a serious depression I had for years, understand the meaning of feeling, feel sympathy to why people act the way they do, be interested in films. In fact, I went and watched the films I mentioned above because of Inside Out.Ever since that late July of 2015 I had been compulsively obsessed with Inside Out to the point where I checked its Oscar chances, IMDb rating, Rotten Tomatoes rating and box office grosses to the point where I felt like I had to stop myself from doing as when seeing anything negative about it just makes feel let down and quite sad about it. It's still something that I'm trying to quit but obviously it's not going that well (ie. this review after one year of the film's release).Inside Out taught me more about depression, empathy, importance of sorrow and interpersonal relationships than any books, talk shows, real-life stories or cat posters could ever dream of. It made me want to become a filmmaker because if this much craft and intelligence can be put in a film, then sign me up to the industry because I want to be a part of it. I don't want to talk about the story or the technical aspects of Inside Out because everyone has talked about it already.In the course of less than ten months, I've see this film six times. That's more than any other film during the same period. It's a true testament to its strength and impact on me that's hardly ever going to fade away. I know this isn't the case for everybody. I keep trying to find anybody else who had the same experience as I did walking out of this film for the first time. I yielded only little results and although it brings me down a little since I don't really have anyone else to relate to, I keep telling myself, that no matter what happens to Inside Out in the future, whether its Rotten Tomatoes score or IMDb rating or its overall stature among the general public, whether it gets worse or better for it, this will always be favourite film of all-time. Nothing will change that and I have to let go of everybody else's opinion whether or not they had similar emotional experiences towards it.You can vote "not helpful" on this review all you want (which seems to be a recurring case for all positive user reviews here.... I wonder why...) but it's not going to matter anyway. This is a beautiful film that will resonate in me always.I will never forget Inside Out.


                
Disney & Pixar have made some worthy films that have become well known to audiences of all ages, but the last few releases haven't reached to the quality and standards they had established (in which the last great film they had made is both Up and Toy Story 3). With their latest offering, it is safe and proud to say that Inside Out establishes them back in the game of quality storytelling, animation and heart its concept.Inside Out explores the mind of a young girl, in her mind we are introduced to the emotions of Joy, Sadness, Disgust, Anger and Fear. They have the roles of controlling emotions that they see through Riley's point of view via headquarters, deciding how she reacts to them (for instance; if Riley was to be happy, Joy would have the controls to do so) and as well they collect 'core memories' that store into the long term memory of Riley in which we are throughout the film shown with moments of happiness, love and set her personality. However, when Riley's family makes a big move to the city it changes the roles of the emotions in Riley in which set off an adventure when Joy and Sadness (an emotion that is often pushed aside) are out What makes this film so well perfect is the mixture of imagination, heart and literally emotion; a concept like this may seem at first impossible to create for the screen but Pixar have come from out and beyond to create an original piece of work that is both open, inspiring and really makes us look in a new way of how our emotions and personal life experiences happen. The animation and use of the right colours for the characters is great and when I mean colour, the emotions themselves have specific colours that represent them as how we understand them. For instance; Joy is yellow, Sadness is blue, Disgust is greens, Fear is purple and Anger of course is red. Each of them has individual personalities that help to establish their roles; Joy is happy, bright and positive that makes Riley seem loved by those around her The emotion that the film carries throughout is further than what Up had already shown us (the well-known and acclaimed 'Married Life' sequence is beyond to what animated films can do to the heart strings), the film makes us personally understand not only the characters on screen but to personally relate to our own life events and personal experiences. The filmmakers have carefully observed on how emotions drive us, in particular Sadness plays a major role in the story that makes us wonder why we can't be sad throughout life but why it's important to be sad when the time comes. In particular, a key moment towards the end of the film pretty much got me and the whole audience (families, couples and even elderly people) in tears and yet understand in our own personal lives the times we get sad. This is a major point that I deeply thought was brought up perfectly and though the much younger kids may not have got it's point but I think from time to time as they grow up they will get the heart of it.Emotion aside, there are lighter moments when humour is present and gets the audience to laugh out loud. The character Bing Bong (an imaginative figure of Riley's earlier years) gives this best when he pops up in the plot, but as well Anger, Fear and the emotions in other human characters provide such humour and even discovering moments in our minds. The humour works very well in the film and it helps to keep the audience on a brighter side.Inside Out is not only a triumphant return to quality storytelling for the filmmakers, but it's both original and engaging for audiences to relate to. Bringing a new way to understand human life and our mind capabilities, the film is perfect for children, adults or even anyone young at heart. This is the best animated film for 2015 and it has a very strong chance in becoming Best Picture in the 2016 Oscars.The animated short 'Lava' that screens before the feature is amazing and different to the comedic shorts from previous years, having more heart and soul and a positive message about love and happiness told through song and colourful animation in detail.


                
There is only one thing to say about this film Brilliant!!! Pixar have topped all their past films with the absolute 10/10 animated film ever. Ticking all the boxes with comedy, visuals, emotion and intelligence Inside Out is so far the best film of the year.Inside out follows the story of the emotions within one girl's head and how they must restore happiness into her life, but by going on an emotional journey round her brain.But there are no further words this film is fantastic and a treat for everyone. This film is strongly recommended to all viewers and is a beautiful and fantastic piece of work.


                
I say this film is for mature minds cos i ain't trying to rule out kids or adults, just say that this film is intelligent.I went to see this film with girlfriend and the screen was filled with kids and their parents. Most the moms and dads were playing games on their phones whilst the kids weren't really paying attention to the what was going on in the film. It's a shame really cos I saw reviews by parents complaining that this film ain't for kids. I think it's a great conversation piece to have with your kids after the film and explain bits to them about sadness and happiness needing each other etc. There is a strong message there and it sucks that some parents probably more concerned about slating a film rather than exploring the opportunity to engage with their kids about the values in the story etc.I love this film and i think it's Pixar's best film in years easily one of the top films of all time.


                
Inside Out may be the most cartoony story Pixar has released but it is also the most complex and mature. On the one hand, the majority of it is set within the mind of an eleven year old girl and her imagination, but the movie bears in mind (no pun intended) that the human brain is a complex organ that operates on many levels and circuits. The subconscious, abstract thought, memory and emotion all had to be given a physical form for Inside Out. Like a lot of people, I trust Pixar, yet didn't think that they had the talent to pull off something as unique, but crazy as the idea intended. I like to think of my brain running like a computer with perfectly synthesized control in place that's ready to deal with the many problems of the real world as the machine is quick to place the right emotion in time. Not every emotion is correct, but with the right mindset, the solution eventually comes. Everyone thinks differently and I wouldn't have been surprised if the film's focus picked a different approach. Inside Out also presents a human mind that does run like a machine, but actually gives a personality to each emotion to run it. A girl named Riley is living happily with her family in Minnesota. Her goofy and friendly personality is thanks to the emotion that runs her the most, Joy (played by Amy Poehler). She works with the other emotions, Fear (played by Bill Hader), Anger (played by Lewis Black), Disgust (played by Mindy Kaling), and not so much with Sadness (played by Phyllis Smith) to ensure that Riley remains that happy kid she is. But as with life, every kid has to come to their first big event that begins their journey into a full human. In this case it's a move.Riley's family moves from Minnesota to San Francisco, and the emotions are having a hard time figuring out the best reaction. Joy would like to continue for Riley to stay happy, but Sadness starts to have the effect of changing past memories from happy to sad. A fight between Joy and Sadness causes them to be sent to long term memory, leaving the other emotions to run Riley. The child clearly has trouble adapting to the big city life and starts to shut herself out, even considering running away. Joy and Sadness must get back to headquarters to fix Riley, but Joy may not know what's best for everyone. Like Toy Story, Monsters Inc, Finding Nemo and Up, Inside Out is a buddy trip story that works because of it's leads. Amy Poehler and Phyllis Smith make a great time that work off of each other well. It's not just these two as all folks casted are well known comedians that are well placed in their roles. It kind of reminded me of The Lego Movie, but while that was meant to be a full comedy, Inside Out is one of the biggest emotional journeys ever put on screen.I would love to see the writing process that this movie went though as both stories (the real world and the world inside Riley) connect and play so well that either could operate on their own, but they still need each other. Riley represents that hard part of childhood when they discover that the world is such a big place that we all go through what she did; fear about what could happen to us, disgust at what we don't understand, anger when things go wrong, sadness when we are at our lowest, and joy when we finally realize that things can still go well even after all of that.I'll give this five happy memories out of five. Pixar has officially returned to form! Inside Out is the kind of movie that everyone will talk about for a long time; the kind of word of mouth that no one could ever buy; the one that kids will love the imagination from; the one that adults will find fascinating and emotional. Inside Out is a perfect movie and needs to be seen. It's not that you should consider watching this, but you NEED to see this.


                
I've been seeing some of the reviews here, half of you people saying it's "depressing" and half hating it because it's getting popular, and I have to say... I'm really annoyed by all this. Of course there's going to be some sadness in it, cause it's mainly about a kid's emotions. Emotions trying to help a kid to adjust her new life. Have you all forgotten how you felt when you had to move away? From the place you've grown up at and made such good friends? Going to a new school? Possibly be a outcast? I personally think this film is good for both kids AND adults. There is silliness for the kids, but also showing stuff that parents could learn from this film. I think today's society is being too hard on films like this lovely one because it's basically showing real life problems from a realistic family/child.


                
Spoiler alert: the next two paragraphs are spoiler-free, 3th one is not...I know this movie has seen all possible reviews from 1 to 10. Some are disappointed because it is not Toy Story or other Pixar movie. Personally, I don't see why it makes sense to compare this with any other title! This movie is unique in the sense that it tries to explain the workings of the brain in an understandable way. And it's been a long time since a movie affected me like this one... Last ones where Dogville and Requiem for a Dream.I have a 6 year old boy who is a fantastic kid but with some behavioral problems. I've shown him this movie so that he can understand his occasional anger and frustration attacks better. While I watched with him, I loved the way the deeds and interactions of the mind control task force is reflected in the real-world behavior of Riley.But it got especially good when the plot shows that Sadness (shunned by all as a pertinent danger to the mental health of Riley) actually is just as necessary as her counter party, Joy. Sadness has always been shunned by the others sentiments but when she is given the lead the results is not at all as tragic as we would expect... And at that point the movie comes to an yin and yang conclusion: we need both extremes of everything as only one is never complete. And you need all spikes to have a wheel. I loved that... Therefore, I also disagree with many critics who claim that this movie is too dark. It seems dark at times but the overall message is not that.Where I do agree with other commenters is on the point that this really calls for a part 2 about adolescent Riley and the new set of psychological challenges connected to that...
Inside Out is a relatively short story about a young girl from Minnesota named Riley and it takes place inside her brain, where we can encounter different kinds of emotions and how the emotions interact with each other and control Riley's actions. This is definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life.The main plot is excellent and takes you to different parts of Riley's brain. Its visualization is stunning and imaginative. It's the world seen through Riley's young eyes and how growing up affects it. It is definitely mind-blowing and you always get this feeling: "Oh yes, this makes a lot of sense now."But definitely the best part of the movie is its climax. I won't spoil it for you, but for me, personally, it has so much depth and truth in it. I will always remember the climax of this movie when I'll be dealing with difficult stuff in life, because it calms me down. That's why this movie is so brilliant. It actually teaches you something about yourself and shows you a way to be emotionally stable person. Is it a movie for children? Absolutely yes. It's for children, for adults, for dogs and cats also, for extraterrestrials too! Anyone, who dealt with something difficult in his/her life, will definitely enjoy this movie and probably love it too.I give my bows to Mr. Docter and his team for creating this marvelous movie. This is art in modern form and definitely gets 10/10.


                
This isn't my usual kind of movie, but I was persuaded to watch it. I have to say, it's rather brilliant and would appeal to adults and children alike. It's basically about growing up and changing and leaving the things of childhood behind. Hidden behind the humour and the familiar Pixar style is a very poignant story of every human's attempt to make sense of the world around them. I think all children go through a phase of thinking their bodies are run by tiny people inside them. Pixar has taken this idea and turned emotions--joy, fear, anger, disgust--and made them real little characters all helping to control a child's brain. When an upset in life comes along, Joy is lost (literally). She has to find her way back into the control centre of the brain to stop a catastrophe happening, but along the way she discovers some unusual allies. Great humour, genuine pathos, and clever witty dialogue, this film is an absolute winner.


                
Well, I have to admit. I was near the edge to give up my favorite animation studio. I grew up with Pixar. All of the movies I have watched when I was a little child, it was all Pixar movies and they are still growing up with me.However, when I heard about making unnecessary sequels to my favorite movies (such as Monster University, Toy Story 4, Cars 3, Finding Dory, The Incredibles 2...) I was very disappointed. Because Disney's and Dreamworks's motto has become "money, money and money". I have given up Disney long time ago. (Actually, I'm re-thinking my decision since Big Hero 6 and How To Train Your Dragon. I love them.) And I was thinking why I liked Pixar. I loved Pixar because all these original and creative ideas. And none of them were created for making money, they all created for us to have fun. In my opinion, "The Classics" should be stay alone without unnecessary sequels.Therefore, I was nearly gave up Pixar. Until I watched, one of the Pixar's very best movie, Inside Out.


                
Different emotions need to work together to achieve success! What a beautiful message, isn't it? As I said, I couldn't believe the idea of "Inside Out"! It's so fresh! It's so innovative. It's like they've combined all of their experiences to create THIS! "Inside Out" has gathered the "Stresses of Marlin Finding his Nemo", "Colorful World of Toy Story", "The Act of True Love of Frozen", "The Gradual Comprehension of the Multi-Dimensional World of Monsters Company" and finally the "Cartoonish Depicted Reality of Monsters University" and above all this the "Beauty of Pledge and Promise of Up" It's like a patchwork doll with a new clothing which looks brand new but carries the precious roots and origins within itself. They finally came up with an idea that surpasses the mostly praised "Toy Story". It reminded me of the most beautiful movie of my life "Wall-E", it really did after 7 years! Thank you Pixar! Thank you Imagination.
I was in a packed screening of Inside Out at the Birmingham Everyman cinema on Saturday, consisting almost entirely of adults. Absolutely incredible movie and an early contender for the best picture Oscar. Can't remember the last time a film completely dazzled me like that.It was overwhelmingly brilliant from the outset and the short 'Lava' set the tone beautifully. I feel as though Pixar have pushed boundaries here in terms of revolutionising the target demographic of animated films. It almost felt that this was a film aimed at adults with lots of winks for the kids rather than vice versa.I like the way Pixar have scaled down the plot to something we've all seen before; kid moves to new place and find it tough to adjust, nothing new here. Yet Pixar managed to use this simple story arc to run havoc with their imaginations as to what happens within ones self at a time like this.Hats off to Pixar for creating this stunning, intensely emotional family film. Still feeling all the feels.


                
People say never to play with someone's emotions because it might hurt them. But in what way, many of us may wonder? Well here's your answer, Inside Out portrays the game your emotions play in a way no movie has ever done before, to an extent no movie will ever go hereafter. An emotional ride, a literal emotional ride which is as joy as it is sad to watch, which will show what anger and disgust feel like while carefully portraying fear, all in the mind of Riley, our protagonist or so we think because that's what the movie is trying to do, to make us think and think we will for there isn't another animated film more engaging in the genre of drama. Why do you sometimes feel lost? Why can't you sometimes anything? How are your feelings lost? The film answers all such questions with an extremely controlled grasp on the imagination of it's creators. The execution of the film being near perfect it only makes the story look more magnificent than it already is. Pete Doctor and Pixar deliver again an animated movie which the world of cinema lovers will cherish for years to come. A genuine story so original that every second of it has something new to offer to the audience. The actors and actresses who though only use their voices portray the individual emotions to a stellar extent. Sadness being the best of all emotions both acting-vise and character-vise stands out with joy giving tough competition to sadness again both acting-vice and character-vice. The background score though not very impressive but engaging through out the second act but that's not what you will be busy listening, you will be busy praising the highly imaginative story . To sum up in one line. It is one of very few original films out there which no Film lover should miss.


                
Inside Out is kind of like a coming-of-age story, but told from a very different perspective. It starts by introducing us to the emotions inside the head of Riley, a little girl from Minnesota. Joy, Sadness, Anger, Disgust, and Fear run things in headquarters, taking turns at the controls of Riley. Joy mostly gets to run things, though, Riley amassing a huge collection of happy memories. But things are thrown into turmoil when Riley's family moves to San Francisco. Things go awry at headquarters, which results in Joy, Sadness and Riley's most important core memories being thrown out.The film then cuts between Joy trying to make her way back to headquarters and the three remaining emotions trying to run things in her absence. This story takes some very abstract concepts and turns them into a grand adventure. It turns a little girl's psyche into a colorful landscape populated with figments of imagination and a working class devoted to keeping things together. The film is exactly what Pixar is all about, delivering a brightly-lit narrative that is unafraid to get melancholy. It is a story about embracing all our feelings, even the ones that don't feel too good.The nuts and bolts of the plot take a very familiar form, with a pair of mismatched characters racing against time to get to somewhere important. This is basically the setup of eighty percent of all children's films. But Inside Out takes this basic framework to stranger places. This is a story that mostly works within the realm of metaphor, the locations representative of the inner workings of the mind. The film creates landscapes that stand in for the complex mechanics of personality and memory, finding interesting ways to represent an emotional journey.And so the characters are ride a train of thought and go to where dreams are produced. And the emotions assert themselves at different intervals, and we see the effect in Riley in the real world. It's really clever stuff. The things happening outside drive the action inside, but the movie makes it appear that it's the other way around. The journey within is purely representational, the anthropomorphized emotions a really ingenious means of showing the growth of this one person. All of it is done beautifully, with lively visuals and a willingness to explore tragedy within the context of a children's cartoon.There's a wealth of imagination in these images. There would have to be, given the subject matter. But the world inside Riley's head is a joy to behold. And when we get glimpses into the heads of other people, the differing design sensibilities do a lot to enrich the milieu of this particular world. The voice acting is top notch, with Amy Poehler and Phyllis Smith bringing a lot of personality into roles that are specifically written to be representative of a single emotion. Lewis Black, Bill Hader and Mindy Kaling are also delightful in much simpler, more outwardly comedic roles.Inside Out is exactly what Pixar is all about. For years now, the company has been telling children's stories that are much more willing to get emotionally complex. This film features the same kind of thinking that allowed for the depiction of tragedy in the first ten minutes of Up, and the quiet acceptance of fate in Toy Story 3. This is a film that is about that specifically, about the capacity of young people to take the bad with the good, the capacity to understand that there is more to sadness than just being sad. It's a simple, yet beautiful truth that doesn't get explored nearly enough.10/10Oh, and tell this lesson being taught to your kids: You can't have the same emotion for the rest of your life. Too much of everything can lead to something terrible, and too much joy, sadness, anger, disgust, and fear is bad too. If you are having a problem, you can talk to your parents about it. You have to open up to them so that they can solve your problems.
Seeing the reviews i was expecting a lot from this movie. Pixar hadn't delivered a decent hit since WALL-E which was close to my heart too. i went with a friend who just said yes just bcoz i loved the concept i saw in the trailer and reviews. " meet the little voices inside your head". each and every minute of the movie i and my friend saw was just mesmerizing and unforgettable. i wont tell any spoilers since i want every person who has a close friend having a problem handling emotions to go and watch this movie.i being the stronger one had tears in my eyes during the second half of the movie despite my friend being the emotional one. it was our first day out and INSIDE OUT just made that day an unforgettable one. each and every moment i and her spent watching the movie was just beyond anybody's understanding until they go and watch that movie.Pete, i give u full credit and such a big thank you to entertain me and GOLU to let us understand each other and the emotions all teenage kids go through and the parents love which we often fail to understand and mis interpret it for their interference


                
Although I am not a trained professional by any means, I have done quite a bit of research into the way the brain works....from how core memories are formed to how the brain retrieves and replays them them to what role emotions play in all of it and control how we act and react. All I can say is this movie is spot on from that perspective and presents it all in a visually exciting and emotional ride. Definitely way over most children's heads, but in reality, if most folks understood some of this early in life, the world would be a much safer and happier place. MANY KUDOS to the mastermind(s) at PIXAR who pulled this one together!


                
News flash for all these people complaining -- Pixar makes sad movies! This should not be news to anyone who has seen a Pixar movie before. And anyone who thinks that that's a bad thing in this case are the ones who the moral of this movie is aimed at. The other complaint that people are having is that they heard it's an original story, when in fact the 'voices in your head' idea has been done before. Yeah, the basic concept has been shown, but so has every concept. And it's not the concept that people are talking about being original; it's the moral. It was absolutely brilliant how they went about explaining a complex moral in a way that children can understand yet doesn't feel overly preachy either. It is a difficult balance to strike, and no matter how well you do it, someone will always dislike it. It shouldn't make me as angry as it does that so many people are misunderstanding this movie. There'll always be somebody, but this is as close to a perfect movie as you'll ever see, and I really wish that there weren't so many stupid people ruining it.


                
i very often watch animated movies. i just love them,they usually come out to be enjoyable but this was something different something unusual .you would realize how creative this movie was and somebody has given too much thought for it , you will definitely appreciate it but movie will force you to think, memory made up of joy or any other emotion has it's own importance and which make you complete who you are . definitely it's after effect is pleasant and one of the movie you will like to remember for a long time!!ya!! you will also think how your emotional character would look like.just like i have make a core memory!! thank you!!


                
I'm a very big fan of Pixar. It's probably one of my favorite animation studios of all time, besides Studio Ghibli. So when I heard that the first reviews of Inside Out were very positive, I got really excited knowing that Pixar has finally made another great film! I was especially excited by this news because I think it's been quite a while since Pixar's last really good film, like I think the last Pixar film that I was really enthusiastic about was Toy Story 3. After that movie it's been a bit rough for the company; Cars 2 was a completely unnecessary sequel, Brave was not terrible but was still very disappointing and Monsters University was good but still far from Pixar's best work. However, now we have the critically acclaimed Inside Out. I got to say, it was very well done but would I put it up along with my all-time favorite Pixar films? Well, let's see.First off, the emotions are very fun characters and the actors used for these characters were very well chosen because they all have the perfect voices for each character. These emotions are very funny at times and they work well with this film's heartwarming story. Speaking of which, the story is very clever and it even has some moments that may tug on your heartstrings. Pixar sure likes us to make us cry, apparently the First ten minutes of Up and the ending of Toy Story 3 wasn't enough for them. Some of the locations shown within the girl, Riley's, head are very clever as well. Pixar really did a good job with their research, some of the things Riley's brain does is pretty accurate...but in a fictional and cartoon like way. Also we do see inside some other character's heads as well, and that leads some very funny jokes.Now as for flaws, I really can't think of anything in this film that was bad. However, I do feel like there was a little more potential with some of the elements they played around with in this film. I would've possibly liked to have seen some more emotion characters or maybe even more possible locations within the head, but that's just what I thought. Oh, and like I said we do get to see inside some other people's heads at a certain point, but that was only in like one or two parts of the movie. I kind of wished this aspect was played with more throughout the movie. Other then that, there was nothing this film had that I disliked.Overall, Inside Out is an excellent film and probably one of Pixar's best films in quite a while. I know some people are going crazy calling this one of Pixar's best films ever made. I don't know if I would go that far, but it was still an excellent film. If your a parent who wants to take your kids to a good family film, then look no further than Pixar's newest film. I give it a 9 out of 10, but I may possibly raise it to a perfect 10 after a second viewing.
