I have 5 year old twins who saw the movie yesterday. My daughter left the movie crying and cried several times during the film, it was much to heavy and sad for young kids. What ever happened to happy kids movies that made us laugh and smile?Dealing with depression in Big Hero 6 and now this, my kids don't need to learn about or try to understand these heavy subject lines.I am also a big Pixar fan and as an adult there was no real storey line and none of the usual adult humour thrown in to keep it interesting for everyone. Although this was disappointing it was outweighed by the depressing overall feeling to the entire movie and the fact that I was either explaining to my kids what was happening or consoling them from crying. I can't wait to see Minions at least we should get some smiles out of that. I'm tired of leaving the movie theatre feeling worse than when we went in.


                
Well, I did it. I finally watched Inside Out, Pixar's latest masterpiece. After months of waiting for it to be released, and listening to peers rave about how it's Pixar's best film yet, that everybody should see it, and that I will love it, I rented it on iTunes and gave it a watch, despite my reservations.Now, here's something about me that some people might be able to relate to, and some might not. I can always tell whether or not I will like a movie, or TV show, or book, either based on what I hear about it, or even if it's little more than a gut feeling. It's almost like a sixth sense, which I've only recently come to understand. There's an alarm that goes off in my head that warns me, "You are not going to like this." When it goes off like an air raid siren, I know to stay away.Like I said, I've only recently come to fully understand this, and there have been many times over the years when I've gone ahead anyway despite my misgivings, and ended up wishing I'd trusted said misgivings. I have never been wrong. When I first saw the promotional posters, and learned the plot outline, the inner alarms were blaring loudly and angrily. My instincts have never failed me before.But, as they say, there is a first time for everything.And when that time comes, I will be sure to make it known, because that time still has yet to come.If I had a dime for every time I heard that this movie is Pixar's "return to form," I would probably be set for life. To that assertion, I have a question. Exactly what *form* would that be? The Pixar *I* grew up with made movies that made me *laugh*, that were exciting, and made me feel warm and fuzzy on the inside. This movie, on the other hand, made me laugh in earnest a grand total of once ("Eat me, I'm organic!"), and kind of chuckle one other time (*snore* "Who's the birthday girl?"). That's it. The entire rest of the movie, I was wanting desperately to go home, even though I was in my room the whole time.No Pixar movie has ever made me feel so miserably unhappy, and the 30-second-long happy ending did nothing to make up for the preceding hour and a half of oppressive, and progressively intensifying, gloom. My goodness, that was depressing. I'm not P.O.'d that it made me cry; I actually never cried, although I did come pretty close at the very end, but even if I had, it wasn't in a good way. I have no idea how this movie was supposed to make me feel, but I felt downcast whether that was the intent or not.If this is Pixar's "return to form," then I'm not sure I want on this ship anymore. This "form" started seven years ago with Wall-E, a dreadfully depressing film, continued with Up, about which I listened to my instincts and mercifully skipped (a decision I have never once regretted), and Toy Story 3, which I saw one time and have never watched it since (three guesses why, and the first two don't count). And now Inside Out. Wall-E was a mercy compared to this, and it has barely had time to fully sink in.I just... I'm dejected. I didn't like it at all. As I said before, I had a very bad feeling from the moment I found out what the movie was about. I put off watching it for almost a week after renting it, just to steel myself for it, even after waiting months for it to come out, and now... I'm not sure anything could have prepared me for this. Frankly, I wish I'd left well enough alone, ignored everybody's raving and pressuring me to see it, and never watched it. I guess one positive is that now nobody can tell me 'don't knock it if you haven't tried it.' I tried it, and it made me miserable. I told you so.I apologize to any readers if I'm coming off as ranting and railing, but... that was upsetting. I think I'm going to listen to some John Williams to try to cheer myself up.P.S. Just so nobody misunderstands me, from a purely objective standpoint, this was a marvelously well done film. The animation is beautiful, the voice-acting top notch, and the musical score is lovely. I am not calling any of that into question. This is merely how I experienced the story, and it made me feel like I was dying inside.


                
INSIDE OUT is a colorful animated feature that I doubt if Disney and Pixar realize is probably too complex for the viewers they intend to reach. Riley(Kaitlyn Dias)is an 11 year old girl, who is really upset with her mom(Diane Lane)and dad's(Kyle MacLachlan)decision to uproot and move the family to San Francisco. Riley is separated from her friends and is just not so happy with dealing with a new house, school and city. She would rather be back in Minnesota playing hockey.Most of the film takes place inside Riley's young brain where she must deal with five emotions that dwell in Headquarters; there is Joy(Amy Poehler), Sadness(Phyllis Smith), Anger(Louis Black), Disgust(Mindy Kailing) and Fear(Bill Hader)that jostle to and fro trying to dominate control. Joy tends to be Riley's most important emotion trying to anchor her within a positive attitude.Other actors lending their voices: Richard Kind, Bobby Moynihan, Dave Goetz, Frank Oz, John Cooley and Paula Pell.
Interesting concept but poorly done, expectations of an animated movie to entertain children are severely disappointing. There is nothing in this film to entertain any young children it is depressing and sad.The first part of the film is nothing but fluff and time fillerThe concepts and vocabulary are far beyond the comprehension of young children.The plot line is full of holes and technical goofs.A complete waste of time and effort, Pixar dropped the ball on this one.


                
Sometimes things are overrated - that is just a fact of life I suppose, but in this case we have a special exception. The over-rate-o-meter is broken and that must be why no one can tell how overrated it is.Having heard some oozing reviews on the radio and online, with statements like "return to form for Pixar" and "leaving the disappointment of Brave behind", I was expecting something spectacular. All I can say is... wow.Brave is several factors of infinity better than this film. Brave has a plot, it has some comedy, it has nice songs and music - it has some characters and the characters have some fire.In contrast Inside Out relies on one thing and one thing only - anecdotes. Everything hinges on a cheap emotional connection to the various events in life that everyone experiences. The "actual" film itself has a weak, scattered and infuriating plot-line pasted together from random sketches. Sadness and Joy are both equally annoying - and theyare the main characters! The characters are all one-dimensional and there are very few of them. There is no memorable music, there are no memorable quotes, the comedy - well there really isn't any to speak of. The only ray of light in the whole thing is the buildup and end to "put the foot down" and it isn't mind blowing, it's just a chuckle.Now, is Frozen overrated? Yes, of course it is, but again at LEAST is has a powerful main song and some interesting characters to merit it's following.Despite all of the "glowing" reviews and comments here on IMDb and elsewhere, I defy anyone to come up with a single quote, a single piece of music, a single character from this film that merits the enthusiasm.3/10 - and that is being generous


                
I was expecting a funny lighthearted animated movie, one I have come to expect from Pixar. Unfortunately there was only one funny scene, but it was the scene I already watched in the trailer. Instead I had to endure over an hour of the most depressing movie I have ever brought my daughter to see. It seems as though Pixar tried desperately to make a movie with an adult theme (ie the psychological workings of emotions in the mind, with a plot that is, unfortunately, commonplace in real life ) but with goofy animation that appeals to children.. I wish they stuck to the adult humor that goes over the kid's heads rather than serious issues that goes over the kid's heads.. Sadly in the end, the "happy" ending was only mildly happy. Not nearly happy enough to raise me up out of the depression the movie had sank me into.. I left the cinema down, and that's not what I like to spend money on. I asked my daughter, "so what would you give it out of 10?" She said "an 8" but when she got into the car she seemed sad, I asked her was she OK? and she started to cry and retold me a part of the movie she found sad.. Unfortunately that didn't go over her head.


                
Nice animation, but I was looking for a comedy movie. The trailers made it seem funny, and it was a little, but when you constantly hear cry's from your own child and other children around the theater, it made you want to leave. In fact, my five year old asked to leave twice during the movie. How much sadness can you put into a family movie? There is a big dose of sadness at the beginning. Then things really fall apart which is sad. Then things vanish which makes you sad. Then something is sacrificed and things are sad again. But sadness is OK..., right? No, not when you want to see a comedy. If you want to see a funny movie, watch the Minions, but not this movie.
One of the worst movies ever. Yes the movie was animated great and the movie flowed well etc. Technically it was a great movie. On the other hand I felt horrible through 99% of this movie. I would have walked out if it wasn't for the fact that it was "Father's Day" and I was there with my daughter. The movie was mainly negative. Sad and depressing things happen throughout the story. Didn't hear anyone, parents or children say they wanted to come back and watch this movie again. My daughter was depressed for part of the day afterwards. Not happy about this movie at all. Do not recommend for anyone with children who have depression or troubles in their life.


                
My daughter came to me this weekend and said we HAD to see Inside Out. I'm a big movie guy and usually get a kick out of kids movies because of the beautiful animation and witty comedy. When I read this was a Pixar movie and saw many of the rave reviews I was all in.It started out with a great premise. Little girl (Riley) is born as an only child to a loving family living in Minnesota. We are introduced to the lead character, Joy, who is part of the team that provides Riley with all of her emotions. Joy is exactly as the name describes, she provides the Joy for Riley. However, we are also introduced to Sadness, Fear, and Disgust.Inside of Riley's mind is a complex system of "personality islands," thought trains, memory storage systems, and a crew in charge of sending forgotten about memories to a "dump" where the memories are forever forgotten. Basically, Joy is an overachiever who feels it is her duty to control Riley's emotions 90% of the time while limiting the control of the other emotions. Nothing wrong with that as we all would like our kids to be joyous 90% of the time. Shortly after we establish a relationship with Riley, the director decides to move the family to a dump in the middle of San Francisco. From here the story just tumbles downhill. Sadness begins to take over the control room, touching different memories and causing Riley to fall into early stages of depression. As Joy begins to sense this downward spiral things go wrong in the control room and one way or another Joy and Sadness are sent to the inner reaches of Riley's mind.I won't follow the details from here on out as I only have a 1,000 word limit. From this point on (from about the 30 minute mark), this movie takes the audience through constant peril and depression as Joy struggles to get her and sadness back to the control room. Constant failure, constant heartbreak. This whole time Riley continues to tumble deeper into a state of depression.The audience watched the next hour in a state of stunned silence. Nobody made a peep. I was very tempted to end this torture and grab my daughter and leave the theater. I cannot believe a movie like this was green lit, and let alone sent out by Pixar. My only hope for this review is that it helps keep families with high hopes away from going to this movie. It truly is a depressing movie and I heard more tears than laughter. I can't understand how that would get rave reviews. People's lives are hard enough as it is. To try and escape at the movies and see something like this is wrong.Animation was great, not worth sitting through something as heartbreaking as this.
START OF REVIEW: The idea of internal thoughts and emotions is nice and there were a few moments which made us laugh. But the major part of the movie was boring and depressive. I would say the cartoon is not for children. It was also annoying as one of the 2 major characters was sadness. I think Disney paid some foreign company to be upvoted to 8.6 and cause me go and see and be disappointed with it. Shame. End of review. I also don't get the need of IMDb to force you to write. a ten lines freaking review. if you can communicate the message with just five linesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss!!!!! This is absolute foolishness and i am just writing things up to fill this up


                
' Contain Spoiler'I warned ya.. Simply my opinion on this movie. Everyone is entitled to their opinion .Well I heard so much raved on this movie. So I just found the time to watch it for the first time .(I'm months late) , i know....Well truth to be told, the story line is too... readable. Joy being over controlling and sadness is the odd one out which reveals conflicts there , gonna be events, therefore Riley must face certain changes then of course , only natural, Joy realize all emotion must play their role to depth the 'experience' in life . its a readable plot. That what turn me off , there just too much cartoon and animation serve the same idea as this movie.' A little girl undergoing changes and unable to express her emotion properly ' We all went to this kind of phase in real life, the creator just well retell the story we all know. It is not an original idea nor fresh. Sorry. And i believe our conscience is more powerful than our emotion. It just doesn't make sense how emotion are the only thing that dictate what to do.the movie was okay. I don't hate the movie , its much more like a 50-50 feeling. The feeling that it could have been better. BUT I have to praise the creator for having such creativity in designing how one memories core work and design of the island and everything. The choices of colours vibrant of course , it's a pixar movie. The character are well developed from how Riley was a cheerful child to introvert-kinda child in a very quick time ,and well again its a pixar movie. Expect a good ending out of it. I know its targeted to children but really. We all know the majority of audience is going to be mostly adults, young adults, and children. Basically the story was targeted to 2 audience. The vibrant with crazy design were targeted to attract children while the emotion stuff and the conflict face by Riley are to target adult to well. To relate with her situation.Its a nice movie(Not really the best pixar movie ever , there other) but hoping there could be a twist there. The values that were set in the movies are already set by other old animation. Sorry for the bad review. Its my first time reviewing.all I'm saying is. ITS JUST TOO READABLE. People who watch Japanese, western or whatever animation for a long time . You know too well about the plot and value in the 'inside out story'. I was hoping something well different when i heard reviews and stuff about how fresh this idea was.
Before I went to see the movie, I heard (almost) everywhere that this is one of the best movie from Pixar, with an original idea. Hasn't anybody heard about Herman's Head? It's the same concept, but cleverer (in my opinion).Let's get to this movie:* my biggest problem is with the introduction of characters (and places); the only characters that have some introduction are the 5 emotions. From the command center everything seems to be automated, without any other help/character, but wait, there are some workers that decide which memory gets kept an which forgotten, other workers that build and maintain Fantasy Land, an imaginary friend that just roams through the memory ... repository, a TV studio (dream makers), a jail, memory eraser ...* Sadness seems to be such a weak character that doesn't account for her actions, you have to make some connections with Riley's situation in order to (somehow) account for her actions (I still don't see a reason for her actions). It's like she's not in control of her actions. I would say that sadness is, sometimes, a stronger emotion than joy, I never saw that in this movie* Joy seems to be a strong character. After 12 years of controlling Riley, all of a sudden she looses control to Sadness who, as I said, seems a weak character. * there is a lot of focus on the pit where memories are forgotten "everything that falls there disappears forever". Then Joy manages to fall there. Of course she escapes, she's a main character and this is a Disney movie * the islands are lost way to easy, there is no trace of them in the "pit", at the end they reappear bigger and better * the only thing that they got it right (in my opinion) is the fact that dreams are mainly events from the previous day then fears and desires.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, especially to kids.The only reason I gave it more than one star is because of Pixar's animation. Disney's story ruined the end product.
I believe that this movie good in some aspects but not everything was great as everyone thinks it is. The movie clearly has screens within it that copy and paste from 2001 osmosis Jones. Don't get wrong Jones was an OK movie the animation was great, designs were awesome and it did show some workings of the inner body but way too many bad puns and structural not good story brought the movie down some. Yet I'm defending it the because Disney needs to stop doing taking concepts from other movies and making it their own. It's OK once in a while but the brakes needs to be pumped because they have to come up with something original and clearly theirs


                
Let me start this review off by saying it's written by a white male, so there isn't any built-in angst or bias. I'm also totally NOT p.c. and it's extremely rare I find anything overtly offensive in any media. That said, I was still highly insulted by this movie, its presentation of first-world problems as life shattering, and its oversimplification of human emotions -- supposedly there are only 5, and anything other than "joy" is unacceptable. The story centers on a white, middle-class girl who, (DEAR GOD) gets uprooted from her idyllic home to a nice looking place in one of the most expensive cities in North America. The fact that her many worldly possessions are delayed (not lost, mind you... just delayed) causes her psyche to tailspin from one ruled with the perky yet iron fist of Joy to one tinged with Sadness. The horror!! Get this girl some Paxil and a bottle of Evian!I'm not saying that a big life change such as a move isn't grounds for an emotional upheaval (especially in children); but to present it as an event that could very well cause irreparable damage to your mental state is being a tad over dramatic. There are children who starve on the streets of our country, and I'm supposed to feel empathy for some girl whose memories of ice skating with her parents are suddenly slightly touched with sadness? How can I live if I don't know if she'll EVER find happiness in her generously-sized room in San Francisco?! She has melancholy chats with her friends via webcam on a laptop, and exhibits hissy fits at the dinner table while the plate in front of her is full of food. Obviously there should be some kind of telethon or fund raising concert to extract her from this inconceivable situation!Joy has taken a back seat to anger and sadness, so obviously there's something inherently wrong here and it must be corrected. The harsh realness of real reality is too much for this child to bear, so lets all wait with bated breath to see if Joy will take her rightful place as the ruler of this girl's head. We all know the painful plight of a little white girl who suddenly has to deal with the unthinkable indignity of a new bedroom that's festooned with the heat and electricity of her old bedroom... but on a slightly smaller scale. And the insult of not one, but TWO caring parents who try to provide for her? It's no small wonder that Joy isn't her overriding emotion on a daily basis when she obviously has so much working against her. I think you get the point. This movie is "deep" only for those who are too superficial to see how trite the first world problems presented here are; then there's the ridiculous notion of "if you're feeling anything other than happy, this must be corrected since it will result in the destruction of memories, friendships, family ties, and a feeling of self-worth." Indeed the ending hints that nuances of emotions will form when two or more of them "touch" memories: however, it still presents it as unless Joy is at least part of every memory, then there's something wrong. On top of all that, it manifests the human mind as being something commandeered ONLY by raw emotions...nothing is tempered by knowledge, experience, logic, and the like. Obviously all of that could never be simplified to the point where it could still be a movie palatable to children. I totally realize it's meant to be a fun, cute film that kids can understand and relate to... but if you can't tell the story fully, why confuse kids by telling it at all?


                
I'll be short because I already feel like I've wasted enough time even seeing this film.The main characters are emotions. Sadly the only characters one could potentially care about (The humans) are portrayed as robots or puppets in which the emotions are the puppeteers.The film lags in the middle big time, I just wanted the bad jokes and boring middle to come to an end.The idea that one is at the mercy of their emotions is very misinformed and a terrible message to send to kids.Just so it's clear, I love Pixar films. Rarely am I disappointed. But this is trash!


                
Inside Out is the story of how emotions work in our minds (in a girl's mind to be precise). The emotions, Joy and Sadness, wonder around the girl's mind, aiming to find a way back to the controlling room where they can help her through a big change in her life. The story is interesting, but it gets boring towards the end, as the one twist follows the other. Joy is a control freak, dictating every emotions' move and pretty much dominating the girl's mood. Other than that, and the overjoy-full mood, Inside out is funny and entertaining. The colours are vivid and the action enough to make a good movie. But I guess the whole control room, memories, dreams etc etc are kind of confusing, with all the islands and the maze. So 3 out of 10.
Okay, let me start off by saying I LOVE Disney. I can honestly say that there is no Disney movie that I dislike... But this movie was terrible. (I give it a 3 because it did make me laugh) I can honestly see why people love it, but for me it just made me really annoyed with Sadness. For the majority of the movie I was trying not to scream at the screen. For example....SPOILER....The part when Sadness is touching all of the Memories....WHAT WAS SHE THINKING??? Shes like that one person you work with who is miserable and make everyone else miserable. Like I said there were some parts that I did like, but over all I spent the majority of the movie annoyed with one character. P.S. Please don't let my review sway you from watching it. This is just my opinion...you have your own. :)
Just finished the movie and somethings didn't exactly feel right. I mean first of all five emotions were acting like themselves except sadness. She wasn't sad she was clearly depressed. When you are sad you want to cry out your lungs yet she was hopeless and tired all the time. And the main message of the movie didn't make sense to me at all. The depression which Riley's been suffering was not something crying and experiencing the sadness would've fixed which she wasn't even denying being sad from the beginning just at some point sadness decided to go. And when it was back it stopped Riley from running away from home?How? Why?Was she sad she was going to be alone? I mean her feeling sad just should've made it harder and longer her acceptance of her new conditions for all I see with its presence.Or maybe sadness cornered her saying if you want to avoid pain avoid me just accept all of this I don't know maybe this was the message intended.
I like this movie, but, I just can't watch it anymore. The more I watch it, the more I realize that it's just too incredibly sad and depressing, and the music on top of that makes me want to die. It's too awful. The whole combination of it all just makes for a garbage film. At least Frozen was fun.


                
Inside Out and Mad Max Fury Road currently stand as two of the highest rated films of the year. Critical reviews shine as well as audience ratings, however only one belongs to the title of highest rated film of 2015 and that is Mad Max Fury Road, not Inside Out. Pixar's latest feature is likable and decent, but not as amazing as people are saying it is. Inside Out lacks a consistent flow of chuckles, I smiled and nodded more as there are never any truly laugh out loud moments. This hour and a half feature felt longer, as the themes of depression completely padded out any potential comedy. However, I can't deny the voice work as it is excellent. Amy Poehler's unabashed optimism shone through even the most downbeat moments, Bill Hader is as entertaining as ever shouting and squealing with fear, and Mindy Kaling is sassy and does a great job as disgust, in fact I couldn't imagine anyone else fitted to it. For me, and my mates who I saw it with, found that Phyllis Smith who voiced sadness was the funniest and most effective. The drained feeling in her voice and lack of happiness serves the plot greatly throughout, especially in the ending. The animation is vibrant, and whilst there are fine details seen in the people side of the film, I felt there was a lack of detail and depth inside the character heads scenes, which is where the majority of the film is set. It's far from Pixar's best work, yet people are hailing it as the finest since Toy Story. I just don't see it, I got a lot of stick from my mates and lecturers for not enjoying it as much as they did but tough, Inside Out is not all it's cracked up to be. The concept is really cool, and this film is admittedly perfect for both kids and old viewers, exploring the darker sides of emotions and what can go on in a persons head but what really lacks is a strong heart and comedy.


                
