All the Pixar movies are amazing, and this one is certainly no exception. While I wouldn't say it is the best Pixar movie, it is definitely up there with the best, and I might even go so far as to say it was one of the best movies of 2015!While it is Pixar's saddest and most heartbreaking film, and many seem to hate it for this reason, but I say it shows how the company has grown more mature over the years. There is no sugar coating; this film handles some of the most mature and dark themes that I've ever seen in a kid's film, and I love it.Definitely worth a watch!


                
I had high expectations for this movie, and I was quite disappointed when I finished it. I really hope Pixar does better next time, because this is not good enough.The people who gave it an 8, 9 or 10 out of 10 need to calm down though, and so do the people who gave it a 1, 2 or 3. It's definitely not amazing, but it's definitely not "the worst" either. Those who say it's one of the two are exaggerating. Personally, I think it's mediocre. It has some fun, interesting elements to it, and the concept is original. It starts out quite interesting, the beginning is the best part, but the rest is not as good. It relies heavily on clichés, and none of the characters feel original. None of them develop much either, not even the main character, they're predictable and quite boring. Actually, you don't really get to know them, not even Riley, which is pretty ridiculous considering the movie is set inside her head. The parts that are supposed to make you laugh only make you smile awkwardly, because they're so cliché. There is no "wow factor", and the ending was predictable. Definitely not what I would expect from Pixar.I wouldn't recommend or discourage people from watching it though, as some may enjoy it, but people probably shouldn't get their hopes up.


                
Given by Pixar which once again made the miracle.Nice analyse of the insight world,wonderful scenery and nice background.


                
The film was made well! Although there were some moments make the whole movie slow down a little bit. But overall its a Good movie well-done. There're some touching moments also. I love the way Bing Bong accepted to disappear to bring more memoriable memories for Riley ^ ^
I went with high expectations for this film from the feedback it received. I was not disappointed the film is well written and has an interesting perspective of how the mind works. I left the theater thinking of all the different emotions we have and really how they work. The movie is funny and quite sad at some points. Its a feel good family movie that adults can enjoy with their children. The voices go with each character as well as the different moods. Pixar has stepped up their game with this one it is up there with toy story and up. I recommend you see this movie it is fun for children as well as adults. Some of the context is set up for adults to understand. It is not a waste of time to take acouple hours out of the heat and see a fun heartwarming film.


                
As is often the case, before I could see this film, I had a host of people tell me how it affected them. Tears, creativity, uniquely presented emotions. This always shades the stuff I feel personally. While it didn't speak to me as much as others, I have to admit that it was enjoyable and highly creative. We have as our protagonist, Riley, a little girl who has been fawned on her whole life. She is happy like all kids with a few bumps along the way, as well as typical behavior. We find out that she has been formed by a set of emotions who take on an anthropomorphic being. The five of them create her personality. Unfortunately for her, the family moves from its idyllic setting in Minnesota to San Francisco, where everything is indeed different. During this time, the five emotions become unsettled and this becomes a kind of adventure tale. Joy and Sadness get shot out of their control center, and while they are finding their ways back, Riley begins to fall apart. The strength of this animated film has to do with all aspects of consciousness, such the area of creativity and art where the characters are turned into Picasso figures and later two dimensional figures. There is also the "Train" of consciousness, as well as some Freudian stuff to work with. Memories are save on little orbs and are at the center of putting a person back together again. An imaginary friend is brought in as well. This is quite adult at times, showing things that the kids just won't get. Well worth the time to see it. Oh, I know it's been said before. Stop giving movies ones unless they are deserving. Your job is to review, not to vilify things that aren't perfect. A one should be used to evaluate a cheap 1950's horror movie or an exploitation film, not a thoughtful animated feature that has charmed the vast majority of viewers.


                
Inside Out takes place into Riley's emotions and show us what happens inside your head when you have sort of crisis. Or in this case - moving to a new city.On the one hand,the movie has a lot of tiny problems that ruins the chance to give it a 10. For example, there were few times that i was bored or already know what is coming next. And I wasn't the only one. Also my cousins who are much younger than me felt like this. This shouldn't happen if the movie's goal is to be perfect!Another great example is that in my opinion they didn't focus enough about the emotions and how they function in a different situation-before Riley moved to a new city and the twist started. I wanted to see a lot more about Riley's life and friends.On the other hand, this film is fantastic by many aspects, the movie built a new interesting world that i was very curios and interested to learn about.Also,the movie succeed to make the audiences feel connected to the characters and off-course almost all of the movie had an interesting plot.In conclusion,the movie has a few little problems that ruins the chance to give it a 10 But also a lot of amazement,funny and sophisticated scenes that you suddenly almost forget about the issues that you had with the movie.


                
The buzz has been huge for Pixar's latest venture about the mind of a little girl and the emotions that live within her. Writer/directors Pete Docter and Ronaldo del Carmen, along with co-scribes Meg LeFauve and Josh Cooley create a film with the most simple and authentic concept, and turns it into a methodical, moving, and layered story with so many different themes to indulge. Though there is a minor element to the film that leaves you a bit cold, "Inside Out" is clearly successful in its approach and just about everything you want in a family film this time of year."Inside Out" tells the story of Riley, an eleven-year-old girl whose family moves from Minnesota to San Francisco. In her mind live five real, and relatable feelings: Joy, Sadness, Fear, Disgust, and Anger. When Joy and Sadness accidentally are thrown into the land of Riley's long-term memories, Riley undergoes a barrage of emotions that are affecting her relationships with family, friends, and the things she loves. Now, Joy and Sadness must get back to her core command in order to restore Riley's feelings and relationships.Teamed with the voice talents of Amy Poehler ( who plays "Joy"), Phyllis Smith (who plays "Sadness"), Bill Hader (who plays "Fear"), Lewis Black (who plays "Anger"), and Mindy Kaling (who plays "Disgust"), Pixar's joyful and moving animated feature presents equal parts of humor and tears. A fascinating deconstruction of the mind of a child, and the changes they endure along the way. The subject matter is among Pixar's most ambitious and their most impressive since "WALL-E."What shines bright is the stunning animation on screen. A beautiful array of colors, just hypnotizing to the eyes as "Joy" and "Sadness" venture off into different parts of Riley's mind. I'd say this is definitely among Pixar's most alluring and aesthetically beautiful films they've ever created.As we've come to expect from an Oscar-winning composer like Michael Giacchino, the score for "Inside Out" is subtly impeccable. Among his most reserved compositions, Giacchino takes a back seat to the story and lets the film do its work through imagery and narration.Presenting another key reason for a Voice Work Oscar to be created, both Poehler and Smith are downright magnificent in two of the year's finest performances. Poehler's Joy anchors the film with a glaze of sweetness, and when called upon, will break your heart with epic emotions. Smith's Sadness is a devastating but truly compelling creation, as she bridges our thoughts through tears and loss. Those two will be putting your tearducts to work and in overdrive in several moments. This is another shining example of a female-driven feature that is just as enjoyable, if not more, than any other male protagonist in films today. Film producers need to start taking notice of the slate of successes this year and what they need to do change the landscape.Where the film doesn't completely connect is in its supporting characters, in particular Anger and Disgust. With no fault going to the sensational voice work of Lewis Black and Mindy Kaling, the narrative creation of their place in the story doesn't seem to quite jive. "Anger" is a simple emotion to portray, but I minor found inconsistencies in his character's actions that were noticeable. "Disgust," which probably would have been better off being called "Sarcasm" just didn't seem like a core emotion that I think exists in the mind of an eleven year old girl. While I think "Disgust" is something that the younger minds can easily understand, I think a different direction may have been needed for her inclusion. Other players like Bill Hader, Diane Lane (who plays Mom), and Kyle MacLachlan (who plays Dad) are strongly assembled. Special shout out to Kaitlyn Dias, who voices Riley, is vivaciously real in each delivery and each line.With no shortage of tears for the adults, and big laughs for the kids, "Inside Out" fits firmly in the top-tier of Pixar's most vibrant pictures. An echo of love and vulnerability, the feature is gorgeously inventive and passionately executed. A fine selection for all to enjoy, no matter what age. Your frontrunner for the Animated Feature Oscar for 2015 has arrived.In addition, the Pixar short "Lava" is stunningly delightful and powerfully engaging. Likely another contender for an Animated Short Academy Award.Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)


                
The storytelling here is absolutely masterful. Inside Out is a well thought out and in depth allegory for the interaction of human emotion. Each and every metaphor used rings so true as to bring tears to your eyes or smiles to your face. Parents will connect with all the feeling they remember of trying times and passions from their youth. The slight misstep made in this film is that the story assumes a fairly mature comprehension of emotion. It deals with concepts that will not resonate with young children as they have either not experienced or not understood feelings in this manner before. This is not to say the content is inappropriate in any way, simply that it may not connect with the youngest audiences. For parents and school aged kids 8+ this is a wonderful movie. For little tykes, you may find them more engrossed with the Minions movie.


                
This movie was by far the funniest in some aspects, but not all the way. Yes there was some serious parts like Running away from home won't solve your problems and a ton of other meanings. Basically Joy and Sadness embark on an amazing adventure after something dreadful happens to the core memories.While Anger, Disgust, and Fear are trying to keep Rileys emotions up it turns from bad to worse, Riley starts stealing and then runs off trying to get back home all to find out that maybe life isn't so bad where she lived. The funniest parts were with Bing Bong and the singing/musical wagon which I really loved, and SPOILER ALERT....WHEN BINGBONG GETS FORGOTTEN I CRIED LIKE TEARS AND ALL.This movie is a good family movie, even though it doesn't show all of our emotions and just the main ones, I thoroughly enjoyed it and I know your family or friends will love it as well
After young Riley is uprooted from her Midwest life and moved to San Francisco, her emotions -- Joy, Fear, Anger, Disgust and Sadness -- conflict on how best to navigate a new city, house and school.As with many popular, successful movies, this one has caused a great deal of response on the Internet. Many people love it, and it currently (January 2016) sits in the Top 100 on IMDb. And, of course, we begin to get a push back with people calling it overrated, over-hyped, and some even saying it is offensive in its depiction of gender and inappropriate for children.The path it has followed through award season has had a similar up and down trajectory. Early on, it was seen as the clear winner of the animation Oscar and even in the running for Best Picture. Gradually slipping, it now seems to be 50/50 for animation (up against "Anomalisa") with zero chance of getting anywhere near Best Picture. Sorry, Pixar.As with anything, the reality is never as rosy or as bleak as the Internet would like it to be. "Inside Out" may not be Best Picture, but it has a better-than-average chance of landing the animation Oscar. And that is because you rarely get a cartoon that reaches this deep inside its audience. A film about emotions (or lack thereof) that actually makes you feel.This is not a children's movie. The kids will enjoy the bright colors and characters, especially Bing Bong. And there is nothing "adult" in terms of violence, nudity or cursing. (There is one subtle reference to the San Francisco homosexual community, but it is not offensive or derogatory.) This may be the darkest Pixar film yet, thematically. Depression, loneliness, alienation. The adults are the ones who will really appreciate this sad story of change and end of innocence.Director Pete Docter, who previously made "Up", has set the bar high for himself here if he continues making movies (which, of course, he will). He could even have achieved for himself a place alongside John Lasseter in the hall of great animation directors. He assembled this one just right, down to the voices -- Lewis Black and Phyllis Smith are the very embodiment of the emotions they portray.Although the best animation in recent years remains "Wreck-It Ralph", this film clearly has to rank among the finest, giving such movies as "Ralph" and "Toy Story 3" a run for their money.


                
This is a tough one to judge: on one hand I praise Pixar for trying to make a film out of a rather unconventional idea. Monsters (2001) did this too and was also from the same director. I can image it's hard to predict if you can make such an idea into a great movie. Well it turns out it's rather difficult. The biggest problem this movie has is the characters. They are certainly not as good as those in the Toy Story movies, they just don't seem to be as likable even tough Pixar really tries to make you like 'em. What I did like was that the film sometimes felt a bit bleaker and surrealistic (a kind of Alice in Wonderland feel) than most other Pixar flicks. It does seem strange that a film which revolves around emotions struggles a bit with just that as it has difficulty emotionally involving the audience. I certainly don't think it's a bad film, in my book it's still way better than those lame Cars films but it's not in the Pixar top list.


                
Based on all the hype I was expecting this film to be more than it was. It was still pretty good, but not something I would want to watch again - as a few of my friends said they would (and one did).The animation is very descriptive, colourful and cute. The shapes of the emotions and their colours are very typical of what we may attribute them to look. I'm a little confused at what 'gender' they might be and why it differs, because in the mother's head they are all female and pretty much look the same. I'm not sure about the father, but they might have all been male too, but don't look the same, rather are the same shape and pretty much the same look as the ones in Riley's head. Perhaps this is alluding to the idea that puberty/growing up changes the emotions in our heads, which make sense.The voice actors were pretty good, they match the feel of their characters really well and nothing seemed out of place. Richard Kind, who plays Bing Bong is a small treat and his creation is something that I think most everyone can relate to.I feel like I have outgrown most animation films, as I have been saying for awhile now. Some I can find quite enjoyable and love them to bits (Despicable Me, Tangled), but others though are enjoyable to watch I don't have much of an affinity for.There was a short film at the beginning before Inside Out started, and I was not really impressed by it. It doesn't seem to serve any purpose, was pretty cheesy, and more obviously geared towards children. I was very glad that was not part of the movie.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
This film tells the story of a group of people in charge of emotions and memories in a girl's brain, who struggles to make the girl happy because chaos breaks loose inside the brain.The trailer makes me want to watch it because it looks so much fun. Putting people in charge of the various functions of the brain, especially emotions, is very interesting. It provides many people, especially children, a fun way to understand how the brain works! The story is very fun, and I really like the concepts like abstract thinking chamber and the train of thought! "Inside Out" is very interesting because it presents many aspects of brain activity in a fun and vivid manner. I wish the film was made years ago, when I was in university studying about the brain!


                
Good lord, people love Pixar. The theaters in town were packed with poor souls with twenty seven kids, grown men without kids and us taking our 5 year old Daughter to the movies. Whats more intriguing is every kid in a packed audience shutting up from start to finish. Grown people don't even do that. (They should though, you know who you are)That says something. When Pixar nails it, they really nail it and with Inside Out, they nailed it. It starts off hitting you in the face with emotional Mike Tyson uppercuts and ear bites. It may help that I'm a dad to a little girl but hey, we were all little girls once. Or uh, little kids once. Watching this little girl go through the tough times of life is heart wrenching. It's a great reminder of how devastatingly the outside world can effect the little ones. The originality displayed in how they crafted her mind to really project the many emotions and layers of a human psyche is truly impressive. Inside Out really shines when they show the correlation to whats going on in the outside world & how it effects the mind and body. Seeing the Parents efforts truly change the course of a life in mere moments is some heavy stuff. The whole middle act however?Things become less touching and innovative and lend to a more adventure-ish "gotta get from point A to point B before C happens" race when some of the emotions go haywire and have to find their way back. From here we spend a lot of our time inside the mind and imagination. Things becomes more Magic School Bus than truly breakthrough for a while and hey, that's OK. Magic School Bus was awesome. But things did get a bit average in the middle acts.The ending brings back the correlation to real world and with it come the tears and emotions. As well as breakthrough ideas and originality. You can't help but watch and wonder the many, many places they could go with this idea. The well of emotions, stages of life, different types of people......it's an endless, genius idea. But what makes Inside Out work isn't this idea alone. We really care about this kid and her parents and we relate to their joy, fear, disgust, anger and sadness.No really, I had man tears. 8/10


                
Despite the good reviews I was a little unsure of whether I would like 'Inside Out' going into the cinema. I mean, a film about the emotions in a little girls head, how funny could that be? I am pleased to say that I was wrong. Not only is 'Inside Out' a funny film but it is also incredibly moving, with some real moments of heart.What I love about Pixar films at their best is that they don't talk down to kids. 'Inside Out' is actually a really complex film, but there are enough big moments to keep both kids and adults engaged throughout the film's running time.Having been slightly underwhelmed by 'Ratatouille', 'Brave' and 'Cars', I'm pleased that Pixar are back on form.


                
Kudos to Pixar for this one, because they really took a swing with an ambitious, risky, leftfield concept that I honestly didn't think could work when I first laid eyes on the teaser trailer. It does work, and it's often quite clever in touching a broad range of delicate subjects in a way that can be appreciated by audiences young and old alike; no small balancing act. It's uproarious and cute and heady, but I couldn't shake the nagging feeling that we were just barely scratching the surface here, even as things began wrapping up. There's plenty brewing under the table, but it still feels superficial, and the big developments in the third act don't totally feel like they've been earned when the credits begin to roll. Granted, it's got a bushel of heavy messages to share, much more than many of its peers in the CG animation field, but when it's a delivery from the studio that brought us Toy Story, Monsters Inc. and Wall-E, there's a certain unspoken standard to meet. Inside Out represents a rebound for Pixar, certainly the best (and most creative) of their recent efforts, but it's not as sweeping, engulfing, or rewarding as the classic pedestals of their back catalog.


                
In my opinion, this movie is just a tad overrated. Here we'll start with what I deem the most important aspect to every movie's entertainment: characters. That's right, if I don't care about one or more of the movie's characters, it's hard for me to get into it. Now, I wouldn't say that Inside Out's characters were bad per se, however I would say they were pretty one-dimensional, particularly the 5 emotions. But how could they not be to some extent though? After all, they're all basically single emotions personalized into physical beings, rather than a whole human character. Therefore, I'll first state that I have no problems with how the scriptwriters have handled them, considering that there aren't really any other options in regards to how they could've written them. But that in itself is a problem I have with the entire concept of the movie. Now, as a whole, the concept is a very clever and innovative one; it explains how our minds work through creative metaphors and analogies that are easy for the audience to grasp. But for this concept to work, the characters of the personified emotions would have to only be limited to the traits of the emotion they are meant to represent respectively, otherwise they would miss the point of their respective character altogether. Thus, they'd have no choice but to be confined in stereotypical boxes, with not much space for their personalities to be expanded upon, thus they become predictable and repetitive after a while. This wouldn't be much of a problem for people who pay more attention to the general concept and storyline, as the character's interactions would be enough to keep them entertained during the filler parts, but as I said, I really want to focus on the characters when watching a movie, and relying on interactions(no matter how meaningful or entertaining) solely just isn't enough for me. So I guess this concept just isn't for me, though I do think of it as clever and charming.Now on to the main human character, Riley. I'll start by saying that I really like how they distanced her from stereotypes as much as possible. She has both a girly and a boyish side to her, for example. And there's also a bunch of random traits and preferences thrown into her character, like hating broccoli, goofball etc. To be honest, I liked this, as I do think that our personalities are comprised of many different traits and preferences which all stems from our reaction to past experiences. Some of these traits make us seem like a walking stereotype, while others make us seem like a walking contradiction. However, the problem I have with her character is exactly the opposite of the problem I had with the emotions'. When the emotions interacted together, you could see that they were all bursting with their own personalities which made them very distinguishable from each other. They were like a rainbow when joined together, however each one of them only represented their own respective color, and if you examined them on their own, they turn into a one-dimensional stereotype, like when you take one color out of the rainbow and focus on it, it will seem bland and flat to your eyes. But put them together, and you get a very colorful image. As for Riley, it's like taking a bunch of different colors and mixing them together, only to get a murky saturation. Sure she has a bunch of traits mixed into her character, but none of them are developed enough, and so they remain just general traits that just sort of mix together to make up a bland, uninteresting character that I feel indifferent about.Another(albeit minor) complaint I have is that the film seems to drag on half-way through, specifically when Joy and Sadness are trying to navigate their way back to headquarters. The whole journey just seemed to drag when I was watching the film, and my interest waned. That's not to say that there are no entertaining moments throughout the film, however, as there are certainly moments of charm and humor shared between the characters. Not to mention the little moment shared between Sadness and Bing Bong (definitely one of my favorite moments in the film, as it was inspiring, moving and powerful all at the same time, and it was an important scene of foreshadowing towards the end) and of course, when Joy and Bing Bong were trapped in the memory dump (though I wasn't quite as moved at the scene as most people were, because I found it predictable and wasn't too attached to Bing Bong's character in the first place). However, aside from those two important parts, the rest of the journey seemed mundane, and while there were the aforementioned charming moments littered here and there across it, they felt too short and fleeting to enliven the entire journey for me, so the sense of boredom still lingered throughout the course of the movie.So, those are my main issues with the film. Like most people here, I felt that the end scene was truly amazing, as it captured the feelings of longing and reminiscence perfectly, allowing for an empathetic bond to form between the audience and main character. It has moved me in more ways than one, it has deeply inspired me with it's message of emotional intelligence, and that is no easy feat. Yet, the movie manages to do just that with one scene alone; it was that powerful. Overall, I would say that the movie is successful in presenting the difference between the feeling of suppressing an emotion and the feeling of actually feeling that emotion. For that, I would say I liked it overall. But the issues I had with it (particularly in regards to the character department) definitely dampened my experience of viewing it. Thus, I'd say that I probably don't favor it quite as much as most people on here do.


                
Yeah, okay, it's good; but is Pixar's newest film really that good? Truth is, the worst thing you can say about the worst Pixar films (cough, cough Cars 2) is by comparison they just don't reach the high bar set by Pixar itself. None of them are truly bad artistically. In fact, in comparison to other animation studios, Pixar remains a downright godsend. In that regard, Inside Out is a massive triumph.Riley (Diaz) is just like any twelve-year-old Minnesotan girl. She loves her family and friends and likes to play hockey and goof off when she's not getting good grades in school. Up until now most of her memories are happy largely thanks to the emotions that run her mind. But when her family move to San Francisco those same emotions; Joy (Poehler), Sadness (Smith), Anger (Black), Fear (Hader) and Disgust (Kaling) must experience a parallel odyssey in the mind of young Riley.On the whole the idea, while terrifically refreshing, thinly veils its 94 minute run time. This is including a subplot involving Joy and Sadness getting lost in Riley's subconscious and their odyssey to get back to mission control. While good for a full movie, it's much better as an animated short where straining for material doesn't feel too cloying. No matter, for the geniuses at Pixar know how to make things work story-wise using a myriad of psychological inside jokes and kid friendly humor. Having the "dream factory" look like a Hollywood studio was a particularly nice touch.Pixar is also deft at making sympathetic characters and the emotions that work Riley's brain and influence her actions are well fleshed out. Its true that each character is meant to encapsulate the emotion they represent but their far from the flat characters I expected. It was honestly one of the most pleasant surprises I've seen in an animated film in some time. Joy probably goes through the largest character change realizing that despite her dour demeanor there is a place for Sadness in Riley's world. It helps that the voice actors chosen are able to convey so much so well.Hang on though, Pixar isn't off the hook when it comes to all characters however. Perhaps it's just the limitations of the high- concept but with all these emotions controlling Riley's head, Riley herself comes off as one-dimensional. The decisions she makes are, well for lack of a better word emotional, and rely on little logic. I'm not saying a twelve-year-old should have an adult's understanding of consequence and forethought but for the most part she was simply reacting to stimuli like a behaviorist's wet-dream. There's little history or experience in her actions other than a hatred for broccoli. Likewise her parents are just flat. The father inhabits the role of the absent father whose busy with work...no new ground broken there, and the mother is just your run of the mill concerned mother too tacit to really see what's going on.Overall, the movie's faults are outweighed by its successes. Its a gorgeous movie that does a great job creating the world inside the head of a twelve-year-old girl. It's said that the animators wanted the emotions to appear like apparitions and not as solid objects. In congress with the playful ergonomics of mission control and the creatures the populate the subconscious, Inside Out is yet another visual threshold the animators of Pixar have powered through.Years ago when Up (2009) came out, I saw a news clip about Disney's irritation with Pixar's toy strategy. They were miffed because no child would ever buy a Carl Fredricksen action-figure complete with a tennis ball adorned cane. I'm sure a few rebels in Pixar giggled but John Lasseter and the executive board likely owed Disney's merchandisers for having a 70+ year-old protagonist. Inside Out offers cute characters who are sure to sell at Toys R Us as will The Good Dinosaur (2015), Finding Dory (2016), Toy Story 4 (2017), Incredibles 2 (TBA) and Cars 3 (TBA). Here's to hoping the future intent of Pixar movies remains telling a good yarn and not selling it.


                
Compared to other kids movies, I thought it wasn't that funny or fun, just very average and I was quite bored, no way as good as Ratatouille, or Babe, but it does tackle in a light'ish way a child thinks, moods and what happens when you put the thoughts into actions.But the movie is not aimed dads and mums, its aimed at my sons age (9), he loved the movie, he said it made him think about his thoughts. He's liked it so much, he has now gone to see it 3 times since its been on at the local cinema. So what do I know! Thank god, I only had to take him once, I couldn't have coped with seeing it more than once, unlike many other kids films.


                
Watched Inside Out on the plane after everyone told me I was going to cry. Didn't cry, but I did take something away from it. Had a few chuckles as well. "Sadness" gave me a bit on anxiety. Talk about a depressing character, but I guess that was her role!


                
I may be going out on a limb here, but it's probably safe to say that "Inside Out" is the first mainstream animated feature film to be entirely centered around a seriously depressed child. The reason Riley (Kaitlyn Dias) is so depressed is that the personified emotions - Joy (Amy Poehler), Sadness (Phyllis Smith), Fear (Bill Hader), Disgust (Mindy Kaling) and Anger (Lewis Black) - that are responsible for keeping her psyche running smoothly have been seriously flubbing up of late. So much so that Riley runs the risk of experiencing a full mental breakdown if the emotional team can't retrieve all the core happy memories from Riley's childhood that are rapidly slipping away.Imaginatively conceived by Pete Docter, Meg Lefauve, Josh Cooley and director Ronnie del Carmen, "Inside Out" takes place in two entirely distinct realms: first, in the "real" world, where a young girl has been dragged by her well-meaning but oblivious parents (Kyle MacLachlan, Diane Lane) from Minnesota to their new home in San Francisco; and, second, in the complex inner workings of said child's brain - a place filled with personality islands and memory balls all operated by the aforementioned Emotions from a giant console. Rare for a movie aimed primarily at children, "Inside Out" is psychologically astute in its observations about human nature while remaining fanciful and childlike in tone and attitude. It explores the things that really matter to a youngster who's suddenly been yanked from a world where everything is comfortable and familiar to one where everything is unsettling and strange. The movie also points out how even the most well-intentioned of adults often fail to take into account children's very real feelings at crucial moments in their lives. On a technical level, "Inside Out" comes replete with all the visually stunning graphics, fast-paced storytelling, and outstanding voice work that we've long associated with any computer-animated feature produced by Pixar Studios. But it's the less tangible elements of heart and imagination that truly count in this work.


                
Very nice animation, it tells the story of a young girl who has grown up in Minnesota but is uprooted when her dad and mom have to move to San Francisco with his job. Young Riley has many good memories, her friends, her hockey team. But she hits a rough patch after they move.But the animated movie isn't so much about Riley and her folks as it is about the world of "head office." It is an unseen world where each person, and even pets, have a tiny entity for each of their emotions, like joy, sadness, anger, etc. The story starts when Riley is first born, the team of unseen entities see through her eyes and give her emotions motivation. Her memories are represented by different color spheres stored in permanent memory in head office. The two main emotions we see are voiced by Amy Poehler as Riley's Joy and Phyllis Smith as Riley's Sadness. And we see that sometimes sadness is necessary to appreciate what is really important.I like it for the novelty, it makes one think.
The point of this movie is so simple that maybe I tried to figure out what way it was going to take. And I felt surprise. The point is that the human being cannot live holding and choking one of its emotions. So, they presented us Joy, Sadness, Fear, Disgust and Anger. They are emotions of the kid Riley, and they work in her brain to keep her balanced. Once Joy and Sadness were unbalanced during her childhood, Sadness did not find itself useful and naturally started a sequence of mess in her head. As an effect, she was thrown with Joy out of the "control zone" towards the mazes of memories and personalities islands. The moment that everything happened was one of the most scary moments of our childhood: the moment you enter in a new school.(Genial script!) So, this is not a movie about the kid Riley. Her personality had been constructed and destroyed and then reconstructed all during the piece and again, this is not a movie about her. Instead of that, this piece is about her emotions and how they are connected with each other in the construction of her personality. And how sometimes, Sadness needs to take control. Because if you are an human being, Sadness is there, somewhere, repressed or not.
Is a kid's movie that is incredibly moving and thought provoking still successful if its only mildly funny? Came into this one with pretty high expectations due to the eye-popping reviews and it was the first film I brought my niece and nephew too. If you have seen my top movies of 2014 lists, then it is apparent that I can really appreciate animated movies, with The Lego Movie being my #2 favorite movie of that year. Would Inside Out be this years Lego Movie? or the bigger question, would my niece Henley be able to sit through a whole movie? Inside Out is an inventive story that follows a young girl Riley and her emotions; Joy, Rage, Fear, Sadness, and Disgust. She is a seemingly happy girl with her family up in Minnesota and with Joy (Amy Poehler) at the controls of her emotions. There are bowling ball looking spheres that represent memories; gold for joy, green for disgust, red for anger, green for fear, and blue for sadness. With Joy leading the way of all the emotions, most of the spherical memories in Riley's mental inventory were a pure gold, including the core memories that helped create thematic islands that represent Riley's life. Then within a blink of an eye Riley gets uprooted from her life in Minnesota and moves to San Fransisco. All the emotions panic and Joy's joy is shaken for a split second for the first time before she gains composure and tries to put on a smile during a bad situation.As you can tell so far the story and idea are incredibly clever, and the execution was nearly flawless, but the big missing piece for me was the humor. The laughs for me were sparse, which was even true for my 3 year old niece, and 5 year old nephew. Spoiler: Brecken enjoyed the movie while Henley couldn't sit still, and even if she was sitting still, all the worth while themes would of probably flown over her head, but we still had a great time.Once in San Fransisco, the fight gets real for Joy and the rest of the emotions to make Riley happy. Joy loses control though of sadness, who keeps touching memories which makes these joyful memories into sad memories. In the middle of one of these scruffs of joy trying to keep memories from sadness, they both get sucked out of the emotion headquarters and into the long-term memories. With joy gone and unable to help Riley's emotions, the happy and loving girl fades into a disgusted and fearfully angry girl, mainly towards to her parents (like so many of us did when we were kids). Riley, on the inside and out, slowly falls apart into an emotionally numb pre teen. This is actually a pretty dynamic and long plot for a kids movie so with specifics to the plot that's where I'll leave you.When Joy is out trying to get back to the headquarters and throughout, Inside Out becomes an allegory that hits pretty heavily on some weighty issues regarding emotionally numb teens due to adults expecting you to always be happy, or just over medication of our kids. This works remarkably well and the emotional heft of this animated movie is pretty remarkable because this is a tremendously heavy and important topic it is hitting. Anyone who's grown up, which is everyone, really can relate to Riley and the battle of feeling like you have to be happy all the time even when there are times for sadness and how those mix of emotions can be a beautiful thing.While Inside Out may of been lacking in laughs, it is more than successful in provoking deep thoughts and pulling at the heart strings. Younger kids below 7 or 8 probably will like something like the minions more due to its more obvious humor but for those looking for surprising dramatic heft, Inside Out is for you. Disclaimer: Missed about 3 minutes in the middle taking Henley to the bathroom and dispensing popcorn and their drink throughout, so may of missed some of the more clever jokes.


                
