Please excuse any mistakes as my English is not very good. There are no spoilers in this review.I had the pleasure of seeing 'Inside Out' at the Cannes Film Festival and I must say it was wonderful and a huge step-up from Pixar's recent efforts. The trailers don't really do it justice. The story may seem complicated for younger viewers, but the way Pixar tells the story fits for both adults and children. The pacing is in the vein of Wall-E, and in that sense it is very much a film for adults as it is for kids (like most Pixar movies). The story here is surprisingly raw and emotional, one that has very deep underlying themes that adults will connect with. Many of the audience members were crying at the end. It has one of the most original stories for an animation in the last few years, and I believe many people (especially adults) will form a connection to it.Speaking of animation, the film is breathtakingly beautiful. There is a nice contrast of colors that make it look vibrant, like Pixar's 'UP'. The voice cast did a wonderful job and you couldn't ask for better direction from Pete Doctor and co. I cannot wait to see this a second time with family and friends. Highly recommended.PS: The short that played before the film, 'Lava', was also beautiful. It was sort of a musical, and it was quite funny and clever. The audience even applauded at the end of it, myself included. In that sense, it provides the entire package a nice balance of joy and laughter (Lava) followed by deep storytelling and emotion (Inside Out).


                
(WARNING THERE COULD BE SOME BRIEF SPOILERS!)Okay seriously you guys what has been going on with IMDb lately? Has it been hacked for real? Or is there some sort of "Hate-group of Movies" that helps the negative reviews to be read just so we won't watch this movie? Before I was able to see this movie I refused to read any reviews here especially the negatives. And I can honestly say that I am extremely baffled to see how many negative reviews around here is on the top of usefulness! Was this movie seriously that bad? Is this really PIXAR's worst movie out there? And my answer to that is simply: No not at all! And I will tell why this isn't a bad movie.Now I don't want any rant here as much as everyone else don't and I know most people hate "defenders" of certain movies but you know what I might as well be going to perform both of those things right now just so you get the idea why "Inside Out" isn't a bad movie.First I do have a question to those who didn't like this movie: Have you totally forgotten how good a PIXAR movie usually presents? Yes I know it's been a long time since we had a remotely good Pixar movie, I wasn't impressed of Cars 2 and I despised Brave too (and I still think today it's an awful movie that didn't deserve its Oscar) although I didn't dislike Monsters University as much everyone else did but true it could have been better. And now 2 years without a Pixar movie we finally got to see their next feature "Inside Out" and I can honestly tell everyone that this is not only the best Pixar movie since Toy Story 3 it's also their most "personal" movie so far.Now as much as I love watching Disney movies from WDAS I still love watching Pixar movies for their own unique presentations. Ever since "Ratatouille" they've had such unique ways for presenting unusual storytelling with the characters and the stories but still manage to be beautiful, likable and well-crafted without even messing up with annoying corny humor that ruins the important moments. And for a long time it finally got that craft after watching this movie and it also returned my love for Pixar again.Now I do not want to go with deeper details about the characters since I think now most know how these characters was presented, but if I'd like to talk about something a little different I would love to ask again to those who didn't like the film about the "perfect" girl Riley. Could you at least describe what's so "perfect" about Riley. And what did you else expect? A poor or rich girl? Or a stereotype? Riley's a fine character and I was happy to see how Pixar managed to create their own girl without ever putting in stereotypical appearances for her and that's a plus. She isn't extremely girly or a spoiled brat either and to me she's one of the most original characters Pixar have created. Though I do wished we could have gotten a little more screen time with her.I won't spoil the message but it is another big thing Pixar has given us this year. And I can tell that I was really worried if there ever were going to be a "good" message in this movie, and yet it does. I honestly can't see what makes it "too dark" for the children to understand it and as I said before this really is PIXAR's most personal movie so far and I'm not lying about this, I felt how a little tear from me wanted to get out when the movie was almost over. I think this year could be their most important message they've delivered us and I am very thankful to Pixar for showing us that. Oh and also the humor in the movie, did I tell you how enjoyable the humor in the movie was? I almost couldn't breathe in some parts and yes it was that funny it had a good balance of their usual Pixar humor with some very witty small jokes that appeared at times. Comedy movies have really disappointed me for the past years but I really had a great time with "Inside Out" I'd even dare to say this movie is even funnier than most newer comedy movies.One last but not least thing to say: I really had a good time watching Inside Out and the audience loved it too and at the very end of the movie (it's not always this usual for my home country and this was no exception) everyone applauded and so did I and I frankly believe it deserves the credit it receives. And I'm just going to go ahead and say that I think it should be about time that an animated movie should win for Best Picture next year. No I'm 100% serious about this and I wouldn't be surprised at all it would make me very proud of the Oscars to pick this one as the winner. And hopefully can finally change the minds of millions of people who still believes that animated movies are just for children, and hopefully it ends soon when they see Inside Out.
Inside out is movie about emotions. Various emotions depicted in the movie are joy, fear, disgust, anger and sadness. The movie is about a girl who grows up to 11 years of age and then faces, what we can say, her first major mental breakdown resulting in a sad core memory formation. This happens because of the reason they move from Minnesota to a new place. The dull phase of her life is gradually overcome as the movie progresses as she learns to handle emotions more nicely.A human brain consists of various parts. It's fair to say that activity in certain part is responsible for a specific emotion. The movie has portrayed it very nicely. Human brain is very complicated structure. How it works majorly remains a mystery. The work done in the movie is a great representation of available information. The movie shows how a human being matures in terms of his emotions. Its shown how the girl learns to handle multiple emotions in terms of memory.My personal favorite emotions(characters) go in order anger, fear, joy, disgust, and sadness. Anger being the most liked one. The movie is wonderful, great job done by creators. Fairly recommended.


                
First of all, I was really concerned when watching it, if I could get a five or six year-old to watch it...Having said that, this movie was awesome as an idea. I loved the way that the workings of the brain were paralleled to the characters of the movie and in general the graphics, etc. Plenty moments of laughs, although not hysterical as in other movies, but still lots of laughs!Loved the anger character as well as disgust! Loved them! I really liked the small clips in the end where they show how the brains of other people work, as long as the brain of a dog and a cat (this last one was to die for!). Overall, when a movie is as good as this one, you don't need to write much. Definitely worth watching with you kid, I would say ages 9 and up, and for sure worth watching as an adult, still hang up on animated movies! ;-)


                
I went into this movie not knowing it's premise or anything really, I knew it was Pixar, so figured it would be pretty good. Needless to say it was a great movie. I found the whole concept to be interesting and different, like one of those, "huh, that's a pretty cool idea" moments.It was done well, great visuals as usual from Pixar, and plenty of genuinely funny moments. I actually gave a damn about the characters in the movie, which was surprising as it is a kids movie after all and I am 36! Still I found myself thoroughly entertained, and would definitely watch it again.Another one for the collection? Maybe so, I don't think it's up there with Toy Story, but I think its one of the better movies Pixar have put out for a while.


                
I'm not a conspiracist, but, the fact there's so many VERY negative reviews all bunched together is telling.Not one, not some - ALL, of these so-called 'reviews' harp on exactly the same - idiotic - things.In simple terms, they don't like that reality sets in, that at the point in the lead character, Riley's life - when she is burgeoning to enter adolescence (and puberty), and all the emotional havoc which DOES happen, every single one of these cretins finds it <U+0085>disturbing.From one idiot who complained the move to San Francisco (which they described as being a 'dump'), when, in fact, MOST every residence - when first moved in is no showcase, and contrary to this narrow-minded morons thinking, living in a big city is much preferable to living in suburban, rural HELL.They ALL complain of the negativity which happens at this point - all these imbeciles are parents of ;little kids, VERY little kids, and, from their brainless ravings, they've no clue - either about REAL parenting, or the 'fun' time which WILL wait THEM when THEIR kid hits puberty/adolescence.Inside Out doesn't have fairy princes, princesses, magic ponies, or any other such rot.It is guided, instead, that the audience viewing it has INTELLIGENCE, and understands NOT EVERY 'kid' film is for a SMALL CHILD.I would say the age range of this film would be 7-8 & up.Whilst watching it, though I'm not a girl/woman, and never lived-in a house (thank goodness) in the middle of nowhere (hallelujah), there's many emotions I - and anyone else who was ever a child, and is intelligent.If anything I thought the film a touch to simplistic - but, thought the story, and the way it is brought to life, inventive, and instructive.I'm willing to bet all the morons who reacted so negatively, all are from 'small' communities, were either high school dropouts, or worse - home-schooled, and had some religious upbringing - all the things, which are DE trying this country.


                
THE SHORT OF IT: While watching 'Inside Out', I came to the realization that the film contains common plot elements seen in past Pixar films (especially Docter's previous two films). If you've seen 'Monsters Inc.' and 'Up', then you'll eventually see that this film is just a rehash of those two films combined. However, some people say that Pixar's latest offering stole its concept from an obscure '90s sitcom called 'Herman's Head'. And some even say that this film is a complete rip-off of the 2009 Japanese manga 'Nounai Poison Berry' (and its live-action adaptation that also came out this year).For those people (and to myself), I just want to say one thing: deal with it. Like Picasso said, "Good artists copy, great artists steal." And Pixar did a great job stealing this idea and making it their own.With that being said, 'Inside Out' is still wildly original, universally relatable, and incredibly moving. The animation is beautiful as always, the story is well paced, and there are very few moments where the humour feels strange and off-putting (there's also a joke for you 'Chinatown' fans out there). Don't feel like you need to bring a little kid with you just to see this film – Pixar has proved time and time again in the past that they are some of Hollywood's best storytellers<U+0085> and has done so yet again with 'Inside Out'.This truly stands as one of the BEST 'coming-of-age (or puberty)' films that has been released in the past five years.P.S. Those with kids younger than nine should probably be warned that this film does get pretty dark (for a kid's movie) at the 2/3rd mark.


                
I do not regularly watch animation movies, but since I saw the highly positive reviews, I went to watch it, and liked the movie. The overall idea of the movie has a lot, i mean A LOT, of creativity that you will definitely admire. A point that I like about this movie is it avoids falling into a category of "just amaze the audience" movies. There is some meaning in many parts of the movie that is open to discussion. In my opinion, this movie is in many ways similar to the "up" movie, made by the same company. However, I think "up" was better made.Overall, worth to watch if you are interested in animations. If you are interested in more realistic, drama or action movies then I don't recommend.


                
The latest Pixar animated feature Inside Out is an innovative and creative new film that captures the hearts of both children and adults alike. The primary story takes place inside of the main character Riley's head as she undergoes the stressful transition of moving from her former home in Minnesota to her new one in San Francisco, California. Five emotions - Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear, and Disgust - act as principal characters in the film and live inside the young girl's mind. These feelings strive to help Riley adjust to her new life in the Golden State as she leaves her old home and friends behind.Personally, I enjoyed this movie because it provided me with realizations about my own mind. As one might deduce from reading my title summary, people talk to me in my head all the time. In all, there are about nine different voices communicating to me on a regular basis. They often tell me to do things. These are things I sometimes might not want to do, but they make me do these things anyways. I have been told to urinate in public fountains, murder neighborhood cats, have sex with neighborhood cats, and even go see the Entourage movie. (Gasp!) I know, it's horrible. But my willpower means nothing to the bullies that live inside of my mind. I have actually named all of the different personalities that occupy my brain. The cast of unwelcome assailants includes what I call the following: The Butcher, Satan's Little Minion, The Lunchlady, The Catholic Schoolgirl Slut, Larry Bird, the Dark Lord, My Stepdad Bruce, and Bill Cosby (not the lovable TV dad, but the alleged rapist). These nine characters take over my mind every single day and inform me to plan and execute evil deeds against society. It is only a matter of time before I do something extreme... and perhaps deadly...The reason I love the Pixar movie Inside Out so much is because it lets me know that there's nothing wrong with having people live inside of your mind. My family has been trying to make me seek mental help for months now, but this film just ensured me that I am perfect exactly the way I am. The characters talking to me in my head are only trying to help. They know what's best for me. That's why sometimes they take away my will to act against them when I don't agree with their ideas. It's all for my own good. The thought that if I hadn't have seen this stellar animated feature I might have gone to see a mental health professional about my so-called "problems" is scary. Thank you, Pixar, for helping me understand that there's nothing wrong with me and any money spent on one of those quack psychiatrists would have been a complete waste. Sincerely, Your fellow IMDb user blakelogsdon1


                
It was truly an amazing, advanced conceptual, artistic film.


                
Beautiful idea, very well executed. This movie is clearly an Oscar contender this year, and I would say it is a lock for Best Animation Movie, and I think it will have some other nominations (possible Best Motion Picture of the year) We just had a proof that Disney and Pixar work great in collaboration and can create amazing stuff together. I always loved to read about psychology, so when I heard that Disney and Pixar released a movie about the mind I was super excited to watch it. It was even better when I saw the reviews on IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes. This is a must see for all the family. I almost cried in the end of the movie. I consider this to be an almost perfect movie. The only thing that I think it failed was the Bing Bong storyline. I think it would be nice if Joy made Riley remember about Bing Bong, cause he was kind of forgotten in the end.
I am surprised so many people have reviewed this film with such negativity. As a mature individual well plus 21, I watched this movie with my wife and youngest child who is aged four. We all laughed all the way through.Sometimes, I wonder what people expect from a movie. Here we have an imaginative story line which truly gets into the mind of a young child with joy sadness fear anger and disgust.Yes, the characters for Mother and Father are a little stereotyped and there are moments in the film when you could easily feel disappointed or depressed but those moments are short and overall the film holds the attention of the audience from beginning to end.The storyline is simplistic and touching, nothing overly American about it, dealing with a child moving far away from home and looking at the problems she faces at home and at school in a fun and challenging way.This is no doubt a film aimed at a mixed audience of parent and child and teenagers too might find the topic of interest when looking at those five basic emotions applied to themselves.There are a lot of mediocre films about which fall well below the mark and not many in the category of family entertainment which are appealing across the generation divide. In my view, this one will appeal.It was the weekend, the film was recommended to me. It was a perfectly good moral film with a sound storyline and easy to follow. I did not have to think too much on any of the issues raised in the film. Younger children would not grasp the point made in the morality stakes but who cares so long as everyone who goes to see the film can eat their popcorn in safety and have a few laughs? Well, nearly everyone!


                
I didn't walk into "Inside Out" expecting much. With Pixar's recent track record of pre/sequel/princess movies (with "Toy Story 3" being the only one worth mentioning), they weren't exactly batting a thousand. Which is what made this movie such a pleasant surprise.It's a return to fine form for the studio; great characters, imaginative world, a story that actually connects on more than one level, and most importantly the sense that those tears it's jerking from your eyes aren't for superficial reasons. This is an emotional movie, there can be no doubt. But there's also an amazingly cathartic payoff when all is said and done. And you walk away from this already missing these characters.Hell of a movie.8/10


                
Usually don't write movie reviews since everyone views things so much differently. But I felt compelled to do so, especially after watching this with my 2 daughters 12 & 8 yr old. Yes I understand we parents impact out children's lives and emotions, feelings, thoughts, perceptions and most importantly their lasting memories...which help defines their character & emotional state later in life. The parents are a reflection of their children and we must sacrifice ourselves at times so that our children feelings are taking into consideration. This movie really brings this to life and makes you (the parent) take in consideration of your children's emotional state.


                
Of Pixar's 15 films there has been an unspoken promise made before you go to the theater, you will see something magical. If you have ever felt disappointed leaving a Pixar film it is usually because you had an expectation of greatness and had to settle for "good." Mind you, even "good" is a rare feat when heading to the theater. Inside Out, Pixar's latest venture, achieves greatness in a similar way to Wall-E, a high compliment. While maintaining a child friendly and beautiful atmosphere, there is a very dark undertone that children may not fully understand but will undoubtedly feel.When Riley Anderson is forced to move from Minnesota to California with her family, a very familiar plot is set in motion. A child has to adapt to change at an uncomfortable pace, but will learn that the difficulty and discomfort is part of what makes an adventure<U+0085> an adventure. This usually happens when a wise or eccentric character provides the protagonist with some profound lesson that will come in handy to overcome the antagonist in the foreign environment. This is nothing like Inside Out. I might even argue that this film is without an antagonist. The way this story unfolds is something like Inception for children. This story is substantially easier to follow, but equally deep in possibilities and structure.The other side of this story is set in the mind of Riley. Her emotions take on their own physical presence in a mental control center. These emotions are Joy (Amy Poheler), Sadness (Phyllis Smith), Anger (Lewis Black), Fear (Bill Hader), And Disgust (Mindy Kailing). From birth, Riley's life experiences are monitored and assigned a feeling by these characters. This is less a battle for control and more of a coworker dynamic, attempting to keep the brain power plant operating smoothly. The emotions function as a unit the same as countless other creatures that do the grunt-work of maintaining Riley's memories and her mental labyrinth of storage to organize them. The most compelling physical representations of Riley's mind take form in her core memories. All of these constructs are unique to her, as I doubt that everyone's core memories have a 25% section devoted to hockey. The darkest undertone in this film is just what is at stake in the conflict. Other Pixar features may have life and death hanging in the balance, Inside Out holds an 11 year-old girl's personal identity and sanity over oblivion, literally! There are moments when the dark possibilities seem a little trivialized by the obligatory cuteness of the animated mind, but it does little rob adult viewers from imagining some truly heavy weight implications.This may not be the best Pixar adventure. The voice cast is well chosen and ceaselessly entertaining, but the balance between the inside and out favored the inside a little too frequently. In hindsight this is a petty criticism, but the film is still in the company of some of the most monumental achievements in animation, holding its own.On a side note, because this is a Pixar feature it is preceded by an animated short. This may be the best one yet. It would be criminal to spoil anything, so go in fresh and be delighted.
Contrary to those who believe that Inside Out was a movie for "12 year old girls" or a complete disappointment or even Disney's worst production, I believe that Inside Out was an excellent movie in that its mastery of presenting real life topics (the role emotions play in our perception of memories throughout our lives) in such a way that children are able to grasp the ideas. Now before I continue I want to make it clear that while I am writing a positive review, I am NOT a mom or dad. There are many reasons as to why I believe that Inside Out was a success and not, as some would say, a failure. 1. While there are many other emotions besides anger, fear, disgust, joy, or sadness, the latter are the most common emotions present when we reflect upon memories. You wouldn't say "Oh, that was a desirous memory or exciting memory" you would be more likely to describe it as a happy or joyous memory. Also, if any one of the haters bothered to read the Trivia section about the movie, they would know that 27 other emotions were considered (surprise, trust, and pride were among those that were cut) but settled with joy, sadness, fear, disgust, and anger to make it less complicated for CHILDREN 2. This movie was made for kids. Thus, that is why there are no "adult" themes. However, to say there were no adult themes present would be saying that the idea of emotions, the occasional struggle to sort your emotions or memories, does not apply to adults which is simply not true because this notion applies to the young and old. 3. Inside Out presents the idea to young children that it is okay to express your emotions, that our memories will not always be joyous, but that they will not always be sad. Yes, there were some minor flaws within the movie, but to say that the writers and directors should be fired and never again be allowed to set foot on a PIXAR (this movie was a Disney PIXAR movie, not a Disney movie--they are two different things) set is ridiculous. Not every movie that Pixar has made has been a success. Every production company is bound to experience failures, that's how we learn what does and doesn't work, but in order to succeed one needs to take risks. And those who believe Inside Out to have been a complete failure need a wake up call because that's what this movie was..a risk. It was a movie that explored themes, topics, and issues that no other Disney or Disney Pixar movie had dared to do. And to compare it to Pixar's many other movies would be unjust and unfair not only to Inside Out, but to those other movies because each movie is its own, with different themes, and different topics.


                
Before I start, I will say this; I'm writing this after coming back from a second viewing of Inside Out. Both viewings were out of choice. That's not a unique thing, but I very rarely watch films more than once at the cinema, mainly because life is short, or rather, life is too quick for me. But there's two main reasons why people watch some films more than once at the cinema, especially where I come from; either the film was interesting, detailed, or multi-layered and needs to be seen again to sink in properly, or, it was really, really good.In this case, for me, it's the latter. That's not to say that the film isn't interesting, detailed or multi-layered, but the reason that was repeating in my head to see it again was 'it's really, really good.' But is it? Yes, yes of course it is... Speaking with a bunch of friends with whom I saw it the first time, a risky phrase was unanimously agreed upon, which was that we 'trust the Pixar team to do the right thing.' Needless (totally needless) to say that expectations were high, and frankly, they were surpassed.Even though the film is what we come to expect from Pixar (the universal moral themes, the perfect balance between comedy and sadness, and visually stunning animation and action sequences), I didn't feel that I had seen it all before, and neither was it repetitive nor 'ordinary'. The film hits all the high notes, with perfect intonation, and with discipline and passion. As touched on before, the balance between humour and sadness is strong and impressive; the amount of emotions that the film displays and takes us through is varied and immersive, yet not overwhelming. The film executes such clever ideas with simplicity and ease, leaving us to feel for the characters rather than worry about the 'science' of it all, or even being worried about 'not getting it'.The animation is constantly eye-drawing and detailed; the characters' glistening skin is particularly wondrous. And what great characters they are. Riley is brilliantly sympathetic throughout, even with her difficult mood swings, and the supporting characters are perfectly entertaining. One might think that the superficial nature of the characters (Anger is angry, Fear is always scared etc.) would become old quickly, however the fun never diminishes, thanks to a witty script, expressive animation, and very strong voice performances from the entire cast.However, to top all this off, the real gem comes from the character of Joy, surely a strong contender in the list of Pixar's greatest characters. Even though we are inside the head of Riley for the majority of the film, and the events that drive the movie are essentially her reactions to her new world (moving from Minnesota to San Francisco), the story is Joy's. Being probably the most flawed character in the film (paradoxically, maybe), it's her journey we care about the most, and she ends up being the most in-depth character in the film, occasionally questioning her actions in the first half (well, the cynics will be), and becoming the most sympathetic by the end. Amy Poehler's outstanding performance makes Joy simultaneously the strongest and weakest character in the film (emotionally, that is).After all of this, the freshness of the ideas, the simplified neuroscience, the technical brilliance (saying that, Giacchino's score is probably the most subtle thing in the film, exquisitely putting the finishing touches on the most emotional scenes), fleshed out characters and universal themes, all of this comes together simply to entertain us, to let us escape, and to release us emotionally, which it does by making us laugh and cry in an even and fair manner.And you will laugh. And you will cry. And it is fun to do so. Thank god we're living in a time when Pixar is making these films.
In a fantastic world where people had five main characters in their heads which represent joy, fear, anger, disgust and sadness, a young girl is about to enter the darkest period of her short but lovely life. When she's forced to move with her parents to another home in San Francisco, Hope and Sadness get accidentally sent away from headquarters, leaving Fear, Anger and Disgust to take care of everything. This is the part when all begins to go wrong and only the two main feelings can help her, if they actually manage to get back to the place where they belong.It's a very sentimental movie which presents the adventures of two characters as they try to find their way back through an endless maze filled with long-term memories. It's mostly sad and suspenseful, contrary to what I was expecting, briefly changing the mood from time to time with a funny sequence. I would have preferred a more joyful movie considering the premise it had, this way making it easier for everyone to enjoy. I had the impression I was watching a drama rather than a colorful and cheerful animation, which, by the way, was top notch as usual. Don't get me wrong, it's still a very good animation but pretty far away from the elite, unfortunately.


                
The human mind is a complex labyrinth of mental processes, conscious and unconscious thoughts, emotions, memories, and more. It's a muscle that's always working in complicated ways to ensure our survival in day-to-day interactions, and for human beings in particular, this extends to emotional well-being, socializing, rationalizing, communicating, and more. Few people, if any, fully understand how the human brain fully works; it's just always there, and the voices in our heads are always there to guide us through life. With Pixar's film Inside Out, filmmakers cleverly interpret neuroscience into a whole new universe where emotions are characters, memories are objects to be stored and used, and their interactions are what cause people to act the way they do.In spite of the premise, the film definitely employs some imaginative world-building, featuring visually fantastic scenes where a person's mind is a surreal fantasy world akin to Alice in Wonderland (which in itself could be interpreted as a mental thing anyway). Within the mind of one little girl, there are "personality islands" that represents Riley's values; there's a literal "train of thought" that appears; there's a zone where "abstract thought" turns the characters into literally abstract figures; there's a film studio that makes dreams; and so much more. It's a clever way to translate what we know of the brain into literal places that are visually impressive and sometimes funny. What brings the mental landscape to life will be the characters though - the interaction between all the emotions creates plenty of hilarious comedy between themselves, and causes people to react in funny ways too. Altogether, the movie is just as cute, funny, and imaginative as Toy Story and Monsters Inc. were.The story has two different narratives working for it. On one level, it's the simple story about Riley, the girl who has to move from rural Minnesota to San Francisco, and has to cope with all the stress of leaving behind home and living in a new place. In her head is where the bulk of the film's adventure takes place, in which Riley's Joy and Sadness both go missing and have to find their way back to headquarters before the other emotions mess up Riley's life for good. It's a pretty lightweight story on both accounts, with subtle levels of conflict. What makes the film compelling will be the characters, both external and internal. It is consistently fun to watch the emotions, for even though they are one-dimensional, their personalities clash and react in dynamic ways. Thanks to their relationships, Riley and her family are brought to life in a perfectly lovable way as well. Their struggles are struggles that we can all relate to though; the film underscores the turmoil around life changes and maturity that we all face at some point, and through those fundamental conflicts, the film reaches an emotional resonance as the characters straddle the threshold of maintaining psychological stability.This film is crafted with top-notch animation quality. It's a bright and colorful film with plenty of imaginative designs. Lighting, textures, and rendering are all great. Movements are very lively and smooth. In some areas, it is genuinely impressive as to how big in scale some of the settings and locales are. Voice-acting is great from the whole cast, the writing is good, and the music score is appropriate.Inside Out is cute, funny, and pretty clever, much like the other films Pixar is best known for. It deserves a look.4/5 (Experience: Good | Content: Good | Film: Good)


                
This movie is definitely a return to form for Pixar. It has just about everything you want from them: Family Friendly (for the most part), a concept that has been done before but with a story that takes that concept to the next level, and story that will tug at your heartstrings.What is the story about? It's a story of an 11 year old girl named Riley who has been uprooted from Minnesota to live in San Francisco. However, we come to care about her through her emotions, mainly Joy and Sadness, which are personified. Belling the story through her emotions, Pixar is able take us through a journey of the mind. The animation, the voice, and the score are all spot on. My two criticisms, and these are really nitpicks, is that at times I could really feel the movie slow down and I wish they explored the different areas of the mind a bit more. I know slow moments are necessary, but it was noticeable. That said, when the movie was going, it was a wild ride of fun and emotion. I also wish they had explored the deeper recess of the mind a bit more, but I understand this might have made things too complicated for a film that us meant for a more general audience. If your kid is of a young age and gets restless easily, this likely isn't going to be a movie for him or her. However, this movie offers a great lesson to the young and old (one many adults tend to forget). This is actually a film I would say older kids and adults will get more out of, but I recommend it for anyone that can handle this type of movie.It's a wonderful film that the the family can enjoy and a great addition to the Pixar cannon. 8/10


                
Normally, when I take my ten-year-old daughter to the cinema to see a 'children's' movie, I normally just sit there praying for it to end as it's just a load of colourful sentimental nonsense designed to fill an hour and a half's time. My daughter, and most of those who are around her age, all sit there laughing and enjoying the film. I just want to go home. This is because – naturally – children's movies are aimed at children (no surprise there then!) and, as an adult I have to accept that and just go along with it. That was until I saw 'Inside Out.' Here the film seems to be written the other way round. Yes, I loved it. I had a great time during the screening. And, although there were plenty of colourful characters for my daughter to watch, I didn't really think that she (or 90% of the under elevens in the audience) really appreciated it.We're shown that, right from birth, we have little characters in our heads controlling different areas of our personality – a happy little character for 'joy,' a depressed little character for 'sadness' and so on. These quirky little creatures control and dictate our actions and therefore life throughout our lives. The little characters we meet here reside inside a little girl called Riley's head. And, when she moves house and her life gets turned upside down, the little people inside her mind go on an adventure throughout her body – in particular various aspects of her mind.And this is where things get a little complicated. Well... not for me, but then I'm an adult. However, some – in fact quite a lot – of the gags start to fall flat on the children's ears when the characters on screen walk into the 'subconscious' and you're treated to the 'horrors' which reside buried deep in all our minds. And this is how it went on. More and more of the story seemed to be designed for those with a least a better understanding of the way our minds work that your average 'Pixar-watching' child.I've read other reviews and I see that a lot of kids did actually enjoy this film. However, I just wonder on what level they did? My daughter loved it, but the characters were pretty and 'good' was easily distinguishable from 'bad.' Personally, I loved Inside Out and would happily watch it again. I thought it was clever and different. I also couldn't help but think I was watching some sort of Christopher Nolan film like 'Inception.' Adults will love it. Kids should love it. Just be prepared to explain some metaphysical aspects of a Disney film during the drive home from the cinema!


                
Inside Out is a 2015 American 3D computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The film was directed by Pete Docter and co-directed by Ronnie del Carmen, with a screenplay by Docter, Meg LeFauve and Josh Cooley from a story by Docter and del Carmen. The film is set in the mind of a young girl named Riley Andersen, where five personified emotions—Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear, and Disgust —try to lead her through life as her parents move from Minnesota to San Francisco and she has to adjust to her new surroundings.The film shows a adolescent girl, Riley's emotions. When I watched the film, I sympathize with Riley. The highlight of the film is that Riley grows up as she experiences many things.


                
Inside Out is a sweet and original flick. It's unique story line definitely is what has driven people to watch it.It is a movie for all ages and although the story line isn't the most stimulating and brilliant movie for an adult, it still can be enjoyed by one and it is the perfect movie to take your kids too.The story line is cute and has a good moral throughout and really takes on a different edge of the mind of a child and adult that can be quite relatable to both.Overall this is a very good movie for kids and a satisfying enough movie for adults.


                
Inside Out is the story of a little girl named Riley and the little voices inside her head that control her emotions. After Riley's family moves to a new home, the emotions in her head (Joy, Anger, Disgust, Fear and Sadness) begin to experience some technical difficulties and question the purpose of Sadness. While trying to keep Riley in check, Joy and Sadness get separated from the group and have to try and get back to headquarters before Riley has an emotional breakdown. While I have found the last few of Pixar's films have strayed from their audience (either focusing too much on the children or the adults), this one is a return to form. While there are more then enough jokes meant for children and there are just as many meant for adults. I laughed quite often. The art style is perfect for the concept and the casting was perfect. There is a lot to like, but my favorite aspect of this film is the moral lesson that this film teaches. Not only is the lesson incredibly useful to not only children and adults, but it is truly helpful and a lesson that not a lot of people focus on. There are not many flaws with the film. Most of my complaints are nitpicking at best. The biggest one I have is with the structure of the plot and not the plot itself. It suffers from what I call Armageddon Syndrome (named after the first film that I noticed having this particular issue). A good plot is supposed to slowly increase tension and progress through a series of important moments until it reaches a climax where it them calms down and resolves. Armageddon Syndrome is where there seems to be little to no progress until the final climax. The plot in Inside Out just looped itself for a majority of the film until it felt like finishing. This made the movie get a little boring at times. Joy and Sadness would try some method to get back by going to locations that signify different parts of the human psyche, would fail, and try again until no more jokes and puns could be made. While this is a major, glaring issue with the film, it doesn't detract all that much since the writing is so good. The best way to think of this film is like a road trip across the country. The destinations are fun and memorable, but the drive between them is kind of boring and repetitive. Despite this I highly recommend watching Inside Out.


                
(Rating: <U+2606><U+2606><U+2606> out of 4) This film is recommended.In brief: Insightful and thought-provoking, but not as mind-blowing as expected.GRADE: BCritics have been raving about the latest Disney / Pixar offering, Inside Out. While it doesn't take one to the dizzying heights of animation perfection like the award-winning Holy Trinity of Animation (Toy Story, Up, and Ratatouille), it still is entertaining and insightful, far better than most standard animated films these days. <U+FFFC>Literally, the moviegoers are given a introspective tour into the mind of an 11 year old girl named Riley. This fantastic voyage takes us into the brain's central work station manned by Joy (Amy Poehler), Sadness (Phyllis Smith), Fear (Bill Hader), Anger (lewis Black), and Disgust (Mindy Kaling). This quartet of emotions help keep Riley in balance.That is until Riley's outside world starts to come undone with real-life issues changing her life. Inside, things are beginning to disintegrate as well when Sadness accidentally starts a domino effect that alters Riley's behavior and mood swings. (The fact that Riley is headed for those teenage angst years doesn't help matters either.) So Joy takes over to try and rectify this imbalance causing even more issues.<U+FFFC>Well directed by Pete Docter and co-directed by Ronaldo Del Carmen, Inside Out is animation with adults in mind. The screenplay by Meg LeFauve, Josh Cooley, and the director, takes an intriguing premise but never fully succeeds in expanding its mind games. And while the intentions are good, the end result is a bit scattered. With all the language about core memories, deductive reasoning, and abstract thinking being bantered about, one wonders if a psychology major is required for the minors in the audience. The film's target audience may have been children, but only those with the highest of IQ's. The voice-over work is consistently strong, especially Poehler, Smith, and Kaitlyn Dias as Riley. However, while some of the emotions are well defined like Joy and Sadness, the other trio is regulated to secondary roles that are less nuanced. Other major emotions are never even represented or acknowledged for that matter. Paging Sigmund!<U+FFFC>The real scene stealer of the film (in Freudian terms, our Id) is Bing Bong (wonderful vocal work too by Richard Kind), a pink confection of cotton candy and various animal parts who cries candy tears and was once Riley's imaginary best friend. This character is the heart of the film and the emotional center of Inside Out. The film laments the loss of childhood in the subtlest of ways and effectively taps into any moviegoer's emotional "core". <U+FFFC>The film's animation is as highly accomplished as we expect from the Disney / Pixar Studios. Its textural details and imaginative Rube Goldberg devices show the inter-workings of a child's mind with its floating islands, glowing orbs, and neon lit chutes and ladders...a Disneyland for the mind. Its stylized humans have enough realistic touches to make their characters seem authentic especially in sharp contrast to the cartoon qualities of the more obviously color-coded crew. The musical score by the talented Michael Giacchino superbly links its haunting melodies with the visual images on display. It is also refreshing that this film never resorts to inane slapstick chases and sophomoric humor, so prevalent in today's animation.<U+FFFC>Inside Out shows the ins and outs of growing up in a refreshing and intelligent way in which adults can easily relate while their young children will pass the time wondering why their parents are enjoying the film more than they are.Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com


                
