I am not normally one to write reviews, but I couldn't help reading several for this film on this site that just did't seem to understand where I think the film was supposed to be coming from.The majority of the complaints I saw were that the film was 'too depressing for a children's film', but whilst I see where they are coming from in some regards, every child who I have seen watch this film (I work in a cinema) has absolutely loved it, and laughed out loud almost constantly. They are not old enough to realise the message the film is trying to convey: that life isn't all about happiness. I applaud the attempt from Pixar to make a film that is not only hilarious in places, but is also a major comment on what life is like to be a younger teenager, transitioning through one of the most important moments of life. From a more personal perspective, why should everything we show our children gloss over the reality of life, and try to make them believe everything is rosy 24/7? Again, what this film does brilliantly through the message I took away at the end was that life will never be 100% full of happiness, but that is fine. Why does it have to be? A little bit of sadness is necessary. If a person was never sad, they would be inhumane. Overall then, I suppose my review is more of a comment on the type of film we exhibit to children, and how the Nanny-state we live in looks to protect them from most of lives inevitabilities. Either way, what can't be ignored is that this film is equal parts sad, and equal parts what I am sure will become a timeless classic in years to come.


                
For some reason, I couldn't quite catch this movie in theaters and I managed to watch it on an international flight. And boy, am I glad I did! As far as concepts go, I was astonished at the amount of detail and coherence in execution. The visuals are absolutely stunning, the colors rich and vibrant, the characters utterly memorable and some of the most poignantly heart-breaking lines of dialogue ever spoken/sung in any movie, let alone feature animation. It is every bit a Disney-Pixar classic and as emphatic a return to form as it can get.The story revolves around a young girl child who is happy in her world and has to suddenly acclimatize to another environment when her family has to move. Growing pains and social issues affect her while she grapples with increasingly complex situations, both at home and school. Meanwhile, the interplay between the five primary emotions inside her mind is both dynamic and fraught with compromises, much like how we deal with others everyday. As things come to a head and young Riley is about to make a life-changing decision, the events that follow leave a lasting impression, with an increased appreciation of the phrase "emotions are what makes us human"! I recognized some dichotomies - for instance, Minnesota, usually perceived cold, is regarded as warm and comforting by Riley while San Francisco, renowned for its sunny weather, is seen as foreign and unwelcome. The other contrast I noticed was all five emotional figures (Joy, Sadness, Anger, Fear, and Disgust) do not always stay true to form, with Joy especially exhibiting nuances far beyond what her name implies - case in point, her touching admission preceding the last act (that entire sequence was too much for my eyes to take, by the way). All this might be considered a tad too much for young children to appreciate, but with time, they may probably realize how beautifully honest this movie was in trying to portray their growth and the underlying issues.Certainly, it is not without flaws: the plot meandered a bit 2/3rds into the length; Joy's "A-ha" moment seems strangely contrived, despite the impact it had; the music was adequate but not truly captivating as in the case of other Pixar offerings. But the beauty of this medium is that it offers filmmakers opportunities to steer audiences to more engaging experiences; Pete Docter and Co accomplish this with aplomb.In terms of cast and crew, the voice actors are superb selections - Lewis Black aces the Angry persona with generous dollops of sarcasm; Mindy Kaling is just perfect voicing Disgust; Richard Kind's performance as the imaginary Bing Bong is an absolute tear-jerker, while Kaitlyn Dias shows remarkable poise playing Riley. But it is Amy Poehler who steals the show in a coruscating blend of vivacity, vibrancy, and vicariousness. Her Joy is not an infallible leader, but one who accepts others in the face of challenging situations and plows ahead with inspiring positive energy. The animation left me spell-bound, especially the sequence where thoughts are shown to be abstracted, and are endowed with a lot of heart. The movie is fairly short, but a running time of 94 minutes is appropriate justice to a slightly heavy subject matter. The humor compensates with trademark Pixar staple of jokes, albeit intended for slightly more mature viewers. Pete Docter gave us the outstanding Up six years ago and ably accompanied by Ronnie del Carmen, has categorically demonstrated that he is a fabulous storyteller and a master entertainer.Inside Out is every bit a Pixar fan's well-deserved reward for patience. Do yourself a favor and watch this magnificent gem.


                
For every child, growing up can be exciting, confusing, and difficult. For Riley, who is uprooted from her Midwest life when her father starts a new job in San Francisco, Riley is directed by her emotions, Joy (Amy Poehler), Fear (Bill Hader), Anger (Lewis Black), Disgust (Mindy Kaling) and Sadness (Phyllis Smith) in Headquarters Control Center inside Riley's mind to help her overcome everyday life. However, Riley and her emotions struggle to adjust to Riley's new life in San Francisco and emotional disorder arises. Although Joy, Riley's main and most fundamental emotion, tries to keep things optimistic, the emotions fight on how best to navigate Riley's new world.After watching "Inside Out" with my wife, we both agreed that "Inside Out" is the perfect Pixar Animation movie for any family on a night out. It was both imaginative and relatable for both children and adults. I never thought "Inside Out" would be this enjoyable, but I was able to experience every emotion of "Joy", "Disgust", "Anger", "Fear", and "Sadness" for each and every moment of this film. At the end of the night, I was pleasantly unsatisfied because I wanted to watch the movie again and again. Parents, if you're looking for a fun filled movie night with your children, this movie will not only please them, but you as well.A Definite 9!! Well done Pixar!


                
The film felt like a breath of fresh air, with a plot that used the interesting idea of being inside the 'head' of Riley. Inside Out wasn't exactly I expected to see from what the trailers had shown. A couple of moments had me laugh out loud, and others drove me to tears with emotion. There wasn't much action in the film compared to many others that Pixar have created, but I was moved in a way that many (shallow) blockbusters haven't done in years. I don't think children will enjoy this film as much as the 21+ audience will, due to the story being one that the "older" audience might relate to more.


                
94 minutes of pure joy and emotion. A return to masterclass from pixar and not only that, probably their best work outside of Toy Story 1 and 2. This film does deserves every bit of praise it has got and more. I will say without hesitation that if you haven't seen this film, believe me you should.Lets just start easy by saying that the animation is something other-wordily. We are beyond the point where anyone needs to express the fact that pixar's animation is gorgeous, but the fact is this animation is some of the most intelligent and dense animation I have ever seen. There are easter eggs in every single frame and more than that every visual element in the movie is well rounded and clearly thought out which makes the storytelling so much more gripping. Talking about storytelling, rarely does a film do visual storytelling so brilliantly. Five minutes into the movie I was in and I knew how things were rolling. This s really a lesson on how to think things out visually and how to use visuals to your advantage as much as it is possible, combining them to smart, engaging ideas.And now to the layers the film has. The deepness of its themes, the intelligence of its story, the subtext behind every action and word, the comedic touches, the insanely funny pop culture references, the poetic approach to joy and sadness, the emotional depth, everything, I'm telling you everything here is gut wrenching. There isn't one scene where you feel time is being wasted, there isn't one word a character speaks that doesn't feel genuine, there isn't one idea that is boring or unoriginal. This film is beyond emotionally engaging, this film gives you a mirror on which to reflect your life and think about it, but no wait it doesn't stop there, it also gives you the opportunity to laugh about it, that no matter what is going on there is also space for a laugh and for lightness. Wow.After a second viewing I have settled on the problem I originally had and can now honestly say this film really just has nitpick issues, it's truly a great one and definitely the best we've been given in 2015 so far. After my first viewing I was all enthusiastic about everything above, but I also was left a little confused by the mythology the film uses and wasn't quite sure it always fit. Upon a second viewing I guarantee that there is no such problem. The mythology is perfect and works with a solid and thought out logic that takes into account the chaos of life. What doesn't quite work is the fact that the film does have a few really minor shortcuts or conveniences that may stick out and I honestly wanted a little bit more of the control center room scenes and see some more of how it worked there, but then again I am really nitpicking.Incredible for me to say it, but I really want a sequel to this film, it's incredible. I want to see another two hours of the five emotions battling in out in the life of Riley and her further struggles, especially want to see the teenage years. This idea is truly amazing and special and it is so inspiring to me, I just really want a sequel to this film and that's the first time I've ever said that in my life.Trust me this film deserves every single bit of your attention and heart, it will take you on a roller-coaster of emotions and entertainment that is absolutely delightful and will also leave you thinking for days.


                
Pixar has been the most daring animated movie studio this side of Japan. With marvelous examples like UP, WALL-E and Finding Nemo they always find the proper way to introduce themes that many deemed too heavy for children and in a way that's both moving and thought provoking, like life after the loss of someone we love, loneliness, social alienation and mourning.And now, we have Inside Out, the latest Pixar's work in an already fantastic oeuvre, and while it does not have the powerful drama and character development of UP or the magnificently executed reflection on solitude that was WALL-E it's no less complex as Inside Out choose to tackle something even more immediate: the complexity in our identity.Riley's personality is well built and relatable, quite an achievement since, if we are strict, we could consider her a big plot vehicle for the true protagonists: Joy and Sadness. The way these two interact with each other and with Riley's identity –cleverly presented as a set of corridors of memory and isles of identity– is a phenomenal example of intelligent animation. When you are sitting there just smiling to yourself about the brilliance of Pixar introducing psychoanalysis concepts to an audience composed mainly of children and explaining these concepts with clear and understandable visual metaphors you know you're witnessing something special.And of course, being a Pixar movie, the emotive scenes are there, ready to move you and take you with them. There's charm, there are laughs. There's plenty of what's lacking in the movies of Dreamworks and others: there's heart.I attended the premiere with my fiancée and my mother, who studied child psychology and worked with children with special needs for years and in the end she told us, with tears in her eyes: I never imagined something like this would ever be done. For my mother it was so moving and complex that she could not believe that children where understanding the movie so well.However, I'm a little skeptical and that's why I'm not ready to give this movie the full 10/10. The movie is indeed complex, maybe too complex sometimes, and I think I saw a couple of children –and adults– not understanding many aspects of this fine film. One clear example was the abstract thoughts chamber. I don't think all of us are ready for something this clever, at least not in this format. However I welcome it with arms wide open. It is time we start respecting the intelligence of children.Now, it's time for me to finish this, think about the movie for a while and take my imaginary friend to the moon.


                
After the uninspired "Brave" and the lazy sequels to "Cars" and "Monsters Inc", it seemed that Pixar had transferred its talent to Disney and vice versa : "Wreck-It Ralph" and "Big Hero 6" clearly looked like Pixar productions, with their adult references and geek humour, while "Brave" was a traditional (dare I say boring ?) fairy tale and "Cars 2" a cheap sequel that Disney could have made. To me, it felt like Pixar was slowly losing the magic that made it stand out.Then came the trailer for Pixar's latest movie, "Inside Out", and suddenly hope was renewed ! I thought that it looked very promising and I couldn't wait to see it ! The idea behind the movie is pretty simple : what if we could see what happened inside a person's brain ? While the french TV series "Il était une fois... la Vie" did it from a documentary perspective, Pixar opted for a subtle mix of comedy, drama and insightful ideas.While the script may sound simplistic, it actually is really well thought out and everything falls into place perfectly. But the real genius comes from all the wonderful ideas the writers came with to materialize and explain how the human mind works.I'm not going to beat around the bush : this movie is simply brilliant ! The last time Pixar took a risk with a truly innovative idea, they gave us "Up", and it was a complete success! It's nice to see that there are still a few writers and producers willing to push fresh ideas to the big screen! My only regret is that it was too short ! I wanted it to last 30 minutes more at least ! They could have expanded their concept a bit more, but at the same time it is true that the movie is quite dense and fast paced : I found myself rewinding or pausing the film several times to pick up all the small but delightful details."Inside Out" is a rare example of a movie that I would love to watch a second time right after it finished, and that tells a lot about its quality! For that reason, it definitively deserves a place in my personal top 3 Pixar movies, right there with "The Incredibles" and "WALL-E". 9/10


                
After five years of relatively fine, solid releases, but with some missteps along the way, Pixar rises again and returns to its former glory with Inside Out.Inside Out runs on the tracks of an apparently straightforward plot of a possible life-changing event for young Riley to present a wonderful display of creativity and imagination, maybe the best from the studio.Human psychology is the setting where emotions come to life to tell the story of the chaotic and somewhat abstract events occurring inside Riley's head with exceptional attention to detail and an impressive clarity. Between nods to the studio's classics and the work of Hayao Miyazaki, everything is carefully thought and perfectly executed, adding an incredible depth and complexity to the amusing spectacle. From all charm and fun to its heart-breaking moments and bittersweet realizations, there is no doubt that Inside Out deserves a place among the likes of Wall-E or UP. And although it suffers from a lack of a toys-holding-hands-in-a-furnace moment, Inside Out winds up to stand out as the most daring and inventive Pixar film to date - and one of my favorite displays of apathy ever.


                
Inside Out is one of Pixars most original and heartwarming films. It uniquely represents human emotions as individual characters, showing how things happening on the outside aren't always as simple on the inside. As usual, Pixar does this with a perfect combination of heavily emotional but also lots of comedic moments to keep it dynamic.I walked into the theater with high expectations and was not disappointed, in fact, the movie was better and so much deeper than I expected. The 'emotion' characters were not one-dimensional (for example: the character that represents anger isn't 100% driven by anger all of the time). The movie cleverly explains emotion and psychological phenomenon to kids so that it triggers their imagination and makes them think of the human brain in more interesting way. Many kids can relate to Riley and this movie helps them understand why they are sometimes feeling the way they do.Overall the story is about a girl who moved to a new city and struggles with her new lifestyle. She goes through a phase that maybe doesn't look too serious on the outside but as I said, there is a huge mess going on inside her head. The most developed character is Joy and she struggles to keep the situation under control. Even tho she's very optimistic, she goes through something similar that Riley herself is going through which is the process of growing up.The movie is definitely worth watching.P.S. the music was brilliant.


                
I love the Idea of the movie , and how it tells you how we thing from a different prospective .. .its very nice and creative , and i think its for adults before kids , Although kids will enjoy it as well for the nice vibe and colorful Image .. It make you think about each and every aspect in our life from a new angle .. Sadness , is a bad thing , but without it we wont know happiness .. fear , protect us most of the times from doing something stupid .. and best thing how they visualize it with characters .. Its a must watch movie for all ages .. clean , happy , and decent movie.
Don't be close-minded. Open your mind to new things, like this movie. It's worth-checking out. Directed by Peter Docter, the movie tells the story of a group of emotions in a little girl's head, trying to deal with a tough, life-changing event. While, the emotions; Joy (Voiced by Amy Poehler), Sadness (Voiced by Phyllis Smith), Anger (Voiced by Lewis Black), Fear (Voiced by Bill Hader), and Disgust (Voiced by Mindy Kaling), want to make the best, out of it; things start to unravel for Riley Anderson (Voiced by Kaitlyn Dias), as her emotions find, that growing up is more difficult, than it seems. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, that this movie is more than a feeling. It's well-crafted animation. Still, there are things in the film that I can nitpick about. While, this isn't really a bad thing, I believe the movie might be a little too sophistication for certain younger audiences. I like how the movie is challenging kids to understand, their own brains, but the movie kinda leaves, some kids confused. Maybe, it need a bit more explanation about what's going on, since there are so much references to Trait theory, abstract thought, Cognitive neuroscience, and the subconscious that kids haven't yet, understood. The humor kinda blends, the same way. You have to be very observed to get some of the jokes here. Jokes like how opinions and facts often get mixed up on the train of thought, might fly pass you, if you're not paying attention. It's very smart, clever, and sublime. Not only is the movie full of mindful jokes, but the movie is the brim with throwbacks to Pixar's previous films, some of them obvious, some of them so hidden in the background that a deeper perceived might be needed. I like all the oddball sequences that the film had to offer. Places like Dream Production, Imaginationland, and Subconscious were pretty cool to see. The world in which, the character live in, is so unique. What a beautiful mind. I love it! I love, every character in this film. The voice acting is amazing. Each one of them, gave a lot of depth to their character. The story is very heart-felt. There are a lot of tear-jerking moments. So, make sure, to bring some tissues! "Take her to the moon for me, okay?"- I was really crying when that moment came. While, the movie is PG, there are a few scary moments that might be a little too scary for small children. Watch out for Mr. Jangles! I love, how the movie deals with a lot of complex things, such as intertwined relationship in parenthood, camaraderie and friendship. Other things that the movie dealt with, is the heartbreaking realization, that the transience of time will inevitable, lead to more complicated feelings, that parents need to be aware, of. One of the most potent about the movie is learning to accept the undeniable encroachment of Sadness into your life. While, it's good to keep a relentless optimism mind. It's not a bad thing, to feel sad or depress when you need it. Empathy is very important and poignant emotion to have. That's heavy! Neuroscientists were consulted to help make the film's settling of an eleven year girl's brain, very believable and I believe, it's very close to how a young mind, might work. Director Peter Docter got the idea for the project, from his daughter. He always wonder, what was going through her mind. So, he created this movie, using it as an allusion/representation of him as a father watching his own daughter go through emotions like those; that Riley had to deal with. While, a lot of critics, are saying, this movie is very original. I have to say, not really. After all, Peter Docter pretty much copy the concept from his previous work on Cranium Command, the Walt Disney Epcot attraction about the human body and watching earlier Disney short films, like 1943's Reason and Emotion. While the movie isn't that original. The movie moves in a very logically pace. Still, there were a lot of head-scratching moments that made me wonder: What were, they thinking? One of them, is how Sadness and Joy couldn't find their way, back to the Headquarters. There were many good examples of ways, Sadness and Joy could make their trip to HQ, a lot easier, such as using Bing Bong's wagon or recall. Both were establish, way early on in the film, but barely use, until late into the film. Honestly, it would have work, better than the odd Deus Ex Machina trampoline that they found. Another thing that people asking questions is how other people in the film usually have all of their emotions match their gender, but not Riley's. There is a possible explanation to this. While, Riley is a girl with a unisex name. She's a tom-boy, so it wouldn't be, too surprising that she would have two male emotions. I really doubt, she is a transgender, but who knows. I think her mind is bit young, so she still possibly figuring her emotions and identify out. With time, maybe, she also will have emotions adequate to her own basic template. Another thing is while, there is a huge variety of emotions, I think the emotions, they picked, work the best. While the movie is full of familiar Pixar tropes and clichés. I'm glad, that Pixer is back, where they belong. It's was very worrisome, for a while. I really didn't like those lackluster, strategic sequels that they kinda put out, a few years ago. Overall: I really love this movie. I haven't met one person that hate this film, yet. You really have to out of mind, if you hate it, because the movie delivers in every way! So don't live with Anhedonia! Go see this movie! It's worth watching! It's mind-treat!
To simplify complex things without losing their complexity is an utmost art. So I marvel at what they made work here and how deeply illuminating of life with such simple pieces, toys essentially. I believe it will go far in estimation. It's not intellectual - but it's driven by surpassing intellectual ability. It's inspirational - but colors everything on the way out with something that goes beyond "inspiration". We have the animated ride about overcoming obstacles to be there for someone, the ride is great fun, the vistas imaginative; a lot of care went into making the inner architecture simple in textures and "locations", with childlike order. But the ride is transferred inside the mind of a little girl and they begin to build something else there. Five emotions inside the heroine's head vying for controls of life, directing a "movie". External reality seen through screens and "cameras" that project cinematic light that carries memory. Memories stored in gleaming orbs that contain them. Colors associated with emotions. All this very simple, it goes without saying, that in other hands or other contexts it would appear reductive.But the way it simplifies complex life inside the heroine's head to simple essentials that we can accept as building material for ours, how well they tied inner and outer so that I found myself nodding every time the bumbling "emotions" translated as believable behavior outside - all the different pieces come together by the end to form such a strong mechanism, simple without feeling like we have missed any nuance in the process. And all this as someone's soul at stake.So far so good, fun, vibrant, intelligent. Maybe the best Pixar already. And then they turn the gear once more and color everything - it's one of the most poignant endings I've seen, it floored me and I'm someone who doesn't give to just anyone the power to touch me.It illuminates - a happy memory only possible because of a sad one that preceded and these as part of the same flow - sadness that must touch all things - sadness that is joy and vice versa - multiply colored orbs now, each one a small gem of inferred ambiguous life. Each one a simple piece by itself. It has created a simple order in the soul, torn it and created another, simple but richer. With other animation films, we lose too much of our nuance in the process of simplifying, not here. The apogee is the lasting impression of seeing myself. Reflections released from their orbs and allowed to float would have a farflung (Malickian) view. But it's what we put into them from our "orbs" that lets us see. We would like our inner murk to be this simple so we accept it and are better off for it, nurturing our ability to see ourselves simply. To simplify complex things without losing their complexity is an utmost art. How much more so the art of simplifying ourselves without losing our complexity?


                
This might be the closest we get, to see inside the heads of the creative minds of Pixar (pun intended). And how wonderful it is in there. The idea itself seems to great that you do wonder how no one has made something as beautiful as this up until now. But Pixar proves again, that even though the idea might be out there, it is able to make it work on so many levels with the layers attached.Giving feelings a face and make them react a certain way is amazing. Giving them a way to grow and learn as if they were humans just adds to that whole thing. There is so much going on here, that it would take too many words and space to go into detail of it all. But all that and the message is still packed in a movie that is also entertaining and funny. Something Pixar movies have succeeded in doing for quite some time now ...


                
Amazingly complex animated film that builds the inside of an 11 year-old girl's mind as a fantastical world of wonder. Five basic emotions, Joy, Sadness, Fear, Anger and Disgust, live inside the mind of Riley and are in control of her attitude and memories. Joy (Amy Poehler) has done a good job of leading the emotions up to this point, but when Riley's parents drag her to San Francisco for her father's job, Sadness (Phyllis Smith) becomes more powerful, much to Joy's chagrin. The metaphors Pete Docter and Ronaldo Del Carmen have created in this girl's mind are insanely clever. Very quickly you get a bit ahead of the film, understanding Riley's emotional responses and the inner workings of her mind before we see her, in real life, react. It actually gets so abstract at times I think I wouldn't recommend the film for younger children - it probably is meant more for children closer to Riley's age, and their parents (and adults in general) will probably get more out of it than any child will. There's a bit of a slapstick element, and, honestly, sometimes it feels a bit out of place. As one might expect, the animation is wonderful. The fantastical world is beautiful, but for me it was the characters who really stood out. Joy in particular is one of Pixar's all-time greatest characters, and she's perfectly performed by Poehler. This is definitely one of Pixar's best movies.


                
So, I had the extreme pleasure to watch the new Pixar movie called Inside Out. This movie really surprised me. When I saw the initial teaser when I went to watch Big Hero 6, I didn't think much of it. Months later, the movie is getting closer to release, and I finally saw the theatrical trailer, and it sold me. From the start of this movie, the visuals are beautiful. And I'm not just talking about the art style, which is beautiful as well. It's just the things the show you is truly magnificent. Really great imagery. I love the emotion characters so much. It was really awesome to see a fictionalization of what goes on in someone's brain. It opened up a new realm of metaphors and imagination. This really made me think about what emotion is controlling my brain and all that. I'm not gonna spoil what it's about, but the plot is very effective. I absolutely love this movie, and Joy is now one of my favourite Disney characters. The animation is stunning, the movie is funny, the voice acting is great, the characters are great and... I cried 3 times during this movie. This was a powerful film with a great message. I give it 9.5/10 - A near perfection. It goes to show you can have a good Disney movie without a pop song that is gonna be played by your daughter in the car over and over again.


                
It's tempting to name the Oscar winner in Animated Feature Film for this year (2015) already, because Inside Out is going to be tough to beat! From the same writer/director, Pete Docter of Pixar classics such as Toy Story (all of them), Monster's Inc, and Up, Inside Out figured to be another great one and surely delivered. The story is of a girl named Riley who's emotions help guide her from birth to the point at which her life is uprooted by a move away from her home town. Those emotions - joy, sadness, fear, disgust, and anger - are terrifically voiced by the likes of Amy Poehler (SNL), Phyllis Smith (The Office), Bill Hader (SNL), Mindy Kaling (The Office), and Lewis Black (Stand-up comic). The animation is glorious, and I feel like I need to see this movie a half dozen more times to be able to take it all in. Add to that an interesting and convincingly complex story line that conceptualizes memories, dreams, the sub conscience, and such in very clever ways. I think the story itself is too complicated for a younger audience, but like many Pixar films, part of the magic is being able to entertain audiences of all levels, even when the story is geared for a more mature audience (think WALL-E, which Pete Docter also wrote). This film doesn't quite have the emotional impact or laughs of a Monster's, Inc., or Toy Story 3 (my personal favorite), but it surely has its tender moments with plenty of funny stuff. That, along with a lively, clever plot and eye candy galore, makes Inside Out a definite must see.


                
I would have to say this is one of the best, if not the best, animated films I have ever seen. Congrats to the directors because the movie was able to summon all sorts of emotions in me with just its atmosphere. It looks perfect. Characters are well designed and very fun. The world inside Riley's head looks beautiful. The film is as interesting as it could get. Not for a second will you think this could be a little more fun. What can you expect from such brilliant directors? Animations, as always in Pixar films, were amazing.Let's talk a little about what is going on in the film and the screenplay. I'm guessing you all had that thought that there is something in your head controlling you...some people, little versions of you or whatever. Writers managed to show it perfectly. Like they had imagination of a child and intelligence of an adult. There is a high chance that you will find yourself in the movie. You will remember what it was like to be a child and you will see how you lost some fun memories, how they faded over time. You will see how you changed and how your thinking has changed. You will be sad at one point when you realize what you lost in transaction from child to an adult. If you are a child you will connect to the film in the way that an adult cannot. The characters will get stuck in your head and you will be more playful then before you watched "Inside Out". One of the most important things is that this film carries a message...I will let you figure it out by yourselves while you're watching. Editing was great. It goes fluently from scene to scene, feels perfect. Music is also very good. Goes beautifully with emotions you get from the film. It kind of reminds me of the music from "The Sims" games. Anyway...Great film. Recommended for people of all ages. If you haven't seen it already I don't know what are you waiting for. Go watch it now!


                
20 years in the film business, Pixar has given us masterpiece after masterpiece even if its best days are probably behind them. They know how to toy with your emotions, add depth to their characters, and best of all know how to deliver very unique stories in very unique perspectives. Director Pete Doctor's previous movie Up is a grandiose example of being an excellent film despite being far off the norm. Inside Out is no exception as it tackles a very complicated yet creative concept of exploring the emotions of a person while giving personalities to emotions---which is no easy task.Inside Out being made into a feasible family movie is quite the accomplishment. Even if the deeper emotional moments and better jokes will be lost on the children, this film has something for everybody to see, from the visuals to the creative stylings of the human mind. Combine that with the perfect (Its honestly flawless) voice cast and a well-rounded script, you have Pixar's best since Toy Story 3.Joy (The perfect Amy Poehler) leads the cast as she attempts to dominate the mind of an 11-year-old and keep the other emotions (Anger, Disgust, Fear, and especially Sadness) in check---especially once the family relocates across the entire country. The conflict arises once Joy becomes unable to run Riley's emotions, leading to a lot of problems inside the mind and outside. Although Pixar runs in the Disney family and you secretly know how it will all pan out, the adventure and discoveries leading up to the inevitable conclusion is what keeps you engaged. There will be the classic Pixar mix of laughter, tears, and surprises throughout the quest to save Riley.Establishing the universe is essential in movies like these, where environments carry its distinctive logic, its distinctive gravity. Inside Out starts out slow so it can mesh out the characters and give us a good idea as to how to approach the world of the mind. By the time you reach the dramatic conclusion, you would have witnessed Riley's imaginative world, her abstract world, her dream machine, as well as her biggest fears. The journey is far from predictable, as Inside Out explores a concept rarely executed (save for a 90s cartoon and a hilarious Spongebob bit).Pixar has had a rough run lately, with delays and disappointing movies mixing together this decade. Inside Out is a step in the right direction thanks to a great script, delightful originality, and the great mix of great animation, laughs and heartfelt moments that we last experienced in the epic Pixar run of 2007-2010 (Ratatouille, Up, Wall-E, Toy Story 3, etc.). It might be slower or more bizarre then what you are used to seeing in animation and blockbuster season, but this film is a fresh visual treat from start to finish.


                
In the past few years, I'm not gonna lie, Pixar Studios have had some duds. They became far too comfortable on the sequel train that didn't require boundary pushing creative storytelling to make millions. Monsters University was a sore disappointment and don't even get me started on Cars 2. Now, they've finally decided to get off that train and return to their roots in telling incredibly clever and beautifully original stories, and they're quickly being reminded that this train makes lots of money, too. Inside Out takes us back to the Pixar heyday of films like Toy Story, A Bug's Life, and The Incredibles and reminds us why we fell in love with this studio, and why adults and children alike can enjoy the hell out of an animated movie made "for kids." Pixar has always been playing with the idea of giving emotions to different creatures (toys, bugs, fish, etc.) and now they've gone Inception on us and given feelings to FEELINGS. Inside Out is the ultimate personification of what goes on in a person's head as they think and feel different things, having their decisions and actions fueled by the multitude of emotions swirling about in their brain. And by multitude I mean five because that's a workable amount of characters and voice actors to fill the core of your story.Inside Out follows Riley, a girl from Minnesota who moves to San Francisco with her family. Inside her head lives Joy, Sadness, Disgust, Fear, and Anger. These five personified emotions work together to keep Riley's mind in check in an elaborate and infinitely clever world full of personality islands, thought trains, imaginary friends lost in long term memory, and so many other brilliant representations of abstract concepts that exist in the human brain. Pixar has always had a knack for high concept world building, and they've outdone themselves here. If you want a totally immersive experience within a world that is abstractly absurd yet also feels so real, then go see this movie. Inside Out builds a world and a system that is full of all the fantastical elements you would expect from an animated experience like this, but it is executed so well and the way thoughts and feelings are represented hits so close to home that after the movie you'll find yourself imagining what your little feeling characters are like in your own head. You'll find yourself thinking about what your own core memories are and what islands of personality they power. Inside Out represents growing up in a way we've never seen done before. It is a perfect way of making sense of all the different emotions we experience as we grow up and learn more about the world. I promise that you've never seen a coming of age story like this. I honestly don't know if I've ever experienced an animated film of this caliber that, while so fantastical and so extravagant, also feels so real. The human brain is nothing more than billions and trillions of electrical synapses, but sometimes those synapses can create something beautiful, like this incredible personification of the mind that is adorable, funny, sentimental, and powerfully touching. I'm so thankful for the synapses working in the minds of those geniuses over at Pixar, because it has given us one of the most heartwarming films in a long, long time that is so universally relate-able I don't know how anybody couldn't enjoy it. I suppose if your Joy emotion were trapped somewhere in the halls of Long Term Memory that might be one way you wouldn't enjoy Inside Out, but hopefully she can catch the next Thought Train back to emotion headquarters soon. Yes, I believe I will be explaining mine and all other emotions through personified characters voiced by Amy Poehler, Bill Hader, and Lewis Black for a while now. This movie had an impact on me, for sure, in the best way possible.


                
Do you ever look at someone and wonder, "What is going on inside their head?" Well, the reality is the answers pretty dull. It's just a big brain sending messages across your body to determine your actions. But in the minds of the creators at Pixar the answer has no limits, with every persons head containing a fully functioning world, where small beings create and store every idea and memory we have in life. And at the centre of this world is a control panel, similar to something like the deck of the Enterprise, which is controlled by our emotions that lead us through every decision we make in our lives. Inside Out follows a girl named Riley (Katilyn Dias) and the five emotions that lead her every action- Sadness (Phyllis Smith), Fear (Bill Hader), Anger (Lewis Black), Disgust (Mindy Kaling) and Riley's most important emotion that has shaped all of Riley's core memories that make her the person she is, Joy (Amy Pohler). They all care for Riley and one another like one big family, always looking to give Riley the best life she can have. This includes everything from remembering to avoid Broccoli to maintaining Riley's goofy attitude to remain her parents happy little girl. But Riley is entering a difficult period in her life of great change. She is moving to a new home in San Francisco, leaving her friends behind, and her father has become too busy with work to look after her the way he used to. This causes the emotions to conflict on the best way to deal with it, with the ensuing chaos causing Joy and Sadness to get lost in the furthest reaches of Riley's mind and forcing them to go on a journey to return to the control room, or Riley might never be happy again. In some ways the film is a nice reminder of how even after 20 years, Pixar has stuck to what made them so engaging to audiences to begin with. The journey that Joy and Sadness go on is a great buddy travel movie, that's in a similar vein to Buzz and Woody in 'Toy Story'. And just like 'Toy Story', Pixar has continued to remain focused on developing memorable characters that will help shape many childhoods, with the likes of Joy's energetic personality and simplistic but lovable design bound to stick in our heads the same way that Buzz Lightyear did when 'Toy Story' was first released. But in other ways the film is a reminder to show how far both Pixar and CGI animation has come, with the worlds Pixar's movies take place in going from the constraints of a child's bedroom to creating an entire world within the mind of a child. And the world that they create is something truly special. Other films have taken place in a person's mind in the past with their own distinct styles, from the epic mind bending action of 'Inception' to the fragmenting chaos in 'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind'. But no other film has ever approached the inner workings of a mind with the same creativity as Pixar has. The film includes as much as it could of developing how a mind works and what an 11 year old girl would be thinking about, incorporating it as either a great gag or as a way the world is designed to function. There's a literal train of thought that's able to carry memories across Riley's mind, a place called Déjà vu that keeps popping up, and even a dream centre that operates like a movie studio to give Riley something to watch at night. Even small sayings like getting a song stuck in your head are incorporated in to the film in some of Pixars funniest running gags to date. Plus I'm relatively certain that anyone who's seen the film will be humming Triple Dent Gum for the rest of their lives. As always, at the films heart remains the human drama that has kept Pixar movies so relatable over the years. In one of the most touching scenes, we watch as Joy turns on one of Riley's treasured childhood memories of her skating to pick up her spirits and slowly begins to skate with her in perfect synch. It's a beautiful moment where we're shown both the close bond that Riley and her emotions share, whilst reminding us all on the way we all hold on to out childhood in a way that only Pixar can.It's moments like this that can be universally related to, mixed with Pixar's stunning animation and their ability to create such original worlds that ensures Inside Out is another addition to Pixar's constantly growing collection of treasured classics.


                
Having grown up on Disney and Pixar movies, it is easy to have a soft side for them while viewing and reviewing. But this comes from their long line up of successful movies which have pushed the boundaries of storytelling.I believe this is a must see movie by the kids and adults. Not just for the story and the characters (which is without a doubt, brilliant), but also for the way it is told and what it all means. Using emotions as characters, Peter Docter (director and co-writer) has the complex world and interaction that is in each of our head. The models and metaphors used is inventively awesome.The poignant moments are as important as the funny ones, which will be even more appreciated with multiple viewings.


                
Going into this film I really didn't know what to expect from it. The trailers had given me a basic idea of the plot, a girl and her emotions, but other than that I really had no idea what it would be about or how they could make 94 minutes of content with such a simple idea. However, having now watched the film I can look back on those thoughts and laugh at how wrong I was. Inside Out is just overflowing with brilliance, and I would honestly consider it to be in my top 3 Pixar movies, slowly creeping closer to my number one every passing day.The basic plot follows an 11 year old girl called Riley who is going through a tough time as she is forced to move away from her home and set up a new life in a different state. We see how she feels about her situation through five personified emotions, Joy, Sadness, Fear, Disgust and Anger who make her feel certain emotions from a control panel in her brain. Joy tries her best to make Riley feel happy but due to her situation Sadness begins to have more of an affect on Riley's outlook. Joy and Sadness eventually get lost inside Riley's mind leaving the other three emotions to try and work things out themselves.While the plot of the movie may seem a little simple it's actually extremely fun to see Joy and Sadness navigate their way through different parts of Riley's brain whether it be her imagination or her abstract thought, it makes every part of the movie seem new and exciting and overall makes the adventure all the more enjoyable. Every actor in the movie is absolutely spot on, particularly Bill Hader as Fear and Lewis Black as Anger, they all bring a certain charm to each individual emotion and their comedic timing makes the jokes hilarious and memorable.Insides Out script is also extremely well written, the comedy is well timed, relevant and intelligent, making way for classic kids comedy as well as implementing old school laughs as well (There is even a Chinatown reference in this movie!) However, the real magic in this script is in its emotional themes. Pixar is not new to writing emotionally powerful scenes, but Inside Out takes it a step farther. The movie deals with growing up in an almost poetic way, showing how we let go of our childhood in our minds in order to accept the adult reality around us. The film shows how every kid feels when they realise it's time to grow up and how it can be difficult to let our childhood slip away but also necessary to let some of the more grown up things be a part of us, and ultimately make us a better person.All in all, Inside Out is a step in the right direction for Pixar and movies as a whole. The acting is perfect, the script is genius, the animation is beautiful and the themes are powerful. If you see one movie this year make it Inside Out, you'll cry with laughter one minute then sob your eyes out the next. It may seem cheesy but this movie really is an emotional journey and by the end you will be thinking to yourself: "I wonder what the emotions in MY head are like?" I guarantee it.


                
Inside Out is definitely one of animation's biggest benchmarks in the history of the animated. So good a movie! It is not just entertainment, it is edutainment. If you pay attention you would be logically thrilled as well. It is like the inception of animation. Only simpler to understand yet intricate at so many levels!This has to be placed amongst the greats. Not only is this movie extremely hilarious, it is also very dramatic, highly educative, and morally impeccable.Taking up two big plots simultaneously in the vanguard was a Herculean task per se. But Pete Doctor and Ronaldo Del Carmen merge them just fine to weave an excellent coming-of-age story of Riley whose life decisions are technically controlled by voices in her head. We have Joy, Sadness, Fear, Anger and Disgust that literally define the head of our protagonist.The concept is simply outstanding. Notions that define how we feel have been brought to life by Pixar's amazing animation and they look downright perfect. Thoughts, memories, imagination, sub-conscious every area of a human brain has been beautifully and subtly portrayed using humorous characters as props. Watch out for the adorable Bing Bong!The drama is absolutely melting. So warm and so right that it beats every non-animated drama flick to pulp. The Bing Bong fate and the gloom of the memory dump are the most melodramatic bits in the movie that would uproot your heart away.Michael Giacchino's music is simply amazing. The composition is quite soothing. He stops playing his notes at dramatic bits for emphasis and then lightens up the mood, after the grim passes. Really thoughtful!There are valued lessons strewn all across the movie that just feels so right, and have been exploited in the right amounts. Humour is always lurking around in the corner even in the direst of circumstances and you end up laughing every time. Amy Poehler's voice makes Joy, well you know, joyous. Phyllis Smith's voice as Sadness is quite endearing. Bill, Diane, Kyle and Richard just make everything better.Oh and there is an amazing short called Lava that plays in the beginning! Giving you a heads up there! Exceptional stuff!


                
This movie was a hard sell. I liked the first sneak peek of the preview of this film, but I wasn't really feeling the other trailers and the marketing campaign overall. But to it's credit this movie is a hard movie to sell without spoiling anything. I really enjoyed this film. I think Pixar found their groove back with Inside Out after misfires like Brave and the Cars franchise. But with that being said, what Pixar is great at is making movies, not just for kids, but for adults as well. The exterior of the films seem like for kids, but the interior has many layers and depth. This film allows you to feel the emotions you see on screen, who are the emotions of a girl named Riley(Kaitlyn Dias). The whole cast is stellar, Joy voiced by Amy Poehler carries this film, I was very concerned if I can get on board with a character who is happy all the time throughout the whole film, but Poehler and her character manages to do so. Phyllis Smith is Sadness and she is terrific, I found her to be a tad annoying in the beginning, but she won me over. I liked the other supporting emotions, Mindy Kaling provides sassiness as Disgust and Lewis Black as Anger provides some humorous moments as well, but my favorite out of all is Bill Hader's Fear. He was great. The parents portrayed by Diane Lane and Kyle MacLachlan provide decent supporting roles. How the creative minds of Pixar came up with this conceptually complicated film is beyond me. Give director/writer Pete Docter, who also wrote Wall-E and Up, credit where credit is due. The story is almost perfectly constructed. I say almost, because the beginning starts off so well and it's thrilling, just to see the concept become realized in just a few minutes kicked the film off in high gear. What bogged the story down a little is when Joy and Sadness end up getting lost within the large maze of Riley's brain/memory trying to get back into the control room. That is where the film looses some momentum. I didn't particularly love Richard Kind's Bing Bong, but he was my least favorite character of the bunch, but he is used very effectively, and to those who saw it, you know what I'm talking about. It's just a tiny nitpick but I just wish they allowed the idea to carry the film itself rather than have this middle act, again it wasn't a huge detriment, just a nitpick as it eventually picks up steam again. This is Pixar's most ambitious and most subtly intelligent film yet. Not since Toy Story 3 have I enjoyed a film this much by them. Again, I'm going to sound like a broken record, but Pixar really knows how to tell a story. Yes they do have some misfires, but their track record is solid. I'm not the target demographic for these films, but they continue to turn up solid, dependable, and consistent entertainment. This film hits the right notes on another level. The conceptual level this film operates on is a pleasure to watch on screen. This movie is very thought-provoking and is filled with awesome and clever metaphors that never gets complicated at all. It explains emotional states very well disguised as a kid's film and sends a great message that not just that everyone has emotions, but it cannot be one emotion all the time and every time, and each emotion has it's place. It's an easy film to relate to, and to be honest I sincerely believe that adults might enjoy this film a little more than kids. Inside Out is easily in Pixar's top five or ten list. 9/10


                
One important note: If you go see "Inside Out" be sure to get there on time so that you can see the short that precedes it, "Lava". It's an amazing short film--one of the best CGI shorts I've ever seen. But, like "Inside Out", its audience really is adults, not kids.This film appears to have been inspired by a now defunct but wonderful exhibit at Epcot at Disney World. Cranium Command was a strange movie which featured lots of film clips and audio animatronics to embody the various emotions battling within a young boy. Here in "Inside Out", you have a group of entities that also embody the feelings...but in a young girl. When the film focuses on these five emotions, it's at its best---clever, fun and often sweet and tender. Unfortunately, the film loses its way a bit in the middle--and seems to have succumbed to some distractions. Fortunately, it finds its way very well at the end-- and ending which is incredibly satisfying and perhaps might require some Kleenex.The film is incredibly well animated and I was impressed by the 3-D version as it used this technology well. Additionally, the story is nothing like any CGI film I've ever seen. My only reservation is that the story might be a bit difficult for children to understand and the plot seems much more for older kids, teens and, especially, adults.


                
