SPOILER: At the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival the film "ROOM" won the People's Choice Award today. It tells a story of a young woman and her five year old son who have been held in captivity in a confined and windowless living space for six years. Brie Larson stars as Ma and her son named Jack is played by Jacob Tremblay who is so believable that you will feel empathetic towards their captivity but relief as to how Ma convinces Jack that their little world is real and is wonderful. As Jack grows he starts to ask questions about their isolated lifestyle and we the audience anticipate that Ma must try and escape with young Jack but how?The story draws similarities to the actual events that were Jaycee Lee Dugard's true life story which occurred on June 10, 1991, in South Lake Tahoe, California. Dugard was 11 years old at the time she was abducted from a street while she was walking from home to a school bus stop and she was held captive for the next 18 years in a concealed back yard in a make shift shed. There is also some resemblance to the kidnapping of Amanda Berry who had a child fathered by her kidnapper Ariel Castro. This film was titled Cleveland Abduction and it was released in 2015. It tells the true story of three girls who were held captive for over 10 years by Ariel Castro in his home with no one aware how close the girls were to their own homes and families.The film Room focuses more on Jack and Ma's awkward adjustment to life outside of their room which was their entire world for the past six years. There is a strong supporting cast including performances such as Joan Allen's role as Jack's loving Grandma and the ever convincing all-star William H Macy as a resistant Grandpa who is having difficulty accepting that his daughter is raising her rapist's son. There are some scenes that are so heartwarming that it will be difficult not to find yourself becoming emotionally involved. In one particular very touching and loving scene, Jack asks his Grandma to cut his long hair so that the strength that he thinks that his shoulder length hair possesses can be transferred over to his sick Ma so she can return home from the hospital. Jack who understandably is initially withdrawn from anyone other than his Ma simply tells his Grandma after she washes and cuts his hair that he loves her. This loving scene between Jack and his Grandma will stay with me forever. Jack and Ma's is a story of isolation, fear, hopelessness versus hope and most importantly a film about redemption and the family bond. Room is deserving of an Oscar nomination for best picture and nominations in a few other categories as well such as best actress, best actor and best director. I give the film a 9.5 out of 10 rating. This film is terrific!!


                
"Room" is an adaption of an internationally best-seller novel written by Irish playwright and novelist, Emma Donoghue. This is her first book to be adapted into a major motion picture and I have to say that it is a rather impressive one. I have not read Emma's novel yet, but I can only guess that this movie sticks to the novel's roots, considering that Emma decided to write the screenplay herself. Room is a story about a women who was kidnapped during her high school years and locked in a shed for 7 years. She was impregnated by her kidnapper in this room and was locked inside with the child. The child grows up and around the age of five is when the movie picks up. Throughout this entire movie we are taken through this story strictly from the Jack's (the child) point of view. Even though this story is experienced through the lens of this child, the story is in no way filtered or gussied up. It is this intimate and raw story about a child and his mother spending a hugely relevant portion of their existence stuck in this dull, dirty and claustrophobia-inducing shed. This shed contained one small window that emits a tiny portion of daylight into the room. To me, this represented a light at the end of the tunnel. Sort of like a tiny glimmer of hope in a deep and dark abyss. Throughout this entire movie, Jack narrates his experiences as he embarks upon the world. Jacob Trembley portrays this character with such a sense of wonder and innocence that every single narration that I hear from this boy is just heartbreaking. Every time Jack takes away something from the world, he takes it in as something new and exciting even if it is scary. They are things that everyone takes for granted everyday: trees, dogs, the sky, etc. You would think that the dramatic climax would be at the beginning when Jack gets out of the tiny room he has been locked in his entire life, but after-wards, this film just drags in one dramatic scene after another in a way that turns this film into one big heartache an experience. I do have say that Jacob Trembley and Allison Brie's performances carry a lot of the weight of this film. Allison gives a very natural and organic performance. You never catch her overacting or being too stiff during any scene in this movie. Jack Trembley gave one of the most, if not the most, impressive performances of the year. Not just because of his age, but because of how well of a dramatic performance that he gives without over or underacting in any of his scenes. He seemed to take his role with a very adult-like seriousness that translated into a lot of the movie's themes of innocence that are chased by the persistent and harsh reality that Jack and his mother are facing. The directing and cinematography in this film are beautiful. The film's intense theme is complimented with a variety of out-of- focus and close up shots that highlight the child's immediate consciousness as he takes the outside world with fresh- eyes. Many of the scenes are also complimented by a beautiful and breathtaking film score composed by the award-winning Stephen Rennicks who has been crafting soundtracks in the indie film world since 1997. Overall, this is a film that I won't be forgetting for the rest of my life. Mainly because it is a film about escaping outside of the room that you have been stuck in your whole life and discovering a world that has been hidden from you. I know that sounds kind of cheesy but this film does it in the most grounded and intense way possible. Not to mention that it is dosed with themes of abandonment, human-kindness, and media exploitation. I don't usually give films a 10/10. As a matter of fact, I could probably count the films this year that I do consider 10s on one hand. The films I consider perfect are life changing in some way or benchmarks in cinematic history. While this film will probably be washed away by the ever expanding ocean that is cinema, it is not a movie that I will be personally ever forgetting. I can't remember watching a film that made me feel so grateful for just being alive.
Room (2015/I) was directed by Lenny Abrahamson. It stars Jacob Tremblay as Jack and Brie Larson as his mother ("Ma")The situation becomes very clear early in the film. Jack and his mother are held captive by a man who has kidnapped her, raped her, impregnated her, and uses her as his sexual slave. Jack and his mother have lived in a small, locked shed, which they call "Room." Jack's mother has lived in "Room" since she was abducted seven years earlier. Jack has lived there for all of his life--five years.By incredible ingenuity, motivated by love, Ma has kept Jack from realizing the horrors of their situation. It's hard to believe that anyone could be so motivated and capable, allowing the boy to believe that his situation is normal, but it works in the film and you accept it.What happens next is pretty well known, but I won't go into it because it might decrease your enjoyment of the movie. It's dramatic, frightening, and, heart-wrenching, all at the same time.Brie Larson does a wonderful job as the mother, and Jacob Tremblay has to be the best child actor we have. He is absolutely brilliant. Director Abrahamson must be an extremely talented man to draw two such great performances from his actors.This is a must-see film, but it's not easy to watch. Even though Room wasn't based on any specific incident, we all know of cases of warped men who have kidnapped and enslaved women. It's hard to think about the lives of those women without becoming depressed. We saw the film at the excellent Little Theatre in Rochester, NY. Given the claustrophobic atmosphere of the movie, it will work on the small screen as well. Seek it out and watch, but prepare yourself mentally before you begin.
*Insert all 9 & 10 reviews here* I was in awe during the entire film. Lenny Abrahamson & the writing team made sure there was not one dull moment. The addition of "insignificant" characters and plot twists are later realized to be so significant and influential in keeping the film alive throughout its duration. It was the little things that made this story one of the best I've seen in a long time. I experienced an entire palette of emotions all at once and was left in a deep level of curiosity and reflection. Very few films have the power to continue to influence its audience after the credits. Room is endless in the most beautiful way.


                
Room is a harrowing thriller, but not in the traditional sense of the word. It deals with a dark subject matter and the first half of the film can be quite disturbing. Yet director Lenny Abrahamson (Frank) has adapted the best-selling novel with grace and grandeur. Here is a film so artistically unique and deviant, chock full of genuine emotion thanks to two outstanding performances, that isn't afraid to take risks and surprise at every turn.Based on the novel by Emma Donoghue, Room introduces us to Ma and Jack, a mother and son held captive in a garden shed. As we learn more about their captivity, their world becomes clearer and clearer to us. They live by a routine, have names for every object in room, and Ma must be careful as her son grows older and more curious.The film is structured into two halves, and by now it's no spoiler that the second half deals with their readjustment into the outside world, and Jack's first time outside of room. The film is thematically complex, yet never overwhelming. At its core it's about motherhood, but Jack's unique upbringing complicates things.Director Lenny Abrahamson is no stranger to the strange, and with Room he's made a masterpiece of filmmaking. The entire idea of 'room,' the abstract concept of space, is ever-present in the production. In their bubble of room, Ma and Jack are restricted, as evident by Abrahamson's close angles and tight shots. The small space allows for high concept filmmaking, and when they get out of room, it only gets better, with a new color palette and experimental camera angles through Jack's eyes. The entire film is seen through the eyes of this child, and it's genius. What I loved about the book was its focus on Jack and how he adjusts to seeing this new world for the first time, and the movie never loses sight of that.I wrote about the pressure placed on child actors in my review for the incredible Beasts of No Nation, and Jacob Tremblay fits like a glove. Like Abraham Attah, he isn't a child actor, but an actor who just happens to be of a younger age. His wide eyes and expressive thoughts are very believable, and when he sees the outside world for the first time, it's a thing of beauty. Tremblay has brilliant chemistry with Brie Larson, and for one second I never doubted her devotion to him. As Ma faces frustrating upon leaving room, from her parents, doctors, and the media, she never forgets her son Jack, and always puts his wellbeing first. Larson taps into this character, one that undergoes a stunning transformation as she basically lost seven years of her life being locked up. Her performance will blow you away.The best actors are the ones able to transport you into their characters' own universes, no matter how isolated from society they happen to be. Larson, Tremblay, and Joan Allen all have a tremendous range of emotional ability and are able to sell you on their story not just for two hours, but for an entire lifetime. With Room, Abrahamson goes the extra mile with his direction, and director of photography Danny Cohen keeps all eyes on Jack. The film asks us to examine how we view the world and how this viewpoint is shaped by our nurtured upbringing. The result is a breathtaking experience brought to life, one you won't soon forget.
I know one thing, I will never, ever forget this heartrending, unbelievably-acted 'movie' for the rest of my days. I'm just at a loss for words and struggling to describe how truly powerful and heart-grabbing this story was. I'll go so far as to say that if you don't cry, shed a tear, or feel the urge to weep profusely after (or while) watching Room, you don't have a heart. The mother (Brie Larson) and her son (Jacob Tremblay, 9 years old!) carry this entire movie. The beauty of Room is in its bare rawness, realness and universally relatable nature. What can I say? It tapped into something deep, deep, deep within me and just ripped my heart to shreds and had me in tears; sometimes tears of sadness, and other times tears of heavenly joy. It made me smile at times and even laugh. But most of all, it always had my eyes glued to the screen and my soul enthralled by what I was witnessing. This is one of the best, truly real stories ever told and one of the best uses of cinema I've ever seen. ...Try not to read much/anything about it before going in to see it (and yes, definitely catch it in a theater near you ASAP). Go in and be engrossed and moved (in ways I can't describe) by this experience. 10/10 *Hands down* the best film of 2015, and the single best thing I've seen in years. :')


                
I haven't seen a genuinely emotional, smart, non-manipulative, heart- felt drama in a loooong time. Brie Larson deservedly won an Oscar for her performance in this, but Room should've swept the board in every category.The film centres on a Mother and her five year old son, living inside just four walls, and it slowly transpires that she has been held captive for seven years, and had a child by her kidnapper. She creates a world for her son within their confines, not telling him the truth about their situation and what's outside until he's old enough to understand. After failed escape attempts in the past, but now with the help of her son, she gives freedom another try.There were moments in Room that were so intense that I barely breathed. It never feels inauthentic, and thanks to incredible acting, it's always believable. If you want a straight-up thriller of 'bad guy commits crime, bad guy gets comeuppance', you'll be disappointed. This is about human resilience, the bond between Mother and child, selflessness, and finding your place in the world after having your understanding of it flipped upside down.


                
Don't listen to the haters or those that want to chip away at the overall brilliance of 'Room'. What film doesn't have small flaws, they pale into insignificance during the 2 hours of continuous emotional maelstrom that follows. This film wrings every last drop of emotion and drama out of the allotted playtime. Make no mistake, despite short bursts of touching serenity, this films starts up full throttle and doesn't let-up. I can only assume reviewers here scoring this film 8 or less must be Vulcan by birth, or just terminally insensitive. This is a first rate drama with stand out performances all round. Especially from the child protagonist. **Warning** If you have trouble viewing emotionally charged material of a sensitive nature about abuse. You would be well advised not to view this film.


                
I am giving 'Room' 10 stars, this film is truly amazing and a touching presentation of Emma Donoghue's book 'Room'. They have really stuck to the book which is what I love about this adaptation, there are just so many words to describe this film it is just so hard to put them all together in one review because Room is spectacular and heart wrenching. This film really gives you a point of view from the other side of the story, it is not all about the thriller aspects of how 'Ma' (Brie Larson) has been held captive for years by a horrible man she refers to as 'Old Nick' who in retrospect is a kidnapper and an atrocious man. It looks at the characters sides of the story especially her son Jack who she has whilst captive in Room. He looks at life from a completely different view to his Ma and everybody else in the world that does not exist in Jack's mind. To Jack it is just him and his Ma, he sees no negativity in their situation which is truly beautiful. Not only do I love how they have shown a different perspective of life in Room they have shown the reality of life outside of Room and how the characters cope and react differently, it is unforgettable and truly moving. I just could not fault this remarkable masterpiece.I absolutely adore how this is so carefully written, it is a sensitive subject that is rarely spoken about and I have never looked at these types of stories from the victim's point of view. It is heart breaking to sit and watch this film but at the same time it gives you an insight of the unfortunate people in the world who have to live like this and sometimes their stories do not turn out as well as Ma and Jack's stories, which is a really painful subject and will always have an effect on the world. I would definitely recommend this film to anybody; no matter what genre you are interested in you just have to see this film. It is so brilliant that I would not even know what genre to class it as, there are so many special moments in the film that just cannot be created again they are incredibly unique and the actors play these characters perfectly you just could not have picked actors more perfect then the ones that brought these characters to life.I was left laughing, crying and just smiling throughout all the different memorable scenes in Room. There was not a single moment that I was disinterested; I was left moved and unable to take my eyes of the screen, I really did not want this film to end. But they have made a fantastic adaptation of Room that just cannot be faulted and will be a forever classic that will never grow old. The uniqueness of this film is outstanding and just will not be able to be duplicated.
Although brutal at times, credit has to be given to The entire cast of Room for churning out one of the Masterpieces of this generation. Brie Larson has done a career defining role who i firmly Believe deserves every award this season but the ultimate acting "masterclass" at such a tender age has to be the kid playing her son. Imagine discovering whole world again right from the Beginning like you did when you were a kid. Remember the first time you saw a dog ? The First time you saw trees ? The first time you made a friend ? The first time you left your mom ? This movie shows subtleness of mom- child relationship in such a beautiful way that it Forced even a heartless beast like me cry. The movie never drags, is unapologetically intense Cinematography makes you feel like a 5 year Old again. The direction is immaculate and Script is powerful. Probably one of the best movies of 2015 ! Must watch :)


                
I saw this film as part of the LFF and can't recommend it enough. Even though the subject matter is dark, the film is truly uplifting. I would recommend even for fans of the book as in my eyes this offered much more. It doesn't have the sense of time you get from the book nor perhaps Ma's desperation but I thought it dealt with the matter beautifully. It wasn't sensational at all where it could have been. The acting is fantastic, Brie Larson was excellent and I thought she would be good when I heard she was cast as she impressed in short term 12. No disappointments there. The boy, Jack, was just brilliant, I see so many films where the child actors overact and are over cutesy. He did neither, he was perfect. He really broke my heart with the smallest expressions and quiet words.I would like to see them both nominated for Oscars and this is without doubt one of my films of the year. Enjoyed this much more than the book. Go see it. It's fantastic. Bring a tissue!


                
There is not much to say about a film like this. No complicated plot lines, no unnecessary character setups, just a well written story, a camera and a crew that understands what is going on.The acting is probably the best i have seen in years, at no point do you get thrown out of the story. Even though one could argue the filmcould be chopped in half, the acting is so consistent up into the tiniest roles, that at no point you feel like this isn't really happening. the emotional arc from the two leads is enormous, and as an audience you are in it the whole way. If Larson is perfect, then for Tremblay we need to invent a completely new word.The story reveals itself gradually, which is always brilliant as it keeps you busy on what exactly is going on. nothing is nicely 'explained' to you. to me this did not feel like a story but like a reality show, with a very grim topic all the way through. This is one of those lonely gems in film and let's hope prizes may rain on these actors, writer and director for their enormous efforts. I hope it won't be missed in the bulk of big budget nonsense we had to sit through this year. Don't hear about this film, go see it!


                
I went into this movie with some excitement. The trailers didn't make it out to be that great of a movie (originality-wise), but the ratings said otherwise. I am happy to say that this movie surpassed all my expectations and then some. The plot of Room is one that we've seen before. While it's not horribly original, it's presented much differently than you'd expect. It's more mature than others, and much more personal. The idea of someone living their life away from society and suddenly being exposed to it again is typically used in a more comedic or 'big picture' way. Room deals with the transition in a much more personal way, and it makes way more sense. The characters spend most of their time indoors, dealing with the new problems of living outside of a single 10 by 10 foot room, and there still feels like there's a reason for it. It really is quite a beautiful story, despite how unhappy that it can be. The characters are brilliant, and the obvious driving force of the movie. Considering for the first hour or so we've only been exposed to three people you really get to know them well. But what are great characters without great actors to portray them? Luckily, Brie Larson as Ma and Jacob Tremblay as Jack are both fantastic. For a child actor Tremblay is phenomenal, and really sells his character. Larson is fantastic too, playing a single mother who's not exactly in the best shape. Everyone else is great too, but the two main protagonists stand out the most. The first thing I noticed about this movie was the realism. From the opening to the end, everything felt real. Emotionally, it was real (I've already stated that), but it was also visually real. The characters looked real. At the beginning of the movie Ma has a bit of acne, and that really stood out to me. Finally, a movie where people don't have make-up coating their face so that they appeal more to the audience. Brie Larson looked her part, she had acne, bags under her eyes, bad hair. She didn't look like she was trying to impress anybody, which is because she wasn't. This is something that I don't think I've ever seen in a movie, where people look bad and it's never part of the story or addressed or anything, and it really adds the level of immersiveness in the film. This movie is very emotional. And I don't mean that there's just some climatic sad part at the end, it's spread out. Throughout the movie I felt myself on the brink of tears, and that was with resistance. It brought me closer to crying than any other movie that I've ever seen. Overall Room is absolutely amazing. It's one of the few movies I've seen where not a thing about it has bothered me. I found no flaw in this movie, making it easily one of the best movies of 2015, if not the best movie of 2015. It's realistic and unique, something that so many movies seem to lack. In the end I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone, whether your interested or not.


                
I came to this movie after watching Captain Marvel, in which Brie Larson played a boring role, and I wondered what made her famous.
Then I really got amazed and deeply struck by her (and her little child's) exquisite performance. I was moved to tears by this movie which depicted those touching scenes of a horrible story, where the mom and her boy depend on each other and take care of each other.
The movie remind me of how beautiful our world is and what make us human. Definitely one of the best movies I've ever watched.


                
I watch alot of movies / series, not many remain memorable or make it to my top list. I was on a streaming site one late night around 3 years ago trying to find something remotely interesting to watch a little before i fall asleep and this was right after the movie was released so I did not know anything about "Room". The title and vague description grabbed my attention so I played the movie and what a ride.. from the beginning until the very end, I loved it! I finished the movie at around 3 am and had work the next morning, it was one of those movies that you know are worth it. Here I am remembering and recommending it 3 years later.


                
Room is horrifying, beautiful and amazing. Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay both give very powerful performances that deserve every accolade they've received. Plus, the story is absolutely riveting. This film makes you feel all sorts of emotions. It's not an easy movie to watch, but it is well worth your time.


                
It's quite a long time since I watched a movie that made me shed a tear. This one did it for me again.
I loved this movie in many angles such as acting was moving both from Brie and Jacob, development of the story was just right. While watching this, I can't help not to question myself what if I was Joy.. how would I have handled it ? Fight and kill my kidnapper ? Commit suicide when I didn't see any hope escaping that room ? The thing is ... you cannot say Joy was so stupid to let herself be captive for seven years. You just don't know what it's like. He got kidnapped when she was a teenager and kept in that shed for 7 years. I am sure there are a lot of possibilities she had thought of to escape that place. She attempted to escape once with no success and got her wrist broken for it. In one scene, she was questioned by the reporter if she had not thought of requesting his captor to have Jack be adopted to give him a better normal life. And she answered .. "Why? He had me.". And I realized, why didn't she ? But for Joy, requesting that from a man, his captor, obviously someone she does not trust at all, would be a risk. There is no safer place for Jack other than with her. I have read some reviews that think how she behaved was totally unrealistic. Being a captive that long and in that conditioning would have affected her mentally / her reasoning. Again, with her situation, it would be hard to judge. And when they finally got out, you would think .. at last, freedom! In the scenes following the escape as they start their new lives, it felt that they are still trapped somehow.. trapped from the memory and horror of their experience, and the judgement of people around them. I loved that take. I think what's powerful about this movie is the fact that it is realistic enough this can happen to you and it lets the audience imagine themselves what if they are in Joy's situation.I give it a 10 and would definitely recommend others to watch it.
Room is the wonderful and emotional tale of a young boy going into the outside world for the first time due to being held captive in a 'room' his entire life alongside his mother, joy, who will have to cope with the pressure. I tell you what, Lenny Abrahamson has absolutely done it again. Room is a masterpiece of character development, drama and suspense. You really care about everyone in this movie apart from the captor. It is truly great emotional dialogue and film work that moves you so much and changes your perspective on how our world would work to that of, essentially, an alien.


                
Like so many things outside room and in the world, the film felt incredibly real.


                
I didn't read the original novel and knew very little about the plot when I saw this movie. It captivated me from the very first second. As the story develops, I was thinking of a dramatic scene to turn the situation over but it was done naturally without a flaw. That makes it powerful and convincing enough to add to the genuine feel to the movie. The best part of the story comes when joy was rescued. The tensions between her and her son, dad and mom are so real and strong yet subtle. The protective-possessive syndrome of Joy just highlights the essence of the whole captive situation. Victim victimises. I highly recommend this film to anyone who are interested to explore something deeper into human emotion especially to all the child psychologist or therapist out there.
The story unfolds behind the eyes of the young boy. When he learns something, you learn something. There are no big, clunky, exposition drops in this movie. Just natural story-telling. The moments that hit you, hit you over the head with a pillowcase of bricks. I've watched this only 4 times since my first viewing, and I know I will cry just as hard the 5th time as I did every other. Would recommend.


                
Toilet. Wardrobe. Bed. Bath. Chair One. Chair Two. I have deliberately left out pronouns because that is the way 5 year old Jack refers to the items in his tiny world, all he has ever known, a single room he occupies with his young mother who was snatched on her way home from school as a teenager 7 years ago and has been imprisoned in 'Room' ever since. 'Ma' has managed to bring Jack up in this bizarre environment in as healthy a way as she can, she has obviously taught him to read and write with the limited resources in 'Room', she makes a game of exercise, with Jack giggling and running from one end of 'Room' to the other. Her captor put a small TV in 'Room' at some point, and Jack sees all the things on it as a great fantasy. There is nothing outside of 'Room' to Jack. Jack and Ma make a birthday cake for Jack's 5th birthday, but he wonders why there are no candles on it. Every evening 'Old Nick', which is the name Ma and Jack have given her captor, visits 'Room' and rapes her. We see this through Jack's eyes from the slats of the wardrobe he sleeps in. This film is not afraid to ask a lot of its audience. Jack has temper tantrums and Ma has 'gone days' when she doesn't manage to get out of bed. On 'gone days' Jack entertains himself, just like on the outside world. There are short bursts of narration from Jack telling us what he understands of his existence. For reasons I would rather allow you to discover for yourself, Ma decides that it is time for quite risky attempts for her and Jack to escape from 'Room', so she starts to plant ideas in Jack's head about the outside world, she points out a leaf that falls on the skylight and Jack says 'but it's not green like on TV'. Ma hatches a plan for them to escape but crucial to her idea is Jack pretending to be ill. She coaches him on what he must do to convince Old Nick that he must go to a hospital. This first attempt at freedom fails, so she comes up with another plan. She coaches Jack again, and in a sequence of agonising suspense, Jack does get away. I'm giving nothing away telling you all this, because this is the point at which the film really spreads its wings (this much has been suggested in the trailers). The early scenes, although beautifully played, are merely set up for what follows. Ma's relationship with her own parents and a devoted family friend, Jack's discovery of everything outside of 'Room' and his growing fondness for his grandmother (the sublime and criminally underrated Joan Allen). Ma's father (William H Macy) cannot bring himself to look at Jack and we are not told why, which feels right. We don't need to be bashed over the head with what he is thinking. The questions raised are emotionally complex, staggering. What of the power of unconditional love a child has for it's mother? Ma questions her ability as a parent and Jack's response is simply 'But you're Ma'. How do we come to accept the point at which a child no longer completely depends on us as parents? Why do we find it so difficult to reconcile feelings of being trapped and tormented in our minds when we are physically free? It is so refreshing to see a film that doesn't make announcements about what it wants to say or signpost it's big moments. They just happen. I am loathe to point out any particular scene in a film which unfolds so fluidly but there are two, you will know them when they come, where I dare you, DARE YOU, not to be an emotional wreck. I am normally pretty good at keeping myself together when I go to the cinema, but when the credits rolled here I had to rush to a toilet to compose myself before I left the building. The great film critic Roger Ebert once said 'It's not what a movie is about, it's how it is about it'. This film's director, Lenny Abrahamson, understands this completely. I could describe every single scene and divulge every plot detail and I truly believe doing so would not make seeing it any less meaningful. The film is that good. The balance of subtlety and poignancy is perfect. The music is incidental and subtle, the camera angles, particularly in the early cramped scenes, are largely from Jack's point of view, to great effect. This film even goes to the trouble of managing the viewer's suspension of disbelief by paying heed to the fact that Jack would not have been exposed to normal bacteria having been holed up in a small room for so long.Ma is played by Brie Larson in a performance of such astonishing power and naturalism that I am reminded of Charlize Theron in 'Monster' and Meryl Streep in 'Sophie's Choice'. The Academy has nominated four other actresses for the Oscar out of nothing more than politeness this year.Jack is played by a child actor called Jacob Tremblay. A child actor depends greatly on their director and co-actors. I can only assume that during the filming of 'Room', he was nurtured and guided with great love and care, and I am amazed that he has not become the second youngest person to be nominated for an Oscar.Joan Allen and William H Macy, who played parents together before in 'Pleasantville', are both excellent here.Out of IMDBs top 250 films, I have seen 135 and rated four of them 10 stars. If 'Room' ever makes it into IMDBs top 250, it will be my fifth 10 star film.
In my country, we have got a great saying to define that kind of fascinating drama called "A cow's sit on my chest".
No man can understand that a mother's love for her son. "Room" shows everyone what does a mother do for her children. I've seen. Also, Jack protects his mother from evil while sending his hair, getting her the room etc. Why a film that contains the five years old child's first look at the sky didn't win the best picture, I don't understand but "Room" was wonderful.
Room follows a kidnapped mother and her son who eventually make a complicated, but successful, escape attempt and must deal with life after being released.So, the main reasons I saw this film were because: a) Brie Larson is a great actress, as seen in some other films I've seen recently (namely The Spectacular Now), b) the film looked really intriguing from some clips and such that I saw during the Oscars, and c) it is an Oscar winner, and I'm always intrigued to see these movies. And I gotta say, this movie exceeded my expectations. Much like Spotlight, I didn't expect it to be as good as it was.Let's start with the acting, because that is the best thing about this movie, in my opinion. Brie Larson deserved the Oscar. She did an amazing job portraying a mother trying to protect her son, but also dealing with her own issues stemming from her seven-year imprisonment. It's amazing how well she just blends into her character. After a while, you don't see an actress anymore. You see a struggling mother, barely holding herself together. Part of the reason this works so well is that Jacob Tremblay, who plays her son, also does a fantastic job. From someone who generally doesn't like child actors, because most of the time they suck, I was genuinely surprised that he did such a fantastic job. He was never annoying, and instead, he was one of the biggest pieces that needed to fit, and he did a great job doing so.The other actors and actresses in the film are of lesser importance, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't bring them up. Joan Allen did a great job as Larson's mother, portraying a woman trying to be there for her daughter, but also wanting her to move on. Sean Bridgers is extra disturbing as "Old Jack", aka, the man who has kidnapped the mother. William H. Macy portrays a father trying to keep himself together after so many years, and Tom McCamus does a fantastic job as Allen's new beau, providing for both Larson and her son.The score to this film, done by Stephen Rennicks, was absolutely stunning. He hasn't done many movies, but I hope he gets more work, because he does an excellent job with this movie. It never feels as if he's pandering, trying to get you to cry because of the music alone. It feels exactly like you're in the movie, and how you would feel if music would be playing during pieces of your life. The music only flares during tense and also rewarding sequences, and it always makes you feel even more for the people in the film.The cinematography and direction was great as well. For the first half, it's set simply in a storage shed. It's quite amazing how well you can come up with many different ways to film inside such a small space. Yet, the director Lenny Abrahamson, did a great job with this. The screenplay was also stunning. It really provides the best way for these characters to act and play off of each other. I, sadly, have not read the book yet, but I am almost tempted to go out and buy it right now, as it seems like it would be quite the read.Overall, I'm extremely impressed with Room. The acting, score, direction, cinematography, screenplay - everything absolutely worked. If you haven't seen it for some reason, do so. It's definitely worth your time. But, be sure to bring a few tissues. I'm not one for crying during movies, and yet I almost did here. That's the sign of a fantastic film.


                
Truly amazing movie. Was feeling intense the whole time while watching it.


                
