This is one of those movies that the IMDb rating tricks you into believing is better than it actually is. The IMDb synopsis also makes you believe that you are being taken on a journey - of the struggles of being held captive, into the psyche of the captor, of the innocence of childhood, of motherly love that triumphs. You probably imagine some sort of "Life is Beautiful" unfolding in a room. But NO! Be warned. This movie is about an annoying kid and his annoyed mom stuck in a room. They both manage to escape the room and guess what? They continue to be annoying and annoyed. The characters are so completely one dimensional, the movie fails to both entertain or be insightful. You end up feeling stuck with the characters in this 2 hour long ordeal. Like someone dragging a fingernail on a chalkboard. The quickly made TV documentaries after kidnapped victims are rescued (as in the case of Elizabeth Smart or Amanda Berry) look like Oscar winning stories in contrast and are actually watchable. This movie is plain painful to watch.


                
This is the movie that happens every year that isn't good, but wins critical acclaim by being distinct and including a child actor. It's disturbing, but without the tact required by the writing.Now to spoil things. A woman is held hostage as a sex slave for seven years and at some point has a baby boy, who she convinces the "Room" is the entire world. During this they play uplifting music and it is absolutely tonally daft. Once they escape Room they are better off. Then, "Ma" feels bad about how horribly she treated her son and thus tries to kill herself, to make it all better.Also, the boy in this movie looks and sounds exactly like a girl and has long hair. So I'm expecting maybe "Ma" lied that it was a boy, so her kid wouldn't be a rape target. Nope. Toward the end you realize it's a boy, and you go, "Whoa, why was I distracted by that for absolutely no reason?"Then, they revisit Room. And Ma feels better. Because going to where you were repeated raped for seven years makes you happy. Absurd, ridiculous, fantastical film that is unintentionally insulting.
This movie has appeal, mainly to women and feminine types, based only on emotion.The strength and devotion of the mother toward her child is well portrayed, however, and the boy does a great job of acting like a spoiled and over-protected child. The mother's love in spoiling the boy, given the terrible circumstances, is quite loving and appropriate though.The movie is boring as would be living in a small room for 5 years without ever going out. That is the essence of this film.Naturally the critics, and those with more emotion than intellect, are gushing over it.Watch it and find out if I am wrong.


                
The movie has its moving moments, especially the emblematic one with the kid staring in awe at the newly discovered world, but that's about it. The story is overly unrealistic and both the psychological drama and the physical misery lack depth.17-year-old girl is kidnapped with the lure that some sick dog needs her attention. This is followed by 7 years of imprisonment in a backyard shed (the so-called "Room") and regular raping, which – in the second year – produces a child. The mother accepts the fruit of the relationship (named Jack) without reservations and from that moment on her only goal is to keep it safe. A goal in which she succeeds with flying colors. And so, no matter his complete isolation, the misery of his existence, and the fact that he is a constant, although unconscious, witness of his mother's abuse, at 5 Jack is both mentally and physically healthy, even happy child, he has smooth skin and complex reactions and the only sign of his unusual circumstances is his long hair...I didn't even have to use irony – the whole thing is flat enough on its own. Actually, I see it as an insult to anyone who have lived through "the Room trauma" – be it real, or more metaphoric. It sets ridiculous standards for the victims while what they truly need is understanding and compassion. But yeah, let's say that mother's love conquers it all and clap our hands.
About halfway through this movie I gave up. Just couldn't take the boredom any longer. How can some people rave about such an idiotic flick?
Mind you, the basis was ok but the interpretation of the situation was absolutely debile! They were kept locked up in a friggin' shed with a window in the roof! All this lamenting woman had to do was to carefully remove that pane of glass during the absence of the ' villain ' and escape with the little brat. I could go on...


                
I had this movie for a while on my watch list because it had a pretty good rating, but I never really got into watching it, as the plot sounded kinda boring to me. Anyhow one day I was bored and decided to give it a try. There is a lot of action going on that never gets explanation and you kinda keep on waiting and waiting for the answers to come up, but in the end, there isn't that much of a plot at all. I was expecting for there to be some really mind boggling plot twist, but all I really got was child throwing tantrum to his mother. If I wanted to see that, I would go to local stores toy isle. Questions unanswered are: Why did the guy kidnap the woman in the first place? What was the lawsuit about? Why was her father unable to watch the grandchild? How could it be, that the kidnapper hadn't never seen the child living in his shed for five years or why was he not allowed?
Not to mention holes in plot, like how the woman was completely used to modern world after seeing it for the first time in 7 years, nor did she even seem impressed by anything. Or, why would she not try to escape? There was a window made out of plastic in roof, she surely could have broken it in 7 years of time.
After they are out of the "Room", there really isn't that much to be seen in this movie. Nothing happens.
Wow what a waste of time that was. the slowest most painful film iv ever watched what a load of rubbish, this could of been a lot better.


                
Great zoomorphistic movie! Now I understand how my cat feels to live in the ROOM.


                
