Room is one of those movies that people read rave reviews about and then adopt it. Having just watched a UK preview screening I wanted to let you know what kind of a movie it really is.For starters it is really...well...cold. The director has tried a silent approach to take out the emotion and concentrate on the subject matter but has gone too far and left it a bland and dim affair. I was expecting a lot more from the confined direction but not once did I get feeling of claustrophobia. Every character was also very one dimensional and stereotypical.Too many issues all going at once but none of them were dealt with properly. It's not a bad movie but I think the bland direction and lack of narrative let it down...I would imagine the book would be far,far superior. Still worth a trip to the cinema because I love movies on the big screen...where they should be...and it will not show well on T,V or DVD.One of those movies that try to make you think but come across as somewhat pretentious and believes it's own hype..will not win a single nomination...let alone an award.


                
Within the first 10 minutes of this film, I was curious as to where the writer was going to take the story. Do the mother and son break out? Do they just accept their fate and live there for eternity? Does one of them die? Well, the writers did a great job of surprising me as it seems as if they have never heard of the three act structure.The production value, I digress, was very well done. Good direction, excellent performances, cinematography, etc. For a small budget, it was well done. That's about all I have to say I liked about this film.Back to the story... I'm not going to spoil it here, but as I was saying before the film doesn't follow a three act structure at all. Some films can get away with this, namely some cheesy 80's comedies, but these are comedies, not dramas.In room, there's no call to action, journey to overcome a goal, obstacles in the way of that goal, point of no return, etc. There are subplots that have their own beats, but not a main story.There is sort of a climax at one part. It happens literally half way through the movie, and then the rest of the movie is the resolution, for a whole hour in which you'll be checking the time hoping to god the movie will be over soon. If you have ever thought at the end of a movie, once a character has overcome their weaknesses and achieved their goals, what happens after the film fades to black? The character ought to go on with life, where he or she will face more challenges to come. This film almost seems like it has a fourth act that merely explores this idea. It delves way too far into the aftermath of the events that happen only an hour into the film.There is also a slush of subplots that don't know where they want to weave themselves into the story as they aimlessly fly throughout the film. Here's the beef to my arguments (SPOILERS):First, as I've mentioned before, the story is horribly structured. It starts with about 40 minutes of repetitive introduction, followed by a 20 minute long second act in which they break out, and an hour long resolution in which Jack and his mother deal with the real world.Some may say that it does follow the three act structure and that I'm just missing the real story, which is Jack growing into a world outside of Room. Well here's the problem; if The introduction had included the escape, and then the second act focused on Jack struggling to fit into the regular world until he overcomes his fears, then I'd say it's appropriate to say the story is focused on a boy being exposed to a world he's never seen before. This isn't the case however, as Jack isn't exposed to the real world until the second half of the movie, and this story line is barely glossed over in my opinion.In this movie it seems you have three plots: -Ma's growth and struggle as a kidnapped mother -Jack's coming of age into the world outside of room -The escape from Room.The film tries to put all of these plots into one piece, not focusing on one in particular, which failed to engage me in the story at all. There are also plenty of loose ends and unexplored characters that I could go into, but I'd rather not.Overall, this film reminds me of Prisoners and Sicario. It's a story that has potential, but seems like a first draft of a script. There are too many subplots and not a core story that it focuses on, nor is there a proper three act structure to draw the audience in. The performances and production value is great, but other than that, I thought it was a waste of my time.
Room was tedious from the very beginning. And then it got more tedious. And then it kept on going. And though I waited for something to happen, it didn't. Then something did happen, and I thought, "Oh, joy. It's finally over." But alas, it wasn't over. It kept going. And going. And going.Though I had one or two moments where I thought it was cute or interesting, that's not enough to fill out a 2-hour movie. The kid was annoying, the mom was forgettable, the circumstances held no true sense of danger or tension, the aftermath was boring and trite. It might've worked as a 15-minute short film, but good lord, after sitting through it, I felt as though *I* had been trapped in a tiny room for 7 years.I honestly don't understand what people are seeing in this film. There is truly nothing of worth there. Avoid, unless you enjoy things like waiting in line for hours or going over your taxes.


                
Typically you expect dramatic productions to have some sort of resolution, a satisfying denouement or if nothing else at least some intriguing moments with characters, dialogue and scenery that capture the imagination.Room offers none of that, relying wholly on two main conceits to carry the entire weight of the story. Beyond the first act this film is interminably dull and by the end of it I found myself thinking "what the f**k was that it".While it avoids being offensively bad, Room is still not an enjoyable watch. Best avoided.


                
I'm compelled to write this review because of the 8 score, which is why I watched it. I found it on an all-time list of best films, higher than some timeless masterpieces, and checked with IMDb. Has cinema really become so bad that this is considered a highlight? The synopsis hinted that the film would address re-assimilation issues which could have been interesting. But wasn't. They weren't even plausible, which didn't occur to me at the time because I was drifting off. A very young boy, who has spent his whole life in a shed and is suddenly thrown into suburban USA, behaves no more traumatised than a shy child meeting somebody for the first time. And as for the escape plan...Don't be fooled, this are no deep insights, no personality developments, and no twists. There is no drama, no laughs, no tension and very little emotion. The tone of the film is just so lifeless. Film is supposed to be an art form. Art requires love and passion from the people creating it. There are a couple of genuinely moving moments, so I raised the score to a 3, but they stand out simply because the rest of the film is so dull. It seems that the reality TV fad has passed onto fiction. I recall the early Big Brother series and people watching while celebrities lay snoring in bed. This is the fictional equivalent.


                
Yes, that's right. This movie bored me to tears. I fully understand why she got an Academy reward for her role. Her inability to convey any emotion on her face was misconstrued as good acting; because being held captive for years doesn't call for a wide range of emotions. The Cinemagic that made this 2-hour movie seemed 6 hours long was amazing. I can't even phantom how they did that. All these 9 and 10 reviews is people feel obligated to give it to review the cost of the Academy Awards. They are lying to you. They are so many things left unexplored which is a shame. . . No wait, isn't or this movie would have been a month long. I get this is supposed to be some heartfelt and emotional movie to move you to tears for some cathartic moment but the sappy music that plays at every vaguely emotional scene ruins. I'd say steer clear and do yourself a favor don't watch this unless you need something to really bore you till you fall asleep.


                
The premise had potential, but writing was poor. The movie was all over the place and the scenes were cut just when they would start to get interesting. Characters aren't psychologically developed. They're shallow and onedimnsional. The kid that went through so much trauma in his life came out completly normal. Sure, he's young, but there is no way he's undamaged after that. The mother, raped, abused, inprisoned, had some brakedowns, but none were solved onscreen. Also, how the hell does that acting win you an oscar? Not saying it was bad..but it wasn't Oscar worthy. With that script there's not much you can do. But there was no emotion on her face at the end when she saw the room again. No reacton. A lot of actresses would've dona a much, much better job. She just wasn't convincing enough. In fact, nothing about this movie was convinsing. Their escape? Behaviour of their kidnapper? Completly unrealistick. Some of it (him living the kid so he can spill his dirty sicret) was just ilogical. There were some nice shots there, though. Jack (the kid) narates the story. To him that small room seems big. They've managed to capture that, so points for that. Also, the kid is a pretty good actor for his age. But that's about it. 
All in all, this movie was a dissapointmant and a waste of time.
Considering the horrific subject matter, this movie managed to come over as glossy, superficial, and above all it was determined to be emotionally manipulative at every opportunity. I'm sorry but since when was kidnap, imprisonment and prolonged abuse as cosy and sentimental as this? In what way does this movie attempt to truly confront its audience with the raw, vile atrocity of its subject matter? It didn't need to be ultra-explicit visually, but 'Room' was presented more like a hankies-at-the-ready emo weepfest than a genuinely harrowing study in cruelty and repression. As for the 2nd half of the movie, the attempts at scenes of angsty/shouty family drama and turmoil were from the straight-to-DVD standard school of acting. All in all a bland, boring and forgettable excercise in hollywood 'realism'.


                
