In 'Room', there are lots of things we don't see. We don't see how the lead character, Joy, is raped by her abductor who keeps her imprisoned for more than five years with her little son Jack. We don't see how she is liberated by the police, after she manages to let her son escape. We don't see what happens to her abductor and rapist.The director doesn't show all these things, because they distract from the theme of this movie: the way mother and son cope with their freedom. The surprising thing about this film is that this freedom turns out to be rather problematic in a lot of ways. Even so much so, that Jack starts to long for the intimacy and the routine of life inside the shed he called Room.The film shows how life in Room is claustrophobic, but also intimate and familiar. There are no unexpected developments in Room, but there is a lot of love between mother and son. Once they escape Room, everything changes. For Jack, who has never known a world outside Room, this is very threatening. He has to share his mother's attention with other people, he has to get used to all sorts of impulses, he has to learn how things like a telephone work.In this film, there is only one major dramatic event: Jack's escape and the subsequent liberation of his mother Joy. The rest of the film is rather uneventful: at first we see Joy and Jack in their daily routine in Room, and afterward we see them cope with all sorts of problems in the house of Joy's parents. Still, the film is almost never boring. The psychological developments make up for the lack of real action. And although there quite some emotional scenes, the director didn't make an outright tearjerker.


                
A beautifully told story through the eyes of a brilliant 5 year old. Such innocence beautifully portrayed.Great performances, a good film. Nothing more.I have a few issues with this film1) Would the mother trust her child with a man who was willing to keep them captive for so many years? 2) How lucky, Old Nick put the rug on the right hand side of the truck, meaning Jack could roll out to the left as practiced.3) Why would Old Nick just drop Jack like that?4) It took all of 30 mins to locate both the room and Old Nick.5) Surely wouldn't Jack & Ma have more psychology damage?
This is a movie I saw because it was nominated for the Oscars. I had to see the one to make the bet. Thank God I make the bet, I have come to see this great movie. Although I think that it has several shortcomings of script, that will explain in zone spoiler, still I think that it knows them to surpass more and goes ahead. Also hooks and you want to continue watching.The actors are great. If I'm not mistaken they are all unknown but that does not stop them from being great. Even the child and it is not easy to do.The picture is not very good outdoors, but to make a credible film is enough.Even if you do not have nice blueprints or composites. The director, if he knows how to take the film forward. When the thread is finished, it knows how to change and move on and that is very difficult.Spoiler:For me the problem with the script is that I think that the idea of <U+200B><U+200B>the room ends quickly and then it has to continue somewhere. You are watching it and you do not know what happens until you discover it, but when you discover it, you do not know where it is going to go, but it is still on one side and still very well. At the second turning point, the same thing happens exactly as well.Another great thing about the movie, which plays the script is that of acceptance. Will the grandparents accept their grandchild born of rape? It is a pleasure to meet these jewels that the world of cinema offers us.
When I first saw that a new trailer for a film called 'Room was released online, i had a shiver cast through my spine, dreading that it wasn't a remake, sequel, or re-release of the 2003 monstrosity that was 'The Room'. How relieved I was to find out it was actually about a mother and sons journey of escaping from the single, enclosed room where they were held captive in and then watching the 5 year-old 'Jack' adapt to the huge world we live in.The main structure of the film splits down into 2 parts; When they're inside 'Room' and when they've escaped. I completely felt for Brie Larsons 'Ma' having to raise a child who's only experiences in life have occurred inside 'Room'. Larsons performance was something that added so much emotional depth to her character as she manages to show the psychological damage 'Old Nick' (her kidnapper) has put her through. The 9 year old Jacob Tremblay added a believable performance from such a young actor who at times you really feel sorrow for. Then, when the riveting escape sequence is over, the film seems moved to its second half; The outside world. For me this felt like a complete shift in the films pass and tone, which I believe was a great decision as it was almost simulating how our protagonists felt when they were welcomed back into society. However, I really feel that, whilst the trailer didn't take anything away from the film for me, it would of been better not to of shown the fact that they became free of 'Room' Great performances from everyone, an deeply emotional tone, and an overall great film to watch.One of the best 2015 had to offer.


                
Good film - incredible acting by the kid (and Brie Larson). Well told story, enjoyable (sometimes tense) film.


                
Room (2015)I knew almost nothing about this film going in and I recommend that having watched it. The film is a bit artsy and will bore some audiences and captivate others. Each of the characters are beautifully written and dynamically flawed in one way or another. The film has suspenseful elements and heart strumming ones too. Brie Larson's character deservedly won the Oscar that year, even if Brooklyn was a better film over all. She wore no make up for a majority of the film and relied on her acting to sell the audience her character.Jack played by Jacob Tremblay was impressive. I can't say if he was just a genuinely talented performer or if what happened to Jack had also happened to Jacob. His performance was that convincing.How a major scene happens in the film is because of Amanda Brugels character who I can't remember her characters name. That being said I loved how the movie transitioned from act one to act two because of this Police-woman's actions. You'll know which scene I'm talking about because it's the most suspenseful moment in the film. William H. Macy is in the film and is thrown away immediately to add to the underlying theme that some men can be horrible people, just like Old Nick, played by Sean Bridgers who played Johnny Burns from Deadwood, one of my favorite (canceled before their time) TV shows. Joan Allen play's the main character's mother who takes on the motherly role for a certain reason and does a wonderful job making the audience hold their chest in many emotional moments.Enough with the superb acting. The film has flaws. Mainly direction and storytelling. A film shouldn't take you out of the scene because of boredom or nothing to really take in. Many scenes felt longer than they needed to be. Timing is a problem in the film as it felt like The film felt like it was almost over at the 50 minute mark, then had an hour epilogue.Verdict: Watch if you enjoy drama. I can't recommend this to anyone who enjoys watching the Transformer movies, because this is the polar opposite.


                
When I read the book a few years back, I absolutely couldn't put it down. The story is incredibly powerful and your heart aches for young Jack. The part where he escapes literally had my heart pounding in my throat. It was an overall incredible reading experience, and because the book set such high standards, I didn't expect the movie to be able to top it, as usually happens with movies based on fantastic books. However, "Room" took me by surprise and really impressed me, albeit in different ways.In the book, Jack is the narrator, which was particularly powerful...since the reader is essentially blind and can only know what Jack describes, you largely have the same amount of knowledge about what is going on as he does for the first half of the story, and slowly put two and two together. Not being told what was explicitly going on was a great driving factor in the book, and Jack's escape was one of the most heart-pounding reading experiences in recent memory. I don't necessarily totally fault the movie for not being able to pull off quite the same experience as the story couldn't be told quite the same way in a visual medium, and obviously knowing the story I already knew what happened. However, I would have loved more shots from Jack's point of view in the movie, maybe even completely from his point of view. The richness and blissful ignorance of Jack's world and the interplay between his inner and outer mind was a very important theme decidedly missing from the film.However, one aspect of the film I did enjoy was the second half, post-escape. This part of the book I thought paled a bit in comparison to the first..once the reader 'knew' much more than Jack did the story lost something important, in my opinion (in fact, because of this, I thought the book should have ended with their escape) But in the film you got to explore beyond Jack's eyes and this second half is where this mattered most, for example you got to see a much better view of the implications for Jack's mother (helped in no small part by Brie's powerful performance, whose Oscar was well-deserved), and for the pair of them together as they navigate their freedom together, one learning for the first time and other re-learning. The way they presented this part was powerful and inherently had greater depth without the narratorial confines, and I liked it much more than I did in the book.Overall, although I have to be that annoying person with the obligatory "book was better" comment, I did very much enjoy the film for the reasons stated. It would have been interesting to see it without knowing the story already. I am very glad they brought this beautiful and heart-wrenching story to the big screen - the acting and cinematography was simply superb and young Jacob Tremblay clearly has stardom in his future.
Room is a movie about a mother and son who are forced into captivity in one room. The movie revolves around the adjustment they have to take when in the outside world, it's such a unique film, and seeing a boy react to the real world after believing in a false one is both intriguing and heartbreaking at the same time. It's a pretty powerful movie with very solid performances.


                
Review: I really enjoyed the beginning of this film, when Ma (Brie Larson) and Jack (Jacob Tremblay), were living in a small room with no access to the outside world but the second half of the movie took away the originality that was set at the beginning. The acting is superb from Brie and Jacob and you can't help rooting for them, when they were plotting and executing there escape but it was sad to see how the whole ordeal took its toll on Ma. The way that Jack's character was written, was perfect and for such a young boy, he really did bring realism to his character but I would have liked to have seen more scenes of them in the room, which was the most enjoyable part of the movie. It was amazing to see them make the most out of everything in that little space, including the mouse and the little birthday cake, so it wasn't surprising that it took so long for Jack to adapt to normal life. That wasn't the same case for Ma, who was locked up for 7 years and forced to have sex for food but I have to commend her for bringing up Jack under such abnormal and cruel circumstances. When she eventually came to terms with what she had been through, it was good to see her back with her little boy but I'm sure that it's something that will stick with her, for the rest of her life. Anyway, I really enjoyed this movie and I'm glad that it got all of the recognition that it deserved. Original & Enjoyable!Round-Up: For such a small movie which is based in a little room around 2 characters, it's good that it made such a profit at the box office, and with Brie Larson winning an Oscar and a Golden Globe award for the  Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role, it certainly went down well with audiences around the world. Personally, I think that Jacob Tremblay, equally put in a brilliant performance and it's a shame that he didn't get any awards for his amazing contribution. It was also up for an Oscar in the best picture of the year category, along with an director award and screenplay award, so it was a smash hit, in terms of the recognition that it received. The movie was directed by Irish born, Lenny Abrahamson, 49, who also brought you Adam & Paul, Garage, What Richard Did and the extremely strange movie, Frank starring Michael Fasbender. He certainly got the most out of the actors, who all put in emotional and believable performances but he did take his foot off of the gas towards the end.Budget: $13million Worldwide Gross: $35.4millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their dramatic movies starring Brie Larson, Jacob Tremblay, Sean Bridges, Wendy Crewson, Joan Allen, William H. Macy and Matt Gordon. 7/10


                
The crime of kidnapping and extended captivity is well known through media exposure that sensationalises the psychological horrors of confinement in claustrophobic spaces. The dependency of some victims on an abusive captor or prison is just one of the many strange twists found in captivity stories. But this one is different because it is narrated through the eyes of five- year old Jack who was born in a fortified shed with only a small overhead skylight visually connected to what is outside his world called Room. His mother was abducted at seventeen and has been a captive for seven years, raising Jack as best she can in a co-dependent relationship that shines beautifully in their small prison. When tormentor Nick loses his job she knows he will not keep them alive, and that's when the slow-paced narrative opens predictably towards a fast world full of frighteningly wonderful sights and sounds and feelings expressed through the naivety of a newborn five-year old.This film would not work without the emotionally intelligent acting of Jacob Tremblay as Jack. Being almost ten and convincingly presenting as half his age is nothing short of remarkable. He describes his new world through wide eyes and lyrical words that capture the exploding space into which he is thrust, and he alone holds this film together. As Ma, Brie Larson's acting fixates on maternal dynamics at the cost of a convincing portrayal of captivity trauma. The scene where Jack and Ma re-visit Room after Nick is caught has all the nonchalance of strolling through a museum, as the story winds down from the highs of a taut psychological thriller to a modest melodrama. It is after all a film that strives for insight, not entertainment, while remaining true to the book upon which it is based. It does this thoughtfully in the first half, but slowly loses focus as it drifts aimlessly towards the end.


                
I had picked Brie Larson as the favorite to win the best actress this year and she might juts pull it off though this movie has an anticlimactic ending that doesn't explore the full extent of the horrible events depicted. Room is based off a book by the same name written by Emma Donoghue. The novel won all sorts of awards and shortlisted for many others. I have not had the privilege to read it but I've heard good things. Donoghue also adapted the screenplay. The significance of this movie cannot be denied as I clearly remember hearing the horrifying tale of the three women in Cleveland and the other awful experiences of young woman at the hands of derange men. This movie takes place in Ohio too. Overall this movie is very sad and moving, a real downer. Jack played by Jacob Tremblay steals the show. I'm surprised he didn't get nominated for a Golden Globe. His young performance was only outdone by the young man of Beasts of No Nation, Abraham Attah. This doesn't take away from Tremblay's performance. He dominates the film and his voice-over brings us into the strange world of room. The back and forth between him and Larson's Joy, or Ma, was real and grew steadily nerve-wrecking as they plan their escape.See the rest of this review and more at swilliky.com
The first hour of the film was very entertaining and enjoyable, thrilling and tense, but as the film went on it began to drag, and drag, and drag, I understand that character development is key and wants to go beyond the original plot but I just didn't enjoy that part, I felt like it was an hour of filler. The first hour was so great I gave it a 7, and although my review was quite negative I enjoyed it overall


                
The novel and movie was inspired from the true Austrian Fritzl case of 2008, where the father kept her daughter captive for 24 years in a basement and raped her over that period that resulted in birth of 7 children - 3 remained with the daughter, 3 with the father with his wife and 1 had died after birth.The novel written by Emma Donoghue has the same premises, but is a fictional account. The story is told from the eyes of the little boy. Here the perpetrator is a stranger who kidnapped and keeps a 16 year old girl captive in a 11X11 feet cramped room (which has a tub, wash-basin, toilet, kitchen bed, cupboard, a TV and only one skylight) for 7 years.The movie starts when Joy is 24 year old women with her 5 year old son Jack in this tiny space where they create their own world. It is a gritty story of survival of Joy and her mother's instinct to protect her son Jack and planning an escape so that they are freed from this hostile and captive room for Jack to see the wonders of the world. By the mid-point of the story Joy succeeds in her plans and is rescued by police. The second half focuses on re-integration of Joy and Jack within the society and their family but skips the perpetrator's arrest and prosecution.The main three characters Joy - (Brie Larson) Jack - (Jacob Tremblay) and Old Nick (Sean Bridgers) play their parts beautifully. Brie won the Oscars Academy award as Best Actress for this role and another Jacob had 45 award nominations from which he won 19 awards as best supporting young actor.The movie did excellent business after the Oscar award for Brie Larson. On a budget of 13 million, it did a business of 36 million world-wide.The Director Lenny Abrahamson has done a marvelous job in remaining true to the novel, thanks to the help of the author Emma who also wrote the screenplay of the movie. The movie is rated all time 136 best movies of the world rated by IMdb and has 239 nominations from which it has won 130 awards. Phenomenon.Good thing about the movie is that even after undertaking such an abusive subject, Lenny and Emma have created a clean, touching movie that moves us to tears and smiles and final triumph of human spirit. A bit slow but to transport to the lives of Joy and Jack - one needs to hold the flag of empathy. A good Drama thriller.I would go with 7.25 out of 10 P.S.
Just for those who are interested in Fritzl case, the father is life-imprisonment till death in Austrian prison and the daughter was a given a new identity and lives with her children a normal life.


                
What is a room? It's an enclosed space. Those two notions, when broken down, alomst seem incompatible, for to be enclosed is to limit or constrain the space within something, whereas space is the expansive area in which things, people, and places exist. But unbounded space is not only infinite, but also almost meaningless, since spaces are defined by their boundaries. This is the heart of what Room is about: the fundamental hum,an exoperience of and connection to space, spaces, and the reality of people and things within those spaces to our conception of the world around us and our experience even of our own selves. Room explores these ideas overtly and narration that explicitly speaks from the perspective of one of the main protagonists, a young boy with extremely limited and innacurate experience of the world even for his young age, on confused notions of "inside" and "outside". His whole reality, all he's ever known is a single Room and to him it is the world. It is also a prison. His mother is a young woman who was kidnapped as a highschooler and repeatedly raped (and thus impregnated) by her captor (also the boy's father). He believes the outside world doesn't really exist and the images of the outside he sees on the TV they were provided in thier "home" are fake. There are no real trees or dogs or cars, because he only sees them in images on a screen and was told by his mother (ostensibly for the sake of sparing him knowledge of that which he may never see) that these things were not real and that all that was real was their world: "Room". Much like we call our world "Earth". There's a whole lot of the "Allegory of the Cave" in this tale. When the characters eventually break free (after a tense escape plan) they must strugle to adapt their reality. They have opposite, but equally difficult adjustments to make to reconcile their new reality with thier old one. The child has a bigger gap to bridge: the entire conception of reality he has has been a mixture of confusion, simplification, limitation, and lie (albeit white lies). When his mother starts explaining the truth, it is litterally world shattering to him and he reacts with hostility and denial (as we all do when our Truths are challenged). When he actually sees the outside world, it is strange, surreal, and overwhelming to him. He cannot process the stimulation, the pace, and complexities. But he is young and still "plastic". His situation, while extreme, is not so different for a concentrated does of the kind of confused revelations that all childhood consists of, and which allow for growth and expansion. His world, though expanded radically, becomes quickly accepted. Relatively speaking, anyway.His mother, on the other hand, initially deals much better. She has the euphoria of escaping and being safe. She is not overwhelmed and has an ingrained muscle-memory of how to interact with people, things, and to live in the world. Only after some time does the horrifying and inescapable truth set in: that, although she's escaped and now is back living in a world she'd spent the last 7 years dreaming and praying she mght one day return to, a whole chapter of her early life was stolen, the trajectory of her life inalterably transformed from what it could have been, and in some sense her life can never be normal. She can't go back to being a teenager. The people she left behind, though they no doubt suffered, went on living. They aren't the same. Her parents are both older, divorced, and changed. She may have reclaimed life, but not her old life... that is gone forever. The acceptance of the new is more easily accomplished than letting go of the past and of lost dreams.These dual existential crises continue to be portrayed throughout the film as problems of space, of size and scope. The mother can't relate to the people she held so close before because they no longer share a common point of reference. No one can know what she's been through or how she's feeling. She feels alone. The boy sees so much that he just can't square, he feels the opposite of alone, instead retreating inward and wishing to retreat back to "Room" where everything was so much simpler: just him and his mom and the transient, though traumatic, prescence of their captor ("Old Nick" as they called him). Later in the film, though both a gesture of solidarity and of some intrinsic commonality between these two poles and by some dialogue, the film expands that isolation of self through shared human love... stating that we as human find strenth in each other-in our relationships and mutual support-an expansion of self that creates community and family in much the way the world of the enclosed space of a room can expand to break free of those boundaries to include many rooms and many spaces within a multiplicity of spaces.There's so much mataphor and subtext here that a single viewing and the time and thought I've given it thus far can't possibly fully flesh out all the dimensions of this film. It's applicatible to so many things-social, psychological, anthropological. But it's also a film deeply intimate in our humanity and in the portrayal of the characters, their experiences, the overall transitions and transformations for those characters, and well executed attention to small details like that the boy has to now learn to walk down stairs or wear shoes for the first times. It struggles with the contradiction of how a prison can nevertheless become a place we may still in some way regard as "home" and even miss once gone, all while still being glad to be free from it. Much the way we can miss an ex from an otherwise bad relationship or miss a small crumby apartment during difficult times after moving to a better, bigger dwelling, or miss simplistic notions of childhood once we've learned and grown and become wiser. Those smaller, simpler, albeit more confining and even hostile worlds, may not exactly represent a kind of Stockholm sindrome so much as they represent the innature human tendency to perceive reality and attach a sense of our own personage, of both ownership and identity, to our surroundings and our sense of self. A room is not just an enclosed space, but typically refers to a purposefully but arbitrarily made one, crafted and maintained both for refuge from the hostile outside world and also to give structure and organization to an otherwise unstructured and chaotic reality of nature.Room is not just an enclosed space, but space itself. To have room is to have space and to have more room is to have more space. As rooms and spaces expand or contract, so to do their bounded realities. When the mother and boy return to "Room" at the end of the film, it looks impressively small on the screen (wonderful cinematography) whereas earily it had seemed quite large with lots of scenes shot at different angles and dialogue of our child protagonist detailing the expanse of his territory ("good morning, sink!, good morning, chair!, good morning bed!"). There's a lot of subtle camera work like this and small plot or sequence elements that add richness to a film that otherwise could have just been another A&E special about a kidnapping victim. But this one does not begin a crime and end with an escape. This one begins with introducing and fleshing out a world, small though it may be, then explaining its origin and by explaining that world it thus tears apart and breaks that world down like Captain Ahab finding the White Whale. The great secret of this reality being revealed, the challenge is to escape from this reality and back to that Golden Age of Before, before the cataclysm, only to find that the old world cannot be rebuilt. The film ends, not with the destuction of the world we finally found to be fraudulent, but with the confrontation of incompatibility between the past, present, past-perceived futures, and presently-perceived futures in the narrative of a human mind and within the turmult of the human heart and spirit and the difficult and painful process of reconciling, processing, absorbing, and reframing those things to create new realities. So it is with all tragedy, loss, grief, and trauma. This film has the courage to stand up and really look at these concepts in smart, honest, realistic ways.Room is not a happy or even pleasant experience, but it is moving, deep, and memorable. It does offer hope and a good deal to chew on for days, weeks, months to come. While the overt overtures to spatial concepts and identity are there, they are well complimented by an easier to follow narrative of human tragedy and emotion along with less overt nods to those topics to continue adding dimension at times where the film might have otherwise has reverted to formulaic linear storytelling. It's not a movie you'll long to see again to relive the experience, but it is a movie that will stick with you long enough that you end up rewatching to continue peeling that onion.
One thing I hate are dumb parts of movies.... things that you know just would not be true. And you're not watching a fantasy so... there shouldn't be. Couldn't stand the part where lawyers got involved and acted like the victims would be responsible for prosecution costs. Absolutely idiotic. So if someone commits a crime it wouldn't get prosecuted unless the victim pays? Yeaaaa OK. ABSOLUTELY BRAINLESS. Otherwise good movie, but those completely idiotic occurrences in films, and this one is bad, is inexcusable. Especially as they HAVE to know it's BS but keep it in anyway to try to create more drama. I took of one star for that but it's annoying me so much right now I want to take of more...


                
'Room' is the harrowing story of isolationism, and then, later on, immersion. We're first introduced to our two main characters, twenty-something Ma (actress Brie Larson) and four year-old Jack (up-and-coming Jacob Tremblay), inside a garden shed. We are, of course, unaware that this is a garden shed, but the size is what's immediately noticeable. Small, dark, and dank, with a single skylight. Jack, the product of Ma's kidnapping despite her insistence of his immaculate conception, is oblivious to the space of the room, or lack thereof, and equally of the world outside it. Ma, we're later told, has been living in the confines for seven years. It's seven too many, and when she decides quite suddenly that some attempt must be made to free one or both of them, plans are quickly set in motion at her behest and against Jack's wishes.I'm hesitant to mention their escape at all, but the always inexcusable trailer not only alludes to the escape but presents it as a first- act occurrence, mostly using the opportunity to list the other notable actors of the production. It's an unfortunate introduction to the story, as the audience does benefit from the time spent in the shed, however fully expecting the scenery to change in a moment. We come to understand their lifestyle: stretching in the morning, TV, eating canned slop, TV, running from one end of the shed to the other, TV. They have each other, and TV. It's been the source of Jack's entertainment, and no doubt his education, for much of his life. So when Ma tries to explain that TV holds some truth, that other people exist, and so too does a world outside of Room, it's hard for Jack, now 5, to grasp. "How does it all fit?!" he asks out of a serious incredulity (a single line delivered in a way that certifies Tremblay is one to watch).Nevertheless, he does grasp it, or he pretends to. He audibly bounces back and forth between acceptance and some acting form of denial, but his trust in Ma ultimately outweighs his fear of something larger, and then, halfway through the film, the outside is revealed to him. It's an abrupt and belated transition and his daring escape doesn't seem at all plausible but paints our everyday surroundings so empyrean that you more than forgive it. Triumph of the realization is replaced with a terror. Talking to the strange people he's only just recently come to see as real instead of "magic" is too much, too soon.A female officer warms to Jack, and his bravery leads to Ma's rescue. The two are reunited with the family he's never known, but a reluctance to engage with anyone besides his Ma is apparent. By this time, the film feels unbalanced. Its pacing is jarred, and the idea is that it's supposed to, but it feels less like a new, eye- opening experience and the slow understanding that comes with it, and more like a train wreck in slow motion. The second half offers little to the viewer. The meat of the story is left behind, and while it wasn't exactly Kobe beef, what we're left with is little more than the canned slop our duo had been subjected to in the beginning. Joan Allen does her best with what little she's given, William H. Macy isn't much more than a snapshot and a stepping stone to Ma's character development, Tom McCamus surprises, and Sean Bridgers eerie acting as the deluded kidnapper is oddly missed after his exit, which is without any real resolution.This proves to be a compelling story, and is at times emotionally gripping, but is ultimately ill-fated for a film adaptation. Best suited as prose, or as a journalistic publication on which the narrative is based, it falters in being brought to screen. Neither first-time feature screenwriter Emma Donoghue nor Lenny Abrahamson are at fault, as both do greatly with what is to be offered, and the casting, particularly the ever-impressive Larson, is inspired. Still, in leaving the theater, something is left to be desired."Room" will prove to be a nice addition to the résumé of any involved, but with little shelf life beyond the awards season.B-Andrew Paul, occuris.com


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Tragically, stories of women being held captive have become all too common in this sometimes frightening world in which we live. Emma Donoghue had the high profile, real life situations of Jaycee Dugard, Elisabeth Fritzl and Amanda Berry (Ariel Castro) to draw from for her terrific novel upon which this film is based. While not easy for anyone (especially parents) to watch, it's a well made movie with outstanding performances <U+0085> including a career-changer from Brie Larson.Director Lenny Abrahamson (Frank, a critical favorite from last year) takes us inside the world – or more accurately – the walls where Ma (Brie Larson) and her just turning 5 year old son Jack (Jacob Tremblay) live. Seven years ago, Larson's character was abducted while walking home from school, and since then she has given birth to Jack, and the two have been held captive in a small shed with only a skylight connecting to the outer spaces of life. The captor <U+0085> known as Old Nick (Sean Bridgers) <U+0085> periodically brings them supplies, while also regularly visiting to satisfy his more base needs with Ma.For the first half of the film, we as viewers are held prisoners right along with Ma and Jack. We see what a patient and wonderful mother she is as she strives to provide some semblance of hope for her son, though in a nearly hopeless situation. When Jack turns 5, Ma begins to explain the outside world to him, as she knows they must try to escape in order for her son to have any semblance of a normal life. During this time, we are in awe of this 10 x 10 environment and how it is every bit the nightmare we have imagined while reading the articles and seeing the reports on real life ordeals.The second half of the film is equally fascinating, as we watch young Jack and his sense of wonder and caution at discovering the real world. We also see the psychological trauma that Ma experiences after staying strong for so long. Assimilating into society brings different challenges for both Ma and Jack, plus those of her mother (Joan Allen), her father (William H Macy) and her mom's new beau (Tom McCamus). The film doesn't shy away from their reactions, though some are easier to stomach than others.Providing any more details would soften the impact of the film, and this is one that is meant to be felt – even if it's a true kick in the gut. The film is well cast and well acted, and young Jacob Tremblay captures our hearts quickly and joins the short list of child actors who go far beyond "cute" and into profound. Brie Larson exploded onto the acting scene in Short Term 12, one of my favorite movies of 2013; but it's here where she steps into the elite level of actresses. She brings a tenacity and emotional strength that leaves us never doubting whether she has "her strong".


                
Room is a heartbreaking story, sometimes thrilling, sometimes boring, about mother's love to her child and about fight back for freedom.


                
It is difficult to produce a seriously dark film that makes the audience feel good about having seen it, but novelist and screenwriter Emma Donoghue has made the material, director Lenny Abrahamson has delivered the look and feel; and astounding performances by a 23-year-old Brie Larson (Ma) and 7-year-old Jake Tremblay (playing 5-year-old Jack) take the audience through amusement, curiosity, horror, and confusion to a climax that leaves them moist-eyed and content that things will work out.The cinematography, considering the 10-foot square set, was brilliant. The escape sequence, seen both from the astounded Jack's eyes as well as a drone's eye view, grabs the viewer and makes him feel he IS little Jack, if just for a moment.As the escape is executed, it becomes plain that this is a high-grade chick flick. Instinctive motherhood and female mind games that most men would never think of present revelations to those with Y chromosomes, twists that that the brutal Old Nick (Sean Bridgers) never sees coming. Brie Larson's acting, even as her character acts, convinces everyone.There are only three, well, two questions that much of the audience may have: 1) Why was grampa Robert (in a fairly brief appearance by William H Macy) unable to look at Jack? 2) Why did it take forEVer to get Jack's hair cut? (This question is beautifully resolved, by the way.) and 3) This is when you know it is a woman's story: Why, in seven years of captivity, did Ma never think to stand the bed on its end and climb out through the plastic skylight?Those questions aside, ROOM gets ten stars for acting, direction, and cinematography. It loses three stars only for the minor plot fails.
I have seen some great dramas and this one rates good on my scale. I imagine the book is much better than the film because the story picks up in this one at the end of 7 years of being stuck living in one room. While references are made in slight bits about how the ordeal for Ma and Jack started, there is very little done to explain how this could have happened for so long. Granted, that is not important to the dramatic part of this film, but it does make the film a leap that might explain why -Old Nick when he does lose Jack just takes off. I really thought he might do something more desperate like go back and harm Ma before the police free her from the room. When I looked at this, the hook is the relationship between Ma and her son Jack. Brie Larson as Ma & Jacob Tremblay (Jack) are outstanding in their roles. Their relationship is key to this drama working. Ma's entire world is being kidnapped when she was 17, raped by old Nick (Sean Bridgers), having a son and then wrapping her entire life on bringing up her son in one room with Old Nick being the jailer and provider for them both. It is an out of whack world which Jack can only see through a skylight for 7 years. Ma totally protects Jack from Old Nick like a mother in the wild protects their young. She teaches him to read, and they do get exposure to the outside world via a television set. Finally, Ma uses her son to finally escape from the room. Then this film goes into the raw emotions and reactions of shock as she and Jack get exposed to the outside world.Many times, Jack is narrating the story as it goes along. Jacob Tremblay's performance is outstanding in all aspects here. Brie Larson is very good but it is the child's view which really carries this film to make the viewer care. It is the emotion which made me interested in the film. It is not a perfect film, but it does pull the viewer in.
(spoilers) Directed with competence and subtlety by Lenny Abrahamson, "Room" is winning direction with good score and great acting from leads, especially Jacob Tremblay (young Jack). The claustrophobia of the first 45 min wears a bit, but the filmmakers redeem themselves with an excellent 2nd half of adaptation and re-circulation into society. Camera angles, brightness, and blurriness, including sound muffling are all masterfully distorted and adjusted to impart the strange distress the boy gets put through when transitioning. The dialog is not far-fetched or pandering. Indeed, the movie was very good, adapted from the novel with the same author creating the screenplay as well. 7.5/10 (recommended)
this is a great film. i only came to comment because of something that happened in the film that annoyed me so much. spoilers ahead.so when she gets home and they are interviewing her for what seems to be a daily TV show its so annoying but it would be just the kind of reaction you would expect from a snobby women working on TV who has had daddy do everything for her and thinks she can sit down and pass judgement on a girl who has been hold hostage for a good 5 years if not more. i am guessing it was 5 years. hold in a room in a shed. and yet this reporter still takes a stance that she is above her, that what she thinks and says is so important and is so. while interviewing her it is so typical of the interviewer coming from a place of judgement and not from a place of love or care. it is a part of this sick world we live in where ego of the wealthy seems to think it is so much better than anyone who has had any kind of hardship, so annoying.and it is done so well. and it annoyed me so much am guessing that was the intention. so daddys girl interviews the girl about her baby boy. who she conceived from the man who held her captive for 5 years. first she asks how she feels about the father of her child. obviously an horrendous question knowing what she has been through but am sure i could imagine this being asked. and then. she asks her why didn't you get your captive to drop off your child at a hospital somewhere. a man. who held her hostage and raped her why didn't she ask this sexual monster to do the right thing. and take away her child. really. to a hospital and drop him off because it would have been better for the child. really. how could she ever know that. he could have killed the child. anything could have happened. how can you expect a man a beast who has hold you hostage for 5 years. to take your child away and do the right thing. this annoyed me SO much. and it is only because of her actions she is now alive and well and also her son is alive and well. it is her actions that made it possible for him to escape and for her to be saved. yet this so to do women thinks she can judge. so screwed up our world is people. daddys girl would have never experienced what it is like to be hold hostage your life at risk. yet she sits there and judges her. its horrendous. later i believe it is what causes her to commit suicide feeling she was worthless. its a very touching film. but also shocking. its very well done. really got me going.
After reading all the comments I just had to see this movie. I expected it would be about the difference in feelings between mother and child about their situation (In the Room as well as outside). And in a way it was, especially the first half of the film, which was really good. The second half disappointed me a little bit. It even was a bit boring and sometimes over the top sentimental. Where the movie made me cry in the first half, the second half made me laugh. Because it was funny to see how over the top wise Jack was. And everything was done to make the viewer feel something. However sometimes less is more. Over the top is funny. But the American audience will love it.


                
It shows you how devastating is the life of a mother who has been kidnapped for seven years with her son Jack, who just turn five. The film in deeps the complexity of the situation by showing the emotional repercussions of not just the mother and the son, but the grandparents after the kidnapped; and the particularity of jack, who doesn't have real knowledge of the real world, other than what he sees in the TV and it's unable to comprehend properly. The story it's narrated at times for jack, what gives it a bit of innocence and helps to balance out the strong subject. Both actors are exceptional, especially Jacob Tremblay, who despite of his short age is able to portray a wide of complex emotions in a terrific way.


                
Jacob Tremblay was amazing actor in the film "Room", as he could really perform his role powerfully. I thought film had some good acting in it. The story was weak. I did want to get into the world of the kidnapper so that I could feel more for Ma and Jack.Why this kidnapper put them in this situation? That would have been more interesting. I was confined to this little room for more than 40 minutes of the film. Suddenly Ma decides that Jack has to help them get out of this situation. He was able to run away very easily and then the rest of the film was about their life at the grandparents. William Macy is a great actor but I don't know why he was needed in this role. He could have been a good kidnapper. Ma attempting suicide was not believable as no one who had been confined to a room would ever imagine committing suicide after what they both went through and were given a new life.Brie Larson and Jacob Tremblay were good as actors so I have some hope for them. Novels are whole different world from films.


                
