Planet Earth is a worthy documentary series that looks not just at the animals and plants in remote areas, but at the ever-changing ecosystems that look prone to collapse in the near future. This is the sort of programme that the BBC excels at and makes better than anyone else.The camera-work is fantastic and the sections at the end of each programme where they look at how certain parts were filmed is interesting as you see the dedication of the crew who go out to these desolate spots for months to film sections that will last only a couple of minutes on screen. Much of the wildlife has barely been filmed and some such as the wonderfully agile Wild Amur leopard have probably only been seen by very few living people in the flesh.It is narrated by David Attenborough who has the perfect voice for wildlife documentaries and his presence is almost a guarantee of quality in itself. His record speaks for itself.Some of the sequences shown are very brave, most notably the struggles of the polar bear to find food on the ever-decreasing Arctic ice. Too many nature documentaries succumb to "niceness" and show only cute animals looking sweet. To understand how Man is changing the planet it is crucial to show how wasting energy may be affecting wildlife in distant lands (or seas). Sadly it is also important as it seems all too likely that much of the footage will become museum property in the near future, showing subsequent generations the marvellous diversity of life Earth used to enjoy.Overall it has some good educational value as it can be enjoyed both by young children and was recommended by my tutors during a conservation module of my degree.


                
This is a beautifully shot series looking at nature in all it's natural wonder, showcasing a breathtaking diversity of life from the poles to the deserts.With the spectre of global warming rapidly looming I wonder just how much of these wonderful ecosystems are going to survive. I just hope that in 100 years time people will not watch 'Planet Earth' with the same curiosity that I have when look at etchings of the Dodo from old books.TV like 'Planet Earth' has made me think a lot more about the natural world that surrounds me and the impact I am having on it. We can't sit back and let this disappear. It's for all future generations, not just this one.


                
This series is incredible. It took 5 years to shoot the footage, and it really shows that they took their time with it. I bought the DVD recently, and its full of "firsts" in nature photography, including a snow leopard kill and a blue bird of paradise mating dance, both of which are incredible. Everything is shot with crystal clear quality and the score is at times epic, and fits the video very well. "Ocean Deep" features camera-work from two miles below the earth's surface and shows some truly tremendous life forms. This is basically the place to start if you're interested in nature at all.The only thing that ever bothers me about this show is that some of the episodes seem to have a jumpy or non-existent theme, and it makes it hard to remember which episode certain amazing clips are from.


                
If there is a series which has exploited the technology of TV and visual media to it's max then this is it. The visual delight can only be experienced. You are left with a sense of responsibility for the planet and you get a deep sense what it means to destroy this beautiful creation of nature. While each episode is just a brief introduction to each element of nature, it shows the depth of beauty and power of nature in shaping each of these elements. Richard Attenborough voice over has the right timbre for such a beautiful kaleidoscope of nature. There may be other films which capture many other features of nature, but to weave it into a story is what this film has done best. This series should be a must see, especially for high school kids and teachers of natural science.


                
I'm not a big fan of animals but this had me mesmerised!
Loving Earth!


                
A beautiful snapshot of our earth taken with patient and meticulous cinematography, Planet Earth is a great general wildlife documentary. Covering several themes including the ocean, desert, jungle, forests, caves, and Poles, Planet Earth's singular mission is to present young audiences to the diverse habitats and how each life form intertwines with each other. In this respect, it succeeds immensely. David Attenborough does his usual marvelous exposition. One flaw of this series is that, for veteran wildlife buffs like me, it lacks in- depth exploration of the subject matters but since it is suppose to cover our planet, it couldn't be helped. Regardless, it is a worthy viewing for anyone concern or curious about the world we live in. My personal favourites are the Caves and the Poles episodes.


                
I sometimes got the impression that the sounds(animals roaring usually) were added later, and were not the original sounds. I know it's hard to record sounds animals make from far enough so that they are not disturbed. Did anyone else get this impression? Amazing documentary.I've always loved the earth and i still do. 10 Lines of text, they say......hmmm Like when the whales splash. Well, the sound was great and all (you could even hear the water falling down and hitting the whales, and if the wind just happened to blow harder and most of the water fell in the sea, not on the whales, you heard nothing. What i mean is if it's fake, it's an exceptional fake, if it's not, great job on making it as real as possible. The sound is definitely fake if it was recorded from a helicopter, but maybe hey used some type of glider.


                
Though few in number, the poor reviews should be considered personal opinion and nothing more. For starters, this series does not simply document the over-glorified killing and procreation of those at the top of the food chain, but rather focuses on the entire chain itself, and the efforts that many species make to find their next meal. If you sit down and really think about life as we know it, 2 things alone are necessary for the survival of not just humans but for every species, both plant and animal: food and procreation. BBC does a wonderful job examining the basic elements for survival.I've also read a review or two that calls for the focus on what humankind's effect has had on a number of these species. The series does mention every now and again an influence that we have effected on certain species, but I don't believe that the most expensive and elaborate nature documentary ever composed should be a harsh, guilt ridden lesson on how we are horrible residents of this planet. Yes, it is true that our effect is overbearing and far-reaching, but there are a number of other documentaries that examine this effect. I would probably not have watched the entire series had each contained some lesson about reducing pollution or destroying forests. Overall, BBC orchestrated a masterpiece that is unrivaled by any other nature documentary I have seen. I enjoy the opportunity to witness things that I would probably never be able to see in person and I believe that fact alone makes this something that everyone must see at least part of in their lifetime.
I originally bought planet earth on DVD and loved it, except for the extra preachy "save the earth" disc. I now bought the blu-ray version and am amazed at the level of improvement in picture quality and the richness of the experience, HOWEVER I am disappointed that the producers DID NOT include the behind the scenes vignettes for each episode as they did on the DVD version (damn marketing), besides that detail I love the improved quality of pictures even at 720p HD resolution.BTW I bought the BBC Richard Attenborough narrated version, although I found the Sigourney Weaver, Discovery Channel, version of the program quite adequate.I would have scored this blu-ray 10-10 if I had all the things I liked from the DVD version....


                
What a beautiful work the BBC team did! But, in the end, the real political issue is just understated. I realise completely that natural history and natural life have been going on for many many more eons than us, human beings. But, (I believe -as most of the people involved in making this film, that we are CREATURES), to blame the only creature capable of thinking and loving to be the direct cause of earth's demise, is absurd. Do they (writers, thinkers, cinematographers, biologists, and so on) really believe with their actions that what they say is true? Wars are true. Today, as a New Year starts, thousands in Somalia, in Sudan, in Ethiopia are being murdered, not to say SLAUGHTERED, and the BBC reports on that. What about the tens, hundreds of people being killed because of a political outrage started after Benhazir Bhutto's assassination? We are humans. We are here to provide life to intelligent beings that can understand the fragile world we live in. What about if we did something to save ourselves from each other? I love nature. I defend all what this magnificent BBC documentary portrays, BUT... what about US? Do we think first about the ibixes in Ethiopia or about a million and a half refugees that are our own kind? Do we think about Somalia and Sudan and we accept MORE THAN FOUR MILLION PEOPLE in state of REFUGEES before we can try to save a frog? I'm a filmmaker. I live in the most raw nature landscapes, I defend saving the Earth as anyone, but, have you ever thought about your own species? Do you want a world with only lizards, bears, orangutans and monkeys? Do you really care for that? I'm sure not even the most radical Greenpeace advocate would do so, if his or her life was threatened.The problems, the real problems are political. The real problems are ideological. And, sadly, natural.


                
I am not an avid viewer of nature documentaries, but every so often I will switch one on and get drawn into quite quickly, when there is a really interesting or likable animal or beautiful sight to see, and this series had all of it. Narrated by Sir David Attenborough, this series gives us an extraordinary insight into the animals, creatures and places of the world that we would probably never see. Using special cameras normally used in the film industry, that can get really close to the action, and slow it down what would take only a second or two in real time. Throughout the programme we see the worlds of the mountains, fresh water, caves, deserts, ice worlds, great plains, jungles, shallow seas, seasonal forests and ocean deep. It doesn't matter whether the animals featured in each episode live in or visit these places, it is how fascinating the footage of them is that must have taken ages to capture. Our world is full of some of the most beautiful, colourful and magnificent animals and surroundings I have ever seen, and with the wonderful narration by Attenborough it is a fantastic programme that I am really glad I didn't miss it, a must see. It was nominated the BAFTAs for the Audience Award, Best Original Television Music for George Fenton, Best Photography Factual "camera team", Best Sound Factual and Huw Wheldon Award for Specialist Factual, it won the Emmy for Outstanding Cinematography for Nonfiction Programming, Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Original Dramatic Score), Outstanding Nonfiction Series and Outstanding Sound Editing for Nonfiction Programming (Single or Multi-Camera), and it was nominated for Outstanding Picture Editing for Nonfiction Programming, Outstanding Sound Mixing for Nonfiction Programming (Single or Multi-Camera) and Outstanding Writing for Nonfiction Programming, and it was nominated the National Television Award for Most Popular Factual Programme. Very good!
The IMDb trivia states that it took 40 camera teams 5 years to film this series. The results are amazing. I missed it when it originally aired in the US on the Discovery Channel, but I snatched up the HD DVD version when it became available, and recently purchased the Blu Ray version just to make sure that when my HD DVD dies I'll still have a suitable copy. When I want to showcase my home theater, Planet Earth is what I show. I love David Attenborough's narration but I wish they would have included Sigourney Weaver's Discovery Channel narration as an audio option. Otherwise, this is the most stunning video of any kind I have ever seen outside of a theater. Virtually every region of the earth is captured in this series and we are able to see things most of mankind didn't even know existed 20 years ago


                
