It really takes someone as intellectually alive as Hitchcock to make a stinker as leaden, and dead on arrival as Dial M for Murder. There it sits, lacking any of his signature technique, stagebound and lifeless as when the first word of it was written, not benefiting from any of his intelligence. Characters talk and talk and talk, always indoors, in a drawing room, because it was written for the stage and Hitch couldn't be bothered to open it up. So it's unbearably claustrophobic. Even if you look out a window it's a phony as can be. Ray Milland is dull as dishwater. For a thrill, after what feels like 5 hours, we cut to the insides of a phone interchange.All of it seen through the eyes of normative British police who can't wait to put things right again. ho-hum. I'd suggest more needed to go morally wrong in this snoozer to generate some interest. For a director whose filmic inventions could fill an encyclopedia, this is a tedious, unimaginative project.The only memorable moment in this (which is also grotesque) is when the stooge hired to kill Grace Kelly fails, and falls onto his back, driving a pair of scissors deeper into his body. Hitch regretted this and never did it again. (The knife is never seen injuring Leigh in Psycho). Rent 'Sudden Fear' with Joan Crawford for some actual thrills eked from this same scenario.This should have been called 'Hitchcock Collects a Paycheck,' Dial H for 'Humdrum,' or Dial U for 'Unremarkable.'
OK.....I kind of liked "A Perfect Murder" (Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow). So many people told me that movie was a cheap / B-grade imitation of "Dial M for Murder" so, I rented it and tried watching it last night. I think I got through 30 minutes of it. I could not understand a word they were saying. Not one word. I'm not a huge Hitchcock fan to begin with, but....I have heard such rave reviews about this movie so wanted to give it a try. Awful, awful, awful. I truly don't understand the hype. And, in reference to another review on here, the claustrophobia in that drawing room or whatever it is was absolutely stifling.


                
