I must admit that I scanned through all the comments on this film hoping that someone somewhere might agree with my assessment of the plot as being absurdly overcomplicated. Surely it was relatively straightforward to get an extra key cut even in the 1950s, which would have stopped all the ridiculous key swapping activities. At times, it seemed more like a magician's (con man's?) act - now you see it, now you don't - rather than a mystery/thriller. I thought it was quaint that the local police were called instead of the emergency services when there is a dead body in the apartment.  Perhaps we had the ethos of your local, friendly neighbourhood cop on the beat in those days who would clear it all up quite amicably and we could all get on with our lives, and perhaps be more careful in future. Not only are keys swapped with gay abandon but also raincoats (unnoticed, of course). Not at all sure why the crime-writer boyfriend of the wife agreed to go to a stag night with the husband, just after he had admitted that he would find it very difficult talking to the bloke, who he hardly knew anyway. The whole thing just fails to be anywhere near believable.  Why on earth are all the comments favourable?
SPOILER: There are many who believe that Alfred Hitchcock was a visionary genius; but personally, I fail to see the appeal in his films. I like some 1950s movies - those of Billy Wilder are great, but I find Hitchcock gets stiff performances from his casts, uses preposterous plots and in 'Dial M for Murder', there's a surprising absence of action - just a lot of talk. To summarise the story, a man plans an improbably complex murder; when the plan goes wrong, he frames his wife; but when his wife's friend and a sympathetic policeman get suspicious, they manage to trap him (albeit via the peculiar device of taking her from prison on the eve of her planned execution to help find the evidence to damn him and free her). He takes his capture with sang froid, and the film ends. I suppose Hitchcock was an original, in attempting to tell tales more complex than those previously attempted in cinema; but in an age of over-plotted and under-motivated thrillers, I wonder if his influence can be wholly considered good.


                
Dial for Murder is one of Alfred Hitchcock's worst-yet one of the most famous-movies. The plot is about a man who wants to kill someone by, when she uses the phone next, strangling her. However, it backfires as she kills the henchman with a pair of scissors and a Plan B has to be devised about killing her while the police on the case. The story isn't the best, the only part of the story that intrigued me to watch this was to see what it had to do with a phone. The only scene that I excited me at all was when the main character realized that his plan backfired. Other than that, this is actually a very dreary film. But it's not all bad; the acting is great. I recommend this to anyone who likes murder, Alfred Hitchcock or just to see why it got to be so famous. If you're not one of these things, I suggest that you shouldn't be watching this movie at all.My Rating: */*****
