Reading these comments you'd think that this was the perfect film. An incredible plan of the perfect murder. The problem is that none of the characters are likable, the plot contains more holes than Swiss Cheese and police that act far out of character so as not to be believable whatsoever.This movie has aged badly. The contrivances of old films are all present here. I was wondering whether this was a play of some sort and lo and behold it was. Like Hitchcock's other loser film, Rope, this one has annoying characters doing things that people just don't do. The film takes place primarily in one room, the apartment.Rear Window is a far superior film to this one. Like most films, the fawning fans gladly overlook the horrendous flaws so that they can proudly proclaim "Ooooh, it's a Hitchcock!" This is just a conceit where Hitchcock thinks he can lazily work his genius and all the fools in the audience won't notice. You will. You'll be asking yourself one question from the start, being... "why the heck not make a third copy of the key?" That's just for starters. The last third of the film you'll be groaning... don't say I didn't warn you.


                
Looks to me as though Hitch was marking time with this pre-digested package until better material came along, which it did with Rear Window (1954). Halfway through this static exercise, however, I started taking notes so I could keep up with all the plot complications. I had to write fast.The trouble is the movie's so full of contrivances and polished British gentility, it had me yearning for Sam Spade and a straightforward slug to the gut. At least that would have interrupted the endless talk and civilized palaver. In fact nothing riles the oh-so, civilized Wendi (Milland), — for example, seduce his wife and he says, "Okay, have a glass of port"; arrest him for murder, he says, "Okay, have another glass of port". I may simplify to make a point, but it's like Hitch is trying to prove something about the British. However, in my book, whatever it is, it's not good.This is one of the few Hollywood movies that films a stage play like a stage play, requiring only a one room set. Couple that inbred space with endless palaver, a tortuous narrative, and 100- minutes of run-time, and you've got one of Hitch's weakest, most oppressive entries. And pity poor Grace Kelly who gets mostly to stand around and look befuddled—probably trying to figure out the latest wrinkle.Now I may not be the brightest bulb on the block, but I'm betting that only the rotund master's name keeps this entry afloat on anyone's list of goodies. Too bad someone didn't save the idea for The Alfred Hitchcock Hour, where the stage play would seem more workable. And to echo the obvious— Please, please, tell me why the cerebral Wendice can't count to three when it comes to latch keys, except, of course, that a locksmith would undo the entire premise.


                
Well, "The Master of Suspense" (yes, that's director, Alfred Hitchcock, everyone) has done it again. "Dial M For Murder" is yet another one of "The Master's" misfired, mediocre tales of "murder-most-foul" that honestly doesn't even come close to living up to all of its hype.Over the past few months I have watched a number of Hitchcock's most-applauded films of the 1950s (such as Vertigo and Spellbound) - And, yes, even when I take into account that they are now all 60+ years old, I still find that these films are really being grossly over-rated by (what appears to be) oddly sentimental reviewers who seem to be viewing Hitchcock's films through the hazy gauze of rose-colored glasses.And, "Dial M for Murder" was a perfect example of what I'm talking about here. This very stagy, Technicolor production took the whole idea of a meticulously thought-out murder plot to preposterously implausible extremes. And this, in turn, left this viewer rolling his eyes to the ceiling (in pure exasperation) more than you can ever imagine.


                
Hey, folks, I'm really trying to be fair and tolerant here about my rating and comments regarding this 1954 Alfred Hitchcock production - But, from my perspective, all that Dial M's story amounted to was just a stagy, little tale about a handy pair of scissors, latchkey lunacy and "Plan B" let-down.Well - OK - There was actually a bit more to Dial M's story than just that - But, with that said, I couldn't believe how utterly pedestrian and annoyingly anti-climatic most of this film turned out to be.With all of the talk-talk-talk (ho-hum!) that prevailed throughout Dial M's story, I was tempted (a number of times) to use the "silence" button on my remote in order to shut these gabby characters up once in a while. (I'm not kidding) Anyway - If you happen to be Hitchcock fan and love Dial M to pieces, well, I certainly don't hold that against you. But, as for me, I would never, ever recommend this truly disappointing film to anyone. Never.


                
There are Hitchcock flicks that stood the test of time and then there are the ones that didn't. <U+0084>Dail M for murder" is one of the latter ones, being the huge innovation when it came to script writing in its era, succumbing to their vast ambition to create one of the most complicated murder stories in the entire history of cinema. The basic plot would go on to suffocate the stellar cast (Stewart, Kelly), so the final outcome would be below the very high standards made by the famous director himself. <U+0084>Dial M for murder" is one of the more overrated Hitchcock's movies.
