What gets me about this film every time I see it is just how simple it is. The witty urbanity of the dialogue goes without saying (hem), the acting is stagily impeccable, and the direction by Hitchcock is limited by the small sets but masterful for all that.Cold Ray Milland plans and sets up the murder of his demure but faithless wife Grace Kelly by a virtual stranger who is urged on by the stick of exposure of his misdeeds and the carrot of GBP1,000 in used notes. Of course all of his convoluted plans go horribly or thankfully wrong, depending on your point of view, leading to an even more convoluted revised plan. When first seen when young I wasted my time because I wasn't paying attention at the critical moment so missed the point and didn't get it: the key is how did the baddie get into the apartment? It's incredibly verbose, being from a stage play after all and at times it seems nothing more than a radio show with pictures. The long scene setting and verbal sparring by Milland and Anthony Dawson is superb to hear - it's fascinating for its relentless poetry, and of displaying a now-dead world. I could never understand the attraction of 3D movies, least of all with this particular attempt, or why Kelly was continually uglified by the Hollywood machine when she never looked lovelier than in here when she was playing stressed out throughout.I wonder if Hitch remembered the jokey murder scene he did in 1930 in Elstree Calling when Jameson Thomas realised he was murdering in the wrong apartment? Turn that key you have and go in, it's a remarkably literate film and as intricate inside as any lock.


                
The hit Broadway play by Frederick Knott "Dial M for Murder" has been adapted to the screen several times, including the films made in West Germany and Sweden, as well as a TV movie in 1981 (TV) by Boris Seagal and the film "A Perfect Murder" (1998) directed by Andrew Davis with Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Viggo Mortensen. Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 adaptation was the first and certainly the best one even if the master himself considered it one of his lesser efforts. "Dial M for Murder" will be remembered as Hitchcock's first color film and the first of three thrillers he had made with Grace Kelly, the future Princess of Monaco, in the prime of her beauty and her talent. Using color proved to be very effective in the film. The first two scenes featuring Kelly wearing a white morning dress in the idyllic scene with her husband Tony and right after that kissing passionately her American lover, writer (Robert Cummings) in the red dress, immediately, without many words tell the viewer that the story of passion, deception, betrayal, and ultimately, murder will follow. Ray Milland (Tony Wendice) is a surprisingly sympathetic villain (which is perhaps not surprising from the actor with talent, charm, and charisma that equal and remind a lot of both Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart) who knows about his wife cheating and decides to teach her a lesson by plotting a very clever murder which will make him a sole heir to her money (she is a wealthy one in the family). His plan is perfect and almost works but Margot managed to not only escape the murderer but to turn the table on him while stunned Wendice is on the phone and listens how his well thought of plan collapses. Wendice is very resourceful and he proved to be a master of improvisation because it took him a few minutes in a cab to switch to a plan B that turned a terrified victim Margot into a cold-blooded murderess. Now it is up to seasoned and shrewd inspector Hubbard (John Williams) to find the crucial piece of evidence and to solve the case.As always with Hitchcock, his directing is impeccable, the camera rarely leaves Wendice's apartment but the film is never claustrophobic which is the case for many plays' adaptation. It breathes and moves freely and we almost forget that we are in the same room for close to two hours. I would not call "Dial M for Murder" my favorite Hitchcock's film but it is enjoyable, clever, and witty thriller with the interesting twists, outstanding performances, and more than one truly memorable scenes.


                
Ray Milland schemes to knock off his lovely wife (Grace Kelly) in order to support his flagging bank balance...His cause is "justified" by the fact that his wife is guilty of cheating on him...Milland develops a carefully constructed murder plan, contacting Captain Lesgate (John Williams), an old college classmate operating illegal ventures, to whom he outlines his murder scheme and then blackmails into carrying it out... The movie takes off from there as an intense character battle between three different characters... Tony, done by Ray Milland in outstanding performance, is icily intense and incredibly wild. He is easily the best of the three... Grace Kelly & Robert Cummings both pale in comparison, although Grace is slightly better, for the merely reason that her character is left for to do the least amount of truly suspenseful acting...The murder is set up and is deliciously evil: The defining moment is when Ray Milland wipes clean every object he touches as he explains to Anthony Dawson how to carry out the murder of his adulterous wife, thus not incriminating himself... They discuss the closing of the screen door to the porch, the placement of the golden key, and the time it will take his woman to answer the distracting phone call...Grace Kelly is the smart but vulnerable Margot... She begins her role dressed in bright crimson reds but as the film progresses and finds herself accused, her outfits become darker... Kelly is ingénue enough to be sympathetic but also tough enough to be respected... Her most memorable image was on the phone, oblivious to the assassin behind her... Robert Cummings does not fare at all because of his comical face... He is the weakest cast member bringing so little to the table... John Williams is excellent as the dangerous murder weapon tricked by a clever scoundrel... but he somewhere along makes one fatal mistake...Anthony Dawson is absolutely brilliant, delightful as the eccentric Chief Inspector watching how the easy-talking husband is trying to cover his tracks... As soon as he arrives on scene to investigate the murder, there's an instant feeling of electricity... Here's a guy who can read human nature from a mile away... He takes compassion on Kelly, but unfortunately, the two don't partner up as in cop buddy movies...The film, however, belongs to the sinister Ray Milland, the cold logic husband who designs the murder to look like a routine burglary gone wrong, and leads Scotland Yard into believing his wife is guilty of deliberate murder...Milland, a genteel charmer with an icy murderous side, is perfect as Tony Wendice... If ever there was a demonstration of venality, Milland's Tony Wendice was it: courteous on the outside, devious on the inside... We see his cheery domestic manner with his wife... He blithely sends her out for the evening with her lover, then without breaking his stride sits down at the telephone and calls Swan, the man he intends to enlist for the murder... There is something chilling about the way in which Milland operates in these scenes: Once Swan arrives, the polite smile never leaves Milland's face as he switches gears from exchanging pleasantries to blackmail and murder.. The entire scene was shot from the ceiling...'Dial M for Murder' holds its grip pretty well... Hitchcock provides the tension in many directorial tricks: Margot's unexpected change in plans for the evening; a hiding place for a key blocked by Mark at a critical moment; a stopped watch; an occupied telephone box; Margot's wavering hand holding the telephone that almost blocks Swan's access to her neck; Tony taking the key out of Swan's pocket and even briefing his wife what to tell the police...'Dial M for Murder' is a classic stage murder thriller... It never reaches the heights that 'Rear Window' did, but it has to be one of the most brilliant stage thrillers ever written... The score, composed by Dimitri Tiomkin, is both eerie & precarious..."Dial M for Murder" is a film that makes you pay attention. It is a definite must-see!
The idea is fantastic, but the realization failed. Don't get me wrong, this is a great movie, but it could easily have been much better.A former professional tennis player finds out that his wife, for which he left his career and from which he depends financially, plans to leave him, so he plans a "perfect murder" to inherit her wealth. When things go wrong, he improvises a nearly perfect plan B. The original and the plan B are well designed, the film follows an intelligent and well-written outwitting of the main protagonists, and the story is so interesting that many will not even notice that the whole film takes place in one room with only a few characters. But this "mystery thriller", although very interesting, is neither mysterious nor thrilling, because the most of the "mystery" was revealed to us at the very beginning. The audience knows from the start the entire plan for "perfect murder" and follows the main character at every step of the improvised plan B, so there is no room for tension or speculation.The movie should have been opened by the scene of Grace Kelly answering the phone and the mysterious man attacking her from behind. From there they could build plot further, with occasional flashbacks to the time before the attack, where mystery would slowly unfold. If the audience observed the story from the angle of Grace Kelly or the police, instead of a man who devised the crime, the movie could have been straight ten. This way I rate it eight and, if it was made a few decades later, even that would be too high.
8/10


                
DIAL M FOR MURDER is no masterpiece - its source material, though amusing is too mechanical and obvious, with an unravelling that is disappointingly implausible.  Grace Kelly is a terrible actress, but she doesn't even have the crutch of her legendary beauty here, as her humiliation goes hand in hand with increasing dowdiness.  And yet the film is a must-see: not only because every Hitchcock film is rich in style and meaning, but for two cherishable performances from Ray Milland and John Williams; for an extraordinary, abstract courtroom scene; and for a remarkable play with theatrical metaphors.Robin Wood sees many Hitchcock films as analyses of marriage, and DIAL M FOR MURDER is no exception.  Even from the beginning we know there's something wrong with the Wendice union - the opening clench is theatrical, cold, unreal.  The family home is not comforting, but made strange: objects don't blend in, but are threateningly present (lamps, drinks bottles etc.), always getting in the way of human communication (the telephone is an apt metaphor for the crisis in the film).  In a traditional detective story, it is through the displacement of ordinary items, taken for granted, that marks a rupture - the everyday becomes frightening.Wendice is unable to satisfy his wife - he is only interested in her money. when he talks to Swan about his marital difficulties, he walks with a cane, ostensibly a fake prop, but a clear hint of the impotence rejected when he drops it and talks of the murder that will reassert his patriarchal role. He is like a servant in his own home, dependent on his wife, serving her and her lover drinks.  He is probably gay - the handbag which has been transferred in association from his wife to him, is made the butt of a homophobic jibe by Inspector Hubbard.Most importantly, the conjugal home resembles a stage set.  This is the governing motif of the film.  Hitchcock subverts the hokey sentiments and values of Knott's play, by drawing attention to its staginess.  Props are foregrounded; Wendice is clearly a stage director/author who is putting on a play (planning the murder of his wife).  He talks to Swan like he's a director instructing an actor, giving him his lines, showing him round the stage, telling him what to do, where to move; crucially, giving him his cue, timing, the 'call'.However, although Wendice seems in control, the gaze of the film does not belong to him - his authority is already undermined long before his plot unravels.  Frequently filmed in distanceng wide angle, this scene with Swan is shot from above, spied on from a seemingly unmotivated, godlike position, which only emhasises the unreality (theatricality) of the sequence.  There is another author beyond Wendice, who is really running the play.  Is it God?  Fate?  Hubris?  This position of authority is jostled for by the four male characters, in a frequently homoerotic manner.The only time this kind of shot becomes motivated, it belongs to the Inspector, suggesting that the law is the godlike arbiter, from whom nothing can be hidden.  And this is true, but not reassuring: the Inspector is cold and detached; but, more unforgiveably, like the other male characters, two of whom tried to murder her, he sadistically inflicts pain on Mrs. Wendice, pushing her out of the story, in effect succeeding where Wendice and Swan failed; she is absent for most of the film's second half.  The law is shown to be both frightening and whimsical, rather like an Old Testament God. This is not comforting.This link between the author and authority, both trying to shape meaning, and 'create' truth, while in reality concealing it (Hubbard's assertion of patriarchal truth denies Mrs. Wendice's emotional reality) is linked to a story which is invoked in the film's opening MacGuffin, the stolen letter. Poe, a favourite of Hitchcock's, wrote 'The Purloined Letter' about a missive stolen by a respectable government minister, form a Queen possibly enjoying an adulterous relationship.  What's written in this letter, and who controls it, becomes a site of power between the two male characters, who squeeze out the female character, who owns it, altogether.  Knowledge, authority, power, and the artist are linked, all are abused, all are stolen from women.  Mrs. Wendice's absence in the middle of the film is the anguish seething behind the film's (or play's) smooth mechanics.  Anyone who thinks Hitchcock is just a technician is an idiot.  he had a profound grasp on the workings of society, and how people are sacrificed for it.He also shows the seductive appeal of power - Wendice is suave, hilarious, imperious, mandarin, the motor of the film, a joy to watch, and yet an automaton.  Hubbard's victory over him relies on Wendice's working like clockwork.  The author was really only an actor, parroting perfectly his fed lines.  It's significant that it should be a real author who exposes him.


                
One of Alfred Hitchcock's best-known films, "Dial M For Murder" is a carefully crafted and absorbing cat-and-mouse game that keeps the viewer's attention all the way until the end.  The very simple settings and small cast focus all of our attention on the battle of wits a between a scheming husband, played with style by Ray Milland, and the rest of the characters.The story begins when retired tennis pro Tony Wendice (Milland) decides to eliminate his rich, unfaithful wife Margot.  He has laid out an elaborate scheme that starts with blackmailing an old college classmate to do the job for him.  But things do not work out as planned, and Wendice must spend the rest of the film constantly trying to improvise his way out of difficulty.The blackmailing scene at the beginning makes a great prelude to all that follows.  The way that Wendice approaches such a sordid business in such a debonair fashion both initiates all of the plot action and also establishes some nice character contrasts.  (Also watch this scene carefully for one of Hitchcock's most subtle cameo appearances.)The rest of the plot is complicated and contains some fine surprises.  As always, it is handled expertly by Hitchcock, who makes sure that we focus both on the characters and on the clues.  Milland gives a fine performance as Wendice, making us admire his poise and resourcefulness despite his amoral coldness.  Hitchcock favorite John Williams is excellent as the police inspector.The only thing that keeps this from being one of Hitchcock's very best films is the weaknesses in the other two major characters.  As Margot, Grace Kelly is charming as always, but her character makes too many obvious mistakes for us to sympathize with her as deeply as we could.  As Margot's boyfriend, Robert Cummings is too over-eager and one-dimensional for us to like him very much.  These imperfections keep the viewer's emotional involvement from being even stronger, but even so the story is still filled with suspense and interest."Dial M For Murder" will bring a lot of satisfaction to mystery and thriller fans as they watch it and try to figure out what will happen next.


                
Dial M for Murder is a superb dialogue driven suspense thriller. Except for a minute or two of footage, all the action takes place in the apartment. The entire cast delivers its lines with conviction and realism. Every successive interaction builds on the suspense generated by the previous one. Ray Milland is so conniving yet sympathetic enough that one almost hopes that he gets away with it. I wonder if Cary Grant, Gregory Peck, or Jimmy Stewart, three of Hitch's most prominent leading men were afraid of jeopardizing their image and thereby their box-office appeal by agreeing to play a villain. Grace Kelly doesn't have much to do here but she does her job admirably. It was a great year for her. I think she made Rear Window and The Country Girl, for which she won a best actress Oscar, the same year she made Dial M. The actors who played the eccentric inspector and the paramour were also top notch casting decisions. Another winner from The Master, 9/10.


                
Alfred Hitchcock serves up a grand suspense yarn about an elaborate murder-for-hire scheme. Ray Milland, Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings form the triangle in the case of a husband who wants to eliminate his wife in order to inherit her considerable wealth. That his wife is involved in an extramarital affair means little to him as he sets into motion his plan that eventually unravels due to dogged detective work. As with most murder mysteries, money is the reason Milland wants to dispatch Kelly and enlists the help of an outsider to do the dirty work. John Williams is the droll inspector who takes the case apart and puts it back together with logic and old fashioned police sleuthing. The film has a parallel with another Hitchcock film, "Rope", in that both pictures were filmed almost entirely with one set piece. Still, this mystery remains one of the genre's best films.


                
"North by Northwest" is a great example of classic, gripping Hitchcock style -- that movie grabs you by the throat and never lets go! Nowadays I look back at many films from the '50s and '60s and definitely appreciate them, but feel cinematic ally they are much slower and not always as engaging as movies from the '70s, '90s and yes, even the '80s.Hitchcock was a truly great filmmaker, and evidence of this is that nowadays his films are STILL packing a punch and they don't seem outdated in the least! I mean, when was the last time you watched "Psycho" and checked your watch? Unfortunately Hitchcock did make a few errors in his resume (namely his last project) and "Dial M For Murder" is somewhere in between. It's a good "talky" movie in the sense that a bunch of people are in a room acting civilized and sophisticated and upper class (much like "Rope" starring James Stewart, also directed by Hitchcock).But the suspense is lacking and the film is not of the same calibre as "North by Northwest" or "Psycho." It's a good film, and for my money it's better than "The Birds," but don't expect any sort of masterpiece -- otherwise you might feel rather disappointed.(For the record, critics seem to generally consider this Hitchcock's worst movie if only for the reason that it was made during a time when he was very popular and it didn't do very well -- kind of like the 1950s' version of "1941" or another flop, people -- primarily critics -- didn't take a real liking to it and it'll probably always be considered his worst mainstream US movie.)


                
Dial M for Murder-***- Must-see- Directed by: Alfred Hitchcock. Written by: Frederick Knott (from his play), Starring: Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, Robert Cummings, John Williams, Anthony Dawson.Perhaps Hitchcock's talkiest thriller deals with a former tennis star (Milland) who hatches a pitch-perfect plan to kill his wife (Kelly). Yet when she kills her hit-man attacker, Milland must go to great lengths to cover his tracks from his wife's lover and an investigator.Frederick Knott adapted his play for the screen, which is perfect fodder for Hitchcock's suspenseful interest in murder and wrong accusations. The marvelous thing about the film is the fact that Hitchcock is able to conceal the fact that the whole movie takes place in virtually one room. The quick and engaging dialogue by Knott and a stellar performance by Milland are the key attributes that hold the film together when it threatens to expose the theatrical approach other than cinema-tics.Hitchcock already reveals the clues to the picture yet we are still fascinated over the course of the investigation because of how effective he is as a storyteller. The talky aspects and the limited cinema-tics of the picture may not appeal to everyone, but Hitchcock still crafts a noteworthy thriller worth discussing and re-watching like most of his pictures.


                
I've always loved this movie even with all it's flaws and plot holes. Ray Milland steals it playing a cold calculated murderer, but why he would kill someone as gorgeous as Grace Kelly for money is beyond me.
OK she is supposed to be having an affair with the dull Character played by one dimensional Robert Cummings but really?The plot is indeed full of holes but it still grips and I always forget the ending until the very end.
A good play that shouldn't translate to the big screen but only Hitchcock could carry this off and he does,Few movies can work with mainly one room scenes but this one does, although not as well as the brilliant 12 Angry men..


                
Dial M for MurderAlfred Hitchcock's thrilling motion picture "Dial M for Murder," conceived in 1954, invites viewers on a cinematic adventure which places them at the front seat of a carefully devised homicide attempt, and continually keeps audiences engaged in the complex and precise assassination of the protagonist's wife. This gripping film communicates its plot and theme through various film making techniques which are now an iconic staple of Hitchcock's ability to tell a story through his use of the camera. The lifelike performances of Ray Milland and Grace Kelly also contribute an additional layer of fascinating onscreen action, and exhibit that dialogue isn't always a necessary element to a perfected film, and that pictures truly express more than words. The movie takes place in the dense urban area of London, where a couple of two (Tony Wendice and Margot Wendice) dwell in a small quaint apartment. This setting is where the entirety of the film is shot, and all the scenes display how crucial and important a single area can be in a person's life. Within the first few minutes, audiences see that Tony's wife is cheating on her husband with a young author, who becomes a critical supporting character and allows viewers to gain even more knowledge in understanding why Tony displays disappointment in his wife, and seeks true happiness. In his eyes, however, this happiness comes from the prospect of inheriting his spouse's wealth after she is murdered. The following segments of the motion picture all display the protagonist's pursuit to do this, and emphasize the growing tension in mood. Each fleeting second is utilized to Hitchcock's benefit, and clearly comprises to create an incredible product and result.As previously mentioned, the talent of the actors in the film can only be described as praiseworthy and the importance of this aspect should not be understated in the least. Through a divine aptitude for realism, each role inhabits a different perspective and ultimately is a culmination of abstract expression, and traditional acting devices. With a stroke of genius, each character elevates the quality of the story. Delving further into the creation of the movie, we can analyze that cinematography is the primary drive for this thriller, and it essentially serves as the main form of storytelling for audiences. With distinct camera shots, Hitchcock projects an idealized suspenseful drama with a variety of cryptic scenarios. His personalized take on film making shapes a motion picture which is both deeply captivating and moving. To wrap things up, we see how Alfred Hitchcock constructs an enthralling piece which captures onlookers with dazzling acting and cinematic displays. An utmost quality can be seen in every nook of this film's design, and should be looked upon as an exemplary model for this genre of movie. My vote is eight.


                
This is one of Hitchcock's best of his more contemporary (post 40's) movies. Great and clever plot, topped by a great and clever counter-plot, The Grace Kelly/Anthony Dawson confrontation is a classic. The only weak spot, and it is disproportionately weak, is Bob Cummings. Bob Cummings was so oily and unctuous, how could Grace Kelly even get involved with him? And the British may be so stiff upper-lip, but Harrison's tolerance of Cummings is unrealistic.Every other character is dead-on and perfect. I never understood the casting of Cummings. Anthony Dawson (Swan), however, was inspired. I once read a review by Pauline Kael, the great movie critic from the New Yorker Magazine, where she described him as the "penny-dreadful" villain of the movie.


                
Middle tier Hitchcock but still one of the finest mystery thrillers around. Ray Milland plays Tony Wendice, a former tennis player married to Grace Kelly's Margot, the source of his wealth. Fearing his lifestyle is about to come to an end due to her dalliances with American mystery writer, Mark Halliday (Robert Cummins), Tony hatches a plan to have her murdered by an old acquaintance whom he has over a barrel with blackmail. However, the plan backfires and a whole new strategy is needed to save Tony from suspicion.Based on the popular and successful play by Frederick Knott (who adapts for the screenplay here), Dial M For Murder was a film Hitchcock had little time for. In fact, having already started work on Rear Window, Hitch treated Dial M For Murder as a jobbing assignment. His mood was further darkened by Jack Warner's insistence that the film be shot in 3D, with all the camera restraints that such a production brings. Perhaps unsurprisingly though, the restraints and general mood of the director brought about very interesting results. Choosing to go for a claustrophobic single set shoot, Hitchcock resisted the urge to launch things around for 3D effects, instead he used the process to highlight props and angles of the Wendice home. His use of colours here is first rate, particularly around his new found favourite actress, Grace Kelly.Having never seen the 3D version (who has I wonder?) I can't say what impact, if any, the gimmick had. But regardless of Hitch's grumblings and general disdain towards the film, he rose to the challenge by challenging himself and actually produced a fine and technically sound picture. Ray Milland is icy cold yet debonair, while John Williams as Chief Inspector Hubbard strides in and walks off with the film. Kelly is adequate enough (it's her least effective turn for Hitch) but Cummings is awfully bland and threatens to lose the film its momentum when things spice up in the last quarter. Hugely entertaining story though, and of much interest to Hitchcock purists, Dial M For Murder holds up well today as a disquieting mystery thriller. 8/10


                
Tony Wendice has everything you might want in life: A mantel full of sports trophies, a cushy lifestyle, lots of booze, a rich and attractive wife, and a foolproof plan for killing her so he can inherit all her money.We shouldn't like this guy, yet we do, because of a script by playwright Frederick Knott that presents Tony as the victim of his wife's adultery, a performance by Ray Milland that presents Tony as a charming and able foil for many cruel twists of fate, and subtle direction by Alfred Hitchcock that invites us the audience to feel closer to Tony than we do to his victims.The three elements work together at key moments. Wendice has taken great pains to kill his wife at an appointed time, only to find himself with a busted watch. Then he goes to the phone booth to make a call that will deliver his wife into a killer's hands. But the booth is occupied.Milland's eyes go buggy. We worry about whether he will be able to pull off his great scheme, perhaps forgetting the magnitude of his planned crime, perhaps just judging it less serious than the wife's adultery as Knott and Hitchcock have been encouraging us to since the beginning of the picture without our noticing. Then Hitch lets Milland make his call. As the crime is carried out, we finally have a jolt of fear for the wife, played by Grace Kelly at the peak of her beauty. Then tables are turned, scissors beat stockings, and Milland's face falls in an exquisite close-up. Our morbid sympathies are back in his court.Hitchcock fans are down on "Dial M For Murder" because it is played pretty straightforwardly on the surface, with little visual trickery. What we do get, like a phony finger poking through a hole in a telephone rotary and an abstractly staged and lit courtroom scene with Grace Kelly giving her deer in a headlights impression, is weak. Grace Kelly gives an inert, unconvincing performance throughout.But Hitchcock's strengths as a scenarist outweigh much else, and he finds a lot of help not only from Knott's script but a score by Dimitri Tiomkin, cinematography by Robert Burks, and set design by George James Hopkins. If we are to be stuck in one place again, like in "Rope" and "Lifeboat," it might as well be a posh London flat crammed with period charm and detail.I even think Robert Cummings is a plus here. You quickly dislike him for his smoothness and nerviness as Mark Halliday, the other man in this love triangle, but of course you are supposed to. In a great documentary that comes with the "Dial M" DVD, Peter Bogdanovich suggests Cummings represents "subversive casting" on the part of Hitchcock, designed to get us to like Milland more. I'll go further and say that Cummings was a knowing co-conspirator, communicating Mark Halliday's smug contempt for Milland's character in subtle ways throughout the film. When he approaches Wendice with his brilliant idea for having Wendice claim that he set his wife up and thus help her avoid execution, we actually resent this ploy despite its inherent validity. Of course Mark wants Wendice to cop a plea: Mark can then get the girl and profit from Wendice's misguided devotion. Lucky for Wendice he's beyond such tricks...And there's the rub. We root for the murderer because he's getting his own back. Never mind that killing people is far worse a crime than cheating on them. This film sticks a magnet on our moral compass and leaves us to work it out long after the last scene, where Tony's sociopathic depravity is laid bare in Milland's best on-screen moment. Chips down, he manages a final wink and a cheery smile as his wife watches with tear-filled eyes. Give the devil his due and he'll steal your soul, but you may be too charmed to catch yourself being swindled.


                
Usually, the formula for a great Alfred Hitchcock movie is to include the kernel of a mystery, then allow the suspense, drama, and acting to follow suit under his impeccable direction. In "Dial M For Murder", though, Hitch puts the mystery itself at the forefront of the plot, with the suspense coming in the detective work needed to solve the puzzle.For a basic plot summary, the entire story focuses around three four characters: a jealous husband (Ray Milland) who plots a murder scheme to kill his wife (Grace Kelly) for cheating on him with another man (Robert Cummings), as well as the police investigator (John Williams) who tries to put everything together.In one key way, this film is way ahead of its time (par for the course with Hitch, of course) in that (like the later Columbo TV series) it actually shows the murder right up front, thus shifting the focus from "whodunnit" to "who figures it out correctly". Seeing the characters squirm and emote is much more interesting than focusing on the one "whodunnit" issue.Plus, as usual, "Dial M" is classic Hitchcock through and through. The camera work is interesting, the suspense is palpable at times, and the plot is well thought out and intriguing. Only a bit of a letdown towards the end of the film prevents me from giving it a full five stars (but then again, Hitch never did know quite how to end a movie...).Overall, this is an exciting, suspenseful film much in the vein of a "Columbo" TV series episode. It may not be Hitch's very best, but it entertains the whole way through.


                
A man hires a shady character from his past with a criminal record to murder his wealthy wife who he suspects of having an affair with another associate. The plan is worked out in fine detail but it goes wrong on the night when the would-be murderer is killed by his intended victim.Dial M for Murder is another film which perfectly showcases the variety of styles Alfred Hitchcock was able to turn his hand to in order to tell a suspenseful tale. In this case, he adopts a smaller scale approach, with the film being pretty stage-bound. It's a dialogue-driven piece where the action happens almost exclusively within the confines of one house. Interestingly though, I never really noticed this when watching it, which I think has to be a testament to Hitchcock's mastery of the medium, in which he can make a stagey set-up feel pretty dynamic and involving. Despite its intimate nature the studio insisted it was shot 3D to ride the wave of popularity the format experienced briefly in the early 50's. Hitchcock obliged although he refused to pander to the gimmicks of the format and used it in a more subtle manner, although it is admittedly used quite strikingly in the attempted murder scene where a hand reaches out to the audience somewhat memorably.This seems to be a Hitchcock which generates quite mixed responses. But for me, it's definitely an upper level entry. Its plot about the execution of the perfect murder is one where we sort of know where it's ultimately going to go, what we don't know is how we're going to get there and I thought the story was masterfully paced and plotted. Its character-driven nature means it's a film set-up perfectly for actors to stand out. And the one who rises to the top is Ray Milland, who stars in the central role of as the villainous husband. It's a very dastardly character and Milland plays him with some relish. Grace Kelly, as his wife, once again has effortless screen presence, while Robert Cummings as her lover has a pretty cardboard role but he does okay with it. All-in-all, very entertaining stuff.


                
I've read that Hitchcock did not think highly of Dial M For Murder, his adaptation of the hit play by Frederick Knotts. Time has shown, however, that the movie is probably better than its filmmaker claims.We might even say that this is what a mystery-thriller should be - not really all that serious, clever, absorbing, still popular (IMDb 8.2). Hitch may be disparaging, but Dial M For Murder is one of the better attempts in the 1950s to translate stage material into cinematic language.Knott's play pits two British intellects against each other -- upper-class gentleman Ray Milland and Scotland Yard Inspector John Williams. There is clever combat here. We are in a lair, full of tricks and treachery. The camera snakes about the expensive London flat, looking for things, taking off-kilter perspectives on the actors, pausing on key objects: sports trophies, heavy green draperies, the handbag, the crucial telephone, and a quite renowned photograph on the wall.As a bonus, Dial M For Murder contains a pivotal - and still startling - "telephone" moment of the movies. Grace Kelly answers the pre-arranged phone call from Milland just as murderer Anthony Dawson creeps up behind her with a strangling weapon. Contrary to all expectations, Grace makes adroit use of a pair of scissors.As a further twist, the prestigious society woman becomes a convicted felon herself. This unexpected reversal gives Dial M For Murder a real mid-point surprise. Tension keeps increasing. We know that the story engines are busy devising a way to free Grace from the hangman's noose, but we are never quite sure how this is going to work in the details.The film suffers a bit in the third act. A miscast Robert Cummings interferes in an annoying way. And the culminating trap to expose the villain seems needlessly entangled, with its criss-crossing of trench coats and latch-keys. The inspector, truth be told, turns out to have quite a remarkable skill at guesswork.This was apparently intended for the new 3D camera, but Hitch has never needed 3D, or, for that matter, wide-screen or loud-screen to enhance his effects. They exist in pure cinema. Even with something as stage-bound as Dial M For Murder, he still grips our attention with his clever, sometimes mischievous, devices.
Ray Milland plays a former tennis star, who has since married a socialite of comfortable means. He finds out she has not been as perfect a wife as she should have been and starts to plan her murder. Unfortunately, murder plots rarely work out as smoothly as they do in detective novels.What a great movie. Almost a closed room mystery where we follow the crime from start to finish, with the added twist of it happening mostly from the point of view of the criminal. The central question not being who's the murderer, but rather how he's going to be caught. Or whether he will be caught or not.The movie has a delightfully British setting, some great actors, some great dialogue and wordplay, and a score that's an interesting mix of usual Hitchcock creepiness mixed in with an almost fairytale-like playfulness.Although, to be fair, I don't like that the viewers are not given all the information needed to solve the mystery. There's a central scene where the plan derails, but the thing that becomes central for the solution is not shown to the viewers. And it's such a small thing that it could have easily been hidden there. Now the viewer can only solve the mystery if they can make the leap from point A directly to point D. Not impossible, but not exactly viewer-friendly either.Still, a very good mystery film and easily one of Hitchcock's best.


                
Dial M for Murder: 8 out of 10: A one room how to do it (There is no mystery on the whodunnit front) directed by the man himself Alfred Hitchcock and starring Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, and Robert Cummings as the murdering husband, the victim wife and the adulterous lover respectfully.This is a very cheap film. With the exception of a men's club scene that is easily skippable, the entire enterprise takes place in one apartment with about six people. There are no car chases or explosions. not even a gunshot. I bring this up because of a pet peeve of mine. I constantly hear the excuse that the movie wasn't good because of the budget. The ye olde they did what they could with what they had.What they, of course, should say is our scriptwriter and actors lack talent what do you expect. Nobody wants to say that so he or she blame the budget. What could you expect for so little money? Literally, you could perform this entire film in your own living room.Now in all fairness to all those aspiring Hitchcocks out there, most of you don't have a successful stage play as a starting point neither do you have a Grace Kelly or Ray Milland among your group of friends. (You probably have at least one Robert Cummings). That really does make a difference in a one-room play to screen adaptation (See Glengarry Glen Ross when it comes to stacking the acting deck).The story is nice and tight and expertly told. Ray Milland s perfect as the genial murderer while Grace Kelly really is a stunning beauty in this one. To the point one really has to wonder about Ray Milland's plan. A fun movie that holds up extremely well.
Suspense is the name of the game in 'Dial M For Murder (1954)' and it is dealt out in spades, each scene oozing it to the point where this stage-play adaptation is practically busting at the seams with the anticipatory, string-dangling stuff. While there's a lot of talking and expository dialogue, that's simply because of the single location and the commitment to stick to it - aside from a few asides in a single scene where cutaways are necessary to enhance the plot and, more importantly, the tension - while also just 'shooting the material', as Hitchcock put it, so as not to 'ruin' what was already a captivating and clever source story. 'Just shooting' is to Hitchcock what 'working for a lifetime to achieve a mastery of your craft' is to anybody else, though. Indeed, it is well known that this wasn't one of Hitchcock's favourites and that the studio essentially forced him to do it. He once said, to a room full of journalists, that he could've "phoned it in." This was almost certainly said in irony but I don't know what's worse: if it was or if it wasn't. There's no denying that Hitchcock, whatever you think about him personally, was a master of his craft and even this, one that he didn't care for as greatly as something like 'Rear Window (1954)' or 'Vertigo (1958)', is shot to perfection. It really is an astutely directed picture, one in which each frame is set up to make the most of every situation, and every moment truly is as taut and 'edge-of-your-seat' as it could possibly have been. The overall narrative is remarkably unconventional - since it essentially puts a 'villain' in the role of protagonist - and manages to switch our sympathies superbly, sometimes within seconds, so that every character is as empathetic as the last and there is no clear 'hero', as well as no moral compass other than that of our own. Plus, that murder sequence truly is one of the most intense and nail-biting of its kind. 8/10


                
Retired tennis player Tony Wendice ( Ray Milland), finds out his wife, Margo( Grace Kelly) is having an affair. The movie starts with the Wendice's setting down for breakfast. Margo reads the paper, and finds out that her lover is coming over on The Queen Mary. Mark Halliday ( Robert Cummings) is from New York and writes crime novels for a living. Mark and Margo are a better match because they are around the same age and they both love each other dearly. Tony on the other hand is jealous, controlling and has his wife wrapped around his finger. Margo is very unhappy when she is around Tony and she can't wait to see Mark.Once Mark and Margo are together get together, she explains to Mark she has burnt all his love letters, except for one. She explains that one was stolen, and a few weeks later she received a couple of blackmail notes. Mark examines the note and notices it was written in all caps and could have been done by anyone. Mark thinks it's time to tell Tony what is going on; but Margo says no. She thinks it is too risky and could lead to more problems.One night all seems fine and dandy when the three of them are setting down for drinks. The three of them are suppose to go out to see a play together, but Tony cancels. He tells them to go on without him, because he has business he forgot to take care of. Mark and Margo have no idea that Tony is the one who found and read the love letter. Tony is mad and decides to take matters in is own hands. While Mark and Margo are away at the theater he calls a Captain Leslet/ Charles Swan ( Anthony Dawson) about a sale of a car. Tony tells Leslet he wants to meet him that night to discuss the price/purchase of the car. When Leslet arrives tony discovers that they know each other from college, but Leslet went by Swan back in the day. Tony discovers his old school chum has a checkered past and would be perfect for the job. He talks about his wife and knows Margo is having an affair because he tailed her one day to see her lover. Swan realizes the purchase of the car was a ruse, and Tony wants him for a murder for hire. He threatens Tony by going to the police, but Tony would deny everything, plus with Swans past no one would believe him. Then the offer of money comes into play with a 100Lbs up front. The rest Tony promises would be delivered to a safe box for him to pick up afterwards. Swan decides to do it, and asks when, Tony replies tomorrow. Tony believes he will pull off the perfect murder. He tells Swan to come over to the flat while He and Mark are away at a stag party. He will be able to get in with his wife's latchkey that will be under the staircase. While at the party, Tony will call him at 12 a.m.. This will wake Margo to answer the phone. Swan is to hide behind the curtains, and once she answers the phone he is suppose to strangle her.The next night Tony and Mark are getting ready to leave for the party. Margo wants to go to a movie while they are out; but Tony throws a fit. It alarms him so much he threatens to cancel everything. Mark doesn't like his attitude toward his wife, and starts to suspect something. That night Swan shows up and gets in. He waits around awhile and notices it's after 12 a.m.. At the party Tony realizes his watch has stopped. He knows he has to make a quick phone call to the flat before Swan leaves. He tells everyone he has to call his boss and leaves. Swan gets ready to leave then the phone rings. Quickly Swan hides behind the curtain and waits for Margo to answer the phone. Once she answers Swan wraps the scarf around her neck. Margo luckily gets the upper hand and stabs him in the back with scissors. Tony who is still on the line realizes his plan has failed. He tells Margo not to do anything, he is coming home. When he meets Mark he tells him that he needs to leave because Margo isn't feeling well. Mark wants to come; but Tony says it's nothing serious.
When Tony returns home he acts concerned about his wife's welfare. He tells his wife to stay in the bedroom while he calls the police. Meantime while waiting for the police he plants evidence on Swan, The letter; and burns the scarf.When the police arrive the Wendice's are questioned by Chief Inspector Hubbard( John Williams). Hubbard is suspicious anyway, but continues his questioning. Mark later arrives and is questioned, he has nothing to hide. While the three are there Hubbard has to get Tony out of the house so he tells him to check out the crowd outside. Hubbard asks Mark and Margo how much does Tony know about their affair. When Margo is taken to the police station she is found guilty for the murder of Charles Swan. The reason nobody believed her story and she is to be quickly executed. While she is in jail, Mark does some investigating with the help of Inspector Hubbard.Mark later comes to Tony and tells him to confess to the murder for hire of his wife. Tony refuses and Inspector Hubbard knows there is more to the story as each day passes. Hubbard knew that Tony wasn't telling the truth when Mark found the blue case with money. Mark and Hubbard have to prove Tony is guilty. The way they start the plan is with the latch key. A plot between Mark and Hubbard is made to see if they can catch Tony in the end.This was a great film, even though it is mostly in one setting. This marriage was doomed from the start. I kept thinking that Tony was old enough to be her father, so it had to be a marriage of convenience. The moral of the story is there is no such thing as the perfect murder, a better solution is D-I-V-O-R-C-E.
"Dial M for Murder" is a 1954 crime thriller directed by the legendary Alfred Hitchcock. It was adapted from the play of the same name by Frederick Knott, who also wrote the screenplay for the movie. It stars Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, and Robert Cummings. "Dial M for Murder" is about Tony Wendice, played by Ray Milland, a professional tennis player who wants his wife, Margot, played by Grace Kelly, dead. Margot cheats on her husband with Mark Halliday, played by Robert Cummings, an American writer who visits frequently while Tony is away on his tennis tour. Margot says that she destroyed all the letters that were sent to her by Mark, except for one, which was stolen, used as blackmail against her, and was never returned. Once Mark gets home, it is revealed that he intercepted the letter, and that he is the blackmailer, after he insists that Margot and Mark go to the theater. He reveals this by explaining it to his old acquaintance, Charles Swann, played by Anthony Dawson, who he studied with while in college. He then blackmails Swann into killing his wife, so that he may inherit her fortune. He sets up an elaborate plan to do so, but when the plan fails, resulting in Margot accidentally killing Swann, he has to think of a second plan to frame her for murder. It's a thriller divided into two engaging parts, combined with a great story and excellent use of cinematography. The movie's use of cinematography is excellent, using several of Alfred Hitchcock's usual techniques. For instance, the camera tends to sit in one place for extended periods of time, not cutting frequently, as other movies tend to. It makes the movie more realistic when it comes to its acting, which brings up my second point: the acting. The acting is very good in this film, and this is proven by the long takes that were used in the film. They couldn't cut, so the actors had to act for quite a long time compared to other films. It also proves how realistic the characters can be while still having that movie feel. Ray Milland plays his character so well, presenting us with a cocky character who manipulates his enemies until the end, while Grace Kelly gives us a confused character desperate for her life. "Dial M for Murder" is a classic film and should be viewed as such. The acting is great, and the use of fewer cuts supports this and gives us a more realistic portrayal of the film's scenario. It's a film that should not be missed by film noir fans or movie buffs. "Dial M for Murder" is one of a kind, a true classic.


                
Although this film lacks the more cinematic qualities of some of Hitchcock's best work, it is a wonderfully twisty turny tale of murder and betrayal that kept me thrilled pretty much the whole time, even though the movie is mostly just people talking. It has solid performances and a gripping story. I would recommend this one especially if you like Hitchcock. You'll probably like it.


                
Based on a play by Frederick Knott, Dial M for Murder follows a standard formula of a Hitchcock thriller of this time, like Rear Window and Rope, claustrophobic films about murder. Set in London Tony Wendice (Ray Milland) plans to commit the perfect murder by blackmailing a man (Anthony Dawson) he use to know a university to kill his wife, Margot (Grace Kelly). However, the best lay plans go to waste.Dial M for Murder embraces the theatre origins and is set mostly in the Wendice flat and few scenes take place outside. And like a play there was a two-act structure than the usual three and it is a dialogue- heavy film as characters talk about the set-up and events. The risk of this is it breaks the rule of show don't tell, but Hitchcock and Knott deliberately leaves the audience in the dark, especially regarding the police investigation.The film was also made during the 3D boom of the 1950s and it was noticeable with objects being placed in the foreground. The film has more of a depth of feel then most modern 3D films.Dial M for Murder is great for Hitchcock fans, yet it is far from being his best offering, even from this period of his career. Dial M for Murder a tout film, but some audiences might be driven away by its dialogue-heavy nature.


                
