Tony Wendice (Ray Milland), an ex-tennis player, unhappily married to Margot (Grace Kelly), correctly guesses that she has been cheating, with Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings). Mark writes crime stories. Unbeknown to Margot and Mark, Tony knows about the affair, and wants to teach Margot a little lesson, by taking away the thing that is her life. But, being too guileful to do it himself, Wendice blackmails one of his old school friends into murdering her, and the essential thing to doing it is his latchkey.Dial M for Murder succeeds on many levels, and it is largely thanks to some superb dialogue, written from a tricksy-yet-capable script that never gets too deep. The cast are a treat. Ray Milland is an absolute gem, extremely sly and dispassionate, yet a character so full of self-assurance that one almost sides with him. Grace Kelly completes her great year (she gave an Oscar-winning performance in The Country Girl and also starred in Rear Window) by emanating the poised, beautiful being, that is vulnerable, yet oddly unassailable. And it's weird in that even though she's cheating on her husband, you care for her a lot more than him (although that could do with the fact that he's trying to kill her...) And John Williams, as the police detective, is quite wonderful.Alfred Hitchcock manipulates and enthrals his audience here like the master that he is. Each scene has a sense of direction, great pacing, and is staged realistically. Stunning full colour photography and a haunting, atmospheric score from Dimitri Tiomkin complete this great package. The ending, when it comes, feels a little too nice to be truly realistic, but that is my only major quibble with an otherwise highly entertaining, thrilling movie.


                
After earning an Academy award nomination for her performance in John Ford's 1953 tale of romance and adventure, "Mogambo", the beautiful actress Grace Kelly proved that she was way more than just a pretty face and that there was real talent behind her image. However, what truly took her career to new levels were three now classic films she made directed by the legendary Master of Suspense, Alfred Hitchcock. Under his direction, Kelly made an integral part of the Master's films, becoming the perfect embodiment of Hitchcock's idea of a female protagonist. While Kelly debuted two years earlier in the classic Western "High Noon", one could say that it was Hitchcock who really introduced the beauty and talent of Grace Kelly to the world. "Dial M for Murder" was the first of Hitchcock's films with Kelly, and a movie where once again the Master returns to a familiar theme: the perfect murder.The movie is the story of Tony Wendice (Ray Milland), a former tennis player married to the beautiful and wealthy Margot (Grace Kelly) and living in an nice apartment in London. Life is good for Tony, until he discovers that his wife is cheating on him with an old flame of her, famous crime novel writer Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings). After that discovery, Tony spends a whole years plotting the perfect way to murder his wife in order to inherit her money, carefully planning every detail of the crime. When Mark visits London again, Tony finds the perfect chance to set his plan in motion, and as planned, he recruits Charles Swann (Anthony Dawson) to kill his wife. However, bad luck and a sudden change of events will test Tony's plan's infallibility as, just as Mark points out, human action can originate flaws even in the most perfectly devised plan.Like most Hitchcock's films, "Dial M for Murder" was an adaptation of another art-form, this time a popular play by Frederick Knott. As Knott was also the writer of the screenplay, the movie remains extremely faithful to the play, although of course, not without its differences. Knott's script is wonderfully constructed, as like in the play, the dialog is witty and simply captivating, with many twists and turns that spiced up the complex plot and keep it from being boring or tiresome. An interesting feature of the movie is that oddly, there are no black and white morality in the characters, and it's easy not only to sympathize with Margot (despite she being cheating on her husband) but also to sympathize with Tony (despite he wanting to kill his wife), as the characters are wonderfully developed with very detailed personalities.It seems that Hitchcock's knows that the dialog is the highlight of the play, as he deliberately focuses on his actors and uses an elegant camera-work to frame the whole movie inside the apartment. The movie literally is shot entirely in one single room (only two other sets are used, and only briefly), but Hitchcock's classy way of using the camera allow a highly dynamic flow that never lets the movie be tiresome. This is also very helpful as Hitchcock just lets his characters keep speaking, carefully describing actions and events (when other directors would use flashbacks) in a similar way to a what the real play would be. While this approach could easily get boring, Hitchcock's use of colors and overall visual imagery simply creates the perfect medium to allow Knott's dialog to shine.Without disrespecting John Ford or Fred Zinnemann, I think that it was Hitchcock who finally could allow Kelly's talent to shine beyond her physical beauty. Grace Kelly makes her character shine with her subtle and restrained performance, specially showing her skill in the second half of the film. While often Kelly receives top honors in this movie, it is actually Ray Milland who makes the whole movie work with his suave and charming "villian". Milland's performance is simply terrific, making his character nice enough to win the sympathies of the audience, yet still frighteningly intelligent as the mastermind of the plot. John Williams appears as the Inspector in charge to solve the complex puzzle, and delivers a classic performance as the Enlgish gentleman decided to find the final answer. Only Robert Cummings seems miscast as Mark Halliday, although a lot of his weak performance could be blamed to Milland, Kelly and Williams overshadowing him with their excellent work.In many ways, "Dial M for Murder" shares many things with "Rope", as not only the two films are based on successful plays, they are also about committing the perfect murder and oddly, they are both "experiments": while "Rope" was conceived as a "movie in one take", "Dial M for Murder" was done as 3-D movie. Sadly, the interest in 3-D was dying when the film was released, so few theaters carried the movie complete with the gimmick; a real shame, as Hitchcock's use of the technology, unlike most 3-D films of its time, was conceived as a way to enhance the claustrophobia of the Wendices' apartment instead of using it to merely shock the audience with "stuff coming out of the screen" (as seen in for example, "House of Wax"). While not too fond of the gimmick, Hitchcock truly gave it a good and intelligent (albeit subtle) use to it."Dial M for Murder" is probably less celebrated than the Master's most famous movies, the fact that it came out the same years as "Rear Window" (again with Grace Kelly) may have had something to do with it too. While a subtler and more restrained tale of suspense, this is still the Master at his best, as the movie proves that when he was at the top of his game, no other director was comparable to him. 9/10


                
There is a lot to admire about Alfred Hitchcock's "Dial M for Murder," and I do hold the film with a great deal of admiration and respect. However, what I adore about the movie the most (more than the cinematography, the suspense, the acting, and even the direction) is the work by screenwriter Frederick Knott. Mr. Knott based the screenplay for "Dial M for Murder" on his successful stage production, which I have never seen, but am told contains almost all of the words we hear in the film. And the words are music to the ears. They sing with intelligence, wit that Mr. Hitchcock certainly found attractive, and, best of all, an easy transition to the screen. Many times when a stage production goes to film, as far as I am concerned, the results, even if good, are uneven. Frequently, the dialogue and restricted set space allowed tend to give off the impression of a filmed play, not a cinematic experience. Another Hitchcock film, 1948's "Rope," though valiant, interesting, and successful, attempted this and suffered from this difficult struggle.But the dialogue, put on film here, is exceptional. I write this review having seen "Dial M for Murder" two or three times and wanting to see it once again. Many reviewers, myself included, have tried watching films with the sound off. I want to try the opposite. I want to close my eyes and just listen to the dialogue because it's so strong. The MacGuffin conversation at the beginning, with a perfectly cast Ray Milland blackmailing a perfectly cast Anthony Dawson into murdering a perfectly cast Grace Kelly is brilliantly written by Mr. Knott. It was clearly from a stage production, as it explains the plot background in great detail, and goes on for the better part of twenty minutes. Both men are fleshed out, giving us their personalities and individual tendencies. And even though "Dial M for Murder" pretty much stays on just one small set (an apartment in London, in which we see mostly the foyer, a little of the bedroom, and just a glimpse of the kitchen), what happens there is so fascinating that we do not really want to venture out into the city.And that is just the setup. The dialogue remains insistently interesting and clever throughout the picture. It also has that subtle, dark sense of humor that Alfred Hitchcock was keen on. It also has the ironic touches, such as when Mr. Milland, as the jealous husband, kisses his unfaithful wife on the night she is to be murdered, and tells her: "Goodbye, my dear." The audience, having been given every single little detail about the scheme and how it is to unfold, cringes with a dark realization that Mr. Hitchcock might just go through with Mr. Milland's plot. Mr. Hitchcock, as the director, is also due tremendous credit for his trademark of creating tension. Screenwriter Knott brilliantly lays out for the audience, not the victim, how the murder will go through, but Mr. Hitchcock's camera dutifully follows everything as the scheme goes along. And, before we realize it, if something starts to go wrong, we become scared and tense. And you can imagine my guilt when I realized I was feeling scared that a plan to murder someone just might not go through. It's Mr. Hitchcock's gift at work.Dimitri Tiomkin, a very good film composer, hits all the write notes; that includes knowing when he needs to tell his violins and trumpets to shut up. Robert Burks' cinematography is also strong with effective usage of shadows and streaks of light. Colors are omnipresent. And even though "Dial M for Murder" was shot with the intent to be seen in 3D, it is hardly evident. When I first saw the film, in much superior 2D, I did not mind the lamps and such in the foreground, such as when one bisects the screen between Ray Milland and Anthony Dawson during the opening sequence. I just thought it was a clever piece of filmmaking and misc en scene, not a cheap gimmick like in most 3D movies today. "Dial M for Murder" is a near-perfect movie of its kind, pumped full of smart dialogue and dazzling energy. This is one of the few play-to-movie transition that I have seen where I have suddenly become eager to see the original stage production.


                
1954 was a big year for Grace Kelly.  She played in Hitchcock's classic "Rear window" and she won an Oscar for best actress in "The country girl" and most people tend to forget that she starred in yet another classic, "Dial M for murder".  Starring Grace Kelly, Ray Milland, and Robert Cummings, it is simply one of Hitchcock's finest movies of all-time.  In fact, I would consider it to be my second favorite Hitchcock movie ever, my first being "Psycho" (although I haven't seen "Rear window" yet).  Margot (Grace Kelly) is married to Tony Wendice (Ray Milland), an ex-tennis player.  However, she has been seeing another man named Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings).  Mark writes crime stories.  The two of them think that Tony doesn't know about their relationship but they're wrong; Tony has known about this relationship for one year and seems to have had enough of it.  So when Mark, who lives in New-York, comes to London to see Margot, Tony wants to go out with Mark and his wife.  But the night of the event, Tony is unable to go.  So he tells Margot to take Mark out and to have a good time.  The only problem is that Tony doesn't really have something that's keeping him from going out with Margot and Mark.  He has another plan, the plan being to blackmail one of his old college friends that has become a small time crook into murdering his wife.  What follows this is pure entertainment at its best.  As usual, Hitchcock masterfully directs this movie and has the right actors to do the job.  Ray Milland and Grace Kelly deliver very good performances and surprisingly enough, Robert Cummings does a rather good job in his role of Mark Halliday, the American crime novel writer who accidentally stumbles on the answer. But it is John Williams who steals the show with his great performance as Inspector Hubbard, the detective who holds the key to the whole mistery.  He is simply excellent and pretty funny when he is supposed to be.  Another of his great performances is in "Witness for the prosecution" where he played Brogan Moore, Charles Laughton's very good friend and seconding lawyer in the case.  As for "Dial M for murder", well it's one of those movies that anyone should see at pretty much any cost.


                
This is a fine example of the kind of mystery that little old ladies  from Pasadena (or Russell Square) adore. Perhaps Arsenic and Old Lace  (1944) starring Cary Grant might be comparable in its gentile and  bloodless ability to glue us to the screen.  This is certainly one of Hitchcock's best, but most of the credit must  go to a devilishly clever play written by Frederick Knott from which  the movie was adapted. (He also wrote Wait Until Dark (1967) starring  Audrey Hepburn.) Hitchcock does a good job in not tinkering  unnecessarily with the material. He also has the exquisitely beautiful  Grace Kelly to play the part of Margot Wendice.  Ray Milland plays, with a kind of high-toned Brit panache, her  diabolical husband, Tony Wendice, a one-time tennis star who married  mostly for security. John Williams is the prim and proper Chief  Inspector Hubbard. He lends to the part a bit of Sherlock Holmesian  flair. One especially liked his taking a moment to comb his mustache  after the case is solved. Robert Cummings, unfortunately plays Margot's  American boyfriend as inventively as a sawhorse. For those of you who  might have blinked, Hitchcock makes his traditional appearance in the  photo on the wall from Tony Wendice's undergraduate days.  The fulcrum of the plot is the latchkey. It is the clue that  (literally) unlocks the mystery. There is a modernized redoing of this  movie called A Perfect Murder (1998) starring Michael Douglas and  Gwyneth Paltrow in which a similar business with latchkeys is employed.  I am not very good with clues so it was only after seeing that movie  and Dial M for Murder for the second time that I finally understood  what happened. Follow the latchkey!  Of course I was too distracted by Grace Kelly to fully appreciate such  intricacies. I found myself struck with the ironic notion that anyone,  even a cuckolded husband, might want to kill Grace Kelly or that a jury  might find her guilty of anything! She remains in my psyche America's  fairytale princess who quit Hollywood at the height of her popularity  after only five years and eleven movies to become a real princess by  marrying Prince Rainier of Monaco. Something was lost there, and  something was gained. She was in essence the original Jackie Kennedy  Onassis. I think, however, that the old saw about the man who marries  for money, earning it, might apply to American princesses as well.  At any rate, Grace Kelly's cool and sublime bearing was on fine display  here. Hitchcock cloths her in discreet nightgowns and snug (but  certainly not clinging) dresses that show off her delicate figure and  her exquisite arms and hint oh so coyly at her subtle sexuality. She  was 25-years-old, stunningly beautiful, and in full confidence of her  ability as an actress. She had just finished starring opposite James  Stewart in another splendid Hitchcock one-room mystery, Rear Window  (1954), and was about to make The Country Girl (1954) with Bing Crosby  for which she would win an Oscar for Best Actress.  So see this for Grace Kelly who makes Gwyneth Paltrow (whom I adore)  look downright gawky, and for Ray Milland whose urbane scheming seems a  layer or two of hell removed from Michael Douglas's evil manipulations.  By the way, the "original theatrical trailer" preceding these Warner  Brothers Classic videos is what we used to call the "Coming  Attractions"--that is, clips directly from the movie and a promo. You  might want to fast forward to the movie itself.


                
In London, the wealthy Margot Mary Wendice (Grace Kelly) had a brief love affair with the American writer Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings) one year ago while her husband and professional tennis player Tony Wendice (Ray Milland) is traveling in a tennis tour. Tony quits playing to dedicate to his wife and finds a regular job and she decides to give a second chance for their marriage. When Mark arrives from America to visit the couple, Margot tells him that she had destroyed all his letter but one that was stolen in a depot; then she was blackmailed through letters but she had never retrieved the stolen letter. Tony arrives home and claims that he needs to work, and asks Margot to go with Mark to the theater. Meanwhile Tony calls the scum Captain Lesgate - aka Charles Alexander Swann (Anthony Dawson) that studied with him in the college and blackmails him to murder his wife, so that he would inherit her fortune. But there is no perfect crime, and things do not work as planned by Tony."Dial M for Murder" is one of the best thrillers of cinema history, with a theatrical story supported by an excellent screenplay and top-notch performances. Ray Milland is superb in the role of the Machiavellian and cynical Tony Wendice; Grace Kelly is extremely gorgeous and sweet in the role of a wife in the 50's; and John Williams is great in the role of the efficient and fussy Chief Inspector Hubbard. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is in the picture of Tony's reunion. In 1998, Andrew Davis remade this movie with "A Perfect Crime", with Michael Douglas, Gwineth Paltrow and Viggo Mortensen. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Disque M para Matar" ("Dial M for Murder")


                
For all those who love to watch thriller, Dial M for Murder is a perfect one from the best director of all time. The story is so interesting and it will bind you to your seat.Recently I heard about this movie and from that time I was looking for it. I went to video library so many times for looking this title and I got it after 3 long weeks. But when I saw this movie I was quite amazed and quite pleased.The plot is superb and Ray Milland did an excellent work. John Williams even has an equally powerful role and performance.The main thing about this film, which I enjoyed most is how the story progresses and how the suspense come out layer by layer. Everything is just perfect in this film, the story, the characters, the plot. I enjoyed this movie so much.For all the fans of thriller, murder and crime, it is an excellent film. Hats off to the Alfred Hitchcock. From me its 9/10.


                
I recently saw this again, but I will make this comment on a viewing I had many years ago.I was sponsoring some research on human interfaces, and the center of expertise at the time was coordinated by an Air Force Lab out of Dayton Ohio. Some of the more clever guys at the lab had connections with hobbyists in the area, and also with local film enthusiasts connected with the city artfilm theater. They'd arranged for a reconstruction of the three-D version of this. I made a special trip for what was billed as the only week ever this would be shown.It was originally filmed in 3D, using an unusual process. Two cameras made two color prints. These were delivered together to the theater and shown with two synchronized projectors on the same screen through polarizing lenses. Polarized glasses allowed the viewer to see color 3D.Almost immediately after release, the process was abandoned because the projectors required amazing skill and were extraordinarily complicated, expensive and unreliable. To reconstruct the original effect, several years went into the location of most of the original projectors so that parts could be cannibalized to create the complete kit of Siamese twin projectors. Some missing precision parts may have been fabricated in a spooky government research lab; I cannot say. That was only the first impossibility.What had happened shortly after the film was released over 50 years ago, within a few months, was that the left and right prints were separated and distributed as "ordinary" versions. To reconstruct a pair, you need to have every single frame match. But no prints had all frames complete. Some had been edited by exhibitors for various reasons like time. Others had been broken and respliced and some of those repairs even reversed. Some had frames snipped to create publicity stills. Still others had both some left and some right elements.It apparently was a tremendous effort to scan all prints a frame at a time and reconstruct a matched pair. A previous 3D version had been released, but it was no help, in fact unwatchable. It reduced the process to the older black and white and didn't do the matching this team did. Its horrible, and not even 3D in some places.So I made a special trip to see this in Dayton as it was intended. Hitchcock made this in his spare time while preparing for his masterful "Rear Window." It was already a hit play, and his contribution was to design the blocking for 3D. Its important because Hitchcock was a master in advancing the notion of a spatial camera, a space-savvy eye. Some of what he did here is not only extraordinary on its own, but it can be seen as a sort of sketchpad for some of the indirectly referenced effects on "Rear Window." So if you are interested in the world, then you are interested in film in space, and then "Rear Window," and as a result this in 3D.I not only saw this, but arranged to have the optimum seat in the house. And the place was packed with some of the most enlightened viewers I knew and the swelling of sighs at points was palpable. It was an extraordinary experience. The vision research lab was destroyed shortly thereafter because of Republican actions in Congress. I believe the reconstructed projection machinery was effectively lost forever, so the window may have closed to see this properly.You'll have to extrapolate the 3D effects from a two-d print. Its not impossible I suppose. I'll give you some clues. He places the camera in one of three modes, alternating among them depending on whether we are colluding, witnessing or dissecting. (The trial scene is excluded from this.) Obviously, these viewer modes are interleaved appropriately with which character we conspire with: the husband (a performer), the boyfriend "mystery writer," or the detective. Its easy to work out and quite thrilling to see how he has "dialed" the vision.This is a replacement comment, the original having been deleted (along with scores of others) by a reader unhappy with comments elsewhere I made about an unrelated actor.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Tony Wendice (Ray Milland) is an aging tennis pro who learns that his wealthy wife (Grace Kelly as Margot) has a lover (Bob Cummings as Mark). Tony figures out what might have led his wife astray and fixes it - he gets a real job with a real boss. But what if his wife divorces him? He'd get nothing! Realizing that getting a job may have enlarged his wife's respect for him but not diminished her affection for the lover, he spends a large amount of time figuring out a perfect way to kill his wife so that he can inherit her money. Tony has nothing personal against Margot and her infidelity, he just can't take the chance of winding up penniless. He can't do the job himself - the husband is always the prime suspect in such matters. So, he must find someone who will be willing to do the job for him. He's not the type who hangs with organized crime types, so he has to find someone already guilty of murder but yet untouched by the law and get that person to agree to do the job for him.It sounds perfect. Tony even has the lover with him as an alibi the night the murder is to occur. But everything does go wrong, and now Tony has to retool his perfect murder. Who will kill Margot for Tony? The law of course! Watch this great little thriller and see what I'm talking about.Most directors lose a step after they are in their 50's. There is just something about their creativity that just fizzles, and I say that as someone who is 55 myself. But here Hitchcock is at age 55 doing some of his best and most clever work. This one is so ironic it could be considered a film noir if not for the elegance of the players, the setting, and that great score.Just one thing that nobody ever seems to talk about much - did anybody else want Tony to get away with it just a little? He does play it icy cold and smiling throughout, but when he makes the phone call that sets everything in motion, you can see the regret in his face - the fact that he hates that this is the way that it must be. Meanwhile my sympathy was not with the cheating wife and especially the false friend Mark Halliday. The guy was sleeping with a man's wife while pretending to be his friend, even carrying on a kissing session with her while the husband went down the street for an errand. If you're going to steal someone's wife, let it be a stranger's. Don't shake the guy's hand, eat the guy's food, and accept his hospitality and take his wife behind his back too. Maybe Hitch wanted the audience to be conflicted though, maybe he was trying to add to the complexity of the situation with this added dimension. At any rate, watch this if you get a chance. In fact, watch it more than once. You'll always see something you didn't see before.


                
Based on a stage play, the film's plot takes place mostly in one apartment, a cozy abode complete with a fire burning in the fireplace. An aging tennis pro named Tony Wendice (Ray Milland) plans his wife's murder with the help of an old acquaintance.Wendice is charming, debonair, and intelligent, a man with great foresight who constructs his crime in meticulous detail. Half the fun of this film is watching, and listening to, this guy as he articulates his scheme with confident coolness. Ray Milland is just terrific in the role.Naturally, complications ensue as the film's plot moves along. Not even the scheming Tony Wendice can foresee every possible contingency. And in the second half we get to watch him squirm, mentally struggle, and improvise, as his airtight plan starts to unravel.The Frederick Knott script is heavy on dialogue, but the film is so engaging that it never seems "talky". Hitchcock's direction is fine. Color cinematography includes some clever camera angles that help break up the monotony of such an enclosed setting. Yet, the film has a claustrophobic feel that actually enhances the anxiety and tension of the situations the characters find themselves in.Dimitri Tiomkin's elegant score fits well with the formal attire of the characters. The impression is thus conveyed that Tony and his wife are sophisticated, well off financially, and connected to society's upper crust. Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings give fine performances in support roles. And John Williams' performance is as outstanding as that of Ray Milland.This film is not a whodunit. The story is simple and straightforward. It's more of a character study, particularly of Tony Wendice.With a terrific story, engaging characters, excellent acting, clever photography, and credible production design, "Dial M For Murder" is thoroughly enjoyable. It is one of my three favorite Alfred Hitchcock films.


                
Ray Milland pulls off another flawless performance as the jealous husband determined to have his cheating young wife Grace Kelly murdered. The aging former tennis star who lives mainly off his wife's wealth. When he learns of her infidelity with an American acquaintance, Milland's adoration for the beautiful Kelly becomes nothing more than a strained pretence, all-the-while planning how he can get rid of her, then live happily ever after off her money.A man Milland barely remembered from college has a few dark secrets, which Milland uses to blackmail him into the meticulously planned "perfect crime" of murdering Kelly. A clever (although typical) "Hitchcock-Twist" makes for a thrilling change to an unexpected "Plan B". Not as well known as similar Hitchcock films, this one is no less of a gem. Although the story and handling, particularly the dull-British "Scotland Yard" dialog are definitely from another era, the unfolding plot is sheer Hollywood candy. The final scene is priceless. A sure hit for those who love "whodunits" as well as for fans of the Master.


                
"Dial M for Murder" is on of the best pictures that Alfred Hitchcock ever made. From beginning to end it is full of suspense and excitement. Hitchcock has taken a rather "talky" play and turned it into a suspense classic. While the screenplay screams to be "opened up", Hitchcock does a nice job of making the small one bedroom apartment interesting.Helping him do this is Ray Milland, who is nothing short of brilliant as the jilted cuckold, Tony Wendice, who plots to kill his wife. A former tennis pro, Tony must now live off of the wealth of his cheating wife, marvelously portrayed by the radiantly, beautiful Grace Kelley. Robert Cummings plays the love interest to Kelly. Cummings is pretty bland as Mark Halladay, mystery writer. But then, Halladay is the least interesting character in the play/screenplay. John Williams almost walks off with the picture as Inspector Hubbard.The score by Dimitri Tiomkin is appropriately eerie.But Milland is by far and away the stand-out of this film. Icy, a little creepy, and calculating, this is also, other than "The Lost Weekend", his finest performance.In my opinion the only major flaw is the last 12-14 minutes. Too contrived and unrealistic. Although I did like the final moment, where all they want to do is have a civilized drink together.A wonderful performance, wonderful suspenseful direction and score all add up to a truly great film
"Well, because in stories things usually turn out the way the author wants them to; and in real life they don't... always." Yes, this murder didn't go quite as expected. In the beginning, the betrayal of Mrs.Wendice(Grace Kelly) gave the audiences a sense of leading turmoil, and Mr.Wendice(Ray Milland)' meeting with a special guest(Anthony Dawson) slowly revealed their conspiracy..."Dial M for Murder" was a crime drama that directed by Alfred Hitchcock in 1954, starring Grace Kelly, Ray Milland, John Williams, Robert Cummings and John Williams. This film described a tennis player Tony wants to murder his wife to obtain her possession after he found out his wife's affair with Mark Halliday. Tony came up a perfect plan of killing his wife that will create an alibi for himself. When things didn't happen as expected, Tony has trouble to prove his "innocent" to the inspector(John Williams) who later arrived the scene.The movie mainly shot in one room, which makes it harder for audiences to focus for a long period. Instead of changing in location, the fast pacing of the story constantly hooked audiences' attention.
The acting part was sophisticated which means every expression on their face tells their inner emotion. For example, when Tony's presses his lips together to force a stiff smile, it gives you an idea of untrustworthy.
The movie is one of those classic films you will watch over and over again without getting out of interest.
The star of this film is Ray Milland, though Grace Kelly, Robert Cummings and John Williams are there to provide support. The marriage between Milland and Kelly is on the rocks, though neither is letting this on to the other. Grace has been cheating on him and Milland, who knows this, is planning on killing her. Why kill her instead of a divorce? Well, Kelly is wealthy and Milland wants to remain in the lifestyle to which he's become accustomed.Originally Milland's plan is just to have her killed by an old college associate who's gone bad, but when Grace miraculously survives this attack, his plans quickly change and he tries to make it look like she murdered the assassin. While clearly self-defense, Milland is very clever and seems to have thought of just about everything in order to get her convicted of murder. However, the plan is perhaps too clever and too well thought-out and in the end, there is a terrific confrontation with the police investigator and Milland's plans unravel.Probably the most memorable and amazing scene in the movie is the scene where Kelly kills the would-be murderer. It was done very vividly--particularly when he fell backwards--further driving the scissors into his body. This was a brilliant scene and it made me wince. In fact, throughout the film, there were many well-constructed and executed scenes that make it obvious the script writers and director were in top form. While not among his most famous films, this is one of Hitchcock's better movies and he has a very deft hand in creating a fascinating and literate murder mystery.
Dial M for Murder is a well chosen vehicle for Alfred Hitchcock, very similar to Rope. A suspense thriller set in the London flat of married couple Ray Milland and Grace Kelly, it had a very successful run on Broadway, 552 performances from 1952 to 1954. Unlike Rope, Hitchcock did briefly give the audiences in a couple of instances a break from the one room set of the play.Although shot in Hollywood, Hitchcock used a few members of the British colony to give the film proper authenticity. The character of Grace Kelly's paramour is American and Grace seems to have improved her British accent from Mogambo. The remake of Dial M for Murder was disappointing because of all the additions to a very simple suspense drama. The key here is that both Ray Milland and Grace Kelly so polite and civil to each other, like any other upper class couple. Then in conversations with other characters, Kelly with paramour Bob Cummings and Milland with Anthony Dawson the audience finds out their true feelings. It's all so genteel and very British, the completely American setting of the Michael Douglas film, A Perfect Murder was the last thing from perfect.Kelly's fallen for Bob Cummings, she realizes Milland is a wastrel, a word I wish would come back into use. Milland realizes he's drained the wife dry or coming pretty close so he hires an old college acquaintance Anthony Dawson to murder Kelly. Or rather blackmails him into it. That scene where he blackmails Dawson is one of both Hitchcock's and Milland's screen highlights.On Broadway, the parts that Milland, Kelly, and Cummings have were played by Maurice Evans, Gosti Huber, and Richard Derr respectively. Hitchcock retained from the Broadway cast Anthony Dawson and John Williams as the police inspector. In the case of Williams I should say THE police inspector. John Williams won a Tony Award on Broadway for his part. He set the standard as far as I'm concerned, maybe even more than Alastair Sim, for a British detective. Calm and detached, Williams goes far beyond duty requirements in relentless pursuit of the truth.Milland's scheme is a tricky bit of business involving his and Kelly's latch keys to their apartment. Quite ingenious in how Williams puts it together.


                
A simple murder story about an aging tennis player who's plotting to have his wife murdered, Dial M For Murder was adapted from a popular play by Fredrick Knott, and while expertly directed by Alfred Hitchcock, one senses that the man's heart isn't in it. There's certainly no heart in the material. As a vehicle for stars Ray Milland, Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings, it works well enough. Milland, in his last major hit as a star, is icy and convincing as the villain. Kelly was never a great actress, but is a pleasure to behold. She's well cast as the victim, though I can't resist the notion that any man who, however desperate, would seek to have her killed is not merely of the criminal bent but just plain bent. Cummings is bland in thankless support, yet his amiable disposition and general familiarity are somehow pleasing. John Williams, as a droll police inspector, steals every scene he's in, and became somewhat of a "name" for a while as a result. The movie is watchable, and hard not to get involved with once the plot starts to hum, yet it never shifts into high gear, due mostly to its theatrical origin. Hitchcock keeps the temperature cool throughout.


                
Alfred Hitchcock is a genius. There is no getting around that fact. I'm not saying this to placate the film school dropout we all know and hate to watch movies with; I'm not saying this to please your fifty-year-old mother who is a fan of his movies but still views Along Came a Spider (2001) as a guilty pleasure. I'm saying this because it's a fact. Vertigo (1958) is his enduring critical gift to the art of cinema while Psycho (1960) is his pulpy gift to the masses and in-between the two greats, sits 52 other spellbinding films in addition to the much beloved Alfred Hitchcock Presents (1955-1961). Everyone's got a favorite and while some may get their kicks from North by Northwest (1959) or Rope (1948), my personal favorite has to be 1954's Dial M for Murder.Dial M centers on a single question that many people find themselves asking out of morbid curiosity; how do you plan the perfect murder? If it were someone close like say your wife, how would you do it? Maybe you can hire someone to do it for you. Perhaps someone you can blackmail and functions outside of your social circles. Someone compliant enough to be exploited and use laundered money to pay them for their services.Indeed the supposed murder planned by Tony (Ray Milland) is set up like a beautifully played game of chess. As Tony coldly explains his plan to murder his wife Margot (Grace Kelly) to Swann (Anthony Dawson) his hired assassin, every angle is thought through. Every movement is calculated and timed, every detail addressed. Unfortunately for Tony, Swann and the rest of the principle characters, "the best-laid plans of mice and men oft go astray."Dial M for Murder is my personal favorite Hitchcock film primarily for three reasons. Firstly, the film is shot almost entirely on one set, in one room of one domicile. There is a short scene in a jailhouse, one in a theatre and one in the bedroom of the flat but every important plot point and reveal takes place in the den of Tony and Margot's apartment. Limiting the space like that can be an advantage in that it heightens tension though very few directors can truly do such a thing well. To my recollection the only modern example to come close to chamber-proximity sustained suspense like Dial M was Joel Schumacher's Phone Booth (2002).The second reason I enjoy Dial M for Murder is its unabashed British-ness. I mean this in two ways; The characters are Torrie upper-crust types who always have a snobbish one-liner to spare. Additionally British movies of the era expect audience investment and even participation in the intrigue. Modern sensibilities tend to favor simple action centered plots we can all easily follow. Modern studios do this largely to cater to international audiences who don't want to be bogged down with subtitles and Americans who want to fiddle with their phones, fold their laundry and check their Facebook all while watching Bad Boys II (2003). I find myself doing this from time to time while watching movies but never with Dial M.The third and most important reason why I love this movie is because you know exactly how it's going to end. Not in the "know how it ends" kind of way of say every stupid, pointless, unoriginal, mediocre horror movie ever made, but rather in the way of we know Tony (spoiler alert) gets his comeuppance, we just don't know how. The characters Margot, her "friend" Mark (Robert Cummings) and Detective Pearson (Patrick Allen) are left in the dark for most of the movie. Only the audience is privy to all the dirty details of Tony's deceit and yet the question is left; will he get away with it? On that level the movie gives you a artfully done suspense thriller without a sub-par mystery cheapening the story.Alfred Hitchcock is said to be the master of suspense; a title certainly worthy of such a giant figure. His films have a complexity that leaves many to fervidly comb his filmography for interpretation. Whether you're a fan of a psychoanalytical approach to Hitchcock, a post- modernist or auteur theory habitue, you have to admit Dial M for Murder needs more credit than its been given which, up until today has been seen as a "lesser work". Don't be taken in by those in the supposed "know". Check out Dial M, and while you're at it, check out some of Hitchcock's other "lesser works" like Lifeboat (1944) and I Confess (1953).http://theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/


                
I watched this movie for the first time in 2013, and I can honestly tell you that is better than many big budget thrillers made these days. It had everything, drama, tension and some action. All these combined with some great performances of Ray Milland and Grace Kely. This was the first movie I ever watched starring Ray Milland, and I can tell you that after watching this movie I declared myself a Ray Milland fan. He is so natural and such a believable actor. The script is very well written. It's so intriguing and catching, that you won't even notice the whole movie is happening in one room. Dial M for Murder is one of Hitchcock's best movies in my opinion. Movies like this, never get old. They might get better though, so if you haven't seen this movie yet, I envy you, and you should see it right away.


                
I am surprised that this movie never got as much fame as Hitchcock's other classic thrillers and mysteries. Dial M for Murder is simply there as one of the finest by the master of the genre. Brilliantly directed with nerve wrecking music in the background, this movie is lit up even more with slick acting by the cast, especially by Ray Milland.
The suspense was amazing and you could totally have the viewer gripped as well as take them on a murder solving ride as to where the mistakes might happen. It keeps on leaving clues so that the viewers are never left behind.
A must watch!


                
There is a common saying: "Don't knock it until you've tried it." That couldn't be more true about movies from the 50's. Being that they predate me by decades I automatically assumed they'd be cheesy and weak. Some are but others are superb. This was one of the superb ones.This was one awesome movie! For a movie heavily reliant on dialogue this movie had it all down pat. There was very little scenery change and equally as little action yet they were able to stitch together a masterpiece. It was a sophisticated cinematic game of chess in which the prize for one man (Tony Wendice) was a dead wife and 90,000 British Pounds. He would have to have the perfect plan to pull it off, but that plan would also require the perfect execution.Things didn't go according to plan which made the movie all the more compelling as we were treated to Mr. Wendice steadily trying to stay one step ahead of the police. All of it was fascinating theater. I paid attention to every detail in efforts to stay locked in. I'm so glad I didn't stick to my silly assumptions and actually gave this movie a chance.


                
The filming in "Dial M for Murder" is done well, it expresses emotions and interactions between the characters. It is nice to see that the movie can keep its watchers engaged without having to change the set, aside from moving around in the Wendice's house. The casting is amazing, as the actors all do their parts flawlessly. The dialogue is probably my favorite part, because some of it is funny and some of it foreshadows, and it makes for a great plot. It's almost ironic that Mark partially uncovers what had happened, as he is a crime/detective writer. And even though Tony plans out everything, nobody can commit the perfect murder. 9/10
Dial M for Murder "Well, because in stories things usually turn out the way the author wants them to; and in real life they don't... always." Yes, this murder didn't go quite as expected. In the beginning, the betrayal of Mrs.Wendice(Grace Kelly) gave the audiences a sense of leading turmoil, and Mr.Wendice(Ray Milland)' meeting with a special guest(Anthony Dawson) slowly revealed their conspiracy..."Dial M for Murder" was a crime drama that directed by Alfred Hitchcock in 1954, starring Grace Kelly, Ray Milland, John Williams, Robert Cummings and John Williams. This film described a tennis player Tony wants to murder his wife to obtain her possession after he found out his wife's affair with Mark Halliday. Tony came up a perfect plan of killing his wife that will create an alibi for himself. When things didn't happen as expected, Tony has trouble to prove his "innocent" to the inspector(John Williams) who later arrived the scene.The movie mainly shot in one room, which makes it harder for audiences to focus for a long period. Instead of changing in location, the fast pacing of the story constantly hooked audiences' attention.The acting part was sophisticated which means every expression on their face tells their inner emotion. For example, when Tony's presses his lips together to force a stiff smile, it gives you an idea of untrustworthy.The movie is one of those classic films you will watch over and over again without getting out of interest.
Dial M for murder was full of excitement. It starts off with a husband wanting to kill his wife. You don't know what is happening in the first part of the movie but you begin to piece it together after the husband, Tony, starts to explain his plan. As he is explaining it you think to yourself there is no way he has figured this whole thing out all by himself but he surprises you. As i was watching this movie i was thinking to myself well what if this happens and then Tony says exactly what he would do if something were to go wrong and it blew my mind. The way Alfred Hitchcock takes you through a maze of emotions from confusion on why Tony wants to kill his wife to disappointment when you think the wife was the one who would actually do the time for a crime she didn't commit. I think the ending of the movie was a very artistic and bold choice. It ended with Tony walking in the front door with a key he shouldn't have used if he was innocent. It leaves you guessing what happens to him. It is obvious that he will get caught and be in trouble but even though it leaves you knowing what will happen your mind still goes in a thousand different directions. Will he talk his way out of it? Will he do the time for hiring someone to kill his wife? I think its amazing how just not showing the rest of the story can leave you thinking and wondering but also loving the way it ended. I would definitely watch this movie again. It kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time and it kept my attention throughout all the twists and what if's.
This movie has a great story line for the fifties and when he explains how he is going to plan her murder in detail is just mind blowing. Hitchcock had an amazing way of putting this movie together, but one thing I didn't really like was how cheesy the guys death was other than that i really didn't have much to complain about. Also when the main actor is blackmailing the guy it kind of draws your attention and has you thinking what going to happen next. I highly recommend watching this movie you wont be disappointed.
As a film fan who has always had a limited movie preference of Hollywood movies from the 80s to today, iv'e recently decided to expand my movie viewing horizons and try to watch different films, example, foreign movies and old movies like this. I rented and just finished streaming Dial M For Murder on Amazon Prime Video for the first time and am very impressed with this movie, it is very good, well-acted and the story is brilliant. Most of the film is set in a small flat, but the flick still manages to be gripping.The film score is dramatically perfect for every scene, the attack/attempted murder scene was disturbing, but thank God it wasn't that long. As soon as this movie starts it gets straight to the point, this is one of the major differences between movies back then and movies of today, even though the plot is explained - most movies today take their time telling the story, they show the characters meeting for the first time, dating, then getting married e.c.t. But these old movies just cut straight to the chase. I didn't hear any swear words or profanity in this cine and it was still a great film. Obviously movie-makers of today still watch these old films due to references and remakes, they are obviously inspired by these old movies, but why not take being inspired one step further and exclude blasphemous words and curse words?! Obviously films today add swearing in a lot of dialogue because society has changed and the majority of people swear in their vocabulary in everyday life, but it would still be good if movies banned swearing, it would make films overall even better.Dial M For Murder is a must-watch, it's very suspenseful, i enjoyed it.
Not all of Alfred Hitchcock's movies look appealing, in my book, but i will continue to look through his filmography because there are probably some more really good films like this one.
