Personally, I believe this to be one of the most intelligent comedies ever made. It might not appear that way at first because the film does have its share of simple slapstick and "naughty" moments, but generally, the topics the Pythons tackle here are very serious - albeit dealt with in a way that makes this a true contender for the funniest film of all time. A firework of hilarious sketches, timeless quotes and clever comments on the human condition, this film was deemed too dangerous for the masses and therefore, until recently, banned in several countries (normally, this only used to happen to the so called "Video Nasties").This film never once makes fun of Jesus (Christ) - but it DOES take the mickey out of blind, fanatic followers of any political movement or religion.An outstanding achievement and endlessly re-watchable. My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
One of my fave films of all time, this film has so many laugh-out-loud jokes and ridiculous thought processes that it would probably be unfair to pick out just a few. Tough - I'm going to: John Cleese as the legionnary Latin teacher rebuking Brian not for daring to use graffiti on the Roman fort but for using the wrong tense, Michael Palin trying to find his place in life as an ex-leper, Terry Jones as Brian's mother trying to protect him from myrrh - let's face it, we've all wondered what myrrh is ! The bit that always makes me laugh without fail is something that isn't always noticed - when Michael Palin is having a go at the guards; "Do you find it risible when I say the name of my friend Biggus Diccus ?" if you look carefully you'll see that Palin is trying really hard not to laugh.Puerile, silly but also very very clever. This film doesn't criticise religion or Jesus in any way ( what was wrong with the people who tried to ban it ? ) - it's just asking what it could have been like in a society that was expecting the Messiah to show up at any moment, and covering it in a massive coating of comedy.This film is an absolute classic - 10 out of 10.


                
It's impossible for me to be objective about this film.  I know every scene and line by heart.  Not because I'm one of those ghastly Python nerds, whose anal obsessiveness sucks the whole spirit out of everything they did, and actually misses the joke, which is on them; they are the perfect subjects for a Python lampoon.  No.  I only know LIFE OF BRIAN so intimately because I've seen it so often, it's still one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen, and persists in being hilarious despite familiarity, which, as in so much Python did, is the reverse of what comedy is 'supposed' to be made of (i.e. surprise).Also, nostalgia value.  MONTY PYTHON were my first heroes, before I even reached double figures.  I gobbled up every programme, film and record in a space of a couple of short years, so they are bound up with a period of my life when I was very happy and hopeful, so I go all misty-eyed when I see it.  Bizarrely, we were first encouraged to watch BRIAN by our Latin teacher, who felt it was very insightful about Roman society.But no-one watches PYTHON anymore, except that dorkish clique.  My brother, only a couple of years my junior, is as mystified now by my reaction to it as my parents were then.  But surely BRIAN is a comic masterpiece in itself, accessible to anyone who found the very male, elitist, academic bias of the programme somewhat alienating?How can I implore you to watch this?  It's got a straight narrative, with some of the greatest set-pieces and dialogue of any film ever.  It's not a great FILM comedy - Terry Jones is no Gilliam - but the style suits the humour perfectly, allowing it to breathe, and sometimes pulling off an extraordinarily evocative shot, such as when Brian and his mother are walking from Jesus' sermon, and squabbling about petty things like big noses, and the camera pulls back to a vast Judean wasteland, with a massive Roman statue being wheeled, and a set of crucifixes being planted: a marvellous encapsulation of a period in history.This is the film's true triumph - it's a magnificent deconstruction of historical distortion.  By paralleling the life of Christ with that of an ordinary little man, Python reclaim history from symbol and myth.  It brings the body back into history.  Its resolute rejection of divinity leads to a bleak, ironic conclusion (listen to 'Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life' carefully, and in context: it's NOT comforting) - the story of Jesus without redemption is ghastly.The intelligence behind the juvenile gags is astonishing - the film is a learned commentary on power, totalitarianism, repression, language, gender, the writing of history, the politics of subversion, the complicity of the repressed.  Myth is thrown to the wind - the film succeeds where Reg and his revolutionaries fail, by revealing a whole series of repressive apparatum (sic?).  No-one is spared - the film is unashamedly destructive, but the film's satire is not arid or narrow; there are many rich parallels with our own time, as the extraordinary reaction from the religious on the film's release showed.But BRIAN is not just an attack on religion, but on all who would seek to write selective histories for their own interests, suppressing others' voices.  The silliest jokes are also the most profound - in one scene, the kidnappers enter Pilate's palace through a tiled floor.  They emerge through a modesty-concealing leaf painted on this floor.  This is snickering schoolboy humour, and very very funny, but is also a comment on the phallocentricity of imperialism.  Jokes like these are why BRIAN will always remain vital - it turns you into a ludicrous, ill-informed amateur historian.The acting is an astonishing feat of multiple performances, but Graham Chapman, always my favorite Python, holds the chaos together, ironically as the Kafkaesque hero who races towards the abyss, an anti-Jesus to love and identify with.  If I've made the film sound like hard work, than I'm an idiot.  The seriousness is only there if you want it.  Like Alice in Wonderland, or Buster Keaton, PYTHON seem to be full of metaphors that encapsulate the pains of life, but are also damnably entertaining.  It's strange that men as supposedly 'surreal' and 'out there' as the Pythons should speak such good sense.  Only BRINGING UP BABY, THE PALM BEACH STORY, and MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, are funnier than this.  Treasure it.


                
This film is by far the best of the Python outings. It ranks as one of my favorite films of all time, which unlike 'The Holy Grail', hasn't dated with time but improves with repeated viewing.The Pythons supposed take on Christianity, which caused outrage when it was first released (mostly by people who hadn't seen it), is actually a take on cults, both religious and political, and the people who follow them.Brian, our hapless hero, is confused, horny, and constantly mistaken for the Messiah; who just happened to be born in the manger next to him. Brian just wants to be left alone, and to pursue his love for Judith, a member of the People's Front of Judea. Judith just wants the Romans to go home; but only after they've left the sanitation, the medicine, education, irrigation, roads, public order, etc., etc. ... oh and don't forget the wine! Will Brian's love for Judith go unrequited? Will only the cheese makers be blessed, or does this refer to all manufacturers of dairy products? And just what have the Romans ever done for us? It's subtle; it's anarchic; and it's possibly still banned in Norway. This is classic seamless comedy at its best. 10/10.


                
This is, in my opinion, the best religious movie ever made. Monty Python's Flying Circus knows how to do everything hilariously. Focusing on Brian Cohen (Graham Chapman), who gets mistaken for the messiah in Judea in 33 AD, the movie pokes fun at everything: Romans, Jews, imperialism, even extraterrestrials. With sardonic lines almost every minute, they play religious fundamentalism for what it is: silly. I don't even know which scene was my favorite; every part was so funny. You'll never forget the song at the end. This is comedy in its greatest form, and it makes sense that it would come from the guys who brought us the "parrot sketch". Absolutely a hoot.


                
True, my tastes are eclectic. This movie is so incredibly clever and thought provoking that it's not surprising that it raised so many hackles. Plus, it's as fast paced and funny as a Marx Brothers movie without the musical breaks. You can watch it 20 times and you'll still sing at the end. Undoubtedly one of the top 10!!


                
Monty Python's follow-up to their cult smash Holy Grail was Life of Brian, a film that takes on (if not always with the utmost seriousness, then usually with a mix of silliness and slight intellectualism) the believers in religions, the zealous nature that belief brings out in people.  I first saw the film in the theater upon its re-release last month, and I found it very funny, though not with the kind of belly laughs that I had on my first reaction to Holy Grail.  It's not without it's scenes that stick out as some of Python's finest (the Stoning, Pilate's scenes, the Spaceship sequence), even as sometimes it goes a little too broad for comfort (part of the colisseum).Yet, the great strengths that lie in Life of Brian are that 1) the writers and performers (Chapman, Cleese, Gilliam, Jones, Idle, Palin) bring their irreverent strengths to a fine point with the script and multiple roles. Even when a scene doesn't get the laughs it could've or should've, it turns out to be a scene brimming with a cleverness that could only exist in the "Python-esque" universe.  2) the director (Jones) and designer/animator (Gilliam) lay the groundwork for this realistic atmosphere of 33 A.D. and bring out what is the best in the acting, Pythons or otherwise (famous British comedian Spike Milligan has a role of note).  Held over from the sets of Franco Zeferelli's Christ film, the Pythons use all these locations and settings and little details to spring out their wild, brilliant gags. The look of the film enriches the comedic elements, and the result is (arguably, of course) the troupe's best film.  Not for all tastes by the way (Monty Python in general for me took some while to warm up to, but paid off once it worked).  Grade: A


                
While Quest for the Holy Grail was funny because it was so low-budgetty and silly, Life of Brian is more advanced and with a greater variation of humour. It also has a bigger budget, which is great to see. Every scene looks realistic, and the sets (someone said they were formerly used by "The Last Temptation of Christ?) are great.Almost every line in this movie is a classic, and all of them very quotable. The characters are hilarious, and out-of-this world zany.The plot is good, and contrary to the Holy Grail, it actually comes to a satisfying conclusion.The movie also dares to joke about religion. No, they don't joke about Jesus or God, but about the believers in them. The line "I say you are Messiah, and I should know. I've followed a few" is so spot-on it hurts(when I laugh).All in all, watch this. This is possibly the funniest movie ever created. You can't afford to miss it.


                
I have been reading the reviews, and I'm just happy to see that there still are some people out there who appreciate real comedy. For anyone who is willing to actually watch the movie, and not expect a zoolander-ish barrage of fleetingly funny moments, this is definitely one of the funniest movies in the history of film. One may watch this movie a hundred times, and still find parts of it he never noticed before. The scene with Michael Palin chained up to the wall in the dungeon is possibly the most perfect absurd comedy sketch in existence. (Oh, what I wouldn't GIVE to be SPAT at in the face!) Even better than the Dead Parrot! And the movie has a wonderful unity as well, as a massive (semi-serious) satire of not just religion, but humanity in general. Two of them went to Oxford, three to Cambridge--these guys are well educated, and their work is absolutely brilliant, simply funny on the surface and hilariously complex beneath. This movie IS better than Holy Grail, and is the python's finest work.
The first time I watched Life of Brian I hardly laughed at all. Why? Certainly not because it wasn't funny. The problem was that the most absurd and hilarious moments in the movie are actually painfully real, only exaggerated a little bit. If the messenger hadn't been so funny the message would have really depressed me. Which is why it's such a great movie, I suppose. It's hilarious, and at the same time it's actually about something that matters, and is really depressing at that.Personally I don't think it's blasphemous in any way. It conveys its message in a way that's probably offensive to some people, but it doesn't mock God or Jesus, it doesn't even lash out against religion as a whole. It merely points out the absurdity of people who are too lazy or too stupid to think for themselves, and desperately cling to anybody willing to lead them. Or even unwilling to lead them. You can almost feel the anger and frustration of the writers in some scenes, as if they want to scream "God/Evolution/Whatever you believe in gave you a mind to think with on your own. USE IT!" to the viewer.All in all, I'd say this is the best of the Python movies and in general one of the greatest movies of all time.


                
Accidentally, it happens to be one of the best critiques of the modern middle east...and I should know-I'm from there! I say accidentally because Monty python so effortlessly describe things about the middle east that are so true and accurate, but so diifcult to describe, and I don't think they really intended to-they're just so brilliant! There is a small cinema in Prague that shows the Life of Brian for free every Xmas eve. I took my brother there to see it when we were visiting family a couple of years ago, and he laughed so much he almost went to hospital. This film contains some of the best gags in history, and it's also clever and subversive, would give it 11/10 if I could. I've been watching LoB once a year on average for about 5 years now, and I always discover new gags-I will probably go on watching it forever.


                
"God created man in His own image" (Genesis, 1:27). He gave him humour, and saw it was good. Later, God created cinema, and saw it was good.Still later, God created the Monty Python, but was not sure it was good. It got out of hand, because this disrespectful bunch used God's creations, man, humour and cinema, to turn them against religion.So the story goes: some believers think "Life of Brian" is blasphemous. It was banned on its initial release by several UK councils, Ireland and Norway. However, non-believers think this aspect is trivial. Let's try to neutrally assess how provocative the movie is.In any case, the religious satire needs to be tempered by two caveats: the movie not only mocks religion, but almost everything MP can lay their hands upon; the blasphemous parts are not hostile nor gratuitous. Let's explore both elements. I won't discuss humour, because it is subjective (for me the movie is hilarious).*** WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS ***1. What do MP target apart from religion?People. Except Brian, humans are stupid and/or ridiculous morons. Brian's mother is greedy, vulgar and simple-minded. Persons quarrel foolishly precisely when Jesus voices his Sermon on the Mount, a message of love. Even Brian's girlfriend, brainwashed by ideology, abandons Brian on the cross when he asks to be freed.Crowds. If individually people are pathetic, when they gather, they also are ugly. Women cruelly regroup at the beginning to lapidate a poor lad whose crime is trifle. An insensitive mob plays with prisoners' lives by asking for irrelevant pardons to make fun of Pilate's pronunciation. Crowds blindly worship Brian: "We've got to work it out for ourselves", they repeat like brainless zombies. The suicide squad, well, commits suicide without freeing Brian.Oppressive power. Romans imprison, crucify and execute. Yet the powerful are laughable. The mighty Pilate and Biggus Dikus are grotesque. A Roman patrol, instead of arresting Brian for a graffiti, makes him copy a hundred times "Romans go home" in Latin (a reference to the slogan "US go home" during the Vietnam War, which ended four years before the movie was released).Vain ideology that delivers no results (a possible reference to left-wing politics). To resist oppression, the rebel group displays an impressive incompetence. They spend more time fighting each other than against Romans (People's Front of Judea, Judean People's Front, Judean Popular People's Front). They just talk pompously and don't manage to perform one single effective action during the entire movie: only does Brian graffiti the fortress. The rebel leader is cynical, cowardly and short-sighted.Themselves. Like a schoolboy bunch, MP make fun of everything including their own movie. Each of them plays different roles, some completely silly. Graham Chapman appears in frontal nudity, very rare in cinema at the time. They introduce an absurd and useless scene parodying Star Wars (WTF?), whereby a spaceship captures Brian (FWTF?) and crashes after a battle (FWTFF?).2. The movie iconoclastically tackles various religious fundamentals. MP argued their movie is heretical, not blasphemous, because it mocks dogma but not God: granted, even though the representation of Jesus is ambiguous (see below). Also, it sometimes feels as if it does not criticise religion as much as the usage people make of it, since they are dumb as noted above.The Nativity. The three Wise Men mistake Brian for Jesus, implying the Latter was a man like any other.The Crucifixion. Brian ends on the cross like Jesus: the loop with the initial confusion is looped. Crucifixion, which was actually widespread, is not shown as horrible but as a relatively minor punishment. The final scene is not tragic but comical: the crucified sing "Take a look on the bright side of life", one of MP's best songs. Understandably, this sequence was highly controversial.The Messiah. It is easy to become one like Brian: a few words, some mystery and crowds will follow senselessly. Faith, as love, is blind. The Sayings. Jesus's Sermon is misunderstood ("Blessed are the cheese-makers", "Blessed are the Greek"). Yet it is unclear who is being made fun of: people who miss the point, or Jesus who accumulates the "Blessed are<U+0085>". Jesus is surrounded by a halo, but this positive view could be first or second degree.Relics. When Brian drops a gourd and a shoe, his followers absurdly split into two groups, each worshipping a different relic. And that is how sects are born<U+0085>Fear. Religion is based on fear (Hell, Judgement Day, the deadly sins, the ten commandments, crucifixion representations, prohibitions). In the movie, would-be prophets distil fear with dreadful predictions<U+0085> until a lunatic turns this rhetoric upside-down ("A friend shall lose his friend's hammer, <U+0085>"). Again it is not clear if the target is religion, or people who need to be frightened in order to orientate their deeds.Wows. A hermit breaks his silence wow<U+0085> because Brian stepped on his foot. Wows appear as a useless and easily reversible commitment.-----In summary, "Life of Brian" is farcical yet meaningful, richer than its simple blasphemous reputation: it blends MP's unique style into a consistent and funny satire. Historically well documented, it arguably is the best of the three movies they directed, less gratuitous and nonsensical than "Holy Grail" and "The Meaning of Life".Behind the farce, the movie delivers a hedonistic message: even if life is bleak, let's have fun. People are idiotic and cruel, but also laughable. Oppressive powers can be ridiculed. Humans are condemned, but show resilience by singing. Ideology can be a risible delusion. We don't know if religion is right or wrong, but it can be caricatured.You will not like this movie if you are hermetic to MP's humour or if your religious beliefs are hurt, both being understandable reactions. But then, isn't comedy always irreverent?
This is such a fine movie. It involves a guy who was born just down the street in Bethlehem. The Magi go to him first and then realize they are confused and leave. He tries to lead a normal life, but word gets out that he is the Messiah. He does everything he can to get this off his back, but a group of followers begin interpreting his words as great wisdom and godliness. It gets so bad that when they are sent to check out "the other Guy" they ultimately find his pronouncement (actually non-pronouncements) to be much more impressive. There is a hilarious scene where he tries to make a statement about the Romans, but his Latin is so bad he is force to write it over and over on the walls, like an American schoolboy. The final scene is incredible. If you've never heard the song or seen the images, check it out. I would imaging there are some people who find this movie blasphemous. I consider it one of the greatest parodies ever produced.


                
I wish, like in 'Spinal Tap', there was a voting system here that went up to 11 for stuff like this.I shamelessly admit I'm one of those sad, innumerable anoraks who knows every word of this film, and would readily bore the pants about it off anyone willing to listen. Still, I make no apologies, and you don't see people going around quoting French and Saunders, do you? If there is such a thing as a perfect film, this is it. Of course, it's all been said on here before, over and over, about how good this is, so I will aim for a slightly different approach.To really appreciate the absolutely impeccable comic timing these men exude, watch the expression on Chapman's face a split second before he is 'thwown to the floor' a second time. There is a look of absolute incomprehension/fear/comic despair that I would love to have on a poster were one to exist. I would never tire of looking at it. Also, when Chapman starts saying "Thamson the Thadchuthees Thtrangler' etc to the restive crowd at the end, they know EXACTLY when to make them start laughing. Listen to it, it's EXACTLY right. Awesome.Of course, the script itself is faultless, but I'm not one of those blind Python acolytes who says everything they ever did worked or stood the test of time; the 'Lumberjack Song' certainly doesn't stand repeated listening, and now sounds cringe worthy if people sing it in homage. I thought that when Palin did it in Himalaya recently; he sounded almost embarrassed by it.But enough nit picking. When you do comedy, at this sort of prodigious rate, it won't all work. To me, the only bit I didn't really like was the Spaceship section, but this is redeemed by the three word response uttered by the chap who sees Brian walk away unscathed. So much of it does work, it's beyond criticism.Sublime, and if you haven't seen it, you've settled for second best without knowing it.


                
The greatest satire on film? Well IMO its between this and Dr Strangelove. The films are in any case linked by the two most influential irreverent British comedy teams - The Goon Show and Monty Python.Python's previous film, The Holy Grail, was exceptionally funny. But with this film, the team stuck its neck out. A much bigger budget, more of a film than series of scenes/sketches and a very controversial social commentary and satire. It could have blew up in their faces, but of course became a triumph.Actually it was never going to fail... Python had a great winning formula. They had 6 very talented people, and between them they knew how to get the best out of each of them individually, in front of and behind the camera. The casting as always was spot on, every character memorable. For bewildered & sensitive - get Chapman, for shouty & demonstrative - get Cleese, cheeky chappy - get Idle, big nose - erm..Chapman again, effeminate & snooty - get Palin... As well as roles in front of the camera, Jones and Gilliam did a great job in bringing the Holy Land 2000 years ago to life. and to top it off they had the had one of the best team of comedy script-writers going.I could focus on a particular part of this film, but what's the point its all good. It maintains the its charm throughout and ends perfectly.I would recommend this to everyone, even Romans..


                
Absolutely one of the best comedies of all time. The Python cast puts it all out there for you to enjoy.Sarcasm, criticism, bigotry, homosexuality, religion, religious sects, afternoons at the gladiator matches, people who lisp, wise men, crucifixion, and full frontal male nudity.Nothing is sacred.Not to mention this film contains one of history's most important Latin lessons!An added plus is history's second earliest account (outside of Ezekiel) of a UFO sighting.Cheer up! Give a whistle! Watch this film!


                
There is not much to tell about this film... it is just the funniest stuff ever on the silver screen.  I can tell many people will disagree - after all it is a matter of opinion - but this is  the way I see it.  Not for the "jumpy" about religion, "Life of Brian" is a films that doesn't leave anything in order. Politics, religion, history... everything is turned upside-down and inside -out.  No, it is not THAT intellectual.  It is funny.  Very funny indeed. But you are going to enjoy the most out of it if you are familiar with some issues it brings on stage (just to tear them in pieces). Brian, the hero, is just an ordinary inhabitant of Judea... till he is recognized as the Messia. And then... the party begins.   The greatest comedy group ever - Monty Python's - give  us a true masterpiece and a comedy that has no equal.


                
... And that's to watch a Monty Python film and laugh yourself to death. Their sense of humor hasn't dated a bit, and it still satisfies audiences around the world. Life of Brian was released in 1979, but it keeps ranking high in people's TOP 10 comedy lists (in my case, it shares the first place with Young Frankenstein). Even the most depressed people in the universe will feel happy again once they've seen this incredibly funny movie.Now, a short message to those intimidated by the fact that Life of Brian was banned in some countries (though eventually released after a few years) for its supposed "blasphemy": there is nothing blasphemous in this film. All right, it makes fun of prophets, messiahs, wise men and crucifixion, and yes, Jesus does show up for a couple of seconds, in the infamous "Blessed are the cheese-makers" sequence, but the Pythons didn't mean to mock the Bible. They just wanted to tell the story of an ordinary man, Brian Cohen (Graham Chapman), who just happened to live in that period. It's an enjoyable satire on everyday life, both Jewish and Roman (or Woman, as Michael Palin would say), in 33 AD Judea.The movie has so many memorable gags and characters it's impossible to list all of them: my personal favorites are Pontius Pilate (Michael Palin) with his speaking defect (see the Woman part) and his friend Biggus Dickus (Chapman again), the PFJ led by John Cleese's Reg, and of course the immortal ending, which I won't and can't reveal, but I assure you: rarely has a comedy had such a brilliant, original conclusion. It's in the same league as Some Like it Hot's "Well, nobody's perfect!".So, I really hope you'll have a good time with Britain's best comedians. I sure did.Oh, by the way: always look on the bright side of life...


                
To celebrate my 1000th review for IMDb, I turn to another favourite film. "Life of Brian", the third Monty Python film, follows the formula used with great success in the second, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail", namely that of telling a story, loosely based upon historical fact or legend, though a series of sketches.The title character is Brian Cohen, a young Judean living during the first century AD. He joins the People's Front of Judea, a small group fighting to free the country from Roman occupation. After a series of misadventures, Brian is mistaken for the Messiah by a crowd of followers and ends up being crucified. Brian is frequently confused with Jesus Christ; the two men were both born in stables in Bethlehem on the same day, and the film opens with the Magi mistakenly coming to offer their homage to Brian, before realising their error.The film was hugely controversial when it came out in 1979, with numerous religious groups accusing the Pythons of irreverence; in a notorious television debate John Cleese and Michael Palin were forced to defend it against Malcolm Muggeridge and the Bishop of Southwark. These accusations had the predictable effect of increasing interest in the film, and thereby boosting cinema attendances, but they also highlighted a possible legal problem. Two years earlier, Britain's once-moribund blasphemy laws had been successfully revived by the anti-pornography campaigner Mary Whitehouse in a prosecution against the magazine "Gay News". Fear of a similar prosecution meant that the Pythons had to be careful not to be seen attacking Christ himself; it is always made clear that Brian and Jesus are two separate people and that it is the hapless Brian who is being lampooned. The nearest the film comes to criticising Christian doctrine is during the "Sermon on the Mount" scene where Christ's words are misheard or misunderstood by his listeners. ("Blessed are the cheesemakers" "Well, obviously it's not meant to be taken literally; it refers to any manufacturers of dairy products").Nevertheless, the film does contain a good deal of religious satire, aimed at those forms of organised religion which are intolerant of opposing viewpoints or refuse to permit critical scrutiny of their own dogmas. This is shown in the early scene where an elderly man is about to be stoned for blasphemy, having said "that piece of fish was good enough for Jehovah", and more importantly in the scene where the crowd take Brian for the Messiah. This new religion only lasts for a short while, but during its brief existence it mimics some of the less admirable features of real-life religions, such as the tendency to split into competing, mutually hostile sects and the attribution of miraculous or mystical significance to the most mundane words and actions. The mob's faith is not shaken when Brian's divinity is denied not only by his own mother ("He's not the Messiah, he's a very naughty boy") but even by Brian himself. ("Only the true Messiah denies his divinity!") There is also a good deal of political satire in the film, much of it of a surprisingly conservative nature. The famous "What have the Romans ever done for us?" sketch, for example, can be seen as a vindication of British and European colonialism. The political left is parodied by the People's Front of Judea. This tiny organisation, whose lack of significance is equalled only by the self-importance of its members, ostensibly exists to campaign against the Roman occupiers, but expends most of its energies in ideological squabbles against other revolutionary groupuscules such as the Popular Front of Judea and the Judean People's Front. Its bureaucratic mentality means that it is incapable of taking any action without extensive debate and the passing of several motions.Another target of the film's satire is Biblical epics like "The Greatest Story Ever Told" or Franco Zeffirelli's "Jesus of Nazareth", which generally took a reverential attitude to religion. (Shooting in Tunisia, the Pythons reused some of the sets from Zeffirelli's film). The final crucifixion scene contains an obvious reference to Kubrick's "Spartacus". ("I'm Brian and so's my wife!)" Cleese wanted to play Brian himself, but this role eventually went to Graham Chapman, leaving Cleese free to play his normal gallery of pompous authority-figures, including Reg, the leader of the PFJ, and the centurion who, after catching Brian painting the slogan "Romans Go Home!" in incorrect Latin ("Romanes eunt domus") forces him to paint the grammatically correct version "Romani ite domum" 100 times. There are also memorable contributions from the other Pythons, including Terry Jones (who also directed) as Brian's shrewish mother Mandy, Eric Idle in his normal wisecracking "Mr Cheeky" personality and Palin as the camp, lisping Pontius Pilate ("the little wascal has spiwit") and as the ineffectual public-schoolboy Roman officer Nisus Wettus. ("Crucifixion? Out of the door, line on the left, one cross each"). Idle's other great contribution to the film was to write the closing song "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life", which has since taken on a life of its own, being played at football matches, weddings and funerals, including Chapman's."Life of Brian" came out when I was a teenager, and as like most British teenagers of the period I was a huge Python fan I enjoyed it enormously. Since then I have watched it regularly, and every time I do I find something new to laugh at or some new subtlety I had not previously noticed. It is, in my view, the best of the Python films and the greatest British comedy of the seventies; it paved the way for the revival of British film-making in the eighties. Several of the greatest films of this revival were to be made by Handmade Films, the company set up by former Beatle (and Python fan) George Harrison to make "Life of Brian". 10/10
Story says that after the enormous success of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail", a reporter asked the comedy troupe about their next film project. Not having an answer for that, Eric Idle answered "Jesus Christ - Lust for Glory" as a joke, and it became their typical answer to questions about the Python's future projects. Fortunately, what started as a joke soon began to be taken seriously by the comedians as an interesting project to make, and they began working in a movie, not about the life and times of Jesus Christ (as they were unable to find anything to mock about it), but about the credulity and hysteria of those who follow messianic saviors. "Life of Brian" was the name of the movie, and as soon as it was released quickly became known as one of the funniest and most controversial works done by the Pythons, and not without a reason!The movie's plot is obviously, about the life of Brain Cohen (Graham Chapman), who is a poor Jewish boy who was born in Nazareth on the same day as Jesus. Years later, Brian is now a young man who has grown hating the Roman occupation of his country while working at the local Arena. One day Brian attends one of Jesus' sermons and among the crowd he notices Judith (Sue Jones-Davies), a woman who leads him to the rebel group "People's Front of Judea". Brian joyfully joins the rebels, but the missions given to him do not exactly end in the best way for the group. Things get complicated for Brian when after a bizarre series of circumstances, he ends up being confused with a messiah, and with this he gains an considerable amount of "devoted followers".The first thing one notices about "Life of Brian" when compared to the Pythons' previous movie is how structured is the plot. While of course "Holy Grail" had the running theme of King Arthur, it was still a series of sketches tied together by their style and themes. "Life of Brian" shows the Python style of comedy completely adapted to a cleverly written and well structured narrative that, with their usual mix of witty satire and surreal nonsense, showcases their ideas about organized religions as well as the other social themes (government and other political satire for example) they tend to use. Very fresh and original, the comedy in "Life of Brian" is top notch, and takes what started in the now legendary "Flying Circus" to a whole new level. Contrary to what could be thought, the structured narrative enhances the comedy instead of limit it, and makes for a more focused piece of work.Python member Terry Jones takes again the director's seat (without Terry Gilliam this time), and makes the Python's masterpiece come to life, remaining true to its roots without sacrificing the film's structure. While it's obvious that Jones knows that the film's power is in the script and the cast, he allows himself to showcase his love for ancient history and, taking advantage of the budget (and the locations of "Jesus of Nazareth"), he sets the wacky story of Brian in a lavish and very realist Jerusalem. The sharp contrast between Jones' care for some historical accuracy and the script's bizarre and surreal humor truly adds a lot to the "Pythonesque" atmosphere of the film, as it feels oddly appropriate within the satiric tone of the movie. With a style more focused on the characters than in the visuals, Jones was the natural choice to direct "Life of Brian", as its truly the characters what makes the movie the jewel of British humor.And as always, the Pythons are simply superb in their portrayal of the many characters of the movie. Graham Chapman only plays three this time, but he is Brian, and as our main character he perfectly portrays the naiveté of the young idealist man. John Cleese is also excellent in the many characters he plays, specially as the leader of the People's Front of Judea. Director Terry Jones himself appears as, among others, Brian's mother, making a remarkable character with his peculiar falsetto voice. While I can't single out an actor as the best in the film, I must say that Michael Palin's performance as Pontius Pilate is easily one of the funniest of the movie. Finally, Eric Idle gives the icing in the cake as he sings the Python's most famous song, "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life".If "Life of Brian" has a fault, it would be that it may feel too long to those unfamiliar with Monty Python's style of humor. That said, this movie is probably the easiest to "get" as it lacks the surreal randomness of "Holy Grail" or the darkness of the sketches in "Meaning of Life", making it the ideal introduction to Python's humor. I can't write about "Life of Brian" without talking about the "controversies" it met after released, as it was accused of being blasphemous and disrespectful to God. While the film is indeed irreverent, it is in no way an attack to God, it is more a satire on the way some religious people follow their leaders blindly without really thinking about it. There is nothing blasphemous in the movie, and it is more humanist than irreligious.Monty Python's style has proved to be one of the most influential in the history of British comedy, and personally I think that "Life of Brian" is the crowning achievement of their career. The brilliant satire they cleverly put in the movie's script is easily one of the best in history of film, as it's as merciless as it is funny. Zany, irreverent and wild, "Life of Brian" can stand proudly as the Python's movie masterpiece, and while sadly they only made one film after this, it's always better to look on the bright side of life and see it as the testament of their genius. 10/10


                
Love this Gem!This story in different variations was told for almost two thousand years, but it always had inconsistencies and white spots, and its true essence, it seems, was always well hidden by someone. Much has changed when a group of researchers from England took up the ancient tradition, many of whom were attributed to excessive alcohol addiction, as well as the American avant-garde artist who joined them.The film was shot in the scenery, built for the film Franco Zeffirelli "Jesus of Nazareth."


                
Famous lines from Michael Palin as Pontius Pilate...and also my favourite lines from this wondrous film. This is not a piece of criticism, just an exhibition of love. For those of you who believe that Holy Grail is better - I'm sorry to inform you that you're wrong. Life of Brian has such good consistent humour that really can't be beaten. The variety and range of characters the Pythons play is sublime. The chemistry they have with each of other is what makes the film work so well. I won't ramble on anymore because most of what I want to say has already been said!Afterthought: Well, what is myrrh anyway?


                
Jesus/Brian would approve. I learned a lot about Jesus from this movie. If you think He would be offended, get the stick out. Teaching about His life in comedy is the perfect irony.


                
The jokes come tinned-custard thick and speeding-bullet fast, but it's not the volume of gags that sets the film apart - it's their variety and quality. The Naked Gun and Airplane! may boast similar joke counts, but the Zucker brothers can't compete with the Pythons in terms of stylistic eclecticism: they're as comfortable with slapstick as they are with satire, and equally at home with crass comedy or class comedy.


                
The Meaning Of Life is my favorite Python movie, and this is next in line. Some people mock religion and it's offensive. Others do it and it's hilarious. LOB succeeds in the 2nd category.The movie made me laugh right from the start. Brian was apparently the neighbor of Christ, they were even born in the same manger! The wisemen scene here is hilarious.Then there is a bit where people try to not laugh at the fact that an emperor has a friend named Biggus Dickus. And his wife's name is unbearable.One person listens to Jesus preach the Sermon on the mount and thinks he said: "Blessed are the cheese makers." There's 3 examples how this is comic genius. And the movie is also known for the song "Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life", which is probably one of the best songs ever written.If you need laughs, here's a good place to find them. It does make fun of Biblical times but as a Christian I didn't find it offensive. It's a fun movie, so have fun!


                
