Except for the funny stoning scene toward the beginning, and the song at the end, everything else in the movie misfires. Yes, the idea is that another man (Brian) is mistaken for the Messiah-but the story's big flaw is that the real Messiah is already present, briefly shown giving a sermon to a crowd. On top of that, there is nothing about Brian that would convince anyone he was the Messiah; he doesn't even pretend to be one. This gives the whole movie a contrived atmosphere.The other scenes are hardly funny either. The Jews who plot against the Romans ask what the Roman occupiers have done for them, and as the scene goes on, the speaker amasses a list of benefits brought by the Romans. In a way, this glorifies colonialism and fails to explain why natives invariably come to despise their occupiers. There were plenty of reasons for the Jews to hate the Romans, but that is hardly brought up. Also, other jokes such as "Biggus Dickus" and Pontius Pilate not being able to say the letter "R" are juvenile without being funny."Monty Python and the Holy Grail" was much better because it was clever; this movie perhaps tried to be meaningful and simply blew it.
1st watched 6/4/2001 - 3 out of 10 (Dir-Terry Jones): Mostly unfunny movie based on a child born in a manger next to Jesus called Brian.  Some of Monty Python's humor comes through, but it doesn't seem to work too well in this setting.  I think that if it wasn't in reference to Jesus Christ they could have made this movie funny.  The movie itself does not make fun of christians or Jesus but rather things in the time like stonings, lepers, and the Romans.  The funniest scene in my opinion just happens to be the last of the movie where one of the crucified breaks out into song about looking at the bright side of life.  There were not enough funny scenes to recommend this movie.  Their best in my opinion is still their earliest 'The Holy Grail.'


                
This movie may have been funny some decades ago... now it's really boring.I couldn't get to the end, it was an atrocious torture. Unless you're a Monty Python lunatic, you'll have a hard time finding this movie funny.It seemed as if most of the jokes are lame attempts to mock Christianity. I'm not a Christian, and still think this is lame. The movie produced a few giggles in the audience, but the first hour seemed like an eternity. We couldn't finish watching the movie, it was utterly painful.Fortunately, it seems that humor has evolved over the years. This kind of humor seems brainless to me.


                
