The British comedy troupe Monty Python had always been on the edge of controversy ever since their show "Flying Circus" appeared on the BBC in the late 1960s, but nothing had prepared the world for what Life of Brian had brought. In Life of Brian, the comedians go after the one institution that has always had trouble accepting satire: religion, specifically the Christian Church. Seen as blasphemous, Life of Brian needed an eleventh hour rescue for Beatle George Harrison to finish the film. The church was wise to wonder what the Pythons were doing. Life of Brian is filled with questions of the role of religion in society, why people often feel they need religion, and the age old question of "What would happen if the 3 wise men went to the wrong stable on that night they brought gifts to the young savior?" There is typical Python silliness throughout the movie, set up early where listeners at one of Jesus' sermons (held at "tea time," of course) think they hear that "blessed are the cheese makers." But the most important part of this film, and it's charm, are the questions of religion. No matter your faith, you will find scenes in Life of Brian unsettling, provocative, and humorous, possibly all three at once. While not wall-to-wall as funny as Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life of Brian is a humorous look at civilization's oldest and dearest institutions, and asks us to consider what we are doing.


                
If the "Holy Grail" is their funniest movie, "Life of Brian" is the most well-made. And here it is easier to sort through the sketches and jokes scattered around the film, because it does tend to get boring at some times. British humor is the best, though, and this film is a clear and vivid example of the finest the Python gang had to offer.The single most hilarious moment is when Brian shouts to the crowd that they're all individuals. They answer in unison: "yes, yes, we are all individuals" - and then this bearded fellow pokes his head out and calmly states: "I'm not." That is just brilliant.Blasphemous? Yes, somewhat, but you'd have to be a really thick-headed Christian not to laugh at this harmless little film. After all, you are prompted to sing along: "always look on the bright side of life"...What I really can't figure out is that sequence with the spaceship. I know you're not supposed to ask questions when watching Python humor - I just want to know what went through their minds when they added it...


                
Watching Monty Python's "Life of Brian" is not blasphemy. In 1979, that might have been more reasonable. Let's just say that the penalty in today's society would be crucifixion and that back then it would have been something worse."Life of Brian" doesn't directly insult Judeo-Christian history, it just takes it extremely not seriously. The result is a satire not of specific religions, but of religious characteristics that apply to most of the world's religions: people being quick to believe, notions of what is sin, etc. It plays off a western sensibility, but it doesn't directly criticize Judeo-Christian religious practice. The incredible Monty Python cast delivers this in their typical sketch humor manner, though this film has much more continuity than 1975's "Holy Grail."Brian Cohen was born the same day as Jesus, but Jesus is separated from the film early on, so the film becomes about how Brian finds himself looking for something to believe in and eventual finds people strangely believing he is the messiah. He is a true protagonist in that the ridiculousness happens to him instead of the other way around. It is the rest of the cast in their multiple roles that surround his story with humor.The array of comedic characters are not nearly as diverse and memorable as "Holy Grail" and for that matter the film is not nearly as memorable or funny. The comedic elements are the same, but they are much more potent in "Grail." However, the plot line is much smoother, with the sketches fitting into the plot line instead of bouncing all over the place."Brian" is good as a satire, better than it is at being a comedy. While the film will still has the distinct look and feel of a Monty Python work, it doesn't go from hilarious scene to hilarious scene as one might expect if they've only seen "Grail." There's a lot of clever humor, but "Brian" is not nearly as out of the box as you'd like. But in terms of offensive, only if you take all discussion of religious ideas and history very seriously as the Monty Python crew quite literally turn the sacred into the profane.


                
Although funny and quotable, seeing "Life of Brian" for the first time in 2019, isn't that unforgettable experience that everyone used to have back then. Yes, it is a good comedy with a pretty clever script and a big dose of irony, but it doesn't really age well.If you are into satire and you are ok watching an 1979 about blind faith (religious, political or anything else really),t hen this is your movie. If you are not into everything of those combined, then "Brian" isn't for you!


                
Mistaken for the messiah, a hapless a young man from Nazareth tries to avoid crucifixion in this controversial comedy that was banned in several countries upon initial release due to its religious irreverence. Written by the six members of the Monty Python troupe (who collectively play forty roles), the humour is hit-and-miss as per the troupe's norm. There is nothing especially funny about Terry Jones in drag, the lisping of Michael Palin as Pontius Pilate goes on for far too long and other parts are simply silly (mentally handicapped jailer). The jokes that do work are admittedly excellent though. A lesson on how to haggle is a particular highlight, same goes for a stoning scene in which all participants are actually women in disguise, plus the politics of the various rebel factions in Judea are great. The second half of the movie also works better than the buildup to it as the title character finds himself unable to rid himself of followers mistaking him for their saviour and no matter what he says, he cannot get them to change their view. The film is also topped off with the most memorable ending of all four Monty Python movies with its celebration of optimism in the face of adversity.


                
Monty Python's Life of Brian is about a man born in around the same time and place as Jesus who seeks to end Roman oppression in Israel. Brian, played by Graham Chapman, joins the People's Front of Judea, a group of men seeking the same goal as him, and together they discuss attacks on the empire to take them down once and for all. Along the way, Brian must decide what he wants out of life and whether the People's Front of Judea is right for him. Life of Brian is a decent comedy that sets up a few great jokes at the expense of the story.
The movie follows Brian's life in distinct sections that each build up to and execute a joke, but some key story elements are lost along the way. One of my favorite gags from the movie comes after Brian is thrown into prison and must stand before the Roman prefect Pontius Pilate, played by Michael Palin, to plead his case. Brian and Pontius Pilate have a conversation about a friend named 'Biggus Dickus', a name representing a rather obvious phallus. The ensuing joke is that the guards are not allowed to laugh at the high ranking Roman's name because it would be disrespectful. I love the way Palin plays out this scene because it becomes obvious that he is trying to cause trouble by using the name repeatedly and in humorous ways. Palin makes it very clear that he, as an actor, is trying to have fun with the scene and helps to create a sense of awkward comedy that I enjoyed. Monty Python sets up and cleanly executes jokes that make watching worthwhile.
Of course, a Monty Python movie wouldn't be a Monty Python movie without a section that can be only described as non sequitur. The twist begins with Brian jumping off a building in an effort to flee the Romans. He is quickly abducted by aliens, causing the movie to transform into a low budget Star Wars for a couple of minutes before the UFO crashes back into Earth. Upon landing, the story unpauses like nothing odd has happened. Although this move makes no sense in the context of the plot, it is indicative of the sort of audience Life of Brian is meant for. Monty Python targets audiences that are watching to forget about life for a while, to have a good laugh for once. The surrealism of the alien twist helps to distance the world of Life of Brian further from that of the real one, giving audiences an escape from reality. I really enjoyed this wrench in the story because it was like a breath of fresh air -- it was so different and unexpected that I couldn't help but appreciate it. This twist and many more make Life of Brian a humorous movie.
Because the comedy group of Monty Python consists of only six people, all of the main actors in the film play more than two roles each. This became most obvious to me when I realized mid-film that the leader of the People's Front of Judea and the Roman centurion are played by the same actor, John Cleese. I thought this decision was actually quite brilliant because it gives the film an added layer of irony; the two characters are leaders on opposite sides of the main conflict, and seeing them played by the same person simply doesn't make sense. John Cleese also fits both roles rather well, surprisingly, which added to the comedic effect the film had in store. Cleese's roles in Life of Brian add an interesting fourth-wall-breaking dynamic to the film, making it both more outlandish and comedic.
Monty Python creates for the purpose of humoring audiences over all else, one of their defining characteristics. Comedy takes the driver's seat in Life of Brian, pushing any real compelling storytelling straight to the back burner. Because of the way the scenes are structured, I found it hard to take away elements from each section that contributed to the overarching plot of the movie. I often found myself wondering what the plot of the movie was supposed to be about, or what motivated the characters, and even at the end I still could not piece this story together in my mind. I was often thinking about the story while watching because I found that some of the jokes weren't very funny. In order for this movie style to work, every punchline set up needs to hit hard or else the scene is a failure. Everything in the scene builds up to this joke, so it had better be a good one to make watching it not a waste of time. A good example of this idea working quite well can be seen in another of Monty Python's movies, The Holy Grail. This masterpiece of a movie had me laughing continuously for the entire show at whatever gag they wanted to throw my way. What The Holy Grail does well is that the already solid pieces (the individual jokes) fit together quite nicely with the central plot of King Arthur's quest, whereas Life of Brian has scenes that simply feel both disjointed from the story and lacking of comedic effect.
Life of Brian is worth seeing if you're into the surrealistic comedy of Monty Python or if you enjoyed watching their other big hit, The Holy Grail. However, for the common moviegoer, Life of Brian is too all over the place to digest smoothly. This movie is best when watching with friends or anywhere with a light atmosphere. Life of Brian is an enjoyable film, but it's definitely not the holy grail of Monty Python films. That is why I gave it a 7/10.
This British comedy film starring the Monty Python players is a gentle religious satire considered controversial at the time of its release, drawing accusations of blasphemy, and protests from some religious groups.
As a religious farce it is cutting edge but really it is just funny with good cheer. The London accented vernacular of the characters makes the subject matter wacky and funny.


                
I laughed hard and found this film thought-provoking in my teenage. I may have seen it in 1995, but it has the same value today. I enjoyed the acting. Some scenes surprised me and remained vivid in my memory, so that I was able to recount them. I like the final song, but haven't felt that they had chosen the right setting for it. Even in the work of its authors, such good comedy seems rare.


                
This film is about a certain Jewish man called Brian who lived in the Roman times. His decision to repel the Romans turned out to be a big adventure."Monty Python's Life of Brian" is so funny that I laughed out loud so many times. In fact, the whole film is very funny! I am still laughing about Biggus Dickus! The dialogs are a complete riot. The haggle scene is just classic! I think even if you travel to third world countries, haggling will not be as insane as this. And another classic is the meetings that the revolutionaries hold. Those are simply hilarious! It's very refreshing to see such a laugh out loud comedy without much profanity or toilet humour. I have only one complaint though, the ending song was to long. I was hoping something would happen but the song keeps going on.


                
Monty Python's Life of Brian tells the story of a man who was born across the street from Jesus, and his life as a 33 year old man in Jerusalem. He ends up joining the People's Front of Judea (not to be confused with the Judean People's Front) so he can concoct plans against the Romans. After he escapes capture, 100s of people mistake him for the messiah and begin to follow him around, making life a living hell. I've heard many people praise this as the funniest Monty Python film, and though I disagree, this movie is still classic Monty Python funny.This and The Holy Grail are the two Monty Python movies that actually tell a story. I don't find this as funny as The Holy Grail because the style is different. The Holy Grail had rude humour, but it didn't feature the same amount of f-words, or the unnecessary full frontal male nudity. Of course, like any Monty Python film, there are scenes that are so absurd you can't help but laugh. It was only near the end of the movie that I started to laugh out loud. I really enjoyed how they portrayed Pontius Pilate and his friend Biggus Dickus.Overall, this is a pretty funny movie for Monty Python fans, but it definitely doesn't live up to the hype.7/10


                
The film is spoilt by two major problems:1 Terry Jones does an irritating falsetto as Brian's mother.He is also writer and director, and as usual this leads to a tendency to include dialogue and scenes which would be best left on the cutting-room floor.2 The Monty Python regulars have several roles each, which makes the suspension of disbelief difficult.Camera-work is unimpressive. The images are serviceable but little more, and look more like rather ordinary TV than cinema. In addition, the cast-list is woefully incomplete. Even the naked Judith (Sue Lloyd Jones) is uncredited.


                
There's a scene in this send up of Biblical movies and stories that always gets a chuckle out of me. At the end, there are a dozen or so men strung up there and left to die on crosses. Brian, the protagonist, is one of them. He's done nothing to deserve it. His friends and rescuers have failed him. But his crucified neighbor sums up the most apt attitude by cheerfully advising Brian not to be so glum about it all. He begins to sing and whistle a song, "Always Look On The Bright Side of Life," that contains incongruous lyrics that are too vulgar to reproduce here. Not only, "Always look on the bright side of Death/ Just before you draw your terminal breath," but "Life's a piece of s***/ When you look at it...." Monty Python seem to me to have been entirely serious, amid the gaggle of gags, in skewering all of our intense dispositions to follow one or another social or religious movement. As far as I know they were only explicit about it in the penultimate scene of "The Meaning of Life," which wound up with an actor in drag advising us to try to be nice to one another. I think it was meant seriously.But then there is often a momentous covert message behind some of the jokes. I'll give one example.Brian, having been mistaken for a prophet in the Holy Land, runs down the streets followed by a gang of ardent worshippers and he accidentally loses his shoe and leaves it behind rather than be caught. The followers stop and gape at the shoe. One holds the shoe in the air and cries that Brian wants all of us to wear only one shoe. Another argues that it's not the shoe that's the sign, it's Brian's gourd that he left behind. An dispute ensues over whether it should be the shoe or the gourd. A joke, because the conflict lacks instrumental meaning -- except when you think of Sunni vs. Shi'ite in the Middle East, or Catholic vs. Protestant in Northern Ireland.Some of the jokes are sillier than others, recalling Mel Brooks. Pilate has speech defect. His "r" comes out as "w", and the crowd keeps tricking him into calling out names with lots of "r"s in them, which convulses them with laughter. "Woger the Wobber!" he cries, and the crowd hoots and doubles over. His friend, Biggus Dickus, speaks with a lisp and is drawn into lengthy pronouncements containing "s". Well, I DID mention Mel Brooks.It helps, though, if you're in the right mood for this nihilistic nonsense. Anything can happen. Anything goes. A man may jump from a tower and land in a space ship that happens to be speeding by. When the Roman guards find a rebel painting "Romans Go Home" (in Latin) on a wall, they don't arrest him. They correct his grammar and make him copy it one hundred times on the wall. (The Centurion, John Cleese, had attended prep school and Cambridge and had taught Latin.) I don't know how well that will go over with kids who never heard of using correct grammar, let alone in Latin, a notoriously synthetic language in which each word contains many morphemes. I swear there must be an agglutinative language somewhere in which you can say something like, "I'd rather watch television tonight than hang out at the Sonicburger" -- and it all comes out as one word.Anyway, if you're in a mood to have your head taken and shaken back and forth a little, "The Life of Brian" might get the job done.
Monty Python's "Life of Brian" tells the story of Brian, a young Jew born in a manger just a few doors down from Jesus. Brian's life runs parallel with Jesus' as he becomes indoctrinated into the anti-Roman People's Front of Judea and is eventually mistaken for a prophet. How will Brian accept his new fame and popularity? What always confused me about "Life of Brian" is the film's alleged mass appeal. Apparently, it is considered the funniest British film of all time, or at least one of them. Yet, Monty Python's "Holy Grail" is the one that received deluxe treatment, has a musical developed from it and is most often quoted by other people. Maybe Americans find "Grail" funny and Brits like "Brian". I don't know. But what I do know is that although I think "Brian" is funny, it's not even in my top twenty for comedies.Graham Chapman shines as Brian Cohen, of course. He was clearly the leader of the Pythons, at least on screen, and rightfully so. He may not have the name John Cleese does or the directing chops Terry Jones or Terry Gilliam do, but he could command a screen. He will be missed.The film is most funny for those who feel a sense of anti-authority in their blood. You can't take the story of Jesus too seriously or this account will offend you. Imperial nations are a target here, as are blind followers of religion. Even the modern Israel-Lebanon-Palestine conflict comes into play, although in a different form than we know it now.Not unlike past work, the best jokes come from over-analyzing situations and words. In "Grail" we had Dennis explain the anarcho-syndicalist commune. Here, we get an extensive Latin lesson (Romani Ite Dormum). Great material by anyone's standards.In my opinion, "Holy Grail" is the better film and even "Meaning of Life" probably has more humorous parts. Not that "Life of Brian" isn't funny... but I would suggest that only those who enjoyed these other two really give it a try. It's something of an acquired taste, as all British comedy is.


                
This movie is indeed a barrell of laughs. The Python`s decided that The Meaning Of Life didn`t push it far enough and so out came this. With a bit of help from their good friend George Harrison and his production company, they decided to push the envelope to the final limit by making this movie. I loved it, though I prefer The Holy Grail to this. For those who think they can handle a bit of scandle then pick up this movie and laugh.


                
The movie opens up very crazily funny. It still retains the signature man dressed as a woman role with the crazy voice from what we see in the Holy Grail from four years earlier. But compared to the Holy Grail, this movie builds its comedic moments far more better with beats which are easier to understand. This is in comparison with the Holy Grail's beats which mostly depend on instant laughter with shorter builds, being more practical even in the dialog part jokes. Life of Brian offers the jokes more intelligently built with enough build up time that makes the laughs even more logical and relate-able. I personally enjoy the stoning scene, the slogan spelling scene, and the mistaken messiah scenes. The acting is not really different from what the Holy Grail presented, just a bunch of crazy old English comedians having their funny way about things.


                
Mix the six English boobs of Monty Python with the story of Christ and this is what you get. Stonings, blasphemy, Roman leaders with speech impediments, it's all here with absolute historical accuracy. It's goofy, it's absurd, it's hilarious at times and gets better each time you watch it. When I first saw this years ago I thought it was a let-down compared to "The Holy Grail" and "The Meaning of Life" (also by the Python gang), mostly because my college roommate used to get drunk and recite lines from it before I had ever watched it, so when the funny parts came, I already knew them. But with each viewing since I've enjoyed it more even though I still know when they're coming. After you've carved out your heart with a pitchfork this Easter season by watching "The Passion of the Christ", watch this for a little levity and reclamation of your soul. Laughter is the best medicine after all. 7.5/10


                
`The film so funny it was banned in Norway!' Life of Brian has been penned with that phrase in Sweden, because it was, because Norway believed it to be blasphemous. In an interview, they said that they didn't really consider it to be blasphemous, and I don't either. It's just funny, plain and simple.Brian is a baby born on the original Christmas. First, the three Wise Men accidentally go into his house, instead of Jesus'. Fast forward to the year 33 A.D., where Brian (Graham Chapman) is a regular Jew, who hates the Romans who take over and lives with his overbearing mother (Terry Jones). He falls into the hands of the People's Front of Judea and is fighting against the Romans. Soon he becomes mistaken for the Messiah. Well, at least it has more of a plot than The Meaning of Life.Better than Meaning of Life, not as funny as Holy Grail. During the first two thirds of the movie, the laughs came steadily. During the last part of the film, the laughs teetered off a little. And, since most of the plot is about Brian being mistaken for the Messiah, it came surprisingly late in the film, maybe around halfway. Of course, it couldn't be considered a Monty Python film if it didn't have the trademark animation. The opening credits (which also sported a better song than Meaning of Life) had kooky animation, as with the animation/claymation halfway through, where Brian gets `rescued' by a spaceship.Being a Latin student myself, I cracked up when Brian was writing graffiti and was corrected by a soldier about his grammar. I could actually understand what they were talking about! Something else that made me laugh out loud was when Brian went to buy something but was hounded to haggle. There were other funny scenes, and most of the movie was hit instead of miss<U+0085>though a couple points didn't strike me as funny.During the interview I mentioned earlier, they ended by singing `Always Look on the Bright Side of Life', and I didn't know that it came from this movie. It was a humorous ending to the movie.Of course, all of the Monty Pythoners were in top condition, not showing any signs of weakness yet. I particularly like John Cleese and Eric Idle the most, with Idle seeming to come off best. The six main actors altogether had 40 parts! Beat that, Eddie Murphy! Other `regulars', such as Carol Cleveland and Neil Innes, did well also.Not the best, not the worst of the Monty Python movies, but Life of Brian isn't one to be missed.My rating: 7/10Rated R for nudity, religious themes, and language.


                
This one is mixed, the 'Bigus Dickus', space aliens and slave-running-away-from-the-gladiator-who-then-gets-a-coronary scenes are great. Love'em! And the old part about 'Get away from my juniper berry bushes' is a hoot also.But some of it seemed rather forced, they made sure to stick the real Christ in there so as not to Really offend their audience, then preceded to hammer him the rest of the way. All well and good I suppose, as it IS a Python film we're talking about here...but this thing seems to run outta gas around half the way through; nowheres near as funny as Holy Grail or any one of a dozen good Fawlty Towers episodes.Somehow I think Benny Hill could have pulled this off in a 20 minute skit and done just as good a job--but then that's me.*** stars outta ****, nice try.


                
I think Monty Python is great.  I don't think their films are wonderful, tho.  Their humor seems to work better in sketches.  When they tie a long story together by a bunch of little skits I find myself getting bored.My favorite part of the movie is when Brian falls from a building and lands in a passing spaceship.  It makes no sense whatsoever but was so startling that I was very amused.I gave the film a 7.  That's a decent grade, I think.  5 being average and all.


                
This movie lived up to the expectations that come with bearing Monty Python's title and even exceeded them. While perhaps playing second base to "The Holy Grail", "Life of Brian" was a hysterical look at the time of Jesus' crucifixion, and is driven by a clever, yet simple, driving plot. The ridiculousness of the comedy is what truly makes Monty Python films, and the plot of this masterpiece was utterly ludicrous. This is not to mention the absurd understatement of moments, childish laughter at profanity, and hyperbolic stupidity of characters. Like most comedies of the era, though, "Life of Brian" is marred by cliché and cringe-worthy, corny jokes. While this suits Monty Python perfectly, and cannot be considered cliché due to Monty Python's role in bringing such comedy to the mainstream, it is a little bit painful to watch at times from the modern age. Nevertheless, "Life of Brian" is hilarious British comedy at its finest, mocking a part of history that films today seem to lack the courage to even touch. Few films make a mockery of religion and the Jewish people of the first century like this one does.
It's movies like this that make me thankful I didn't grow up a devout anything; at least grateful for the ability to take a joke. My dad never took to this movie (it saddens me a little), but that's something for another discussion.There's a pervasive feeling that Christ is being subjected to potshots here, and that seemingly naughtiness is part of why "Life of Brian" is a fun movie. But he's not, and the comedy troupe have instead set their sights on everything from the Romans and blind worship to Hollywood biblical epics. Mostly the Romans. They even slap Pilate with a speech impediment. It possesses a biting satirical wit that brings a smile to my face - especially in a movie that includes full-frontal and a zealous John Cleese; that guy's a can't-lose proposition). This doesn't have the number of laugh-out-loud moments that "Holy Grail" does, but it still offers a great time.7/10


                
"Life of Brian" is a comedy movie in which we have a neighbor boy who is born on the original Christmas, in the stable next door of Jesus. All of his life people think of him as the messiah and this is something that it bothers him a lot and he wants to change it.I liked this movie a lot I have to say because of the plot which is really good and because of the hilarious moments that we can find in this movie and there are a lot of those trust me on that. The direction which is made by Terry Jones is pretty good if we compare it on how old this movie is. About the interpretations now I have to say that Graham Chapman who played as Brian Cohen as his main character was really good and equally good was the interpretation made by John Cleese.Finally I believe that "Life of Brian" is a great movie and a great choice to watch it because it's the definition of Comedy. If I could compare it with some other movie that it would be "Top Secret!" and those kinds of movies because they have about the same style of comedy.


                
It's worth noting right off the bat that I've never seen anything Monty Python before except for the Ministry of Silly Walks. No, not even Holy Grail. Yet. But I expected quite a bit from Life of Brian, seeing as the Pythons are some of the most revered comedians of all time.I was sadly disappointed. Life of Brian just never hit an exceptionally high, focused note. To start, the whole thing looks like a B- movie. It's as visually cheesy as a late 50's movie, and while the star of a comedy is its writing and delivery, the poor technical delivery is a major distraction.Then we move into the plot- I feel that Brian suffers from a poor plot that can't live up to its premise, if that makes sense. The initial scene, the manger next door, is a fantastic idea. The 'mistaken messiah' is genius. But the 'protesting Jews' that makes up half the film made me scratch my head- why? It's unfocused and the point is unclear, so I was always edgy and it distracted further from the comedy.Into the actual jokes themselves, some hit with me and others failed. The best parts of the film are Palin's "Biggus Dickus" questioning and the final scene, peaking with the Jewish Peole's Front Suicide Squad. The whole Messiah angle is made humorously relevant if you consider the idiots at Westboro Baptist. But there are jokes that flew over my head or just didn't register- a man in drag isn't a winner for me, and a strange, Otherworldly scene- which my parents told me was out of their TV series- made no sense. I was initially very sour about this film. It's most likely that there's a generation gap thing, although I do have a lack of affinity for comedies as a whole. Although even a day has been kind to this film- it's worth noting I felt the same way about Apocalypse Now when I first saw that, and that's another unfair comparison I've made with this film. I can't believe these two films were played beside each other in a theatre (or not, in Norway). Anyway, to parents wishing to show old comedies to the younger generation, don't start with this one. 7.3/10


                
One of my fave films of all time, this film has so many laugh-out-loud jokes and ridiculous thought processes that it would probably be unfair to pick out just a few. Tough - I'm going to: John Cleese as the legionnary Latin teacher rebuking Brian not for daring to use graffiti on the Roman fort but for using the wrong tense, Michael Palin trying to find his place in life as an ex-leper, Terry Jones as Brian's mother trying to protect him from myrrh - let's face it, we've all wondered what myrrh is ! The bit that always makes me laugh without fail is something that isn't always noticed - when Michael Palin is having a go at the guards; "Do you find it risible when I say the name of my friend Biggus Diccus ?" if you look carefully you'll see that Palin is trying really hard not to laugh.Puerile, silly but also very very clever. This film doesn't criticise religion or Jesus in any way ( what was wrong with the people who tried to ban it ? ) - it's just asking what it could have been like in a society that was expecting the Messiah to show up at any moment, and covering it in a massive coating of comedy.This film is an absolute classic


                
I was flipping through DVDs for something to watch, and suddenly found myself humming "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life" – so the decision was already made for me. 'Life of Brian (1979)' was the second of three original feature films by the Monty Python troupe (not counting 'And Now for Something Completely Different (1971)', which was a compilation of sketches from the TV show remade for theatrical consumption). The other two films – 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975)' and 'The Meaning of Life (1983)' – I'd watched back in 2006/2007, and found them not lacking in wry British humour, though I hardly considered them masterpieces of the highest order.I feel about the same about 'Life of Brian.' On the plus side, it really digs its heels into religion, with the crowds of Brian-worshipping disciples chasing the hapless hero (played by Graham Chapman) through the streets, interpreting his lost sandal as a divine gesture, and celebrating the presence of juniper berries as a miracle. The film is certainly less off-the-wall than 'Holy Grail,' with an abridged role for Terry Gilliam's distinctive animation, and fewer self-referential flourishes – except for a bizarre Deus Ex Machina involving an alien spaceship that breaks Brian's tumble from a tall building. The two songs are fantastic, of course: the first a Bond-like ballad belted out with the bravado of Shirley Bassey, and the second a droll, cheery closer about the joys of accepting crucifixion.
