In Life of Brian, Python created what John Cleese called simply "our masterpiece". As a piece of writing, it is the most impressive of the three feature length Python movies. The scenes remain episodic, but there is a much more coherent narrative than in the earlier Holy Grail <U+0096> I loved HG too, but for different reasons. The characters (well about one or two of the characters) have acquired some subtle shading, which is rare in comedy and, alas, rare in British comedy in particular. The plight of Chapman's Brian is one that I really cared about (although his death is also extremely funny, upbeat and one of the truly iconic moments in British cinema).The story must be fairly well known. Brian is born at the same time as Jesus with whom he leads a kind of parallel life, thus allowing the team to lampoon and satirise everything from religious zealotry and mob hysteria to 1950s biblical/sword & sandals epic cinema. It does this by marrying historic situations with more modern attitudes; thus we have revolutionary Stan who wants to be Loretta and have the right to have babies, the old man who can't understand why he's being stoned for saying simply "that piece of halibut was good enough for Jehovah!" the gruff centurion correcting Brian's Latin grammar while he's trying to daub anti-Roman slogans on a wall and the gentle centurion asking each of a line of the condemned "crucifixion? Good" while ticking them off on his clipboard. Interspersed with this is slapstick, pantomime women (I'm not sure there are any real women in Python, which is probably its greatest failing) and a small amount of the trademark Python surrealism (the spaceship, the "prophet" talking about the sons misplacing the things owned by their fathers who had placed them down only just a moment ago<U+0085> etc). In short, something for everyone <U+0096> except, perhaps, committed Christians.A lot of attention has been paid to whether LoB is blasphemous. The Pythons claim not and I'm not sufficiently religious to care very much. On the surface, I disagree. There are also occasional sideswipes at ancient Jewish custom <U+0096> although, to be fair, only stoning which, if you'll pardon the pun, might be considered a fair target. Jesus is not criticised, but the film's central message seems to be; be in the right place at the right time and even a man called Brian can become God. Almost the last line is from Eric Idle saying; "you come from nothing and go back to nothing" which doesn't suggest that the man on the mount at the beginning is a divinity, no matter whether he's talking sense or not.Most importantly though, LoB is refreshingly satirical. There always was an element of this in Python (mediaeval Christian philosophy lampooned in the Holy Grail for example "this new learning amazes me Sir Bedevere, explain again how sheeps' bladders may be employed to prevent earthquakes<U+0085> so, if she weighs the same as a duck, she must be made of wood, and therefore - a witch". I guess LoB attracted attention because the satire had never been so bold or obvious before. This is also what makes LoB such an incredibly funny film to watch; but put it this way <U+0096> despite what Rowan Atkinson may have once said <U+0096> I'd be very surprised if the Python's weren't expecting the Spanish Inquisition.That shouldn't put you off, though. Unless your faith is too weak to survive Python's gentle humanism, watch this movie <U+0096> you'll probably love it.


                
i am a huge Monty python fan, but have never laughed so hard at any movie or sketch i have ever seen written by them the scene where Michael palin is talking about biggus dickus and ordering the guards NOT TO LAUGH made me shake with laughter till tears ran down my cheeks, and not until dinner the next day did i stop giggling to myself all in all, this mite be the troupe's best film, although the holy grail is equally as good, i think that life of Brian is better written in every scene, and it is great to not find any offense in some of the Jewish jokes personally, i think Michael palin owned this movie, although graham Chapman was probably the better actor, each one of palin's roles were different and memorable, the jail guard leading the prisoners to crucification is so funny, because hes just so sweet sounding of course, there was the irrelevant bit, strange but funny in the Monty python way, that they can get away with almost everything this is my favorite of all the Monty python films, and i recommend it to anyone who is willing to laugh extremely hard at womans (romans)
This is Pythons second movie and just as good as the first although i prefer holy grail (which is why this got a 9) Very funny stuff this is about Brian who was born in the stable next to Jesus Christ. We follow him and laugh all the way to the end. We used to joke that this was the story of my life because my name is Brian, but i am not as funny as the boysfrom Monty Python. If you enjoy anything by python you will like this. Great movie full of laughs. Worth a rental to new comers to python. Highly recommended film. great for anyone who enjoys large amounts of humor. Some say this is blasphemy but i don't think so. Check this movie out. great 9 out of ten stars. hilarious


                
Undoubtedly, the best comedy ever, full of good jokes, good actors, a very good story and a very good photograph and, thus, a great biography. Definitely better than the "King of Kings". Highly recommend.


                
People shouldn't over intellectualise this film.It is extremely funny, indeed it is funniest if you are a Christian, as I am, because it is about Brian not Jesus.It is a satire about Jewish society AD 30 and in many ways its good to see satire which shows that people of any time are capable of being daft. The joke is on us, we are all desperate for salvation yet we are all still fools.The Film isn't blasphemous, it simply shows that any history which is put up on a pedestal and made taboo is ripe for comedic pickings. Religion needs to be able to take a joke, if not then heaven will be a dull place.


                
" If you have enjoyed this film,
why not go and see "La Notte"? "Thanks for your recommendation, Monty Python! I've just seen it yesterday.I mean, I knew that this film is ahead of its time, but this is too much!Anyway, whilst the humor here didn't always work; there are many repetitive, overlong gags, and the jokes, especially in the first act, aren't as sharp and clever as those of The Holy Grail, for me, Life of Brian is just as, if not even more enjoyable and amusing than The Holy Grail, largely because it has a cohesive narrative structure instead of a series of sketches, the thing that made even the lamest and dumbest jokes fairly passable, and completely inoffensive.(9/10)


                
Here we have a truly hilarious film. There is one scene of graphic nudity that I found excessive. Otherwise, the raunchy jokes and gags are often hysterical. Some audiences will be appalled by the sacrilegious plot. Others will find the controversial plot to be the most satisfying element of the film. The movie will also be especially amusing to those who appreciate dark humor.


                
As some reviewer said this is the best of the Monty Series, I completely agree with the person. This is one of the most brilliant- I will not call comedy, but satire - on society.Let us forward the timeline of the movie by about 2000 years, to today, naturally then the link to Jesus is removed. Thankfully the name, Brian, is one of today's common one, and the whole story becomes one of today.Every facet of the movie is - as we see happening around us.A man, through circumstances becomes a leader with a huge fan-base (immaterial whether religious, or Political, or any other Idol, like Ronaldo/ Messi). This fans eat out of his hand, he knows he isn't what they think, but he doesn't have any means to come out of it, (in real life he doesn't want either) and whatever he does, whatever he says, is the edict for the mass. I see it happening every where, don't blame only Hitler.Then we have the Scheming revolutionaries, who only plot and scheme, with the pawns (like Brian) sent to execute their scheme. And when they fail, with fatal consequence, the honchos are there to sing the requiem, and mourn the loss, on the conference table (As Bush et al did at Iraq casualty or Johnson at Vietnam)- this too isn't limited to a country or a section - even the today's similar so-called revolutionaries are doing it everywhere in the world. And as with these revolutionaries, for modern ones too, the target is known (kidnap Pilate's wife), but not the goal (what are the demands to be made once she is held on ransom).The graffiti sequence - is hand-holding Brian, correcting his mistakes, encouraging him to continue, till the authority realized that it was mistake, and then trying to erase the activity and punish the individual - Osama, Taliban, IS all are this.Every section of the movie resonates with some or other happenings in the society, in many spheres, religious, political,... by the elements, sometimes for gains, at other, just for a whim, or a conviction (without any reasonable base or end). On this angle, the movie, a comedy, becomes intensely depressing, when I look and match the things around us.


                
It's been called blasphemous, a travesty, an attack on Jesus Christ and one of the funniest movies ever made. When nobody else wanted to touch it, George Harrison of the Beatles agreed to finance it simply because after reading the script he wanted to see the movie. What we got was a parody of sorts of a man, born about the same time as Jesus Christ, who also amasses a following and winds up crucified at the end. The difference is of course nobody remembers Brian of Nazareth but now his story can be told.The movie is full of hilarious characters, misunderstood comments and the very surreal and zany humor that the Pythons were known for. I will say that this isn't a movie for everybody. I know of several deeply religious people who get offended by this movie and that's their opinion. But if that isn't you and Monty Python is your kind of thing then you really ought to see this. There's really no reason to miss it.


                
It's been decades since the last's viewing of The Life of Brian, and it is just as funny today. Is also interesting to think that this may be more socially relevant today than I was in 1979!


                
Nothing better than shaking up the establishment a bit, I say. "Nail em up" as Ben would respond. This is classic Python, funny from first to last, and often hysterically so. It's probably the most seamless of their films, and displays an intelligence quite rare in comedy.This tale of a man mistaken for the messiah had a message that seems even more appropriate today in some ways than when it was made. Don't follow anyone. Make your own mind up!Great performance from Graham Chapman as Brian, Cleeses hilarious Ceturion; but surely pride of place should go to Palin and Idle. Palin's Pilate is one of the greatest ever comedy showings. Idle's Mr. Cheeky is utterly brilliant. The Python team are all great. Terry Jones' Mandy is brilliant, too. Salute the Python team, not the messiahs but very funny boys.
Revisiting this film after many years was a real treat. I had forgotten just how funny it is and also that it is shot so well and flows seamlessly that one is inclined not to notice that, of course, it is essentially a string of hilarious sequences much as was the original TV show. Filmed in Tunisia, the locations are most convincing and with the use of many extras never has the look of a staid, set bound movie. So well directed that everyone seems to be having fun and giving a great performance but John Cleese, Michael Palin and Eric Idle are stand outs and a joy to watch. Terrible that the film should not only still be relevant in its attack on almost everything but perhaps even more so now with seemingly everybody being so sensitive about themselves. Possibly too many jokes entered around speech impediments but it did seem back then that so many people in positions of authority did seem to have some sort of strange way of speaking. Have I mentioned that it is funny? Well, it is - all the way through, and I even laughed out loud in my front room.


                
The Life of Brian is just beautiful. It is proof that smart comedy is the best comedy. It has defined so many peoples sense of humour and in true Monty Python fashion it is fantastically ridiculous. I can honestly say that it is the only film that has me in stitches at every moment. We owe so much to the Pythons for their comedic genius, and to George Harrison who mortgaged his house to fund this film. In short, Watch This Film!


                
The most hilarious film I have ever seen. It is funnier then some of the comedies we watch in todays day and age. I laughed throughout the entire film, especially at the line "He's not the Masiah he's a very naughty boy". All the characters are funny in their own different way. Like I say in the title this is the best Python by far, even over the holy grail and that also had me in stitches. The best scene is when Brian looks out of his window and sees this big crowd waiting for him because they think he is the Masiah even though he keeps saying he isn't. If there was a DVD boxset with the title best of British films this will definitely be in the collection hands down.


                
Good satires are hard to come by and between Natural Born Killers (1993) and the recent Thank You For Smoking (2006), not many come to mind <U+0096> except the masterful Python achievement "Life of Brian" which sets an example for all satires to come. It is clear that Terry Jones has done something very cool and insightful here; he has created a world of subtle and not-so-subtle spoofs which locks you into and absorbs you in its fantastic humour. Even if you are not a Monty Python cultist you must recognize that every joke in the film is a well-articulated kick up the arse to some issue. The plot outline is of the three wise men come bearing gifts to the newborn Brian thinking he is Jesus. When they realize their mistake they move onto the next stable where the right infant lies in his crib. This mix-up is the start of Brian's life, who will from now on live in the shadow of Jesus. Right, now forget all about this plot because nearly all scenes sidetrack from the key template <U+0096> instead the story tips over into hilarious diversions and detours in Jerusalem. Even the opening credits do not seem to serve any purpose to the story it tells; it is a spoof of the James Bond openings with surrealistic montages and a sensual singer wailing. This is just how amazingly random Life of Brian is.Yet it needs to be said that "Life of Brian" lacks some of the absurdity and randomness of the previous Python installment, The Holy Grail (1975). The gags and spoofs here are generally much smarter and more satirical. Whether you find this funnier or not is a matter of choice, but I think it works slightly better <U+0096> furthermore, this film has held up better over the years for me. The intelligence behind the parodies is bafflingly spot-on when you scratch the 'funny' surface. It is impossible to do the gags justice in writing, but one of my favourite moments in the film is at the stoning of a 'blasphemer' who keeps saying "Jehovah". At the mention of the word, the crowd gasp in outrage and Matthias angrily tells the man: "You're only making it worse for yourself!" to which the blasphemer, about to be stoned, replies: "Worse? How could it be worse!?" Brilliant. It is chock-full of these gems, all commenting on the paranoia of the masses.Many Christian fundamentalists have complained that "Life of Brian" is too anti-religion, which is idiotic. It presupposes that there were three wisemen, miracles and Jesus which is pro-Christian enough, so stop whining you morons. This is satirical masterpiece with more humour in it than most films I've seen and firmly stapled a the bottom of my top 20 films list.9 out of 10


                
Brian Cohen (Graham Chapman) was born next to baby Jesus being mistaken for the Messiah by the three wise men. He has a loud Jewish mother (Terry Jones). He spends his life around the biblical events eventually joining a Jewish resistance group. On the run from the Romans, he is mistaken for the Messiah by a crowd leading to his crucification.There are three things I love about this movie. The first is the hilarious Jewish mother by Terry Jones. Every time he says something, I have to laugh. The first half of the movie is a bit hit and miss. There are some really funny skits. Around midway, Brian is mistaken for the Messiah and I think this is where the best comedy is. It's a light hearted skewering of church doctrine. They are literally killing it with kindness as the fanatical followers declare everything divine. Of course, I love the finale song. Who doesn't love 'Always Look on the Bright Side Of Life'?


                
Well, there is not much more I can say about this film, that has already been said. What can you add except the words fantastic, outrageously funny, beautiful, marvelous, outstanding. There can be more words added to that, but out of all the Monthy Python movies this one is definitely the best. I can*t say that the other once are less valuable. All of them are fantastic, and I enjoyed them so much.If there is a church for atheists this is the one to go to. I wish more films like this were made, but studios get cold feet when they try to fund films like these which work with mocking religion. At least Palin, Cleese and friends did not end up in jail, like that film director who tried to mock Islam. Enjoy! And watch it many times over, especially with your curious teen kids.


                
It had to take a lot of effort to not be actually offensive to the religious in this film. No Christian need be offended unless they are looking for offense-as many are. Monty Python tred where few dare-and lived to tell the tale. It is a tale of a man that gets mistaken for the messiah.Not too many people cite Life of Brian for its many interesting scenes which humorously parallel situations in everyday life but they ought to. A man who wants to have babies but can't because he is a man so he must settle for "the right to have babies". A pedant guard that is so caught up in grammar that he forgets his work. A hypocritical stoning. And it goes on and on. This one is actually funnier on the second or third viewing! But it's that ending that really takes the cake! It really wraps up the whole point of life and being a victim of circumstance-which so many of us know of.


                
I disagree with the notion of this film being blasphemous. I'm a Christian and I found it really funny! This film shows the Pythons at their finest. Takes a look at religion and the life of Jesus and isn't afraid to have a few laughs in the process. While it's not a good as "Holy Grail," I recommend this movie to all Python fans and Christians who don't take all matters of faith too seriously.


                
Monty Python...do I even need to say more?They were obviously some of the funniest people on the planet-British or otherwise, and this can clearly be expressed in their filmography, which also includes the beloved comedy classic "Monty Python and the Holy Grail". Personally, it's somewhat difficult for em to come up with which of their films is the finest and funniest-but I think it just might be "Life of Brian".While the group has always had a satirical edge, "Life of Brian" is easily their most satirical work, as it mocks countless things in an extremely creative and entertaining fashion. The film is quite controversial due to it concerning religion, and injecting humor into subjects such as Jesus Christ's crucifixion, but it is more than just a film that mocks only religion. There are jokes throughout that satirize everything from political correctness to science fiction. It's a funny movie, and its targets are seemingly endless.This is an inventive classic of comedy, filled with memorable and famous moments from start to finish.


                
Monty Python's Life of Brian (1979): Dir: Terry Jones / Cast: Graham Chapman, Michael Palin, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, John Cleese: Hilarious farce symbolizing the average people. Brian just happens to be born in the stable next to Jesus and gained accidental recognition for a revolution against the Romans. Christians may find this content disturbing however it is difficult not to laugh at the hysterical viewpoint of Monty Python. Brian is thrown into a life of complete misunderstanding until he is hanging on a cross joining others in the singing of "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life." Directed by fellow Python Terry Jones in mock documentary style. Graham Chapman plays off the anguish and confusion of Brian who only wishes to be left alone. Michael Palin plays Pontius Pilate who is mocked with regards to his speech impairment. Eric Idle plays a criminal who relishes the idea of being crucified and even leads the vocals in the famous concluding sing-along. John Cleese leads the revolutionary group that harasses Brian and ultimately lead him into trouble. Jones provides the shrieking demeanor of mother who informs a mob that her son has been "a very naughty boy!" Terry Gilliam handles the visual appeal particularly the noted title sequence. Controversial satire of the misinterpretations of the disciples of Jesus but Jesus came to deliver mankind from a fate that even Brian would dread. Score: 9 / 10
Almost every cinema lover has his/her Christmas favourite that he/she likes to revisit on an annual basis as if it's part of a tradition. Preferred choice for most is Frank Capra's It's A Wonderful Life, for some it's John McTiernan's Die Hard & for few it's Chris Columbus' Home Alone but the one I keep revisiting on this auspicious day is Monty Python's Life of Brian.One of the funniest, silliest & craziest films of all time, Life of Brian is slapstick & satirical humour at its finest, zaniest & sharpest. The film tells the story of Brian Cohen, a Jewish man born on the same day & next door to Jesus Christ, who spends his life being mistaken for a prophet & becomes a reluctant Messiah after joining an anti-Roman political organization.Directed by Terry Jones, the film opens with what could very well be the most hysterical opening credit song in cinema history & certainly the one with most common-sense making lyrics. This is Monty Python's best work to date in my opinion, even better than Monty Python and the Holy Grail, and to finish it with an uplifting song that's all about our lives is an instant classic moment.Hilarious from start to finish, it rarely lets you breathe for it hordes the screen with one crazy moment after another. Some of the things might look little dated or not feel that funny anymore but its satirical take on religious attitudes, and not religion, is what makes it all the more amazing. The cast is awesome, writing is clever & the number of memorable moments are way too many to count.On an overall scale, Monty Python's Life of Brian is another cinematic gold from this classic comedy troupe & is without a doubt one of the greatest comedy films of all time. It has been 35 years since it first surfaced on the film screen & yet it retains all of its potency. An intensely entertaining ride that delivers the laughs in heavy doses from its first moment to the last, Life of Brian is comedy filmmaking at its most insane. Highly recommended.


                
This film is epic. While it doesn't contain as many jokes as The Holy Grail, it makes up by having a better story, way better in fact, and overall a much stronger overall sense of being a whole film, instead of a simple sequence of jokes. This finally magnifies the whole comedic experience of watching the film, since the jokes become stronger and it is more like a a film-length episode of Seinfeld, where the "main" joke is constructed during the whole length of the episode.This film is obligatory for someone who likes films, I would rank it as the third of the second greatest comedy ever made (the first is Dr. Strangelove, of course).


                
A deconstruction of historical/religious myth and great parody of the early 1st century has our hapless hero, Brian, repeatedly being mistaken for The Messiah. The writing is consistently brilliant. The most cohesive project by The Monty Python Troupe: those bloody (good for everything modern) Romans, The Judean Peoples Front (not to be confused with The Peoples Front of Judea) all of the desperate followers in search of the messiah. "Blessed are the cheese makers!" and so forth. More than just blasphemy, satire spills over politics, cults and pushy mothers! Of all period mocking,"Life Of Brian" takes the cakes, slices it evenly and serves scene after scene of un-pius laughs.


                
I suspect I shall simply repeat what others have already said, but here we go.This is a brilliant comedy and it's required viewing for anyone with the slightest taste for satire. Life of Brian is possibly the best comedy film ever made, certainly in the top three.The classic Monty Python formula of silliness on top with intelligence underneath were never done better. Beyond that it is also a high quality production, which means it has aged better than some of Monty Python's other creations. For example the famous musical number on the cross is absolutely first class from a musical perspective and the scene where a Roman patrol forces an activist to correct the spelling of his graffiti is one of the best jokes in film history.On a side-note it is deeply ironic that this silly film is actually closer to the Jesus myth (and what little historical evidence there is for it) than so called serious religious films like "The Passion of the Christ".For those too young to have seen this already: don't let it's age scare you away, give it a go, it's still a very, very funny flick.
