First, I know many who read this will not take the time to research what I'm saying to see that it is true and further, many won't have the ability to see it even if they did. So, I know this review will be thumbed down by those who don't like the hard truths in life but this movie (or should I say novel by Dennis Lehane) was a nice piece of plagiarism based upon a 1920 silent film called The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.The same basic plot exists in both as well as the exact same twist ending. The lead character investigates an insane asylum and tries to put clues together to figure out the mystery surrounding the place but as we near the end, we learn that the lead character isn't there to investigate anything. He's an inmate there who has invented much of what he was investigating as part of his coping mechanism.Shutter Island would have been a good movie if it hadn't ripped off The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari so blatantly. Lehane obviously knew that the old movie was in the public domain but instead of telling the viewers that it was based on that movie, they just pass it off as his (and/or Scorseesi's idea). That, my friends, is the definition of plagiarism.I don't recommend this whatsoever for this reason. It is a shame and Lehane should be called on it but who will do it? Too much $ to be made reheating the old dishes and calling them made from scratch.Watch The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (it's on y o u t u b e if you want to compare the two and see that what I'm saying is 100% correct).I almost never write reviews but this time, I had to.
This review DOES contain spoilers.Right at the beginning of the film it becomes clear that this is supposed to be all spooky and scary. The movie tries too hard at creating an eerie mood, and fails miserably because it is so overdone, especially with the music. There are a few good scenes but most of it is repeated so many times it becomes tedious. The observant viewer will quickly understand (spoiler here) that the US Marshal actually is a patient there, and from there on in you just wait for him to "get it", and you no longer care about anyone or anything that happens. And the shocking twist at the end is no twist, its just a boring "yeah, yeah, we get it"-moment. Of course he's on his way to get the lobotomy, yeah so he's not cured, maybe he chose not to be cured, blah blah blah, "the ending leaves so many questions" yeah whatever.It's too overdone, too obvious, too long and too boring. We are promised an exciting story but it does not deliver. This movie will probably be spoken highly of by all the know-it-all's, and if you didn't like it you'll be told that you "didn't get it". But yeah, we did get it, because it was way too obvious.Spend your money on something else, get a haircut for instance. It's less boring and quicker.
The premise of SHUTTER ISLAND was fresh and original...the first dozen or times it was utilized in a story.MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD.BE WARNED.The idea that the main character is really a patient at the mental hospital, not a federal marshal investigating a disappearance there, has been done countless times. Very early in the narrative I figured out that the story was being told from inside Teddy's mind and kept waiting for some reason that this much money was being spent and this talented a group of people working so hard to tell this story. There must be some other twist coming that will make this worthwhile.Nope. It just gets worse and worse, and sillier and sillier.This would provide great material for Mystery Science Theater 3000. Tonight people all over the theater were laughing out loud, and not at any points that were supposed to be funny.The screenplay, to be generous, stinks. Fine actors read dialog that is as stilted as can be. The musical score is equally bad, with shuddering, ominous strings underlying scenes and trying valiantly to drown out the awful lines those poor actors were forced to say.Because the story is being told through the eyes of an insane characters, the continuity lapses are understandable. A hurricane blows over the island, causing considerable damage. For whatever reason, though, the storm is selective. Huge trees are uprooted in some places but in other places there is no visible damage at all.In one scene near the end Teddy wakes up to find three supporting characters standing around his bed. It brought to mind the scene at the end of THE WIZARD OF OZ when Dorothy wakes up to find her friends have been watching over her while she sleeps. Did Scorsese not realize the similarity? There was one fascinating mystery that I hoped would be explained but wasn't. Teddy makes his way to a lighthouse and runs up the stairs to find one of the doctors from the mental hospital in a office.OK. It's a lighthouse. There's a spiral staircase running through the middle of it. How in the world did the doctor manage to get a desk, chairs, file cabinet, lamps, etc., three stories up a spiral staircase? And why? I'd ask the same question of Scorsese. You and some brilliant actors made this turd.Why?
Spoilers ahead, although not really, since none of the movie you watch will be relevant to the ending.Let's break it down simply. The whole movie is a two hour long, twilight zone style "and then he woke up." Everything you watch, all of the characters, all of the story, mean nothing. They are erased at the ending when the protagonist "comes to" and realizes that he's just a murderer. But keep in mind, this isn't any normal crime. It is at once as cliché and as over the top as possible.In the meantime, heir director made no attempt to do any serious research into psychology at all, even its history. At the end you're watching a literal, rational, "bargain" being made between the psychologists and the protagonist, despite the fact that at the outset of the film they point out that the insane are not so easily "reasoned" with, that they don't respond to stimuli in "rational" ways.In short, the whole movie is a textbook case of failure in the art of story telling. I wish I could be less harsh, but I've been reading IMDb for years now, and this was the first time I felt the need to register to expose a film. If you really liked this film, then you don't understand story telling at all, and you have no taste. You can whine about it all being a matter of opinion if you want, but a story that in its climax obliterates the hour and a half you took to get there is no story at all.
I usually have nothing against being influenced by a movie if it appeals to me and has a good story. Shutter Island did neither for me.The music in the opening scene is trying way too hard to create an eerie feeling that Shutter Island is a place of evil. And the music reminded me of Cape Fear. But Shutter Island is far far from the greatness of Cape Fear which is Scorses all time masterpiece in my opinion. This however is his worst movie.It is not DiCaprio's fault, but the horrible deeply flawed screenplay.* SPOILER AHEAD * I would have liked to have Leo's character not been insane and developed an alternative reality in order to protect himself from the memory of his drowned children and the wife that he shot.If the movie had been about him coming to find a missing patient and expose Ben Kingsley and the other doctors as vicious attackers of patients, then it had perhaps been a good movie.Teddy's memories of WWII is also just boring and have no great importance to the plot. Yes I know that the dead girl in wagons represent his daughter that he could not save. But it's damn uninteresting.The plot does not make much sense either. Leo is really a patient himself on Shutter Island, and to get him to accept his past, all physicians, psychiatrists, prison guards and patients are acting to support his idea of reality. How likely is it that doctors could get criminally insane to help in this way? It would not be feasible. They are all just as crazy as Teddy. If not more.How likely is it that a German doctor could get Teddy to wake up when Teddy, because of his past as a soldier, hates Germans and basically sees him as a Nazi? They offer Teddy alcohol. It would probably just be tea they had given him had he said yes but he would probably have noticed it. And then what would they have done? If the goal is to get Teddy to accept his past and that he is patient, why are the doctors then doing everything they can to act suspicious and untrustworthy? What if Teddy had bolted when he was aboard the ferry with his partner/psychiatrist? It could not have been prevented.How likely is it that the U.S. Marshalls are told to hand over their weapons when they are searching for a missing patient in a prison/institution for the criminally insane?Teddy's gun is a toy gun. How likely is it that Teddy does not until the very end discovers that it is made of plastic, not metal and wood? Especially when he is suppose to be extremely intelligent.On the whole, they let a seemingly very dangerous patient walk freely around the island for several days. They let him blow up a car and knock a guard out. They would never let it come so far in reality.What is the meaning of it all? Why put the whole circus together due to one mental patient? Why feed on his delusions, if the goal is to make him accept his past? Why is he more interesting than all the other patients? Why don't they just talk to him and give him medicine that prevents him to invent an alternative reality? Yes it is 1954 and yes the time they knew not what we know today and yes they would probably give him a lobotomy as it is indicated they will at the end of the movie. But still.There is so much that does not make sense in the movie and when it itself is so cliché-filled, I really can not take it seriously.
This review contains major spoilers. Please do not read any further if you have not yet seen this film and you have any interest in seeing the film at any time in the future.This film makes no damned sense, unless the point of the film is supposed to be that the people running the insane asylum are more insane than the inmates.For this film to make any sense, you have to accept the premise that psychiatrists who actually care about a mentally ill patient would try to cure such patient by doing things that would drive a sane person crazy; that they would play cruel head games that encourage delusional beliefs. How can any sane person believe that giving Teddy/Andrew evidence to support his delusions is going to cure him of delusions? In fact, as the film progresses, we see Teddy/Andrew getting more deluded, more paranoid, more violent. The role-playing is clearly counter-productive. Giving Teddy/Andrew reasons to believe his delusions would not cure him. This is proved by the fact that there are numerous people on the IMDb boards who believe Teddy was sane all along, throughout the film. If the role-playing can't even convince these viewers of the truth, how is it supposed to convince Teddy/Andrew?And for this film to make any sense, you also have to believe that these same doctors would give a startling degree of freedom to one of the asylum's most violent killers. Andrew/Teddy attacks a patient and knocks out a guard. He blows up a car, for goodness sake! That alone should prove it was insane to give him any freedom to wander alone, even for a short time. The movie was set up as a mystery - what is the secret of Shutter Island? But the resolution (that Teddy/Andrew was insane all along, and the doctors were pretending to be evil because they thought that would cure him of his delusions) makes no sense. There is nothing worse than a mystery where the solution breaks all rules of logic. It reminds me of the following joke:Dennis Lehane: What is furry, has four legs, purrs, and reads the newspaper every day? Richard Nathan: I don't know. Dennis Lehane: A cat. I lied about the newspaper.I thought that joke was annoying the first time I heard it, and it's annoying as the basis of the mystery in "Shutter Island."Furthermore, the resolution is not the result of any actions taken by the protagonist. The role-playing game doesn't lead Teddy/Andrew to discover the truth himself. He is merely a passive listener as the solution is explained to him. The breaks several major rules of screen writing.And what about the very end? Most people interpret Teddy/Andrew's last line as meaning Andrew is only faking his regression, so that he can get a lobotomy and avoid facing the truth. But if he were faking it, why would he give this away to the doctor playing Chuck? And why are so many people moved by this act of cowardice? Can there be anything more cowardly than someone choosing to get a lobotomy to avoid facing the truth about himself? Are we supposed to empathize with someone who chooses to destroy his own intellect because he doesn't have the guts to face the truth? I cannot understand how anyone can think this is an intelligent screenplay.
After coming on this usually reliable site and seeing the high rating for Shutter Island, I decided to check the movie out. I was HIGHLY disappointed<U+0085> so much so, that it frustrates me to even give it enough attention to write this review.THE GOOD: The cinematography made this film somewhat tolerable. The opening scene was great, but then it went downhill from there<U+0085> THE BAD: Whoever wrote this film should be ashamed. There was no originality to this plot whatsoever, and the overacting almost made this film unbearable. The ending was so frustrating that I wondered if I actually missed something. I kept waiting for the movie to get better, but it never did. I just kept thinking that this couldn't have been one of those "it was all a dream" clichés, but sadly it was. The entire film was so redundant that all I could say at the end of the film was: "seriously?" Do NOT waste your money<U+0085> it will leave you angry and frustrated.
I've seen one good film (Departed) and one very good one (Blood Diamond) with Leonardo Dicaprio and thought, OK, you can't be wrong if you spend time and money for another one.But what Bull... was this? For me it seemed like a bustling Director was trying to pump up an trivial story to a "big blockbuster" and did not notice, that this might be just enough stuff for a short story. How can one call this an "intelligent movie"? Conclusion: Very mainstream, predictable and absolutely boring. What a waste of time and money to film this old chestnut in such a featherbrained way.


                
Oooo! it's Scorsese! and The Caprio, and Ben "Gandhi" Kingsley. Let's start the praise, the "masterpiece litany"!!!! The film is presented this way (the quote is from a review at IMDb's): SHUTTER ISLAND is the story of two U.S. marshals, Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule, who are summoned to a remote and barren island off the coast of Massachusetts to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a murderess from the island's fortress-like hospital for the criminally insane. Try now to believe it. As the aim of the movie is to deny what you have just read. So what's the point? I can introduce Alice in wonderland like "it is the story of a Chinese manufacturer who is hired by a mysterious underground tea dealer. Eventually she has to confront the mischievous queen of Tibet to defend a bunch of rabbits". Shutter Island is a bad movie. Everything is built on a "twist" which is clear since the very beginning. In-depth explanation involving fire and water dichotomy (some review at IMDb's) must come from patient 64. There are a couple of nice shots (nice doesn't necessarily mean "beautiful"), but there are a lot of flaws in the "story", boring clichés, incongruences, unexplainable behaviour even for an asylum... and the more you try to sum up things, the worst it looks.
The only question is this a floater or a sinker? Everything is so heavy from Leo's Boston accent to the set design and the score there is no question it's a sinker. The sets are so over the top at one point Ben Kingsley blames them on a civil war general. The big twist of the story is obvious from the trailer, even from the thirty second TV spot, to anyone over the age of twelve, who has seen a mental hospital movie. In case we needed some exposition Leo meets a women in a cave and he exclaims "you're the real..." in case we couldn't figure it out. Add in the concentration camp flash backs that would make Tarantino cringe and fifties paranoia, nothing floats. The movie looks good but Marty get your hearing checked.
I am unsure of where all the reviews are coming from, I saw several people in the same screening as mine with the same opinion as mine - terrible/waste of money.The movie has been absolutely hammered with marketing which in general means it is a terrible movie. This is certainly the case here. It plays out like a D- story written in junior high, ending with, he woke up and it was all a dream. The ending didn't flow whatsoever with any of the movie, came across like the director wanted to finish early for his summer vacation.I won't even rate the first 90% of the movie as the ending ruins the entire thing and I wouldn't recommend seeing this to anyone, PATHETIC.Martin Scorsese - Shutter Island Grading - D-
Scorsese hit his peak with Raging Bull and it has been downhill ever since. Teaming up with Leo instead of keeping the franchise going with De Niro (OK, he's old but he can still act) was a major mistake. Gangs of NY? A snoozer except for Bill the Butcher; the Departed, overrated, now this turkey.My wife and I were laughing out loud at Marty's lame attempts to emulate the master, Alfred Hitchcock, at trying to ramp up the tension. It was embarrassing -- spiral staircases, gleaming knife, rocky cliffs, ad nauseum -- never once creating a genuinely believable moment. It was as though a modern artist was trying to repaint the Mona Lisa. This was all by-the-numbers.A few minutes into the movie, we need Teddy was nuts and hallucinating, and yet we had to endure two hours of sordid flashbacks, dead concentration camp kids, a dead wife who keeps reappearing throughout the movie saying the same thing over and over, and the usually overacting of De Caprio, who can't seem to utter a line without making a face of some sort. All I can remember is his dancing eyebrows and histrionics through a fake boston accident.Leo would have been a bit player in One flew over the Cuckoo's Nest, but here he is the big star that somehow the entire island devotes 2 years, entire staff as well, trying to "cure" him of his insanity only to resort to lobotomy in the end. Now that's realistic. Certainly, asylums spent two years on each patient trying to reconstruct their personalities by everyone playing a different role to accommodate the needs of the nutcase. It would have been a lot easier to lock him in a padded cell and be done with it, but then there would have been no movie.Mr. Hitchcock, if he could, would roll over in his grave at this blatant and failed attempt at honorifics. Time for Marty to take his millions and play video games.
WOW Where should I start? I am a huge fan of this site however I've never felt the need to register until now because I so strongly felt the need to express my opinion about this terrible movie. I thought this movie was wayyy overdone and poorly edited. I am not at all surprised to read the user review stats. Currently 53 out of the 94 posted user reviews of this movie are under the "hated it" category. They ran every single concept into the ground. Many would argue that people don't like this movie cause they don't understand it and that is not true I feel like I knew what was gaunna happen the entire time and I just sat there for what seemed like an eternity waiting for a cool ending that never came. It was so boring! The scenes were choppy and redundant. I understand that they were trying to illustrate the movie from the prospective of a person who sees the world in that way but they didn't have to be THAT redundant in order for the viewer to understand that concept. The wife didn't need to pop up 13 times and say the exact same thing for us to realize he has reoccurring hallucinations. And how bout the previews!? Ummm why was this movie portrayed as an exciting dramatic thriller? It was boring!!!! I feel robbed! The worst movie I have ever seen! It is going to aggravate me so much if this movie wins awards!
...one can see the twist in the story miles away.SI is slow boring and not as smart as some of the reviewers think it it is. This film is one more of those films that question sanity and whose main character (in this case Leonardo di Caprio) is found to be living in an alternate reality. A person with half a brain would have seen that after the first 15 minutes. Well, all SI does is to jump back and forth from "the realities" experienced by Di Caprio's character at the beat of a dreadful and annoying musical score (it gave me a head ache...). To make things worse it ends in an ambiguous way, another gimmick to make the viewer question his own reality... not very original.SI tries hard to be a horror movie, to create an eerie atmosphere, to involve the spectator with a mystery and a drama that simply are not there. It fails poorly.SI is another example that Hollywood has run out of original ideas.
I was set to see this new psychologically thriller, a Martin Scorcese movie and straight into the top 250 in the IMDb list. One question I want to ask is how did this happen?? It was a clever plot line with great potential but I was sat in the cinema waiting for the big thrill. Not once was I sat on the edge of my seat. I scare very easily, I almost contemplated not going because I thought it was going to be so scary. So I went expecting what had been conveyed as a psychologically thriller, yet I was not thrilled at all. Even when you are expecting a cheap scare there was none. Even when you were sat there waiting for a big twist or a scream from the audience or a big thrill from this so called brilliant movie, I was not once scared, not once thrilled and not once satisfied. It could easily have ended half an hour before it did and honestly I wish it had. A complete disappointment and I hugely urge you not to pay money to see this movie, it is not worth it and definitely do not go if you think it is going to be a good movie, if you go, go expecting it to be bad so that you might actually enjoy it.
This film is unadulterated rubbish (1) The plot is soo predictable - we know Di Caprio's a mental patient from about 10 minutes in (2 & 3).This can be the missing bit - like the film's lack of credibility (4)Would the staff of the mental institution bother to indulge his fantasies to this extent as a means of effecting a cure - probably not (5 & 6) This film sends itself up by taking itself too seriously (7)The supporting characters deliberately make themselves look sinister, the director tries to make the film play out like a modern remake of a Hitchcock movie - it fails to impress on any all level (8-10) there done it!
Seriously, this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen, on several levels. The average rating of 8.0 astonishes me. OK, I evidently have to say more. Here goes - it starts out reasonable and interesting, then it gets weird. with lots of strange evidently psycho stuff going on, but it's just weird, not interesting, not thought provoking, difficult to follow, ... stupid you might say. It seems to be an all too predictable trap ... but then no, actually, I guess, the guy is crazy and it's all part of an elaborate ruse / therapy ... shazam. Wow, pathetic, not interesting, terrible, awful, tell me you like it seriously??? It's almost not possible. There, is my review long enough?
OK...i will give Scorsese this, he makes a good looking film and good casting. Thats where my praise ends.This was one of the most predictable and obvious movies i had ever seen. I must of picked the plot when the first words 'insane asylum' were mentioned. I was hoping that it wasn't going to have that predictable twist, but there it was, right on cue. It just seemed like a lazy screenplay. Maybe the book was written better, i don't know, haven't read it.If you were genuinely surprised by the Teddy being the one that was insane and that his partner was his 'primary doctor' then you must be a little slow.I wish i had 4 hands so i could give this 4 thumbs down!!
Summary: This is bad movie. Don't waste your time or your money on it. There was not a single convincing, or memorable, scene in the whole two-plus hours. There was not a single character to care much about. Most egregious is that this is a suspense film with almost no suspense. The movie was full of clichés -- but virtually every one of them was handled without the grace that made them clichés in the first place. The ending was predictable. The plot was stupid. The music was not the least bit memorable. On the good side? Hmmm, I suppose the cinematography was very nice, and there was a lot of technique (mostly ineffective) with the cameras. Oh, and I liked the double-basses playing the fog-horn motif.In the elevator in the garage on the way back to my car, a couple was complaining about a movie they had just seen. "What the h..l was THAT?" "I don't know dear. What a stupid movie." "I can't believe what a mess it was!" and so on. I asked them what movie they had just seen: Shutter Island. We agreed with each other as they left the elevator: "Hitchcock, except without anything good in it." I will now do my best to pan this movie without producing any spoilers. However if you want to be *absolutely* certain to enjoy the "suspense" in all possible aspects then don't read any farther.Suspense? This movie certainly falls in the category of Suspense. Except, er, the movie has almost no suspense to it. There was no rhythm to the sequencing of shots, no building of tension, no small releases. The whole movie was flat, like watching a collection of skits pasted together. Alas, despite his success with Cape Fear (which was much more literal), Scorsese just seems to have no feel at all for Hitchcock-style suspense.Plot? The plot for this movie is both trite, and baroque. As narrative fiction goes it is about on the level of movies made from video games, except they don't bother to pretend. (Hey, for that matter, Silent Hill had a better plot than this movie did.) No part of this movie, not even a single one of the scenes, was believable. Most of it was just absurd. In the interest of no spoilers I have to tread lightly here. Scorsese might argue that he was trying to represent a particular plot device, but boy did THAT ever fall flat. Don't expect to make much sense, either, of the bits and pieces snatched from the real story in the original book. Plenty of scenes could have been dropped without the slightest ding to THIS mess of a plot.How trite? Nazi doctors, concentration camp memories, "mysterious" psychiatrists, ghostly presences, all of the most hackneyed and ineffective type. Let's see: the spiral staircase from The Haunting of Hill House, the Boogey-man from Silence of the Lambs, the shower from Psycho... need I go on? And, too bad, the list of trite / iconic references here is more interesting to ponder than the actual boring manifestations of them in the movie.Horror? I am not sure how, but Scorsese managed to make eerie, dripping, insane-asylum corridors not the least bit eerie or menacing, violent, criminally-insane killers on the loose not the least bit scary, or interesting, menacing psychiatrists with drugs in syringes not the least bit terrifying.Character? Sorry. Not a single character was convincing or interesting. There was no chemistry between DiCaprio and Ruffalo, no sparks flying between DiCaprio and Kingsly. The great love of DiCaprio for his wife was entirely cardboard. The ooky prison-guards looked great for about five seconds and then went absolutely nowhere. What a disappointment from the guy who brought us all these rich characters in, say, Goodfellas, Cape Fear, and Taxi Driver ("Stop a car at a hundred yards -- put a bullet right through the engine block!"). The actors had nothing to work with in this movie.Engagement? Hmmm. If you can't manage to involve your audience with Nazi death-camp images, and children being murdered, you've got to admit that is pretty lame. But, this bomb manages to make both of these devices and many others sterile and void of any emotion. You also don't care about the wronged do-gooders locked away in an insane asylum, the hero of the story, or his side-kick...O.K., so maybe it gets two or three stars out of ten, but the hype is just too annoying for this weak effort from an excellent director.This movie was just dumb. If you believe the hype and go to see it anyway before word gets around, don't say I didn't warn you.


                
There are so many reviews already that I hesitated before deciding to give yet another one, but here it is anyway, one more for the 'this movie was utter crap' brigade.AND IT WAS! It tried so hard to be clever, yet it hit you over the head with its stupid 'hints' and 'clues' when we had already guessed the guy was mad anyway (as were we for watching this pile of drivel) L de C spent the whole film with a painfully bewildered expression on his face (or was he just trying to figure out ways to get his name off the credits?) The acting was wooden sometimes, over the top others. What more can I say?? Please please do not waste your time.
I really wish I knew who to ask to get my money back from. This was the biggest waste of time, red vines, popcorn, and human effort. If you wait until this movie comes out on cable you will still be upset that you wasted your time watching it. My girlfriend got angry at me for taking her to this awful movie. She was in such a bad mood after we saw this terrible film that we had no sex. It didn't matter though because my sex drive has been killed by looking at dead babies floating in a lake, holocaust victims, and bad acting. I have never seen an entire crowd of people exiting a theater more bummed out. If you are thinking of going to see this movie, take some money out of your wallet and throw it in the street. It will be more satisfying and take less time.
Predictable - which is the worst thing one can say about a movie.The twist at the end is not enough to rescue this move, and Martin Scorsese has done remarkable work (as usual) in telling a story - but it wasn't that good in book form either. The story is set in 1950, and would have been a great and interesting hit if it had been launched in 1950, but as a 2010 movie it has already been done. I won't say by which movies because that would spoil the 'surprise'.Sorry, but it isn't just me who won't be keeping this DVD in our collection. My wife didn't like it either. And she has great taste! Peter


                
Nazis, House Unamerican Activities Committee, Dachau, man with scar on face, Nazi doctor, floating children, scary lighthouse... Martin, what in the heck??? I'm sure there was a story in there somewhere. A story that has been done a million times over and much, much better.It is impossible to cite specific instances of guffaw-inducing movie-making in Shutter Island--because it was so darn awful THROUGHOUT! The first clue was that inane pounding, silent-film-organ-like music that introduced every scene you in which you were supposed to scream--and not laugh hysterically. If they had cut out all that flashback nonsense, which of course I am sure Scorcese thought was so wonderfully 'artistic', they could have got the film down to about 90 minutes and could have had, well, certainly not a GOOD movie but one that was definitely not as awful as what was produced. Reminded me a lot of Gangs of New York, which also started out very strong but then went on for 100 hours. At least that was an interesting subject and prompted me to buy the book it was based on and read it. I certainly don't feel that way about Shutter Island. And did I see the same movie as the positive reviewers saw? There's 2-1/2 hours of my life I'll never get back.


                
I was so looking forward to this movie. The trailer seemed promising. The term "unsettling" was used, and it filled me with hope as it's not a word that I've seen used very often in reviews.It is an incredibly boring movie with an obvious plot twist. Although, can it really be called a "plot twist" when everyone and their mentally ill brother can see it coming from a mile away? DiCaprio is a patient at the hospital, there I said it, but you knew it.Andrew Laeddis (DiCaprio) killed his wife because she killed their kids. He's been locked up in Ashecliff Hospital on Shutter Island. So, unable to deal with his murdering of his child drowning wife, he creates a new life (now he's named Teddy). Teddy thinks that the doctors are conducting human experiments. He also thinks that Laeddis (that jerk)is in the hospital and must find him because he believes that Laeddis killed his wife. Everyone living and working at the hospital reinforces his delusion so that he will come to accept his past. Read that last sentence again and really let it sink in. So it would seem that the hospital is conducting human experiments, or at least one really dumb one.The doctors and other staff have given "Teddy" free time on the island. He's all over the damned place. He's scaling rock faces like he's Spider-Man. He swims through rough seas, and some how avoids all the jagged rocks, as though he were Michael Phelps. He throttles another inmate. He blows a car to smithereens.The acting is really awful. The plot is on par with high school English assignments. The production is nothing to write home about either. Shame!
I'm glad I got in free when I saw this movie opening day. Seriously, this movie was overrated. I went into the theater and was expecting to be amazed, but I was disappointed. A lot of people keep saying that the ending "twist" was mind-blowing, or that they didn't see it coming at all. Just from watching the trailer, it's obvious that LdC was the 67th prisoner. No surprise whatsoever.The acting was good, the plot development was decent, but it was very predictable, even cliché. I didn't hate the movie, but at the same time, I didn't love it. Overall I think that this movie probably wouldn't be worth a second look, but of course, to all their own. If you enjoy good acting with cheap, easy, and cliché endings then by all means, this is the movie for you. If you want something with a better payoff, then I suggest you look elsewhere.
