The movie starts out really nicely as you settle down into your seat. Two great actors in a very nicely set period piece, beautiful lighting, great supporting cast...this is going to be good you think to yourself and you almost hug yourself in anticipation. But, things quickly start to go wrong. Thirty minutes into it...that doesn't make sense...hold on...surely he's not trying to...but that's been done before...there must be a twist...it's coming...any minute...any minute now. Then it slowly dawns on you that it's not coming because there is no double-double bluff...he's actually trying to sell a story that's been done so many times before but better...Twelve Monkey's...the audience is restless because they've got it too and they're waiting...waiting in vain! My head is in my hands...What a waste of talent and what a waste of time!
First off, let me say that Shutter Island isn't REALLY a 2/10 film. It's better than that. The performances are outstanding, and the plot actually makes sense, which is more than most psychological thrillers can say these days.The reason I can't stand it is because there is absolutely not a single thing done in the film that I haven't seen a thousand times. There is zero innovation, zero creativity.The "twist ending" was so foreseeable that I almost left before the movie was over just because I was bored. It was the exact same "surprise" as in almost every other movie involving an insane asylum.The plot and dialogue were just so mundane that I couldn't take it.For me, what drives a movie are unique characters who say and do unique things: Willy Wonka, the Joker, Han Solo, Captain Sparrow, Hannibal Lecter....this movie had none of that.Just plain people with a plain twist.


                
I was hugely disappointed by this film. It is in fact difficult to say anything positive about this mess of a movie. Unless you expect to get off on 138 minutes of uninterrupted emoting by Leo, I would strongly advise giving this a miss.Leo's talent can't save the film, nor can the normally enjoyable presence of Mark Ruffalo. Ben Kingsley is the most entertaining cast member but mainly because he looks amused or perhaps embarrassed to be on the set of this schlock-fest. The screenplay is boring or at best laughable, mostly a stream of lame clichés with little relationship to one another or to a coherent plot line. The computer generated imagery, which makes up most of the backdrop of the film indoors and out, is so badly done it looks like a 1990s video game.It is as if the director, after force feeding the audience with 100 minutes of manipulative, chaotic, badly shot and badly scripted nonsense, desperately patched together a rather simple minded 'surprise' conclusion to save his picture. Unfortunately, like the rest of this stinker, the attempt to bring things together failed pathetically.Much of the action seems like it was improvised at the last minute and comes off poorly - scenes meant to induce terror or horror merely make one want to laugh - I am sure all the actors will look back on their decision to take part in this film as an embarrassing lapse of judgement.


                
My subject line is taken from a review of Exorcist II: The Heretic but I have not come across a film to which it applied so aptly until now. I went to see this movie with expectations aplenty. An excellent cast and a tried and true director. The cinematography was good, the performances were good; therefore, I put all of the fault in the director. NOTHING HAPPENED. It was tedious and boring. I figured out the ending in the first five minutes which was ridiculously contrived and about as new and refreshing as the plot of a Friday the 13th movie. I expressed my feelings to my dad who told me that the book was exactly the same. Maybe Scorcese was true to the book which makes me wonder why they made it into a movie at all?! 40 minutes into the film I was trying to find enough light in the theatre to reflect in my watch so that I could see how long I had been sitting there- that's never a good sign. Avoid this one at all costs unless you are desperate to cure your insomnia.
I don't know where to start with how this movie was not just bad, but barely watchable.I'll start with the editing, which was atrocious. Discontinuity in shots that I hoped were for on purpose for plot reasons, but was never confirmed. Sometimes it was obvious that a shot wasn't done in one take - a hand on the left shoulder from one angle became a hand on a hip in another. But that's just for starters.The concept of the film was largely taken from an old silent film The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (sp?), which is a far superior film. The other movies it seemed to steal from include a) The Wicker Man, b) Gothika, c) Identity, and d) from too many Hitchcock films to be named.Another big problem I had with this film was that it didn't let you become scared. It told you to be. There were too many scenes that didn't pan out and seemed like it was there for fear value. For example, the scene in the cemetery. They didn't find anybody there, but then again they didn't really look. All of the sudden the island was on the brink of a hurricane and they had to abandon the crypt they were forced to hide in. Nothing came of that scene and when the car pulls up to the gate apparently the weather isn't so bad or the guards are just highly undervalued as they're out and about and opening gates.Not worth watching in my opinion.
I saw this movie yesterday. I have been looking forward to seeing it for months. Let me just say that I am a HUGE fan of Leo and Martin. I love almost everything they do. This movie however was disappointing and predictable. I knew where it was going and I spent the rest of the movie hoping for a change of direction that never came. What a letdown. This is the first review I have ever written for a movie and hopefully that shows all of you how important it was for me to say--DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY. All of the praise I have read for this movie absolutely shocks me. The previews were actually better than the movie. It was not worth the price of admission. I hope this actor and director collaborate again and make a movie that can live up to the expectations that we have come to expect from movies such as The Departed.


                
I just can't understand how this movie have such a score. I'm no critic, I'm a casual movie watcher, enjoying movies in general, a regular watcher.I didn't like the movie. Boring from the beginning to the middle, when things go wrong, then you "learn" the truth. When he begins to believe it, I though there would be some kind of turnover, that he would not actually be a patient and that they were just really great liars, but no, everything is just ending like that.Some people just left the theatre in the middle of the movie, others were laughing (when it was not supposed to be funny), didn't hear any positive comments on the way out... I went there with 4 other people, we all though it wasn't good (the first word coming to mouth was "weird")...Anyway, this is not a movie I would recommend, judging from the reviews, I guess it's either love or hate.
I will start calling him Martin Scorcheesey after seeing this lame attempt at psycho-thriller. I could never figure out if the movie was supposed to be ironic, poking fun at the genre, or just chock full of bad clichés from lack of creativity. Either way, it is chock full of bad clichés, almost all of which are lifted from Hitchcock thrillers, but minus the suspense part. It's full of very unlikely scenarios and incomprehensible writing. An example (no spoiler): the island is supposed to be an asylum for the most horrendous criminally insane, can't-find-another-place-to-put-'em criminals, so you might be expecting something like Hannibal Lector, but no; when asked why she's there, one patient says, "I killed my husband..." and she ends up in this place??? Unless she killed him and ate his genitals scrambled with eggs for breakfast, she needs to be in the 'regular' asylum or just prison. What's scary about killing your husband? The movie is not scary, funny, suspenseful or anything except too long and too boring.


                
Shutter Island is a Gothic thriller about Teddy (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Chuck (Mark Ruffalo), two police officers investigating a disappearance at an insane asylum run by Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley). The film's first 15 minutes are fantastic, setting the mood just right, but it gets too weird from then on. This is directed by Martin Scorsese, a usually wonderful director. Scorsese's best films investigate the main character and peeling back his or hers layers. That's just where the problem starts with Shutter Island. The film has too much going on and never gets to fully peel back the layers of any of the characters. There are Teddy having nightmares about the war & his wife, the disappearance plot, and a bunch of twists & turns. It plays mind games with its audiences for 2 hours before making sense with its final 20 minute twist. That brings me to my next point, the film is too long. It's 2 hours & 20 minutes, which is far too long for such a weird & uneven film. I've always thought Mark Ruffalo was underrated & a good actor, but he's given nothing to do with his character. His character is extremely dull. Scorsese's use of sound is also torturing. Overall, Shutter Island spends too much time stalling and ends up being unsatisfactory in the end. I can't recommend it to anyone, because life is too short to spend 2 hours & 20 minutes watching this.
When I first saw the trailer for this film I have to admit I was excited, I thought that Hollywood might have gone back to the good old psychological thrillers that I have grown to love. The trailer gave the impression of a sense of dread and suspense that looked set to follow through the entire movie. The trailer also set the scene for a film with twist and turns and frights round every corner. The only fight I got from this film as just how terrible it really was, the film tells the tale of two Federal Marshals that go to the mysterious Shutter Island in search of an escaped mental patient. So far so good right? That's what I thought. As the film progresses that main character Teddy Daniels , played by Titanic star Leonardo DiCapiro, dives deeper into the dark history that surrounds the Island and goes in search of the truth and uncovers a dark and sinister plot. Now I don't know about you but as soon as they stepped foot onto a Insane Asylum I started to have my doubts about this film and had pretty much guessed the ending. But I thought that I would give Mr Scorsese a chance to, as more mysteries are reviled to us it becomes clearer that the film is going to end just how I thought. This isn't helped by the fact that we get repeated flash back of his gory past in the army and the fact that he keeps seeing his dead wife, does exactly strike you as a sane man. With the mention of the lighthouse that is the apparent venue for grizzly and nasty experiments was the final ail in the coffin for me with this film. First off the horror, well to be frank there isn't any, besides from one jumpy moment the horror is basically non existent and it's a shame cause this film had such potential to be a frightening movie. I mean it had all the ingredients dark scary Island, dark hidden secrets and crazy people, the things that got me the most as I sat in the movie theatre waiting for the to be something jumping out at me but nothing. I know that jumping out of your seat isn't all that makes up a horror but at the lack of a plot it normally helps. The storyline, or should I say what there is of it, is not a terrifying twisting and turning story of one man battle to find the truth. Its just bloody confusing and I don't mean in a good way sure I'm all up for films to make you think but not just completely and utterly lose you half way through only to give you and ending that you could have figured out with half the hassle. I mean just because the film has a weak ending doesn't mean you can completely try and lose the audience in the rest of it to make up for it. As for the flash backs and visions of his dead wife this only helps to add to the films predictable ending. All in all I found this film a huge disappointment which is a shame cause I wanted so much to like this film I really did. On paper with the director and the basic storyline this could of made movie gold but I'm afraid to say is more likely to make the bargain bin.
Wow this movie was CRAZY!!! OMG LOL!!! It made me almost wish that I had found all my children dead in a lake and then murdered the crap out of my wife!! OMG LOL!!! It also made me wish that when they were drafting the script that someone said "hey Martin Scorcese finally turned to crap, someone should commit HIM to an island full of crazy people until HE can figure some *beep* out!! OMG LOL!!! And then I wish instead of using their gay Shamalamadam ending that they had given Teddy special abilities, kind of like Neo in the Matrix (OMG LOL) but not really, but you know maybe something super cool to let him defeat everyone like a laser gun or maybe he could shoot lasers out of his eyes (an ability he developed due to his very sad situation with Heath Ledger's wife, almost like angry Super Tears) or maybe even he would just be super strong and know martial arts and could feel no pain like how that lady from the rap song about having sex with moms was talking about in the cave (similar to how they learn in the future to block out pain as explained by Kyle Reese in Terminator - maybe a connection here? IDK) and then with all his powers no one could stop him from finding the truth!! OMG LOL x5!!! Only the REAL twist then is that he is about to escape and then his FBI boss comes up to him and says "Teddy this was all just a role-play because we knew it was the only way for you to develop your powers. You will be a very important weapon in our fight against the communist threat and now Shutter Island will be your secret headquarters where you train other people to have your powers too so we can beat the crap out of Russians and beatniks, and who knows maybe even china or those Chineses in Vietnam will step out of line some day. So what do you say say Teddy, are you ready for it?" And then Teddy will say "OMG LOL!!! You bet!! And here I was almost going crazy thinking I was stuck inside a movie with terrible twist for stupid jerks!!" And then his boss will say "you watch your mouth Teddy those people are Americans and we need their support in this war....but OMG LOL you are right, we FBIs and CIAses are smarter than them and I bet we will pull some CRAZY pranks on those dummies one day in the future as we wrest democratic power away from the populous and into the hands of the wealthy" and then Teddy gives him a look that sort of says 'omg lol' (cuz he's like "as if" because he's a good man) then no one says anything for 7 seconds and then teddy says "Hey is Chuck still my partner" and the boss says "Chuck, are you up for it?" and Chuck says "You're damn right I am" and then Teddy says, "OK how about I buy my partner a beer" (cuz his powers let him drink again, but only beer no scotch) and they are walking away and chuck says "hey man you think maybe you could teach me some of your powers like maybe the laser eye or like being able to fly?"(forgot to mention teddy can also fly) and Teddy goes "Sure pal, but not right now there are commu-terror-ists taking over the Boston Gardens and we have to go stop them because the Celtics might just win the championship soon and then again almost every year until when jimi Hendrix dies, cuz that will break their spirit and make them sad" and Chuck goes "I'm getting too old for this S-word...and who the crud is jimi Hendrix?" and they all laugh and then freeze frame right as they jump into action to go get those suckers.OMG LOL!!!!!!!! BTW the 'who is jimi Hendrix' part is extra funny cuz chuck was from Seattle and so was jimi Hendrix so maybe they even lived in the same town at one time or were in class together and he STILL doesn't know him!! Also Chuck's probably a racist so he wouldn't even talk to jimi Hendrix in class but it's not entirely his fault cuz in those days up until around 1997 your dad would force you to be a racist (i know for a fact OMG LOL) but still jimi Hendrix was probably even cool to a racist cuz his special power was coolness.Wigga Please


                
If you're a fan of pointless movies with no real plot other than continual misdirection then this movie isn't for you. I'd say the acting was good but after all the dream sequences and mistakes in the movie, which I have to assume was part of the "insanity", it was hard to tell.I won't give any spoilers, suffice to say the movie crawls in the beginning and drags itself to the end with an empty finish...this is why there should be refunds on a lousy movie...we'd get a lot less of this kind of crap. Save your gas and stay home to watch a decent rental movie...Hope this saves someone 2 hours of their life on something better.


                
Scorsese is surely THE most over-rated American director of all time. I vowed never to see another of his bombastic travesties, but was lured into this one by the interesting premise. Alas, only to discover I was right all along. If Scorsese ever makes another good film, it will be purely by accident. He should stick to doing inane commentary on disc releases of other people's films.Shutter Island seems fine at first: a 'mystery wrapped in an enigma' sort of thing. But it gradually unravels, like all Scorsese's films, as he tries strenuously to demonstrate his genius, rather than simply telling an intelligent story. The ending is a final insult - of the "aren't you sorry you bothered" variety. It's a silly trick that Rod Serling might have used for a half-hour TV diversion, and then only with a much-needed element of self-deprecating irony (a seasoning unfamiliar to the self-absorbed Mr. Scorsese).Scorsese knows how to move a camera around, and get good performances out of his actors. But if you value logic and meaning over surface gloss, you need to stay away from this piece of elegant drivel.
I thought this movie was lousy from start to finish. The dialogue was terrible. The soundtrack was exceedingly bad & had a major overkill quality. the thunder was overused. the film was pointless. the characters were lame. i would not recommend this movie to anyone whatsoever. it was so very bad. wish i could say something more positive about it. i kept hoping it may have a moment to have made it just slightly worth viewing. kept wishing it would go somewhere. ITS TERRIBLE!!!!! Let me just say once more. I thought this movie was lousy from start to finish. The dialogue was terrible. The soundtrack was exceedingly bad & had a major overkill quality. the thunder was overused. the film was pointless. the characters were lame. i would not recommend this movie to anyone whatsoever. it was so very bad. wish i could say something more positive about it. i kept hoping it may have a moment to have made it just slightly worth viewing. kept wishing it would go somewhere. ITS TERRIBLE!!!!!


                
According to "Making Thriller Movies for Dummies" one must first take a) an inhospitable island, b) an overblown musical score, add c) a somewhat questionable plot with a heapin' helpin' of pretty corny dialogue and then d) mix it all with a chillingly bland "shocking twist" ending.And let's not overlook the atmospheric and menacing storm. I wish I could. Overlook it, that is. I tried, I failed. Oh well. I found the overwhelming streaks of lightning and the ominous roar of thunder so astoundingly inventive, so very novel. So under-used as a plot device.Fortunately, just in case we might have missed all of the bearable, very, very bearable, tension, we also have the benefit of a score which reaches out through the screen, smacks us upside the head and yells "Hey you! This is the Scary Part! Da-Dumm!".I simply cannot express how the "Surprise Ending" left me feeling. Seriously, I cannot. I tried. Several times. Apparently IMDb.com has quite strict censors. Damn! Now I feel cheated twice over.This would normally be the moment that my conscience raises its inconvenient head and forces me to warn other innocent movie goers to not waste their money. Luckily, I've been able to quash that urge, so I have only one thing to say to you: Enjoy!


                
OK...going to start by stating the obvious the reason this movie is getting good reviews is simply b/c it's a Scorsese piece and nothing else.... This movie starts out slow and really goes no where from there. There is a part at the movie where the plot starts to unravel and you find out what you were already starting to think was going to happen happens. And you start to get the sense OK....here we go this is where this boring snoozer is going to take off and be typical Scorsese and be GREAT..... then the movie just abruptly ends...with no closure and no real explanation of what you are thinking in the back of your mind is gonna happen next....you are left shaking your head wishing you could have these 2 hours and 10 minutes of your life back......


                
So this review has spoilers. If you haven't seen the movie, the only continue reading if you don't care for spoilers.So the start of this movie, up till 95% was absolutely awesome. I was hoping for the sweet revenge of DiCaprio totally taking down this institution.However he last 5% of the movie shows that he was dreaming/imagining up ALL of it. All the 95% was his frickin imagination!!!! Oh my gosh at that point I felt like I had wasted HOURS of my life. The first 95% of the movie likse 2+ hours. I know movies aren't real, but now the STORY WASN'T REAL. I watched the movie for the story, just to find out in the ending that everything up to that point was not real story, just imagination of the patient. What on earth?!? If the ending was where DiCaprio got revenge on the institution, then this would be mind blowing 10 on 10 review for me!
I honestly admit I didn't understood the movie,though I watch lots of movies regularly but these is beyond my limits.I never enjoyed it,whole of the whole movie.Greatest disappointment is ending of the movie.Most oftenly Hollywood movies are having positive mood with happy end, where our beloved main lead character wins.Here whole scenario is different.I felt cheated at the end, our hero is the main victim who is being manipulated by rest of the cast. Pace of the movie,another aspect where movie disappoints,sequence of event doesn't keep me on the edge,It was difficult to have attention on the screen.Its better to do anything else than watching these movie
after the trailer i nearly expected something as insightful as the "Green Mile" by Frank Darabont...Though professionally made "SH.tter Island" just reminded me of an anecdote, when after some intensive mental treatment, a doctor is sure that his patient is cured at last. The doctor is very pleased to get all the right answers from the patient confirming that he is mentally well and sound now. And when they are about to say their good-byes the patient makes some innocent comment proving that there was NO miraculous cure... everything was in vain... Numb scene... Curtain... Laughable, sad but simple truth about this movie. However, IMHO, it takes too much time and cinematography to tell this nice little anecdote.
Never been a fan of Scorsese but the trailer for this made it look interesting and the guy is really praised as a great filmmaker so I thought I must be missing something and should give it a go What a mistake ... Awful cliché ridden film making ... Not an original idea in the whole thing ... Even the basic premise has been used so many times before that it is obvious from the first 5 minutes where it is all leading The only thing that made this watchable was the cinematography ... Its all beautifully shot and framed ... But along with that there's some of the worst blue/green screen work that has been seen in decades !!! Go figure Its release was postponed a number of times and it looks like they realised they had a right turkey so the green screen stuff may have been re-shoots ... Who knows ... And who cares ... Cos in the end it just ain't very good


                
This movie promised to be an intelligent, suspenseful early-season blockbuster with big budget stars and production values. Unfortunately, it turned out go be a derivative, predictable combination of CUCKOO's NEST and WICKERMAN. It features the trip to a mysterious island, being trapped in an insane asylum, stormy nights, hallucinations, and not so surprising plot twists. At best, it can be described as a Hollywood cliché. It was clearly intended as a showcase piece for Leondardo. Unfortunately he is not aging well in performance or appearance. The story begins with a seasick Leonardo throwing up into a toilet. This scene set the tone for the entire film. Fortunately, there were some good performances by supporting cast members, particularly Ben Kingsley. I can usually understand why people rate films well, even if they aren't to my taste, but I honestly don't understand why viewers liked this one.
I had the misfortune of seeing this movie the night after seeing Johnny Kervorkian's 'The Disappeared'. That movie is a bit slow-moving, but has strong performances and at the end of it I felt I had passed a really worthwhile evening watching it. Shutter Island, in contrast, was a pile of excrement. Great locations, an A-list cast, big budget everything.... but a contrived and totally worthless story. Absolutely insulting to the people who died in concentration camps. At some stage in the second half Sir Ben Kingsley utters a long fatuous line about the whole story being an ultra-elaborate attempt to get the lead character to connect back with reality, and I flipped, and stormed out. Maybe I'm crazy, but this was crap.
Whatever this movie is about, other than completely confusing the viewer, I fail to see it...this has to be about the most convoluted mess from Hollywood yet...and I don't buy the introspective "meaning" this movie is supposed to portray for 2 seconds...its just a jumbled mess of non sequitur scenes all pasted together, with misleading red herrings to help confuse it even further...what is the ulterior motive of this jumbled mess?...nothing...there is no meaning whatsoever...apparently we are introduced into the mind of a killer trying to escape reality, during which we as viewers are also expected to go insane...no thanks...I will hold on to my sanity if you don't mind...it's the only thing that allows me to recognize farce and distinguish it from quality, which this movie lacks completely...nice try though


                
A shockingly bad picture, despite the talent. I gave it two stars instead of one because of Ben Kingsley's performance--although his Kingsley mannerisms start to get annoying about halfway through. DeCaprio runs through ALL his DeCaprio tics to the point you'll want to scream like the inmates. Silly story, annoying "music," appalling dialogue, candy-colored blood, lots of smoking... and, worst of all (in all seriousness), this film desecrates the memory of the Holocaust, using real-life horrors to bolster a story of make-believe horror.


                
THIS REVIEW IS A MASSIVE SPOILER I genuinely found this movie to be terrible.It was overdone, and extremely predictable. Essentially, (SPOILER COMING) if you like movies where everything you just watched isn't true and is undone RIGHT at the end (Beautiful Mind, Sixth Sense), then you'll love Shutter Island. If you think movies like that are annoying, or (worse) frankly just lazy, (as I do) you'll hate this movie. If I could sum this movie up in one sentence, I'd call it, "A Beautiful Mind set in an insane asylum".As for the acting itself, it's well-enough done, no qualms there. The musical score, however, is often so over-the-top that it's actually comical, rather than setting a suspenseful mood as it obviously intends. In fact, the musical score right at the beginning of the film as the main characters approach Shutter Island, is so overdone that it's somewhat hilarious. Saturday Night Live should really do a spoof of it.
