Tedious and boring most of the time, interspersed with gore and irritating music. What was the point of this film, really? Was it meant to entertain mostly teenagers, because the presentation was so over the top that M. Night Shayamalan will probably blush when he sees it? It was a psychological drama without any psychological depth. Leo was again cast in a role that was not right for him. What was needed was someone to physically embody the emotional turmoil the character had endured. And the flashbacks only make the intelligent viewer ask the obvious question, which is, why should we care so much about this one person's troubles when all those people were killed by the Nazis (or survived with their horrible memories)? That was an idiotic thing to include in this film, totally undermining it. Scorsese tried to do way too much here. He could've tried to do a "modern" version of "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari," for example. Then ending also didn't make sense to me, and was almost an endorsement of suicide, though considering how this impressed me as "career suicide," perhaps it makes some sort of ironic sense.
With all the talent involved in this, you'd think it'd be a lot more interesting than it is. From the moment the film begins with it's loud, bombastic score, you just have to laugh at how serious everyone's taking this well worn series of cliches. If it happened to be just a bit more ridiculous, it'd be great as midnight movie camp, but instead, it wallows in mediocrity, trying not to shock or upset anyone too much. It never strays far from respectability. Leonardo DiCaprio furrows his brow a lot and looks constipated for the majority of the film and decides to call that a performance, but it's not really his fault. He's not the one who wrote the story. There's no one single tense or scary set piece to be found and, by the time the big twist is revealed, anyone with half a brain will feel insulted. Shutter Island is handsomely made, middle brow fluff without anything interesting to recommend. Skip it!


                
A Federal Marshall going to investigate the escape and disappearance of an inmate in an Criminal Insane Asylum. Great plot the trailers were outstanding. DiCaprio was stellar and believable as the Marshall. In fact all of the acting was good. The problem with this movie was the disjointed script. The movie did not really flow and seemed like a poor copy of an m night shyamalan film. M Night needed to be involved in this screenplay. I was so bored, dozed off twice, that I did not really care where the plot tried to take me. The saving grace was the strength of the cast but the cast could not overcome a very poor screenplay. Scorcese dropped the ball on this one. Much too bouncy. Like a mind that bounces from idea to idea and never really gets anything done. Don't waste your time on this one. The movie was as insane as the inmates.


                
I went to this movie with three other friends and I had to convince them to NOT walk out of this movie. When I went to the restroom, there were several people leaving the theater, they were walking out on it. At the very end of the movie, there was a slight boo and hiss that filled the theater. It was clear that I was not the only one who thought that this movie fell way short.If you are trying to look for positives, there were a few. First of all, Leonardo DiCaprio was incredible. If he were not in this movie, it would have been a disaster. He is an incredible actor. He actually delivers a very inspiring performance. Secondly, there is a good story somewhere in there. I think that is what most people who liked the movie would point to. The story is good, it just so happens that it portrayed through terrible acting and a loose storyline. It comes across in a very disjointed (and LONG) way. This movie is WAY too long. It was over an hour into the movie before anything of substance happens.I also found that the movie was not scary, at all. Do not expect to be scared. You will not be. It's not as though being scared is a requirement for a good movie, but this movie is certainly sold that way in the trailers, etc.. It is not scary.In any case, I would not recommend this movie to anyone, except maybe a big Leonardo DiCaprio fan.


                
I had seen parts of a trailer for this film and was in two minds about seeing it but I like psychological thrillers with unpredictable plot twists so I went to see it.Unfortunately it was very predictable, approximately 10-20 minutes into the film anyone with average or greater intelligence will in all probability immediately spot what the plot twist is going to be. I only watched the rest of the film in the hope that I was wrong and that it was a double bluff and I was going to cheer in amazement but sadly I was disappointed, the movie played out as expected, waste of 2 hours.I can't say the film was truly awful but it didn't make the grade as a psych thriller, I found the music as they entered the island to be very jarring as well, but thats just a personal preference. Also I found the overuse of "certain imagery" to be unnecessary.I would wait for DVD if at all, but there are much better psych thrillers out there.


                
I will write this as if a critic instead of dissecting it as I have no desire to re-hash this truly forgettable film.Shutter Island bills itself as a taut, psychological, edge-of-your-seat thriller brought to you by Martin Scorsese who managed to channel the essence of Alfred Hitchcock. It fails miserably on all those account. It had no suspense whatsoever, plodded along for the majority of the film, was incredibly predictable, and provided no plot twists or surprises at all.At the opening of the film, when the two US Marshalls played by DiCaprio and Ruffalo approached the hospital, the overbearing cello music was meant to build a heightened sense of suspense. It was more annoying than anything. When seeing that the island had a semi-detached lighthouse, one HAD to know that the climax of the film would take place either in it or around it. And when told that the most dangerous patients were kept in the old Civil War fort, you HAD to know that some key piece of evidence or information would be found there, and probably not easily. Predictability on all accounts did not disappoint.Another key sign that DiCaprio was not who he thought he was came early on with the alcoholic flashbacks and being given aspirin that was conveniently at the ready in a paper dispensing cup rather then being dispensed out of a standard bottle. And when he and Ruffalo were given Orderly uniforms while their wet clothes were being dry-cleaned, well, all bets were off by then.There came a point where the suspension of disbelief completely vanished and where the unbelievability of the plot / premise set in. I think that part happened when Koteas showed up for a few seconds and the audience behind me began to chuckle and remarks of "oh, come on" could be heard.One review of this film I have read states that Scorsese achieved a sense of suspenseful claustrophobia. The only time I felt that was when it seemed the walls of the theater were closing in on me after I lost interest in this movie. Either then or when I asked the girl at the box office for my money back.
With this tripe, Mr. Scorcese enters into my "hit or miss" category. He has made some great flicks, no question, with the latest being "The Departed." But, Marty seems to have gone totally derivative here (Kubrick, Hitchcock and Bergman, for example) and left his creativity somewhere else.The most remarkable thing about this movie is Max van Sydow...he's 80 years old, for cripes sake and looks 65! This is silly stuff, overwrought and overlong, with dead children being the device from the black hole of creativity that is used to horrify us and cement the plot (did John Irving work on this script?).I believe the good reviews came only because Scorcese directed, and would love to have read them if the reviewers were blinded as to who was the director.Looking back, I am trying to remember one memorable scene...but I can't. One thing's for sure: I have seen enough close-ups of Decaprio to last a lifetime.
"Scorsese is old-fashioned and is making the same films that DW Griffiths was making early last century." – Peter Greenaway (For Part 5 of this quest, see my review of Cronenberg's "Camera") The schizophrenic experience is an experience of isolated, discontinuous and disconnected material, signifiers failing to link up into a coherent sequence. Like the "heroes" of Cronenberg's later films, the schizophrenic does not know personal identity (identity depends on the persistence of an "I" or "me"), is unable to create concrete models of self and world, and is incapable of experiencing continuity through time.These symptoms are themselves associated with our postmodern era, a schizoid age which philosopher Gilles Deleuze calls "the control society", in which fragmentation extends like a blanket across every aspect of our lives, from the sciences, to modern psychoanalysis, to our economic models, to technology, to culture/familial/social relations, to art and communication and further outwards and inwards in all possible directions. The last paradigm here is genetic engineering and nano-medicine, fields which are slow moving.Eventually this schizophrenic confusion scrambles or destroys the possibility of critical perspectives altogether, such as those found in modernist traditions. This is a direct contrast to the modernists who founded cinema, guys like Eisenstein, Pudovkin, Murnau, Renoir, all of whom were loosely allied with an ethic of social realism, and who attempted to capture the vital elements of social reality on screen. Such realism was depicted, for example, in the epic struggles of the Russian Revolution and classic depictions of poverty, exploitation, and upheaval within society. Over time, both modernism and realism followed the path of photographic representation, visible in a plethora of documentaries, docudramas, historical dramas, and other forays into cinema verite.Eventually, the modernising ethic spawned by Enlightenment rationality and 20th-century industrialism intersected with such wildly divergent influences as Capra, Huston, Visconti and DeSica. When modernism died in the 70s, postmodernism began absorbing the trendiness of Existentialism and reacting to the failure of Positivism's reductionism, and the collapse of socialism's New Left. It re-introduced content, but only ironic content, rejecting any form of realism and becoming anti-realist.So, in a very general sense, we move from the modernism of the 30s-60s (Eisenstein, Pudovkin, Renoir etc), to the last burst of rebellion in the 60s and 70s (new-modernists like Antonioni, Kubrick, Kurosawa etc who both upheld and critiqued Enlightenment principles), to an age of defeat, giving rise to the increasingly nihilistic, nostalgic and fantastical postmodern era from the late 70s onwards (Scorsese, Leone, Tarantino, Spielberg, Lucas etc). Or, using this century long period as a brain model, we have birth, a burst of hope, increasing disillusionment, impotency, a flight to fantasy and a mental collapse which gives way to pieces of rubble; the schizoid experience. The task now is to sort the rubble, re-organise and rebuild.This, of course, is what the character of Spider tries to do in David Cronenberg's "Spider" ("Spider" is the same film as "Shutter Island", "wife" replaced with "mother"). Cronenberg calls this his "internet movie", Spider slowly web-browsing through the debris of history so he can determine whether his father "traded his mother in for a new one". Except, the old mother is the new mother, both are prostitutes, and Spider's nostalgia, his need to recreate a happy family that didn't exist, is ultimately what corrupts or skews his own little internet search engine. Cronenberg's typical mind/body splits are thus reversed from this point onwards. The subject's "computer memory" isn't reconstructing the past, but actively and constantly destroying memories specifically so it can create new ones which satiate its short term desires.Enter "The Departed" and "Shutter Island", two of Scorsese's most schizophrenic films, which operate solely by cannibalising the past and serving it back up as a kind of postmodern, schizoid blip-time carnival. "I don't want to be a product of my environment," Jack Nicholson says at the start of "The Departed", announcing the film's disregard for any larger, real world universe. "The environment", in this case, is but a collective data-bank of past images, memory traces which Scorsese rearranges and spits back out as mediated drug rush. If "Goodfellas" was every gangster cliché jazzed up for modern audiences (the very theme of "Goodfellas" is the falsity of itself as a film) "The Departed" is "Goodfellas" jazzed up, a mash-up of a mash-up, an amalgamation of an amalgamation, blended smoothly together to appeal to testosterone-laden males who get high off the head-shot gratification. In our post "The Wire" world (if "The Wire" hopes the map the world, "The Departed" turns away and serves up static), such things come off as pointless.Far more interesting is "Shutter Island", if only because it shows how far Scorsese has drifted from the neorealist ethic. In this case, the plot is a standard issue Scooby Doo tale in which a police detective investigates a crime at an insane asylum. Throw in countless "homages" to Hitchcock, Kubrick's "Shining", Lang and a plot that rips off everything from "The Cabinet of Dr Caligari" (it's the same film as both the 1920 and 1962 version), "Repulsion", "Spider", "Next Door", "Shock Corridor", "Perfect Blue", "Fight Club", "A Tale of Two Sisters", "Lilith" "Detour", "After Dark My Sweet", "Le Orme", "Memento", "Inland Empire", "The Sixth Sense", "The Others", along with the Holocaust flashback-inserts of Lumet's "Pawnbroker" (Scorsese reduces the Holocaust to confetti), and you have one ridiculously evil movie, arguably Scorsese's worst since "Cape Fear". Of course it's also his most profitable film to date.The Departed – 7.5/10 Shuttler Island - 4/10 Compare Cronenberg's undercover movie, "Eastern Promises" (watch it again, it's gorgeous), with Scorsese's undercover movie, "The Departed". Then compare his schizoid movie, "Spider", to "Shutter Island". Cronenberg examines the very condition Scorsese now wallows in.(For Part 7 of this essay, see my review of "Demonlover")
*This review may also spoil the Sixth Sense*The main problem with this movie for me was that it was very predictable that there would be a twist. When Leonardo Dicaprio's character finds out that Shutter Island may be grounds for illegal experimentation, it is painfully obvious that there is going to be a twist since there are still a lot of mysteries. Therefore, there is very little believability to the notion that Shutter Island is carrying out such operations and very little tension. While watching I though of a couple of theories for what the twist might be (thats how sure I was of the twist). Of course it was the least original one that I thought of: Ted Daniels is an actual patient on the island. While that ending is so "out there," I also feel like I've seen it a thousand times. Scorcese builds the entire movie around this twist, which is a disaster because the twist is expected and unoriginal. A similar movie with a twist, the Sixth Sense, is so much better than this one because it explores a very interesting conflict, but is not so mysterious which makes the viewer unsuspecting of any twists. The downfall to Shutter Island was Scorcese overdoing the mystery aspect. I would give this movie a 4, but I feel that this movie has inflated ratings because no one wants to admit that such a great director disappointed (that's not to say everyone's rating is inflated, but it makes sense to assume that such inflation exists when this painfully predictable movie has an 8.1.)
No spoilers: I figured out the entire movie within the first 20 minutes or so... its a predictable plot and predictable ending. The premise pretty much gives away the entire movie: psych=prison on a secluded island, where weird stuff happens and its always raining.... i mean, how'd you think the stories going to go? ...Gothika is the only movie with a similar premise that wasn't soo predictable and lame... and this movie doesn't hold a candle to it. Not to mention the direction and editing of this movie was atrocious. Scorsese's attempt at a new style/genre really didn't fit him, and he did a horrible job. I'm not sure anyone even attempted to edit the film. And the ending! oh my god, it dragged on and on and on and onnnnn.... not the worst movie in the world (4 out of 10 stars), but i regret spending $8 bucks on it... wait for it to come to DVD (Redbox it).


                
Excellent art direction, excellent acting, good cinematography. The score was the best part though - a very nice three note ostinato alternating with quiet melody in the cello. The beginning motif is one of the simplest but most affecting since Jaws.Unfortunately, the movie failed in its screenplay. It relied for emotional impact far too much on trite horrible scenes, rather than eliciting powerful emotional responses more subtly. For example, there are numerous scenes of horrible gore, and there is a long scene with dead children. Obviously, a scene with dead children, especially of a father crying over them, is unsubtle. In a good film, the emotional climax comes from something whose meaning derives from the film itself. It's cheap and unsubtle, and kind of boring, to rely on old standbys like deformity, gore, and child corpses.
Let me start by saying Martin Score has made some great movies in the 20th century. It is now the 21st century and i think the old dog should just fund movies and let youth take control of all aspects of film making.I hate the "1 liners" in this movie along with the overdone musical scores. sometimes silence and raw sound are better than an artificial orchestra.I'm a Leonardo fan but his weak Boston accent made his character lame, like a boy trying to play a man. Mark Wahlberg would have been the obvious choice here. Ben Kingsley earns 3 stars to save this movie from zero. He's always solid.This movie could have been excellent with a 21st century approach. I was waiting for Arnold Schwarzenegger to have a cameo and give some stupid one liner.Sorry, this movie is weak.


                
This is the third time, and thus the last time, I decide to go watch a Scorsese/DiCaprio movie. A utter disappointment. Di Caprio teamed with Scorsese so he could have a great director to secure a couple of solid films over the years. I don't know who's at fault here, but Gangs of NY, The Aviator, and now Shutter Island are all devoid of emotion. They are symptomatic of this Hollywood cancer were everything looks utterly professional, well designed and nicely crafted, lots of work, energy and dough that can't make up for the lack of creativity. Lots of TV series are much better at that, and no wonder since the best writers are continuously fleeing towards non-cinema formats.The good points are the location, which would really deserve a better story, Dante Ferreti's settings and the cast - although I'm bored with good boy DiCaprio doing his best with the contrived emotional range stuffed for the main character in those scripts. Scorsese is just a journeyman in those flicks. The story is so heavy handed, it's a pity to see his devoted editor patch together dead-long scenes overflowing with pathos and deliver such this overlong and overblown continuity. There's nothing in Scorsese's direction that makes you feel the ever-present insanity. It's all in the annoying score and cheap horror tricks.Nuff said. Scorsese can't do great movies if they're not about Italian American marginals and mobsters. With Di Caprio he is bound to do overblown impersonal stuff. And Di Caprio should start to look for a real villain part because we've seen him to much trying to do good with his chubby face.Bottom line: if I had downloaded this movie instead of going for the big screen, I would most certainly have stopped watching and erase it 45min into the story, would have saved me lots of time and the bore of a movie becoming worse and worse as it rolls out on the sickening pretense of being clever.


                
Please, just one more flashback/dream sequence.The 400 that we had just weren't enough.Oy! They just go on and on...This is Scorsese with his heaviest hand ever.An hour of plot with an extra hour of flashbacks makes watching this a grueling test of cinema endurance.Every time I was pulled into the story and the characters - POP! - another flashback/dream sequence to stop the story cold and pull me out of the narrative.Some nice character work by folks like the under-appreciated John Carroll Lynch and some spooky-cool visuals keep the movie from becoming the movie-going equivalent of root canal.When it was all said and done I had wished that my going to the movie theater and forking over $12 was really just a dream sequence of the movie that is my life. But nope, I just checked my wallet. Scorsese's fingerprints are all over it. Again. Didn't I learn anything from The Departed?
I didn't like this movie. Not one bit.It started with the music, which was way too intrusive. Not moody, intrusive. You don't notice a good score, it just is there, blends in with the pictures and sets the mood. Here the score comes over to your table, insults your lady and spills its drink unto your lap.But the biggest disappointment was the conclusion. I will spoil it now, so bugger off if you haven't seen the movie. It was all in his mind. Great, I have never heard that one before. Mental institutions have become such a movie cliché that whenever I see one I know the big question will be whether what we see is all in somebody's mind.My tip: watch the first hour, the acting is really good, the sets are fine. When DiCaprio has his breakdown in Kingsley's office, skip to the end in the lighthouse and finish it from there. Although if you like hallucinations or take drugs on a regular basis you might enjoy the crap that happens between those two scenes.
This review contains a spoiler.It's always great when people find a film they like and obviously some people really liked this film. For myself I lost interest in the first fifteen minutes and by the time I got to the end nothing could save it. While it's stylishly directed, it's unfortunately mostly style and little substance. The opening is great and for a few moments you think it's going to be a great movie, but quickly the story loses any forward momentum. The main character's hallucinations quickly overshadow any plot that was beginning to develop. The script sets up a false premise that really has nowhere to go. Indeed the script is telegraphing the end right from the start giving the bulk of the film a strangely aimless feel. I am amazed anyone could find it tense or refer to it as a horror film.A good psychological thriller needs to make you believe in it, but with the director undercutting the reality every step of the way I actually found many of the scenes laughable. Truth be told it seemed many of the actors were also struggling with the script and only clicked in at the end when there was a real story to be told. Unless you're a big Scorsese fan, save your money. My guess is this will be on television before you know it.
Honestly, have we decided to give Martin a pass? Everyone raved about the Departed and it was a bad remake, heavy with metaphor and horribly miscast. Now we have a "thriller" with a predictable twist, ludicrous plot line and laughable dialogue. Seriously people; this is the guy that gave us Raging Bull and Goodfellas and Kundun. Now we're stuck with Gangs of New York and this piece of garbage. Unbelievable how many people are giving this movie such glowing reviews. It's as if the mystique of Scorsese has grown to such epic proportions that no one is willing to question or criticize him without facing the wrath of the film community. Well, I say keep your film community, I'll keep my ability to discern between great storytelling and overproduced crap. Save your money and rent Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore.


                
I purposely did not read the book prior to seeing this movie because I didn't want to know the plot or be disappointed by the film version. Well I should have saved my money and just read the book. I had the plot figured out less than a third of the way into the movie.I love suspenseful movies but this movie offered very little suspense. Any 'suspenseful' scenes were predictable.Some of the film techniques were good. Like the contrast of the shades of gray during many scenes. However, many of the film techniques were very poor. It was very obvious which scenes were filmed in front of a green screen with the background added later. That's ridiculous with today's technology.Save your money and just read the book.


                
I hated this movie!!!!! It was dark, gloomy, repetitive and uninteresting. I thought I would probably not love it based on the trailer but still expected more from a Martin Scorsese film. I am not sure why it is getting such rave reviews; it really surpasses me what people saw in it.The thriller is set in the 1950's, with Leonardo DiCaprio interpreting a U.S. Marshal, and Mark Ruffalo as his partner. Together they are investigating the disappearance of a dangerous inmate from an insane asylum on the very isolated Shutter Island.The atmosphere and music are ominous from the start, much like the opening scenes of Scorsese's 1991 Cape Fear. It rains constantly on Shutter Island and the decor is conveniently populated with cliffs and a towering lighthouse where a dramatic (if somewhat disappointing) plot twist later takes place. There are lots of twists and turns and psychological unraveling on the part of DiCaprio's character. He is haunted by flashbacks of scenes he witnessed of concentration camps during WW2, and visions of his murdered wife played by Michelle Williams. DiCaprio's performance was skillful and talented, as was Ruffalo's. Ben Kingsley was appropriately dramatic in his portrayal of the chief psychiatrist at the institution.The movie carried on for quite long and its ambiguous ending was not enough to redeem its exasperating, overly paranoid quality which veered too much towards the horror genre for my taste. More boring than horrifying, I give it a 3.My rating: 3/10 Fabio's: 4/10 Total score: 7/20 Please check out http://paulinasmovies.blogspot.com for more


                
Shutter Island had a promising premise and a good trailer, but when I left the theater I was totally annoyed - movie was worst scheisse that Scorsese has put out (saying it mildly).First thing that bugged me was the quality of film - it could have been badly focused projection of the film in the theater in question (Kinopalatsi, Helsinki) - but I noticed that some scenes had really blurry shots because director of photography chose the depth of field totally wrong. Film had some visual moments, but general blurriness of picture ruined those moments.Story was incomprehensible with it's flashbacks and twists. DiCaprio was just going around the island without any significance. Story didn't go nowhere and it was getting boring in the end.I can imagine Hollywood producers thinking that they will combine atmosphere from the 'Shining' with story similar with 'Beautiful Mind' and TV series 'Prisoner'. I think that Scorsese didn't have much to say in this - I can't believe that he would have done this voluntarily, probably did it just for money.


                
Ain't that about a goof?now some might jump into the express and say i'm wrong but i don't give a horse's sh*t about it and i say whats going on in this little piece of crap.this book adaptation is a pain for most of the movies i,ve ever seen in adaptation category,needless to say Revelutionary road or The reader or ... and this one is not much far . well i am not divergent from proper critics and what people like,but to endure something which is mistakingly in common is not my credence,and about my pure love CINEMA it is drastic and harsh.Martin Scorsese for me is a living myth and the director of some of my favorite ever after movies of all time,well after the times of The Aviator and The Departed ,it boomed in my mind that his times of glory is about to an end pathetically,but with this one i am sure of Shutter Island is the dead end of Scorsese in all time.i don't want to say that DiCaprio is not a man of knack,but he has only one,to be frantic and an assho#e in his specialty,he has long way to go yet to receive an actor's figure.others are for sh*t now and the frivolous Michelle Williams,Mark Ruffalo,Emily Mortimer,Patricia Clarkson ... are to fulfill the scenes of this sham.no matter how powerful and effective once Scorsese once was,he has lapsed and he is over.you see the buzz happened for me after watching this,i took out Raging Bull and watched it,and i saw the end of one history maker and influencing director and i regret for that...


                
One thing I've always loved about Scorsese's earlier films is how full of life they were. With time his technical abilities have gotten better but his movies became more and more lifeless. Well with Shutter Island it seems Scorsese has hit rock bottom. While the movie looks fabulous and the performances are solid nothing about this film is engaging. The plot is contrived and predictable, the characters seem wholly artificial and clichéd. If you're a fan of Scorsese I suggest you avoid this at all costs lest your image of him be tarnished. If you don't really care about movies that much you'll find this to be a thoroughly enjoyable.


                
This could have been a good film, a great one even. The ingredients are all here. An imaginative director, wonderful location and sets, actors that are never less than competent and sometimes a lot better (I was particularly struck by Ruffalo, an actor I've not previously taken notice of). There is a promising premise – an Alcatraz of Hannibal Lecters, the island asylum where they send everyone that nobody else wants or can cope with. And potentially great themes; the excesses of American psychiatry in the early fifties, the disputes between the advocates of surgery, the advocates of medication, and the advocates of therapy. And something even darker still, something touching on the character of evil (or what we call evil) itself. Can someone be driven mad simply by witnessing too much? But the film bungles it, horribly. And it's not too hard to work out why. The script just isn't good enough. Actually, not even the script; the plot is not good enough. To be fair, I may have been in a good mood, and the film engaged my attention throughout. It's only afterwards, thinking about what you've just seen, that it all starts to come apart.I think I can do this without spoilers. The basic premise is on the DVD sleeve. DiCaprio plays a US marshal (with his sidekick Ruffalo) who is called in to investigate the disappearance of a patient (which ought to be impossible). The procedural development I found, though stolid, gripping; and the creeping realisation that there is more here than meets the eye was well handled and well timed.But what is really going on here? Several theories are discussed, and the truth when it finally emerges is certainly a twist of sorts, though it may well be one that the viewer has already thought of. (No prizes here. Night Shyamalam has a lot to answer for. Not every twist has to be like the one in the Sixth Sense. Sometimes, the most enjoyable and effective twist is the one that the viewer can work out, because it's the one that flatters the viewer's intelligence). But whatever sort of twist this is, it has to work. It has to make sense; and in this film, it doesn't.It is another of those preposterous conspiracies that only work in fiction. The plot appears to work, in that it makes sense of the puzzles that precede it, and seems consistent enough with everything that has happened. But you realise, turning it over in your mind, that from the point of view of the conspirators, it is a completely mad plot. There is much too much that could go wrong, at every stage.There are plenty of examples of this absurdity in the other reviews, some with spoilers, some without. Some I'd spotted for myself, others I ruefully recognised, and they all contributed to this sense of everything unravelling, of the whole plot falling apart in your hands. I will just add one myself: The film opens with a pallid DiCaprio sea-sick in the heads of the ferry taking him and his assistant to the island. My question (which will make sense to those who've seen the film, but will seem odd to those that haven't) is: what was DiCaprio doing five minutes before? More importantly, what was he thinking? That isn't a stupid question, either, as we subsequently learn quite a lot about what he is thinking, mostly in dreams and memories. DiCaprio discovers, patting his pockets, that he's lost his cigarettes, and accepts one from his assistant. Think, man! Where could you have left them? The realisation dawns on you that this whole conspiracy is a trick played not on or by DiCaprio on or by other characters. It is a trick played by the director on you, the viewer.And with that, the film falls apart. We know that amongst the memories haunting DiCaprio are the fact that he was part of the contingent that liberated Dachau. The mentally ill (or "defective") were though fewer as disgraceful a part of Nazi extermination programmes as the Jews, and there are clear parallels that could be drawn here with the American programme of psychosurgery (though note that the island asylum's staff includes – I won't say who – representatives of the humanitarian as well as surgical and pharmaceutical wings of psychiatry). But this film, a shoddily assembled comic book plot, just cheapens and demeans these historical resonances.It leaves me feeling quite angry. The film must have cost tens of millions . As my opening remarks say, the talent and the resources are all there. It's just so lazy, so slapdash. Is there no quality control? There's forty, fifty amateur critics or more on this site, each of whom could have told the producers and director what was going wrong. How could this mess get made?


                
Picture the scene. A packed cinema audience in silence waiting for the telling moment when all this makes sense. Then the screen goes black, the credits roll and the house lights come on. The audience sits there for a full 10 seconds (a long time if you try it) while looking around at each other saying "is that it?" Now I may not have worked hard enough to understand the film and that may be a failing on my part having been brought up on Die Hardesque action films that don't require much thought, but Shutter Island had me scratching my head for a good few hours after the end. The film starts well. The first 40 minutes or so set the scene tremendously well, introduce the characters, draw you into the despair of a mental hospital and prepare you for a Hitchcock type nerve jangler for the remaining hour and a half or so....But I'm afraid that nerve jangling didn't quite appear. There was nothing in the rest of the film that made me sit up and go "ooh!" or "yikes!" or even "gosh". There were no explosive scares. When you suspected there was going to be one, the character on screen started talking just before the 'moment' so it damped it down a bit. Actually, the lady behind me dropped her bottle of juice at one point which scared the bejeezuz out of the whole audience more than this film! There are too many unanswered questions in this film. Too many key moments that never get answered when you get to the end and not enough to keep you on the edge of your seat. Critics loved it, movie execs too. But really, the film industry is about getting guys like me and my mates to spend a few hours and ten quid once a week to come and watch your work. If this is anything to go by then Mr Scorcese won't be getting my tenner again. If you love getting your pants scared off and throwing your popcorn about in panic then don't bother, if you like an adrenaline fuelled ride through the city streets with copters and rockets keep away, but if you love analytical thrillers and making up your own theories to explain film endings you'll love it. just don't try and explain it to me if we meet.


                
Irritating music and very prolonged movie - Unfortunately this movie did not live up to the very standard expected.The actors are all well acting, the setting fine and even the production in it self is quite up there... But this story is NOT surprising, there is NO surprises or and special "things" that makes this movie great.The totally irritating music, way to high mixed sound levels and editing could have been WAY better.The ending is so predictable and NOT surprising. DISAPPOINTING.The five stars given is for the production, the acting and the location. The five missing stars is for a BAD story, irritating music and predictable movie - the thing is your left with a taste of: hmmm seen this before, did I just waste my money?


                
