Last year, I lamented the fact that Martin Scorsese's long-await psychological thriller "Shutter Island" was relegated to the dead movie month of February, especially when it was receiving serious Oscar buzz at the time.Rumors floated about that the studio and Scorsese had come to a rift, that Marty wanted too much money, that he was being punished for being the most arrogant yet most talented director in the biz. Yep, as these stories flew, I sided 100 percent with Scorsese and felt he was being persecuted - once again.Then I saw "Shutter Island." Now I know what the fuss wasn't all about.If ever a motion picture needed to be seen in February this is it. As difficult to watch as it is to review, "Shutter Island" is a psychotropic mish-mash of "Shawshank Redemption" meets "Vertigo" meets "The Sixth Sense" meets "Inglourious Basterds" meets "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," all neatly wrapped up as an ode to Alfred Hitchcock but coming off as simply a nod to Brian DePalma.Littered with weird visions, wild hallucinations, back-breaking plot twists and - unfortunately - scene after scene of dead children, this movie laps itself in confusion and covers itself with a thick layer of obfuscation leaving one shaking one's head and wondering just what the point of the entire enterprise was.Now, no doubt, those who love this film will toss about accusations of the stupidity of this scribbler, that he has no clue about the nuances of the Dennis Lehane novel from which it came; or the depth of the emotional screenplay adaptation by Laeta Kalogridis (whose last major screenplay was the wonderful, historically-accurate "Pathfinder").That being written, to me, this movie had so much potential - all of which was smashed to bits by heavy-handed direction, a punch-in-the-face musical score, dead-end plot lines and a mystery that Nancy Drew herself would have found far too easy to solve. Then, after the endless maze of twists and turns we're forced go through, the movie takes a lame swipe at McCarthyism - where was Charlie McCarthy when I needed him? It's 1954 and U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels and his new partner, Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo, "Where the Wild Things Are") arrive at a creepy federal asylum for the criminally insane off the coast of Massachuttes. Evidently, a young woman prisoner - who drowned her three children - escaped and they have been called in to investigate.I write "evidently" because nothing is as it seems in this picture, but one will get used to that. Treated as intruders by the bellowing guards and like idiots by the high-toned doctors (Ben Kingsley and Max Von Sydow), the two marshals carry on their investigation, even though a "Jurassic Park"-like hurricane is threatening to overwhelm the entire island.In the meantime, Teddy is having bizarre hallucinogenic nightmares featuring his wife, Delores (Michelle Williams, Oscar nominee for "Brokeback Mountain"), who perished in a fire set by a guy who is housed in this very facility. In these dreams, Delores keeps trying to give Teddy clues about the film, but he refuses to listen.He also relates how, as a U.S. soldier liberating one of the Nazi death camps, he and others lined up German soldiers against the wall and machine-gunned them. I'm not sure why these scenes were in the movie, since they had nothing to do with the plot - then again, NOTHING in this movie had ANYTHING to do with the plot.Teddy even tracks down an old college friend, George Noy (Jackie Earle Haley, Jr., "Little Children"), now housed in the dreaded C Ward; and later meets a facility doctor hiding out in a cave raving about the Cold War, mind-control experiments and brainwashing techniques. But like everything else, these story-lines, too, come to dead ends.We now not only begin to question Teddy's sanity, but our own as the film takes even more hairpin turns until arriving at the single most disappointing conclusion of any Scorsese film ever made, especially in the light of Teddy's last bold declaration, which I was hoping (against all hope) would rectify and redeem his character, as well as the film.Fans of the director will no doubt appreciate this effort and I do, too, in some respects. The acting, especially DiCaprio, Williams and Kingsley, are without flaw. The newly-hot Haley, Jr. huff and puffs admirably during his two-minute screen time, Von Sydow is appropriately German and Ruffalo basically reacts to Teddy the entire time.The cinematography of Robert Richardson ("Inglourious Basterds," "The Aviator," "Kill Bill, Volumes 1 and 2") is always amazing, as well. His gritty, creepy, atmospheric view of the daunting Gothic castle-like structure takes on a life of its own.It's a shame that Scorsese had to litter it all with dead kids, half-hearted nowhere scenes and incidental characters which turn out to mean absolutely nothing. I'm not an idiot and I don't want my films fed to me like a toddler in a high chair, but it doesn't hurt to walk away from a movie feeling one has gotten SOMETHING out of it.Is that too much to ask?
Did I end up seeing a different movie than everyone else? I was shocked when I saw that Scorsese had directed this (I was unaware.) I think was by far his worst movie.The story line had great potential - once you "know" what really happened at the end. I thought the execution of the film was poor.The middle of the movie positively DRAGGED. I felt like I was watching Di Caprio and Winslet in Titanic, escaping from near death as the water rises - FIVE times in a row. I couldn't wait for the end.The end of the movie was needless to say muddled, which is probably intentional. We're meant to to REALLY know what happened. Was he crazy? Was he not? Was he poisoned and committed to protect the secrets of the island? Was he really an inmate undergoing a radical therapy? I can appreciate the film noir quality of the ending. It's just by that time I didn't care.There were lots of great clues along the way that don't make any sense at the time. But at the end when you look back they make sense (the blood from his wife's midsection when he's holding her ghost the first time.) And the idea behind a story like this is to make all of those clues fit the "real" story. Like explaining why they had to give up their guns at the gate. And why the guards were looking at them so strangely when they first arrived on the island.What doesn't make sense to me is the opening sequence on the boat. Why is that part of the story? If you're going to try out this radical new theory, and you have to "start" Teddy off in his fantasy somewhere (where he departs from the reality of being an inmate and starts the fantasy of being a Marshal investigating the escape), then why not just have him start off on the dock (as if he just arrived.) It has to start somewhere - you can't go back indefinitely. The opening sequence just doesn't fit the "real" story - only the "fantasy." I was VERY disappointed in the execution of the film as a whole.I wasn't alone either. Someone behind me muttered "Scorsese needs a lobotomy" as the credits rolled.I couldn't help but laugh and agree.
I don't want to be cast asunder for words of heresy but is Martin Scorsese losing it? I only ask because Shutter Island is a load of old claptrap. The reviews I've read seem to be unable to make their minds up about it and IMDb seems to have lost its marbles a little by awarding it 8.1 and a place in the coveted all time Top 250. Surely not for long when common sense kicks in and people review it for what it is. A mess.The movie really is a tram smash of ideas, styles and plotting. There's a neat twist in it but the utterly gratuitous Dachau strand to the movie is verging on the disgraceful. Parts of the film, certainly in the first half flashback to Di Capprio's experiences as an American GI liberating the Dachau concentration camp would be, you'd have thought, central to the plot. Not a bit of it. This strand hangs about meaningfully but without meaning. But that's the issue with this whole movie. It seems to want to inject meaning into a genre that really is just about entertainment. In doing so it lifts ideas from The Shining (some brilliantly), Silence of the Lambs (unconvincingly) and Hitchcock (at his worst) but they go nowhere. The cinematography flits about from the stunning, the scene in which DiCapprio and his young bride embrace during a fire is mesmerising, to the laughable - again DiCapprio is featured driving through a forest as a passenger with the Asylum's head warder in front of a blue-screened background that could have been shot in 1954 (the year the movie is set) - I suspect the latter was deliberate. If so it was another misguided idea.The grading leaps about from 21st century hi-def to 1950's colour-noir and can't seem to decide what it is that it wants to be.Dicapprio is unconvincing, so too Rufallo and Sir Ben Kingsley? Well, he is actually lampooning himself. Awful, truly awful.Do not waste your money on this rubbish.4 out of 10


                
Flamboyantly silly and long-winded psychothriller/psychodrama that tries hard to say relevant things about mental conditions, memory and trauma, but in fact is nothing more than pulp without the necessary entertainment factor.Scorsese's lamentable attempt to inject his (admittedly gorgeous) visuals with an unnerving quality falls flat, while DiCaprio has always been the least successful in striking puzzled and worried poses.In the end, all the narrative twists and impressive set-pieces prove to be ineffective due to the lack of sympathy towards the wooden characters.And about that ambiguous story-line: It doesn't matter which version is true, both are ridiculous.4 out of 10 mental breakdowns


                
The movie is unrealistic. What Institution would have had the money to produce a fake scenario with a cast of hundreds, numerous rehearsals and time taken from their regular jobs to convince one patient his fantasies were just that. They could and would have lobotomized him instead or simply kept him in solitary. Lobotomies were de reguer at that point in our history. Ditto for shock treatments. And according to the last scene this is the second time in a year that the whole facility has gone through this charade to try to "wake" this guy up. Like I said, who's got the time and especially the money to devote to just this one patient? Never happen. Some of the scenes were intriguing. The actors were compelling in certain scenes. But the movie as a whole was a ridiculous and unrealistic film with the credo that, "if we surprise you, (no matter how far-fetched), you'll like it."
I have to comment on this film since I was so disappointed in it. When I read the review this morning in the paper, I was sure I was going to skip it (the critic in the Washington Post panned it). However, later in the day I noticed on IMDb that it had a rating of 8.5, the same as Avatar, so I began to wonder if it might be good. I went to Metacritic and found it had a generally favorable score of 63, so I decided to see it. I could have gone to see Valentine's Day, which my friend had described as not as bad as he thought it would be.Close to two slow hours are spent in developing the story that had a very convoluted and unsatisfying conclusion. There was very little entertainment value in this movie, although the acting was generally good. The critic in the Post called the movie weird and I would have to agree. I would say that, if the story was better and the conclusion more satisfying, my rating would have been higher, although I would still not recommend this movie.


                
Let me say that I went into this movie without having read the book. I was coming in blind, so to speak. Also, I was coming in hopeful. A psychological thriller starring Leo and being directed by Scorsese? Who wouldn't be a little excited? However, my excitement ended shortly after the opening credits.The entire movie was boring, predictable, and I found myself not caring about any of the characters. From the first five minutes, the obvious and supposedly twisted ending is revealed all too easily for the careful watcher. It gives you a feeling that the creators of this film don't think the audience can figure things out for themselves. Everything is handed to us and there's no time for suspense because everything is being answered before you can become curious. There is a great score that's guaranteed to give you goosebumps, but the film doesn't deliver anything but a few jumps here and there.All in all, this film was a horrible miss at a psychological thriller. Both Scorsese and DiCaprio should stick to what they know.


                
(Synopsis) In 1954, U.S. Marshall Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his new partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo) are assigned to investigate the escape of a patient at the federal maximum security hospital/prison for the criminally insane located on Shutter Island. Once on the island, they find that the hospital and prison staffs aren't really cooperating with their investigation. It seems that the staff is hiding a big secret and Teddy is going to uncover it. Teddy believes that if he can see the records that he would break the case. In the meantime, the island is hit by a hurricane, and more dangerous patients escape and must be captured. This gives Teddy and Chuck the opportunity to check out some of the buildings to which they had been denied admission. Teddy finds the answer he was looking for.(My Comment) Shutter Island has an eerie atmosphere with flashbacks to the concentration camp at Dachau and haunting dreams throughout the entire movie. At times, you will wonder what is real and what is not. Then you will reach a point where you don't care. I started looking at my watch wanting it to be over. If you are a Leonardo fan and decide to see it, you will see that he does a good job of playing the character, but the creepy storyline is disappointing and is only good enough as a B movie. It will not take you very long to figure out the plot, especially, when you are inside Teddy's head. Overall, this movie is dreary and totally depressing. (Paramount, Run Time 2:18, Rated R) (4/10)


                
I was really looking forward so seeing this film after reading reviews etc, and also being a Scorsese fan. After watching the film for 10 minutes i had worked out the ending, i spent the next 2 hours hoping to be proved wrong but unfortunately i wasn't. I cannot tell you how disappointed i was with this film, i know this film is based on a book but it felt to me like a rehash of a few old films eg the twist from sixth sense etc, set in a institution. The only thing that saved me from giving this a lower rating was DiCaprio's performance who at least made it believable, and this is coming from someone who isn't a DiCaprio fan. but when you know the ending the film is spoiled!!
I've heard a lot of folks talk about how shocking the ending of this film was. I've read a few reviews to the same effect. All I can say is . . . really? Have any of you folk what didn't have the whole thing figured out within the first fifteen minutes ever seen any other, "what a twist", movies? I'm actually really disappointed in my fellow man. I'm even more disappointed in Mr. Scorsese. I mean with all the movies that this man has seen and made, well, his expansive knowledge of all things cinema is one of the things you know about him. How could he have failed at subtlety so tremendously here? Okay here's why I'm so disappointed. A year ago I read part of the book. I got to the point where Daniels and Aule (DiCaprio and Ruffalo respectively) first enter ward C where all the real crazies are kept, got bored with it and never picked it back up. I swear to all that is sacred and holy that I had no idea the story was even going to have a twist at that point. If I had, then maybe I would have kept reading just to see how far I'd get before figuring it out. At any rate, by the same point in the film I had long since had to stifle the urge to shout out in the theatre, "He's crazy! He's a f***ing patient!" Mr. Scorsese's decision to insert the hallucinations so early in the film, for me anyway, just immediately screamed, the man is a loon! And I mean really, these hallucination scenes are the only way that the movie differs from the book--up to the point which I can actually speak for that is.I'm sick of Hollywood treating us like we're all stupid, taking us by the hand and walking us through each little step. The worst thing is, in hearing the public's reaction to this film I suppose I've found most of us actually need it. My own cousin, as well as reviewers on this site, took issue with, The Wolfman, because it was too subtle in spots, lightly touching on small sub-plot elements, asking you to use your imagination to answer a few questions here and there. I mean we're talking, The Wolfman, was too cerebral for these people.Just thinking about how many times I've read reviews where the reason a person doesn't like a film is because it didn't answer every single one of their bloody questions, makes want to kick a kitten. Sometimes you don't even have to use your imagination in these cases! Sometimes all you need to do is actually think about what you've seen and heard for a minute before saying you don't get it.I can't wait to have kids so I can raise them to believe it's COOL to be smart and read books, think for yourself, imagine.
I give this four stars because hey, the performances were well done and the cinematography was just lovely, I'm sure most fans of the film can agree on that.Unfortunately, it was otherwise very disappointing. I read so many rave reviews and everybody told me that I had to see this movie, the ending was wild and I'd never ever guess what it was and all that. Sadly, within the first five minutes I realized it was just an updated version of The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, announced that DiCaprio was insane and all that, and infuriated my friends.I do understand and respect why many people adore Shutter Island. My opinion may be different because I saw Caligari first or it may be because I'm a fan of silent films, but whatever the reason, I find the original more exciting to view.
Despite the intriguing trailers to this Scorsese film, it was not worth spending the money on. I thought this movie would be a slam dunk, instead it was a slam junk. The movie was not suspenseful, exciting, and thrilling as I had hoped. An idea of a isolated island, creepy mental patients and missing woman set in the 50's. Great concept however the story line fell apart. I will say the acting was good, Leonardo DiCaprio and Michelle Williams gave great performances. I did all I could to keep my eyes open through this 2hr 18min movie. I was left confused and unsatisfied. Trust me, you will be too. I suggest you spend your money on Avatar and wait for Shutter Island on DVD.


                
This was a film I was looking forward to seeing, but having watched it, I wish I hadn't bothered. If you are looking for a film which throws surprises that you couldn't guess then this isn't that film.About half way I said to myself I bet this happens, and guess what it did. It was so predictable from about 40mins in I didn't care what the ending turned out to be.That said it is an interesting film (albeit predictable) the acting is very believable and generally good. The locations are also well thought out. It is a shame however that in the end you feel cheated, because you will be able to guess where this film is going very early on.My opinion, don't waste your money paying to see this, wait until it is shown on TV, which it will because this is the sort of dross TV companies buy.


                
One commentator has noted that this movie is a direct remake of The cabinet of Dr Caligari from the 1920's, but more recently the even more abysmal "For Sale by Owner" took the identical premise - investigator turns out to be the mental one, and butchered it. With such recent failure, one would hope that the script-writers could do something more imaginative.Setting this movie in a mental home is such a cop-out because it means that nothing you see has to be real, or make sense.The excessively overbearing soundtrack is as unsubtle as the rest of the movie, which is to say that even to numb-skull like me, the ending glared out from 15 minutes into the movie, and it was only the precise details that remained to be filled in.Everyone's acting is first rate, but that does nothing to make up for the lack of satisfaction that this weak movie provides.Surrealism doesn't automatically make a good movie, any more than a "twist" ending. It would have been a far greater twist if DiCaprio's character had gotten away and proved that there WAS a conspiracy...I had such high hopes for this looking at the people involved with it, but now another great director is struck off my "always trust" list.Has Hollywood's desire for safety tainted even this great director?
Shutter Island, Scorsese's fourth film featuring Leonardo DiCaprio, recounts the unnerving of a U.S. Marshal with his arrival at the Ashecliffe Hospital for the Criminally Insane to investigate the disappearance of an inmate. The film is categorized as a horror film but falls more appropriately under the rubric, psychological thriller. Despite an all-star cast and a variety of technically adept cinematic features, the film falls short for a Scorsese work and even shorter for a horror film. Teddy Daniels, the protagonist played by DiCaprio, is partnered with Chuck Aule, (Mark Ruffalo) in this investigation. Daniels' own psychologically debilitated state is made apparent through recurring graphic flashbacks of his involvement in WWII and through hallucinations of his recently deceased wife. The film opens with Daniels vomiting on the ferry destined for the island, the camera following him under deck as he tries to gather himself. Such vulnerability does not serve him well at the outset and beyond and suggests possibly that he might some day be greeted as an inmate himself. Indeed, upon entry into the facility, he is welcomed by a setting of low ceilings and chains as if, in time, he might find himself, given this introductory psychological makeup, restrained by them. Such symbolism is only the beginning of what makes the outcome of the film remarkably predictable...To read the rest of the review visit: http://www.soundonsight.org/shutter-island-review-2/


                
So, I watched this, despite not being that fond of thrillers, way back when it was released... and I liked it at first, the atmosphere was amazing, the visuals stunning, and the plot became more and more complex as we learned not everything is what it seems with the island, hinting at experimentation and conspiracies. And then comes the last 10 or so minutes of the movie, revealing basically everything was in our main character's head. Seriously, I kept hoping this was just a final "maybe it isn't!" twist and there would be another one, like in the Lazarus Project, but nope. It was disappointing. The conspiracy story was far, far more interesting than the real ending about a run-of-the-mill "dead wife and kid" past of the protagonist. Maybe I am spoiled with having thrillers with interesting twists, or because I prefer the strange to the mundane, but ending it all on Ben Kingsley shaking his head and saying the treatment was not a success was one of my biggest annoyances that year.
The first half of this movie is a fantasy, which gets solved in the second half by old-fashioned psychological here's-what-really-happened.The lead looks too fresh to carry off the tragic role, and some of his delivery of the cartoonish lines is really poor (although may not be his fault). The fantasy part is half-baked with some clumsy clues, and then we get memories of the holocaust to illuminate the hero's past. Was that really necessary? I was thinking Jacob's Ladder, but I didn't like that either and it was a better movie than this.The figuring-out part is like an '80s Hercules Poirot episode - neither scary nor emotive, just flipping over the cards as it suits the dealer. On top of his holocaust experience, the hero also had a mad homicidal wife. Bloody hell! The final flashback is awkward, and there's no effort to make us hurt for the children. The ending is ... "led off in handcuffs". Duh duh duuuuh! Way too elaborate for a simple story.
"Shutter Island" provides early clues that something is amiss with the lead character, Teddy Daniels. And that leads one to think that the mystery has a twist that is different than what the film purports to be about. I didn't read Dennis Lehane's novel on which the film is based. But, if he wrote it in the way this film portrays the story, it had to be a difficult read to follow. Flashbacks are a nice (and convenient) tool in storytelling and motion pictures, but they should only be used sparingly. Otherwise, they can distract from the story. In this case, their frequency and disconnectedness soon wear the film out and tire the viewer.I watched this film in the theater when it came out. I watched it again recently, and have a less enthusiastic response. I particularly enjoy good mysteries. The when, and how, and who, and why of a good suspense or crime story can be gripping and hold one's attention and interest. But these psychological thrillers sometimes muddle the plot and leave one wondering if a crime actually happened. So, the mystery isn't in solving a crime so much as it is in finding out if one was even committed at all.That's the sort of feeling one gets with this film. Then, it has elements that may seem like red herrings. The idea of Communist insurrectionists, plotters against the government, and some other items might be intended as red herrings, but they seem to be more overkill in the makeup of a crazy character.The use of so many flashbacks is probably necessary to arrive at the conclusion of the film. But they ignore the usual aspects of good movies and storytelling. So, instead of a tight plot this film seems to be a collection of different stories and random scenes and incidents tossed together with techniques to otherwise tantalize an audience. That may be very convenient for Hollywood, but it doesn't smack of superb mystery storytelling and filming.The acting is good all around and can't be faulted. Of course, the ruse of the film can raise many questions. Did the hospital use real inmates to role-play with the delusional Teddy Daniels? If so, how could professional health people justify that? If they didn't use real inmates, then they just happened to have many other folks around who would like to role-play in an asylum for the criminally insane.Unfortunately, psycho thrillers of this sort don't have to answer questions like that. Or make any sense at all. Real mysteries should allow people to rely on their senses and common sense otherwise. While I do enjoy such films from time to time, when they go this far off the track of good mystery telling, they go to another genre. They still involve crime but become more horror stories than human drama. And, then, the elements of the story don't have to fit or even make sense.The use of flashbacks seems to be the modern Hollywood and fiction writers' technique for getting around the historical tenets of good writing and storytelling. So, plot, plot, plot (as in solid story development) becomes plod, plod, plod (as in toss things together and hurry them along to be done with it). Give me a good old-fashioned Agatha Christie or Dashiell Hammett mystery any day.
Where do I even begin? I was curious to see this movie as parts of it were filmed in my area. I knew some of the extras that would be in it and there was a lot of hype. Needless to say this film for me just didn't work. The premise of the story is that Leo's character is sent to a mental institute for the criminally insane to investigate a missing patient. He has flashbacks and as the story unwinds you begin to see he has his own struggles. You begin to wonder who the 'good guys' and the 'bad guys' are.The film starts off slow...peaks to slow..and even ends in an unsatisfying way. At times I felt like I was watching 'A Beautiful Mind' and 'One Few Over the Cuckoo's Nest' only with a darker eerier tone that almost entirely moves at snail's pace. I didn't find it gory or creepy...just slowwwwI was distracted by the green screen during the journey on the boat and in the jeep ride with the Warden and at times seemed to be a green screen during the cliff scenes.The dead girl moves so much in one scene I was distracted to the point that their death didn't even seem impactful because she was moving. Leo, Michelle, Mark and Ben all do great jobs with the acting ( I guess)..it was just painful to stay awake with the story lines. Too draggy...Some of it was even just unbelievable...(i.e. the 'c' building that seemed more abandoned than an actual hospital setting and the lighthouse ..spiral staircases make it difficult to lug all that bulky furniture) ...but yet ..it happened..I loved 'The Departed' and usually like Scorcese's twist on story telling...I just didn't enjoy this one..I would wait for the DVD.The
I feel that there are quite a few glowing reviews on IMDb which may be totally fake and written by paid PR companies. Some are written in such a canned style with perfect 10 scores designed to boost the average overall score. I do agree the acting in this film is fantastic but the plot was utterly disturbing to say the least. Anyone attempting to graphically portray such a ghastly subject matter about children seriously needs to look carefully at themselves. I can only imagine how the make-up artists felt when they went through some of the more graphic scenes depicting the children towards the end. Quite frankly, it's disappointing if there's false reviews posted by PR agencies employed to rate this film much higher than it deserves. Overall, the criticism here lies with the deplorable plot and subject matter. The acting is first rate and obviously it's shot well. But who could possibly excuse some of the graphic scenes especially towards the end.? I'm not against difficult subject matter. I loved films like Capote, Goodfellas & Leon the Professional but this was just weird. When I left the cinema I got the feeling everyone else who'd watched the film felt this one missed the mark. I watched the film in the cinema with two other mates and they agreed it was a bizarre film. Sixth Sense is a brilliant example of how this type of genre can be fantastic to watch. Shutter Island was skipping between many different genre styles which detracts from the whole experience.


                
Because honestly, it looks like you grabbed Leo DiCaprio, a couple of wind machines, a rough draft of the screenplay for "Inception" and made "Shutter Island" over a long weekend. Granted, your genius is evident throughout the movie . . . "Shutter Island" is muddled, confusing and ultimately pointless, but it's littered with raw, brutal, beautiful images that are much more disturbing than the nonsense storyline. What a masterpiece you could have made if you'd taken a few months to meditate on those visions of Dachau and drowning children. They could have been the heart of this movie instead of red herrings that ultimately have nothing to do with Leo's quest for . . . well, we're never really sure, since he doesn't seem to know either. Okay, maybe I shouldn't blame you for the inconsistencies of the plot, I've never read Lehane's novel. But I will remind you that some novels shouldn't be filmed, and maybe "Shutter Island" is one of them. I don't mind ambiguity. However, my idea of "ambiguity" is not knowing why Leo came to the island. Your idea of "ambiguity" means getting Leo to the island and then inventing five different competing reasons for him to be there . . . is he trying to find the man who murdered his wife? Is he trying to expose atrocities committed by the US government? Is he trying (and failing) to prove that he can keep an accent for an entire movie? He has to fill in the blank along with the audience, and I'm sorry, that's not as interesting as trying to solve a riddle with a single answer.


                
Look guys, I do get it. The film is a study of insanity before a thriller/horror. Doesn't make it good. Furthermore, if you read the book you'd see my point.I read the book nearly a year before the film got released and I loved it. Quite possibly the most edge-of-your-seat book I read in a long time!!!! Furthermore when I saw the trailer and heard Scorsese would be doing the film adaptation I got ecstatic. Scorsese is one of the best filmmakers, and he directed my favorite film of 2006- The Departed. That movie was just spectacular, and it changed the way I saw movies forever. It blew my then-teenage mind, and I'll never forget the first time I saw it.So could tell, I was excited, and flocking to the theatre on opening day, I was ready to place this at the top of my list.The film is true to the book, yes. Is that a good thing? It depends. I was happy they stuck with the book, as basically it seemed like they used the book as the film's screenplay.However, I have the feeling that this would be a one star review if I hadn't read the book. For one, even my girlfriend, who hadn't read the book, knew the ending about 10 minutes in. The plot worked well in the book, but as a movie, just simply fails, again showing that not all books that are great make good movies. The movie is pretty alright, as it is lush and colorful in a few scenes and at times even seems like a Gothic horror film. Again, pretty pictures does not equal good movie.Another thing ruining the film is its "punch in the face" musical score. Come on, the score was ridiculous. Spooky tingling piano music!!! Nazi-marching-into-town-music!!! LOUD BRASS music!!! Whoever did the score needs a kick in the teeth. The murder scene near the end was hilarious due to the inappropriate spooky tingling piano music.In short, honestly this film is pointless. I love Scorsese but this film just doesn't do anything for me. Skip it.


                
Forgetting the sucker I am for this kind of genre filmmaking I'm afraid I have to abstain from this one. Mr. Scorsese 's been trying too hard to make a grand, Oscar wining movie too long and now he's won it he seems plagued by his habit. The touch is officially lost. Blame it on the legend.Right or wrong a noirish crime psychodrama is heavily relied on its plot. To this writer, and I guess to anyone who's read his Edgar Allan Poe and seen his Angel Heart - the far superior movie ancestor of this one – the plot is known in the first ten minutes. The rest, plot-wise, is an alarmingly unpleasant déjà vu. Of course, this being a Scorsese picture, it ought to contain more than meets the eye. It does – to a point at least. There is obsession, pain, guilt, and wrong turns taken. There is also the bombast of self-importance and meaning. Shutter Island (I'd hoped) wasn't the case for applying this kind of filmmaking mentality. Spectacularly, Island, besides being the patchwork of cinematic tributes to end all patchworks, also seeks for post post-modern auteuristic appraisal – not to mention a voracious self-gratification/affirmation. Hitchcock, Fuller, Siegel – all of them here imitated, none of them Oscar holder – would never indulge<U+0085> Mr. Di Caprio, next only to his last year's performance in Revolutionary Road, is near perfect, the personification of the failing powers of a broken man. But, make no mistakes this a Scorsesian picture – even more than Gangs of New York and Aviator were in their own egomaniacal way. Overindulgent and cinematically aware, this is a 138 minute thriller of the mind emulating genre cinema of the 40s-50s that was about 50 minutes briefer and decidedly more economical. It is beautifully shot and meticulously executed of course but all is so overtly stylized and unfortunately scripted to feel redundant at half time. Scorsese has never been a director of atmospheres in the manner of a Vidor, a Tourneur or a Wise and by attempting at exactly their kind of filmmaking – which he admittedly adores and rightfully acknowledges – fails considerably. His strength has always been addressing the fallen male and in that he manages a welcomely engaging finale – albeit, a gloriously predictable one.An ill masterpiece for the scholars of the future – who undoubtedly will contribute volumes of their own lives projected in the film – a barely enjoyable miss to the rest.


                
Oscar-winning film director Martin Scorsese's latest movie "Shutter Island" with Leonardo DiCaprio, Ben Kingsley, and Mark Ruffalo, qualifies as his worst epic since "Boxcar Bertha" in 1972. Mind you, Scorsese received an Academy Award finally in 2007 for his absorbing Bostonian undercover crime thriller "The Departed." Previously, he missed bagging the bronze statuette for "Raging Bull" in 1981, "The Last Temptation of Christ" in 1989, "Goodfellas" in 1991, "The Age of Innocence" in 1994, "Gangs of New York" in 2003, and "The Aviator" in 2005. Based on "Mystic River" author Dennis Lehane's 2003 bestselling psycho-thriller, "Shutter Island" constitutes a masterpiece of art direction, set design, cinematography, computer-generated special effects and top-notch acting. Nevertheless, you'll hate this gimmicky claptrap as soon as Scorsese and "Alexander" scenarist Laeta Kalogridis trot out their mind-boggling eleventh hour revelation! Talk about getting the rug yanked out from under your feet! Indeed, Scorsese seems to be channeling Alfred Hitchcock of "Vertigo" and "North by Northwest" during the first half of this portentous two-hour and eighteen minute melodrama before he shifts gears and imitates director M. Night Shyamalan of "The Village" in the last 20 minutes. Contrived and complicated from the start, this gloomy Gothic mystery thriller about a Houdini-like escape from a Federal maximum security asylum for the criminally insane, which resembles Alcatraz in Boston Harbor, is as delusional as a dog chasing its tail. Visually, "Shutter Island" could pass muster if it had stuck to its fairly predictable police procedural plot. Unfortunately, Scorsese weaves quite a tale that takes some strange turns before the bottom falls out. People that hate movies about elaborate mind games that lead them by the nose through a maze and then surprise them with a bad ending won't enjoy "Shutter Island." Meantime, audiences scavenging for visceral shocks to chill themselves are going to be sorely disappointed."Shutter Island" opens in 1954 in the Boston Harbor Islands as a storm is brewing offshore. Hard-boiled World War II veteran Teddy Daniels (Leonardo DiCaprio of "Titanic") and his new partner Chuck Aule (Mark Ruffalo of "The Last Castle") are U.S. Federal Deputy Marshals who have been assigned to investigate the mysterious disappearance of an inmate patient at Ashecliffe Asylum. Ashecliffe occupies an island of its own, like Alcatraz Prison, and its terrain is both craggy and forbidding. A bald-headed, pipe-smoking Dr. Cawley (Ben Kingsley of "Fifty Dead Men Walking") welcomes our gumshoe heroes to the island. Ashecliffe is more than an asylum; it is a hospital and a laboratory. Cawley lets Teddy and Chuck know from the start that he favors drugs over lobotomy. He struggles to bring moral order and peace to the troubled inmates, most of whom are murderers. Cawley has summoned the Marshals because a convicted psychopathic killer, Rachel (Emily Mortimer of "The Pink Panther 2"), has vanished from her cell. Rachel is a murderess who drowned her three children. Deputy Warden McPherson (John Carroll Lynch of "Grand Torino") has dozens of uniformed guards out turning over rocks while all this is transpiring. Teddy is just recovering from the voyage to the island. He suffers from seasickness. Cawley offers him aspirin. According to Cawley, when the attendant locked Rachel into his cell, he locked her in from the outside. When the Marshals scour Rachel's room, all they find is a cryptic note about 'the law of 4.' Moreover, Rachel left behind both pairs of shoes, and the terrain is far too treacherous for her to negotiate it without footwear. Deputy Warden McPherson points out that swimming under the current circumstances was out of the question. The currents would have driven her body back ashore. Meanwhile, Teddy and Chuck are livid with indignation when they learn Cawley let the doctor treating Rachel take his long overdue vacation at the genesis of an investigation. Essentially, Teddy and Chuck spend most of their time interrogating the doctors, the staff, and the patients. Teddy wants to scrutinize the personnel records of everybody that dealt with Rachel. Cawley refuses to open the books because the information is confidential. Initially, since neither senior psychotherapist Dr. Naehring (Max Von Sydow of "The Seventh Seal") nor Cawley will allow Teddy to examine the personnel records. Eventually, Teddy discovers that Rachel could have slipped past one attendant when he went to the restroom. During their wanderings around the island, Teddy and Chuck get caught in a bad storm that forces Cawley and company to mobilize the staff and patients for an emergency. Our heroes wind up drenched to the skin, and Teddy resigns himself to staying on the island since the storm prevents their departure. "Shutter Island" doesn't look as bad as its plot is. Scorsese creates a palatable sense of paranoia, and the atmosphere simmers with tension. Early long shots of the ferry penetrating a fog bank on its way to the island reminded me of the ship in "King Kong" approaching Skull Island. Unfortunately, "Shutter Island" simmers but never comes boils. Despite "JFK" lenser Robert Richardson's incredibly flavorful cinematography and long-time Scorsese editor Thelma Schoonmaker's brisk cutting, this film takes too long to unfold and its payoff doesn't equal the time spent conjuring it up. A major flaw for any Hollywood movie is the absence of a sympathetic hero for whom we can root. The Leonard DiCaprio protagonist may generate a modicum of sympathy, but he lacks charisma. Nobody in this movie is remotely likable, especially the eerie Dr. Naehring. Naehring and Teddy have an intimate moment in the hallway and Naehring gets a taste of his own medicine. Moments like that aren't enough to redeem this potboiler. Altogether, "Shutter Island" amounts to utter hokum.
First off let me say that I for one actually think Leo is a pretty decent actor. Sure in his early days he was the "heart" throb pretty boy of Titanic and Romeo and Juliet.. But after seeing his latest attempts - i.e Gangs of New York, The Aviator, The Departed and Catch me if you Can.. I've developed an appreciation for his skills as an actor... Also i respect the director of most of the same previous mentioned titles that Leo stars in...But honestly what the hell were they thinking with this movie!?!? The story pace is terrible and the plot so predictable that I literally had called everything (and i mean EVERYTHING - including his wife etc..) 20 minutes in. I was hoping i was going to be proved wrong by some other twist but no..As the movie started with them driving into the institution what was with the music score?? I was sitting there listening to the BOOOOM BOOOM.... BOOOM BOOOM... thinking "OK.. that isn't suspenseful.. its just irritating.." <- OK total minor point but I think it was from this point that my expectations from the movie started to drop.I saw the movie a few days OK and it just keeps popping up in my mind how bad it is... its not scary at all. The plot is predictable. And the acting was below average. Avoid at all costs unless you have an I.Q under 100 and you haven't watched any 'twist' movies in your entire life.
