I just saw this series 1 on DVD, and I must say, after a pretty good introduction, it settles down in a pile of dirt, and spends the rest of the time wallowing in the mire! What I saw is this: There once was a hardworking cop (albeit with some character flaw, i.e his affair) who was the envy of other cops. One of his jealous superiors says "this guy is too good. There must be a problem with him"... based on this, he drafts a rather morose looking total creep (fresh from wrongful assassination of an innocent alien and then turns out to be the shows' "hero") and an equally reptilian lady cop to investigate this officer and bring him down. The shows' fatal flaw is that it suggests "success" for those who sneakily plan against their colleagues who are doing their job with more zeal than they themselves can muster.
First of all, the acting was superb, but the story-line was hard to follow at times.Season One had early promise but after watching it I decided that it just wasn't for me. (SPOILER ALERT):* A seasoned cop can't find a way to dispose of a wine glass? Smash and bury, throw in any number of dumpsters in a giant city, or find another location in the river. * Isn't even a person with innocent, child-like qualities going to show police the dead, chopped up, body in their freezer?* No convictions? At the end of season one, the crime boss walks? Can you imagine tuning into an entire season of LAW AND ORDER, CSI, or NCIS, if the bad guys prevailed every time?If this series a political statement or designed for entertainment? if the former, tell us it is a true story. If the latter, make it more positive.If the series is fictional, why does the epilogue to season one have to be so depressing?I won't be giving season two a chance. I'll stick to quality shows like BLUE BLOODS!
The basic idea here is quite clever, and the main man (Lennie James) does a good job of playing the flawed hero. In fact the series seemed quite Shakespearean in its conception, except that Shakespeare had ideas, language and a sense of theatre to help him. But who wrote this script? And where did they find the rest of these yo-yos? To a man (or woman) the police officers and assorted criminals - with the exception of the protagonist - are pathetic. Martin Compston does nothing to inspire sympathy, respect or admiration; he comes across as a lily-livered milksop who has no integrity, courage or any other redeeming value. He is a short man who plays someone short on self-belief. His female partner (Vicky McClure) has even fewer redeeming features. She appears to have only two facial expressions, which she alternates with total disregard to the script, and a mono tonal delivery of her lines that makes her an ideal person for recorded announcements on a subway. The rest of the cast are equally bad. They are stereotyped, wooden and, by the last part, it is difficult to separate one from another. Lennie James towers over the rest of this rabble, although even he is forced into some rather silly utterances and action by whoever wrote this.And he (or she) is the real culprit. What a great idea! Why didn't you just sell it and move on?


                
