make sure you take your airsickness tablets before settling down to this one because the camera never stops shaking around, an effect so relentless and overdone it looks like parody. i found the whole enterprise a bit boring and predictable, and no salvation from competent acting was forthcoming. everyone is trying really hard and acting their little hearts out but i couldn't really connect with the characterisation on any level. maybe enough has been done with the "conspiracy from top to bottom" genre for a while. the plots are always ridiculous of course, but if the actors are good to watch and the dialogue snappy i can put up with that. in the end, despite all the jumping around, i found it a pretty wooden affair really.. but i watched all 5 episodes of series 1, so i guess it isn't a complete turkey. . .


                
OK so press and TV journalists don't like the police lifting the lid on the less than glorious side of their profession,I can understand that.But what are the coppers supposed to say,"No,we're not going to investigate the Fourth Estate because it is above the law?" "Line of duty" is the revenge of the chattering classes on a police force spavined by Government cuts but apparently able to call on endless reserves of cash and personnel to pour into the nooks and crannies of our "independent" media and generally spoil their fun as they continue with their time - honoured task of manipulating public opinion. Accordingly any programme that diverts attention away from that and portrays the press's tormentors as deeply corrupt,racist,Islamophobic or whatever the latest buzzword may be for not being very nice has got to be encouraged. "Babylon" was one manifestation of this sentiment,"Line of duty" is another. The critics love this overwrought bit of Opera Buffa nonsense. Ludicrously overdrawn characters,plot twists as outrageous as they are unlikely and coppers that bear no relationship to any Met officer alive or dead. Guardianistas everywhere raise their voices in praise of "Line of duty" but it is instructive that last week's episode fell somewhat short of the viewing figures of "Vera",a show where cops don't run around in bullet - proof vests and wave guns,but,on the other hand,do display some of the characteristics of real human beings.
The first two series were simply brilliant. The later part of the third series, in particular the last episode, were poor... in fact, unbelievable. I cannot believe how bad Series 4 is and I am struggling to get past Episode 3. It is contrived, unbelievable and quite simply dire rubbish. Jed Mercurio has completely lost the plot, putting people in impossible positions and then just having them magic themselves out of it. There is a police interview in Episode 3 which is just laughable... why would the police do what they did when they know the police tapes will be heard? They would end up in court themselves. What I can't understand is why the actors, production team couldn't see how bad this last series is... and somehow or other, many audience think it is great. No wonder the world is having problems!


                
