Once again I stumbled onto this show by accident. Thank goodness. I find British police drama much more intense than the run of the mill American shows. This one is no exception. The acting is very convincing on all accounts. You think in the beginning how can this "kid" be a good main character. He then proves you very wrong and you see that his conviction to the case is what makes him compelling to watch. All the main players are only too human. The stories all have their own twists and turns, keeping you on your toes all the time. Making this show fascinating to watch. I admit there was an awful lot of binge watching as I couldn't leave the plot at the end of each episode. Please give this a chance and be rewarded for doing so.


                
Being fan of British TV, i was hooked and couldn't stop this series. Has everything. Plot, dark and right timing. Great TV. The characters are natural and great acting from all of them. The suspense comes at right levels each episode and there is no way to stop until you find what will come next.There are some very ... i don't know the right word(not with the bad meaning) with "The Wire". The characters are almost real like the classic good British TV. The atmosphere is not annoying dark and the lines between "Right and Wrong" are not clear, (like real life). Absolutely RECOMMENDED...


                
Covering similar territory to the BBC's great "Between The Lines" series of the 90's, this five part-series was essential viewing in our household. Gripping from the start, it never really let go and even if the conclusion was slightly unsatisfactory in my eyes, in that pretty much all the bad guys got away with it and justice wasn't seen to be done, but in terms of plotting and character development, it was riveting throughout.The subject of police corruption and the workings of the internal affairs unit has to be handled sensitively but realistically and here I was convinced from the outset. What made it more interesting and watchable was that the central character under investigation, DCI Tony Gates is presented to us as an award-winning cop, a family man who even stops crime on his time-off, foiling a petty robbery at a restaurant where he's eating in the first episode. Unfortunately in so doing, he absent-mindedly allows the restaurant to not take payment for his meal (in this day and age, it's an offence for the police to accept gratuities, even when off-duty) and worse, he's in the company of his lover, rich girl lawyer Jacqui, both of which come back to haunt him as he becomes the subject of an investigation for 'laddering", the practice of only solving easy crimes and getting multiple offences tagged onto the crime sheet, thus boosting his efficiency figures.Things get far deeper and murkier from there as Gates finds himself at the mercy and under the control of an underworld kingpin, only heard in the first four episodes by his rasping Glasgow accent, messages passed to him on disposable mobile phones by a tear-away ten year old boy, who later participates in a particularly disturbing torture sequence involving Gates' investigating nemesis D.S. Arnott.The direction was excellent throughout, involving and exciting, with the ensemble acting likewise of the highest order. I wasn't quite convinced, as I wasn't in the otherwise excellent "The Forsyte Saga" remake some years ago by Gina McKee as a femme fatale, but in particular Martin Compston and Vicky McClure as the pursuing investigators, the latter undercover, made for an effective team, with thankfully not a whiff of romance in sight between them. As Gates, Lennie James played a difficult part, engaging the viewer's sympathy and anger by turns, before making the ultimate sacrifice at the end.I'd like to see Compston and McClure reunite to fight more corruption, along with Adrian Dunbar as their wily boss pulling the strings behind them and hope the series did well enough for more episodes to come. Series of this standard are few and far between on British TV and I for one would like to see more, much more of the same.
In the last few years, Britain has produced many television programs that is pushing their American cousins to make better dramas. Line of Duty is no exception. This is a very good investigative crime drama that is centered on a team of anti-corruption officers investigating the country's most decorated detective, who may or may not be involved in criminal activity. The five episode season one, which is available only on Hulu, may not have quite the action of others (Sherlock, Whitechapel) but is not lacking in the suspense and keeps you guessing to both a whodunit, and whether or not a suppose good cop is dirty. I am not familiar with any of the actors, but it was clear they were all experienced and are very good at their job. Wonderfully done, and can't wait to watch season 2.


                
I came across this show on Netflix one night, the general rule for unknown shows is to watch the first episode to get a feel for it before considering watching anymore. Life's to short to waste on bad TV.After the first episode of this show I watched the entire season 1 that same evening. Season 2 the following day. Because there's only 5-6 episodes a season the story moves along quickly, The acting is excellent the stories are well written you can't see where it's going and it's highly addictive. If you plan to watch it give yourself time because you probably won't just watch one. Because the suspects are coppers and know the system and how to play it, it makes for a gripping time. Do yourself a favour and watch it first episode and get cooked. Enjoy


                
I have really enjoyed this series, but whereas seasons 1 to 3 were fair to good, it is surpassed by season 4 which was excellent and required binge watching to get the suspense out of the way.Really good acting and the role of Thandie Newton as Roz Huntley was superbly cast.Looking forward to season 5! But do we really have to wait until 2019?


                
This BBC drama follows Detective Sergeant Arnott who transfers to AC-12, a unit whose job is to seek out corruption within the police, after he refuses to lie about mistakes that led to an innocent man being shot by the police. His first case on his new job is to investigate Detective Chief Inspector Tony Gates; an officer who seems to be too good to be true. Arnott isn't this only officer investigating Gates; DC Kate Flemming is working undercover within Gates' unit. We soon learn that Gates isn't above breaking the rules when he helps a female friend who asks for help after she hit a dog while driving while drunk<U+0085> the problem is she didn't kill a dog, she killed a man she knew; but by the time Gates learns the truth he is up to his neck in it! Initially Arnott and Flemming just thing Gates is guilty of fiddling the crime stats to make his unit look better but soon it appears that he is involved in more serious crimes. Gates soon finds himself getting deeper into trouble when a local criminal starts to blackmail him<U+0085> if he wasn't corrupt before he will be if he does what is asked of him.This was a gripping drama; right up until the final episode I wasn't certain whether of not Gates was as bad as Arnott believed; this is largely down to the acting of the two leads; Martin Compston (Arnott) played his character as though he really believed Gates was guilty and Lennie James (Gates) acted as though is character was a victim of circumstance rather than a criminal who had planned his actions. As well as these two fine performances Vicky McClure was good as DC Flemming as was Neil Morrissey who played Gates' friend DC Morton; it was good to see him in a serious role. There was a fair amount of action during the series; some of it of a fairly gruelling nature so expect to wince more than once! Overall I'd say this is definitely worth watching if you want a fairly gritty police show.
It's an enjoyable series because it moves along and the action is well scripted, although after the 3d season the investigation interviews seem too familiar in their staccato style. Where it loses credibility is with over the top plot boiler scenes which are clearly manipulative, with a giggle factor of 8. They just don't jump the Shark they get into Blue Whale territory. The villains are especially intelligent at keeping the good guys at bay, but inevitably cave on a ludicrously small detail. It also fails to make the main characters particularly appealing. The ongoing deep state issue gets preposterous by season 4. It's a cookie cutter show with better than average dialogue, and terse scenes that carry it well.


                
A really fantastic show. However, my own gripe is I wish Corbett would stop saying 'the bent basxard'...we get it, there is a corrupt copper in the OCG group.Also, DS Arnott referring to DI Fleming as 'Ma'am' but then switching to Kate or 'mate'....


                
Good actors, Nice tension. If you see one, you wanna see them all


                
These British police series are very watchable. The acting is first class throughout and Keeley Hawes in series 2 and later, and Thandie Newton in series 4 are exceptional.Anyone focussing on the procedural, or even the common sense, aspects of the plot will be cringing. But in the end, it doesn't matter that much.Meaty, tough and entertaining.


                
The best thing about this series is the detail in which each investigation is presented. About how vulnerable individuals are seen dealing with almost impossible choices. Every character in this series to lesser or greater degree is shown as fallible, incomplete and flawed. There is no black - or - white here, just varying shades of grey. With one or two exceptions, of course. I love this about this series. The actors are all very competent and comfortable in their respective roles. The production is top - notch. The best part is the screenplay as to how it seamlessly weaves one aspect of season into another of the next season and so on. The narrative is taut and it engages all the way without allowing your attention to waiver. What could have made this series better (with humility) is perhaps more character development, and allowing the characters play off - each other using that tension to extend and expand on the narrative. But I guess it was the conscious choice to keep the narrative within a particular confine. Nevertheless, an excellent series that I absolutely enjoyed and recommend to everyone without hesitation.Very nice!


                
**** SPOILER ALERT **** Series 4 - The first 5 episodes were hugely entertaining. I was looking forward to the final episode as were a number of friends.... we were all of the same opinion that it turned out to be hugely disappointing. Far too much going on. Guns. Downright nasty people who turned out to have a heart of gold..... It's a shame. If the sixth episode had been written as well as the first 5 then series 4 would have been a great rather than just a good series.
