I read about this for years before being able to get a hold of a copy of the DVD set (first season), and how wonderful and unique and groundbreaking it was. Gee, what a letdown! There is nothing special or even original in this series, except perhaps for using the "f" word three times in every sentence. Unless you are a very juvenile type, this gets mind-numbingly boring after a few episodes. (Interviews with Mr. Milch, who swears about as much as his main characters, suggests that he is referencing his own behavior and not the norms of the Old West.)The REAL Deadwood was a fascinating place that existed for a very brief time, before becoming a sort of ghost town tourist attraction. Some traditional westerns show the violent action set in places that eventually grew into sober, stable cities and towns -- not the case here. That sense that Deadwood is doomed is entirely lost in translation, though.Is the profanity realistic? (The DVD even features a short documentary talking a bit about this.) In my opinion, NO. While rough miners and brothel owners undoubtedly used profanity in 1876, it was not identical to the profanity we use today. The "f" word dates back to the Shakespearean era (if not earlier), but it was used as a verb to describe sexual activity and NOT as an adjective, modifying literally every noun. This is entirely a modern adaptation of that word. As such, it is as out of place in 1876 as cell phones and i-pods.There WAS a lot of profanity, but what was considered profane in the 19th century were phrases like "god damn" or "blast" or "tarnation" -- seriously, those were heavy duty, obscene swear words.Another problem I have is with the depiction of women -- and I mean how they are dressed. (For the record, I studied both fashion and historical costume at the university level, with the intent of being a curator at a fashion museum.) Modern day filmmakers have long had a problem with the fact that prior to the present era (post 1960s), virtually all adult women wore their hair UP. The modern fashion of long, loose hair simply did not exist -- it would have been stranger to see a woman with her hair all about than to see her walking down the street naked. Part of the reason was that nobody had the resources (detergent soaps, unlimited hot water) to wash their hair on a daily basis as we do today. Nor did they have hair dryers! Washing one's hair meant taking many hours to let it dry -- and possibly in cold or windy weather...it would have been impossible.Look at photos from the era: every woman, even whores, are wearing hair elaborately styled UP, often greasy looking to our modern eyes, but firmly arranged with lots of hair pins. Most women wore hats in public -- most men, too. It entirely ruins a period film for me when women are shown with long loose contemporary hair, not to mention things like eye makeup and lip gloss. Bad form and certainly not within the "ultra realistic" premise of "Deadwood".On top of that, all the women depicted are rail thin, per the present desire for a very thin body. However, that style is fairly recent, and would have seemed very bizarre to anyone from the 19th century -- this was the absolute era of plump, curvy, corseted women (fat by our odd standards). Of course, some individual women were thin, perhaps sickly or even consumptive, but this would NOT be considered attractive.I could go on -- no woman would have appeared on the public streets undressed, in short garments exposing her bare legs, in underwear, etc. -- not even a whore. (If you look at actual photos of 19th century prostitutes, they are wearing normal, if gaudy, clothing.) Any community of Deadwood's size (about 10,000) would have had some children. Where there are women, even whores, there are going to be babies -- that's simple biology. Birth control was non-existent at the time, and yes, prostitutes did get pregnant.Basically, this is a stupid, badly researched show made largely for the kind of childish audience that thrives on potty mouth stuff like South Park, where genuine humor and cleverness is undone by a constant need to use shock swear words (in that case, coming out of the mouths of cartoon kids). On the positive side, some excellent performers, including the rightly praised Ian MacShane as Swearingen (based on a real life Deadwood resident, but how lame is it to take a character with such a name and have him "swear" a lot???), the excellent Powers Boothe, and Keith Carradine in one of his very best roles. This would have been vastly better as a trimmed down, four-to-six hour mini-series...with swearing and costumes true to the era. A wasted opportunity and vastly overpraised. Don't bother to subscribe to cable for this -- I got the DVD set at my library for free.


                
This was an excellent series that HBO dropped mid stream. the show has no ending, and disgusts the viewer when it abruptly ends at Season 3. I equate it to watching 3/4 of a really good movie, the power goes out and you miss the most important part, except with this you never ever get to see the ending. HBO promised it's fans to end the cancelled series with a movie or two in order complete the story in some way properly. This has not an will not happen. Do not bother watching it, you will be severely disappointed, and out right mad when you get to episode 12 of season 3. After watching all three seasons a total of 36 hours, the series culminates right to the point of a climax and then ends with no warning. The show is then cancelled and there is essentially no conclusion what so ever. Several critical story lines are unanswered. certainly the largest being the civil war that was just ready to break out in camp after an entire season of building up too. Could they not at the very least have made the episode 10 minutes longer and showed the battle? How one can end a show's season the way HBO did is pathetic, let alone the whole highly acclaimed series. Let's just pray they do not do the same thing to "Game of Thrones". Screw HBO.


                
The dialogue in this movie is, at times, so bad it makes Fast & Furious sound like Shakespeare. I'm not an expert, but I'm pretty sure people in the Old West didn't use the f-word in every other sentence. They certainly didn't shout "Hey f---nut!" I'm not squeamish, but it just sounds so anachronistic. Why go to the trouble of showing the filth and gore of the period and then have half the characters sound like they walked off the set of a straight-to-DVD mobster movie? Or maybe straight out of a meeting between the script writers and their agents? It's more Hollywood than Deadwood.Too many characters talk this way, not all, but enough to be wearying. In real life and in good fiction, different people sound different. The constant, modern profanity by so many is one of the reasons the characters in this series seem so similar and one-dimensional.Also, there's no comic relief at all. No, it's not a comedy, we don't need yuks. Still, every great writer from Dickens to David Chase uses humor -- a minor offbeat character or an absurd moment to leaven the seriousness and make even the darkest villains more human. Nothing doing here. Swearengen is no Tony Soprano. This show is unrelievedly dreary. I confess I didn't watch the entire series. I wanted to, because of all the great reviews, but I just couldn't.


                
I tried very hard to like and enjoy this series. The story line and plot had a lot of potential; however, the writers were so inept in their writing they had to resort to using vulgar, nasty, and offensive language, which seemed to be every other word. The language and nudity that was used was too unbelievable and made it difficult to follow the story line. I find it unbelievable that these well known people used that language and in that era. Maybe if it was set today in the intercity of most large cities or prison. It was a disgrace to portray these beloved characters from our past as nasty, vulgar scum. It was just for shock. I am disappointed in the wonderful actors who had to lower themselves to this type of film. I am not disputing the history or the facts, but remember Hollywood is known for exaggerating and taking liberties.


                
This is excrement - a new low for Hollywood in every respect. Not because it's built around saying f__k as often as possible. Because there's nothing else to it.The premise seems to be: you take characters from an 1800's (US) Western town and give them dialogue that is modern in language and pacing/ delivery. And occasionally you reverse a few words so that you get a classy Shakesperean-like sound eg. characters who have the barest command of English suddenly come out with "Wonder not I where at this hour goes she." and "This horse to stable and quick be." There's nothing whatsoever creative/ inventive/ interesting about it. Just meanness in the bad and in the good characters. It has the look and feel of the Sopranos (and all other tedious made-for-TV drama and soap operas): long pauses, heavy pronouncements, time-wasting shots of doors opening and closing, lots of head tilting, and lots more staring. But of course no real character development or plot: The characters tell us everything we need to know 2-3 times because we're too stupid to think and figure it out.In the end Western soap opera with strong language. Imagine in "Days ..." Shawn saying to Belle "You f_____ c___ ..." Think this is exaggeration? Watch the scene where bad guy Swearengen talks about his childhood while one of his hookers gives him oral sex; and listen to his instructions at the end of this event.The best though are special features on the DVD, especially the historical summary that has cast members talking about how it's, like, so realistic. It's especially galling to hear Milch explain how significant it all is. Deadwood isn't total cr*p because of the language. It's total cr*p because Milch thinks the language makes it something special. Yeah, really, what an amazing idea: have people say f___ all the time. Each time we watch TV like this we lose brain cells and diminish our ability to imagine.
"Horrible," and "realistic" are not the same thing. This show wants to shock people and call it gritty and real, but it's no more realistic than the "Saw," movies. We're supposed to think white outlaws would dismember victims to make it look like Indians did the deed, but Indians rarely did such things, certainly not in a rush on a frequently traveled road. How long would it take to saw through limbs with knives, anyway? In a town where men gun down other men in the street and no questions are asked, why would there be any concern about whether or not a small child had witnessed a murder or not? Even supposing that what she saw in the dark would have any credibility at all? There's no law in Deadwood, so there certainly wasn't going to be a trial where witnesses speak before a jury. That's just one of many silly plots.The people in this fictitious, unrealistic place bear no resemblance at all to what must have gone on in the real Deadwood. I'm sure Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane would have a good laugh, after they got over their surprise and shock, to hear the f-word used as an adjective instead of a noun, blasphemy go unremarked, women wearing their underwear in the saloon, skinny, sickly women considered attractive, and an almost complete absence of people with a normal, human sense of decency. Deadwood was without formal law but it wasn't the inner ring of Hell.For authenticity in westerns we have brilliant writers like Larry McMurtry and Charles Portis. This series seemed to have been written by a 16 year-old boy who happened to have read the Wikipedia on Deadwood and just loved to say bad words.


                
I watched the first season on HBO. It was a test of endurance. This series has about as much relationship to the real old West as a fish has to a bicycle -too many uncooth crudities to list, as if there weren't decent people with decent values who also lived in the West. Foul-mouthed beyond reason in even ordinary conversation, purely for its degenerate and vile shock value. Milch deserves an 'F' for his use of language. Not everyone needs its vile shock value to get a thrill out of life. Zero stars.


                
This script sounds like it was written by someone with Tourette's syndrome. Every other word is the F-bomb or something else. I don't mind it when it is strategically placed, but when it's every other word it distracts from any valuable dialogue in the script. Some of the actors/actresses seem to be trying too hard as well. I lost interest about 2/3 of the way into the first episode. I'm honestly surprised I made it that long. They probably get better, hopefully, but I'm not going to waste my time finding out.


                
What the he'll is this series wasted my time hoping to see something interesting 
It is such a shame to rate it 8.7
Max you should rate it 1 out of 10


                
