Absolutely superb. I don't think I've ever given anything a 10/10 before, but for a TV show, Deadwood is excellent - and given the crap we're generally subjected to on the box, absolutely outstanding. The sets, the research, the directing, the characters, the acting - all shine. And without wanting to sound gushy, the script is close to Shakespearian in its prosaic yet pragmatic tone. The juxtaposition of the grit and dirt and blood of the real 'Wild West' with formal Victorian language is genius. Even the opening credits are beautiful. It may not be everyone's cup of tea (the language and content can be a little 'strong' although entirely appropriate and in context) but anyone who's a fan of quality entertainment, shouldn't go past it.


                
Don't get me wrong, there have been great westerns to come before Deadwood, but none of them really got it right. There is just a reality that some people aren't willing to deal that after 50 years of our history being whitewashed through film and TV, we're finally starting to see the truth. David Milch has done his research and discovered the wonderfully bizarre contradiction of languages used in the old west. Watching the cast of Deadwood converse with a combination of old world English laced with profanity straight from the gutter is incredible and feels right for the first time. Where do people think our language came from? People always want to think that they were the first to do something, when things like profanity, substance abuse and prostitution have been around since before man walked erect.Along with the incredible dialog and storytelling, David Milch has introduced possibly the greatest character to ever come to TV or film...Al Swearengen. Ian McShane plays Al with the same intense conviction and truth that the character himself lives by. In Al's world things are black and white and never apologizes for a second for living his life by a strict code of morals of his own making. I don't think we've ever seen a character go from crying after a mercy killing to watching a murder he orchestrated stone faced. This is indeed a special show that is continuing to pave the way for the facts of our history to finally be told with truth...Instead of the whitewashing we've seen our whole lives to make us feel better about ourselves.


                
This stands out for me as one of the best series I have ever seen hit the small screen. The attention to detail,story and character is second to none. Deadwood is brought to life by the good, the bad and the very ugly- with some of the most wonderfully theatrically profane, but ultra-realistic dialogue of any western. True, you could question some of the dialogue for exactly how accurate it is to the time it is set- but it sounds absolutely convincing in the world they have managed to build. Lets face it- not too many Westerns even bothered all that much in the first place! The 3 series have impeccable standards of production, weaving some of the real historical events of the time into a fictional Old West testament. The degradation, ill manners, costumes, dirt, mud and profanities are all present and accounted for.Aside from the "real" characters we know of from Deadwood (Wild Bill Hickok, Calamity Jane and even the Sheriff Bullock), we have some of the most unsavoury villains of the time as well.The various stories, historical events and personal issues of the characters interweave with no discernible template or pattern to formalise the show. The only thing that is certain in the old West is that where the desire for excess, fortune and greed are combined, human nature will see to the rest.Stand out performances are plentiful in this series- but Ian McShane is incredible, a true tour-de-force, a foul-mouthed, back-stabbing bad ass villain- who manages to humanise a repellent character in Al Swearengen.As the series wore on, the writers broadened his character and nature a little more so it was unavoidable but to side with him- even agree with his nastiest ideas.This was not a compromise or sell-out of the principally dark natured and notoriously ill-tempered brothel owner! "Sparks" of humanity seem to have warmed his character, particularly from his confrontations with the flint-like moral code & core of Sheriff Bullock (Timothy Olyphant). However, even Bullocks is prone to questionable actions, as he wrestles with his own conscience to resolve things in a "civil" way, or resort to a pistol-whipping to get the job done.If you have never seen this- look out for repeats or go buy the box sets and enjoy the best Western experience ever made. My only regret is that its all over after 3 series (apart from a couple of 2 hour specials they plan to make to round it off.) Short but ever so sweet!!


                
I've been a fan of HBO since I saw Band of Brothers on Dutch television. Unfortunately, the Dutch television companies don't know anything about good programming. Most television series are cut short during the season so that the second part of the season can be shown the next year. Sometimes when they stop mid season, the rest of the episodes aren't shown at all and they start all over again. This is one of the reasons that I don't watch series on Dutch television. I usually rent or borrow the DVD's. Although we get to see most popular HBO series (Carnivàle, Sopranos, Six Feet Under) I never watch them on television. Although I'd never seen the show, I decided to buy the DVD after reading some reviews. Thank God I did!Deadwood is a very very good show. The setting of this drama is the town in the title. Deadwood is a town where there is no law and where anything goes. Seth Bullock, sheriff in Montana and his partner Sol Star, decide to leave Montana and depart for Deadwood after hanging their last prisoner. When arriving in Deadwood they set out to buy some property so that they can build their hardware store. Before they've actually purchased the ground, you've met all characters including E.B. Farnum (hotel owner), Wild Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane. This show's strong point is its character driven storyline. The characters are so well cast that you have no problem accepting them. The foul mouth of Al Swearengen, the short temper of Bullock or the preaching's of the reverend are features that you'll come to love. All characters have certain features that you love about them, even the bad guys. In addition, all characters have certain features you really hate, even the good guys. This show is so well written that you'll be on the edge of your seat with suspense or you'll be laughing your ass off because of the brilliant and funny lines. An example; Commissioner Jarry has been imprisoned to keep him safe from a mob. Calamity Jane is guarding him.Jarry: I'm thirsty! Jane: Lie on your back, take aim and p!ss!This show has so many great lines that it is hard to pick a favorite. One thing people might not like about the show is the amount of swearing. Some may think it's too much but I'm not bothered by the amount of swearing. Most great lines are delivered with a couple of swear words and yes you'll get used to the swearing and I found myself even using some of them on my friends... Euhmm, anyway, about the language, some may also have problems following the show because of the use of Western Period English. My native tongue is Dutch and although my English is pretty good (don't have to watch movies with subs :P) I had a hard time following the show without the English subtitles. I don't have problems with the English itself, but a lot of the dialogue is very specific for the period. Words like, Hooplehead, Squarehead and sentences like "My bicycle masters boardwalk and quagmire with aplomb" got me stumped for a while. Just turn on the subtitles or you might miss some of the amazing dialogue.One last thing about this show. The last episode of season 1 has to be the best finale to a season I've ever seen! Sold Under Sin is so good you'll certainly shed a tear.This show is brilliant! Just, brilliant!10 out of 10 stars.


                
First off, the Western is my favorite film genre, however "Deadwood" transcends that genre so completely that it seems like a new one altogether. If you can, try to get your hands on the Season I DVD set with the special features disc. I was surprised to learn that many of the main and supporting characters beyond Wild Bill and Calamity were in fact also based on real life people. Al Swearengen ran an operation that took in between four and six thousand dollars a night, while other notables with a true history include Doc Cochran and the Reverend Henry Smith. Though the story playing out in the series is often a product of creator David Milch's 'imaginative reality', that in no way lessens it's impact as a narrative of the Dakotas and it's overly rich history of villainy, debauchery and profanity.Deadwood itself grew from a small mining camp to ten thousand inhabitants in a dizzying matter of three months in 1873. Word of a substantial ore find literally led to the phrase 'there's gold in them thar hills', creating an endless stream of immigrants to the Badlands. The territory itself was relegated to the Sioux Indians, and the U.S. Government was supposed to keep settlers out. But as everyone knows, money talks.With a series so rich in characters and story lines, it's hard to pick a favorite. Backed against the wall I'd have to pick Brad Dourif's portrayal as Doc Cochran as my own choice, but that's today. Individual episodes offer stunning performances by William Sanderson as E.B. Farnum and Robin Weigert as Calamity Jane. Of course, series stars Timothy Olyphant and Ian McShane have rewritten the rule book for Western heroes and villains with their portrayals. It's too bad Keith Carradine couldn't hang around more than four episodes as Wild Bill Hickok, but he drew those darn aces and eights in Deadwood.Not for the squeamish or faint of heart, "Deadwood" remains true to the gritty origins in the mud, blood, manure and urine of it's namesake. Prepare to be shocked, terrified and at times even amused, but most of all, watch "Deadwood" to experience one of the most unique television events ever created.
What an amazing landmark achievement in television. A superb cast, for the most part, with fantastic writing, wonderful delivery and an unrivalled marriage of diligent research with stellar writing and a tour de force performance from a cast of moderately accomplished actors and true class outfits, of which McShane is the standout beacon.As I arrive midpoint through season 2 my biggest gripe is the casting of Garret Dillahunt, for me the most over-rated and overused television actor of his generation. Season 2 would have been so much improved and enjoyable had this no-mark's character been cast with greater care, as his performance was absolutely the wrong side of mediocre, an enormous crime given the acting talent available for such a lauded endeavour.Anyway, I digress. It seems to me the noughties has emerged as a golden era for great television, and I would put forward Deadwood as the cream of the crop, surpassing even The Wire in its achievements. Milch was already a legend before turning his attention to this project. Take a bow, son!!


                
Don't like westerns? It really doesn't matter. Deadwood's producer / writer / resident armchair philosopher David Milch tosses every genre cliché out the window. Deadwood is a dirt-encrusted, visceral affair that depicts what real life was like in one of the most infamous old western mining camps during the late-19th century, and due to Milch's resplendently detailed writing, the show manages to use the Deadwood camp as a microcosm of the American experience.The show goes from strength to strength, really. I've already mentioned the writing, but the dialog in particular deserves far more mention than it gets. It's Shakespearean. It has a beautiful pentameter. And it racks up about five F-bombs, S-bombs, or C-bombs a sentence. Much has been made of the profanity, but after watching each season about four times through, the profanity is one of the show's least memorable qualities. It's the texture of the characters, the setting, the haunting Oscar-worthy cinematography that ultimately keep drawing the viewer in to discover new layers.Most shows, even GREAT shows are good for perhaps one or two viewings of each episode. Deadwood is like a detailed wood engraving. You just keep discovering new, masterful strokes in the dialog and plot and it just leads to repeated viewings.Don't expect archetypes. Every character is awash with subtlety and nuance. No upright, unbending law dogs striking cheesy poses or mustache-twirling robber barons tying busty wenches to the train tracks. There are only different shades of black in Deadwood. Even 'His Holiness' Sheriff Seth Bullock (Tim Olyphant) has perhaps the darkest side of anyone on the show. While Al Swearengen (Ian McShane) engages in plenty of open bloodletting yet showcases perhaps the widest range of humanity on the show. Cy Tolliver (Power Boothe) is perhaps even more ruthless, yet is similarly humanized by his longing for the affections of a whore in his employ and by his own self-hatred. I could go on and on. I have probably recommended this show to every single person I've ever met. It's no stretch at all to call it the best show in TV history.


                
I rewatch it and am astounded every time. Just a fantastic show.


                
Deadwood is my favorite television drama of all time. I can't think of another show with such depth, complexity and humanity. Throughout its original run I was consistently surprised and impressed. I return to the series every few years, and my fondness for it just grows. Every performance on this show is a revelation. It has the most consistently talented ensemble cast I've ever seen. My only regret is that it was cancelled before it came to a proper resolution.


                
HBO's 'Deadwood' is such a remarkable achievement from 'NYPD Blue' creator, David Milch. It's a down and dirty western with enough grit and f-word usage to give an old lady a heart attack. Many people attack 'Deadwood' for being too inappropriate and offensive, and especially hate the continuous obscenities spewing from the creeps of Deadwood's mouths. But, David Milch would tell you to calm down because back then in mining towns people talked like that all the time. He's correct, and that is one of the numerous things that make 'Deadwood' so authentic and brilliant.'Deadwood' was a small mining town in the 1870's that attracted those hoping to make a fortune, and those looking to escape the law (since the town of Deadwood had no law). In the series we meet Seth Bullock (Timothy Olyphant) who comes to the mining town after leaving the position as Sheriff in South Dakota. He takes his deputy, Sol Starr (John Hawkes) with him and they embark to this town. In Deadwood, there is many characters such as Wild Bill Hickok (Keith Carradine), Calamity Jane (Robin Weigert - Emmy Nominee), Al Swearegen (Ian McShane - Golden Globe Winner), Trixie (Paula Malcolmson), E.B. Farnum (William Sanderson), Dan Dority (W. Earl Brown), Cy Tolliver (Powers Boothe), Doc Cochran (Brad Dourif - Emmy Nominee), A.W. Merrick (Jeffrey Jones), Tom Nutall (Leon Rippy), Jack McCall (Garrett Dillahunt), Ellsworth (Jim Beaver), Johnny Burns (Sean Bridges), Reverend A.W. Smith (Ray McKinnon), Charlie Utter (Dayton Callie), Joannie Stubbs (Kim Dickens), Eddie Sawyer (Ricky Jay) and Bullock's love interest, the widow Alma Garrett (Molly Parker).The acting is outstanding, and 'Deadwood' boasts the best ensemble cast on television currently. Timothy Olyphant gives perhaps his best performance to date as the hero of the show, Sheriff Seth Bullock. Brad Dourif is magnificent as Doc Cochran, and Robin Weigert always steals scenes with her portrayal as Calamity Jane. Keith Carradine did the very best Wild Bill Hicock I've ever seen, and Powers Boothe provides a great loath-able character. Molly Parker and Paula Malcolmson play their roles with dead-on intensity, but by far the most amazing actor in the cast is Ian McShane. He gives such a ferocious, incendiary and amazing performance as Al Swearegen the nasty criminal saloon owner, that he takes the place as the best actor performing in television currently. McShane received a Golden Globe Award and damn well deserved it for his haunting and brooding portrayal as one of Deadwood's most notorious historical inhabitants.The show is still running strong mid-way through it's second season (the second season is even more provocative then the first). There are new actors on the show now including Alice Krige, Anna Gunn, Titus Welliver, Garret Dillahunt (in a different role as George Hearst's #1 man who is a crazed businessman who kills hookers), and a rumored Helen Mirren, who is said to have a part towards the end of this season. 'Deadwood' is an outstanding program, and a perfect addition to HBO's lineup. Buy the first season on DVD, and be sure to catch new episodes of Season 2 Sunday night at 9:00. Grade: A
I'd been hearing about Deadwood from my friends for some time and figured they must be wrong; nothing could be that good. Guess what?... I was wrong! Deadwood is without doubt the most enjoyable series I have ever watched. It's gritty, course, violent and foul, that's what makes it great. I have a brother who worked in mining camps in Canada in the 1970's. When one camp was being struck they found three bodies of guys that had never been missed! He reckons Deadwood is right on the mark. The quality of script and acting is top-shelf. The fact that (allowing for the necessary poetic license needed ) it is a true story makes it absolutely fascinating. I have no hesitation in recommending this wonderful series to anyone.


                
This is an amazingly brilliant TV series. Nearly all the performances are utterly convincing (the only serious exception for me is Powers Boothe), the dialogue is fantastic, plot fascinating, sets and filming terrific and music totally absorbing. I love westerns (post-Wayne mainly), but I reckon that this would appeal to anyone with an interest in great performances and serious drama dealing with universal themes... provided you have a strong stomach for cussing, of course.I'd rate this with The Sopranos in terms of overall quality and with just about any Hollywood movie. Obviously, the much greater length means that a TV series can develop plot and characters much more than is possible in a movie, but the production values of this series are easily on a par with most movies.My favourite character is the smouldering Seth Bullock (Timothy Olyphant is a revelation in this role), although there are many other fine characters. Most irritating is E B Farnum (also very well performed).


                
Highly entertaining, very authentic and (for the most part) historically accurate. One example of David Milch's use of creative license: historians say that Seth Bullock didn't arrive in Deadwood until the day before Wild Bill Hickok was murdered (holding aces and eights) in 1876, where in the series Bullock and Hickok had days or weeks to develop a friendship.You read right, folks: Wild Bill and Calamity Jane Canary aren't the only actual people being portrayed here. Al Swearengen (and The Gem) were quite real, as were "Colorado" Charlie Utter, Sol Star, W.E. Adams and others including, of course, Seth Bullock. (Anyone interested in the history of Deadwood might want to start by looking at http://adamsmuseumandhouse.org, but I offer that link -- not this post, just the link -- with a low grade "spoiler warning", because the actual history of Deadwood is probably going to be a large part of where the series goes in the future.)


                
deadwood is quite possibly one of the greatest shows ever made. every thing from the cast to the sets and props are astounding. having watched all three seasons i can give my final rating on this show. there's one fatal flaw with the show and that is it isn't finished ! when i reached the end of season 3 i was gagging for more. i do think HBO should open the show for a final fourth season just to wrap things up, the show deserves it. other than that the show is brilliant, certainly shows you that HBO is willing to put a lot of money into there shows.the show isn't really for the faint hearted..... the bad language, sex and violence is really intense but thats one of the reasons why the shows so amazing. it shows a very dark and gritty vision of the western period. another thing that should be said is the leads in this show are flawless..... Ian mcshane, timothy olyphant, powers boothe and brad dourif really give career defining performances. the whole cast kept me glued.if you haven't seen this show yet then id assure you to get it on DVD or find it on TV, you'll be hooked.10/10 j.d seaton


                
A gritty look at the late nineteenth century mining town of Deadwood. This is one of the best shows I have seen in years, another HBO hit (it seems they can do no wrong). A few words of caution however, very strong language and the violence is fairly rife, which may bother some people. That aside, this is a cracking show. Visually, it is stunning, and the diverse range of characters helps to add to a feeling of realism, and also that those who made the show really went out of their way to create a town as accurate as possible. The dialogue is also very strong, while peppered with strong language, you never get the feeling that it is gratuitous, as many of the stronger words are used just as conversationally as any others. Check this show out, there are three seasons, get the first for under £20, and see what you think.


                
Please tell me this isn't over yet! This is the best Western I have ever seen and my favorite show. Please tell me it isn't over! There was no closure in the last episode. You portrayed Hearst as the perfect villain and the town of Deadwood became unified to stand against him. He can't just ride out of town and the show ends. In the last episode there were 150 armed Chinese, 22 hired guns, a midget with a knife and the citizens of Deadwood ready for battle. It can't end like this! Please tell me Hearst is coming back to Deadwood and there is going to be a dramatic ending! Do something! I want to see more. Have another season. It can't end like this. Hearst has to be eliminated. Please work out something! It can't end like this.


                
This is simply the best Television drama I have ever seen.There is not a single character in the whole series that one should like (they are all horrible people in some way or another) and yet I love them all. There is not one single bad (or even mediocre) performance from anyone. it is truly remarkable.I have only just watched this (in 2015) but it is by far and away the best thing I have EVER seen (in 50+ years of watching TV shows and movies). It is so good that I watched the first series straight off the bat in one hit and since then I have been rationing myself to one episode a day - just because I know there is a finite number and little chance of ever seeing any more. (Or the mythical final two specials).Wonderful stuff.


                
After rave reviews by friends we eventually got around to viewing this. Took a couple of episodes to get into but now we are hooked! Wonderful characterisation and stories and mostly based on fact. Wanted to download on Amazon Prime BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE SUBTITLES (which you do need if your hearing isn't perfect) so had to borrow the box set from friends. Loss of revenue Amazon...


                
Ever made for television other than Lonesome Dove. Marcel has not watched Lonesome Dove but I've heard it is quite the masterpiece, that being said Deadwood is definitely one of the better shows out of every show ever put on television in my opinion. I watch quite a bit of television and I prefer Television over movies. I have to explain to you what a show this actually is I am watching all 3 seasons for the 4th time right now because you cannot in anyway don't you have been able to retain everything the first time. You can watch it again and again and again and it will only become better as you watch it. I hope this review let you know what a spectacular program you are going to end up watching.


                
Crazy addicting, even for the 2nd or 3rd binge. Not sure why they stopped filming.


                
Deadwood is important to watch for all those who love storytelling, as it is meant to be. It is a stage-kind of setting, where time and space (ruthless Wild West) are in battle with human conditions, such as the search for a moral foundation, on which a society can be build and human consciousness can flourish. This battle never ends in moralizing dialogues/situations, since the characters grow purely within the confines of what is possible in humans of their time. So, this tale makes you wander about the human system, in which Wrong sometimes comes from the deep and profound search for the Good, or even more mysterious: from the realization that Growth's only condition is Change... and not Good per se.Deadwood deals with that not easy to understand aspect of evolution.


                
If you want an antidote to the overblown and hyped up garbage that poisons the box nowadays then David Milch's "Deadwood" is sure to be the perfect remedy. Milch's scope is nothing short of breathtaking, coupled with absolutely brilliant writers and the fantastic direction (Walter Hill did a great job with the pilot) this show stands head and shoulders above practically everything else on TV.The real ace up the sleeve for "Deadwood" though lies in it's characters, all of whom are developed to the point where it's seemingly impossible not to care about them despite how you may feel. Performances are also almost uniformly excellent with special praise having to be given to a select few who really take acting to new extremes.Ian McShane in particular stands out as the charismatic and ruthless "villian" of the piece Al Swearengen, right up there with Tony Soprano as one of the greatest television characters of all time. McShane absolutely knocks it out of the park, taking Al's initial despicable nature whilst gradually adding layers of humanity to create a spellbinding performance.William Sanderson also excels as the sleazy yet compelling E.B. Farnum, a strange character who haunts his scenes with a foreboding and sometimes unwanted presence that becomes uncomfortable when the viewer is unaware of his intentions, an incredible performance.Finally Garrett Dillahunt gives a tour de force as not one but TWO characters, both of which couldn't be more different from each other, Dillahunt grunges himself down and completely disappears into both roles to a frighteningly convincing degree. First of those being the infamous Jack McCall, Dillahunt captures the insecure and ruthless nature of the assassin with a perfect balance, chewing up his scenes with a delightfully overstated performance. He perfectly underplays his second character however and gives an equally terrific performance as the cutthroat Francis Wolcott, with an intimidating presence and an educated outlook (which was an intimidation of it's own back then) he yet again steals most of his scenes.The most important character however is ultimately Deadwood itself, starting as a tiny prospector's camp the small settlement flourishes and grows along with the characters before your very eyes throughout the series as law and order comes to Deadwood, as the characters decrease in power and status, Deadwood rises.One of the best shows to have ever been put on our screens, then the gremlins who supposedly know "good shows" went and cancelled it, they did the same thing with Arrested Development (which ironically also lasted only three seasons with talk of a film soon) guess the idiots in charge decided people wanted to see more Skins and CSI on the tube instead.10/10...Like a great novel.


                
Deadwood captures the heart, spirit and soul of the Wild West.Like metal to a magnet, I was drawn into the story line and the characters who build this compelling story of the drive to survive against all odds . Deadwood pushes the envelope from the opening moments capturing its viewers from the outset through dialog and circumstance with an ever tightening grip as the storyline progresses.The casting is mind blowing ... each delivering a totally credible performance. The array and linkage of characters portrayed broaden Deadwood's appeal to the extent that most ,in their moment and for a variety of reasons, become "your favorite character" at one time or another. And, attention to detail,detail,detail!


                
Even if your not a western fan this show might still be for you. A tale of the South Dakota gold rush, but thats only a mere background for the story. You will watch characters your grandfather always told you about like Wild Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane as well as Seth Bullock. Ian McShane who stars as Al Swearengen. After watching 3-4 episodes Ian McShane immediately rocketed to my top 5 actors merely for his role on this show. Yes this show does have a few "goofs" as you call them in vocabulary, but who cares, why be nit picky. If continuous drinking, gambling, cursing, or prostitution may offend you, then this show is definitely not for you. Give Deadwood a shot and you will be hooked, the worst part is waiting until next week for another episode. HBO has yet again created another great show.


                
Just when I was starting to lose all faith in American television, which I have followed closely, since my days as a toddler, I saw one of the first episodes of Deadwood, and immediately I was hooked. The characters are great, the story is superb, not to mention the twists and turns and constant reinvention of the show itself! The last few years have been quite desolate, as far as greatness in TV-shows go.. The last great TV-show I was a major fan of was the X-Files, whilst Mulder still was in it. Having almost abandoned American programming, Deadwood gave me hope for a triumphant return of quality TV! If it sounds to unbelievable that this show has all these qualities, then I urge you to watch it yourself and then prove me wrong. Bet you can'tThe only possible downside to Deadwood was its short lifespan, only about 3 seasons I hear, but with the imminent return of Deadwood in the form of 2 2-hour specials, I am confident that the conclusion won't leave me wanting!Christ, I'm even starting to talk like them! :D


                
