If you want to experience the – real – old west first hand, look no further; you'll find it in 'Deadwood'. There has never been a show or a film that came as close to showing what life must have been like in those lawless young towns that got built nearly over night wherever gold was found. A magnet for all kind of fortune seekers (gold diggers, whores, outlaws – but also settlers who were just hoping to build a better life), the town of Deadwood was notorious even by the standards of the time. In the show, this "cesspool of vice" is brought back to life with great attention to historical detail. You'll find no romanticised view of pioneers who lived and died by "the code of honour", but real people whose moral standards are – in most cases – murky at best. And the world they inhabit is a rough, dirty, violent place where only the fiercest – and the most cunning – survive. As far as the historical characters depicted in the show are concerned, the writers naturally had to take some liberties (after all, nobody knows exactly who said or did what at the time), but the depiction of the era and the historical background are very accurate. Yet this is not a history lesson; it's an immensely entertaining western-show blessed with some of the best writers and actors working in television and film today – and especially the cast of 'Deadwood' really can't get enough praise: there is not a single performance here that isn't excellent. Of course, the one who steals the show is Ian McShane. His Al Swearengen is one of the most morally complex and fun-to-watch characters I've ever seen (and he misses absolutely no opportunity to show you just what the first five letters in "SWEAR-engen" stand for). The power-struggles in Deadwood he is involved in – and since he wants to maintain his position at the top of the food-chain he's involved in all of them – are equalled in complexity and entertainment value only by those in top-notch shows like 'Game of Thrones', 'House of Cards' or 'Breaking Bad'. And the lengths Al is willing to go to achieve his goals secure him a place in the top ten of "all-time great bad-asses".So my verdict: While certainly not for the easily offended or those who prefer a "sanitized version" of the old west, 'Deadwood' offers a fascinating look at a time we mostly know from myths and legends and gives us a chance to revisit those and see them from a different angle. Great, intelligent and informative entertainment. 9 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Three seasons do not seem to be a short term for a TV show. Look at other shows like Firefly who didn't even get that much time on air. But as with some of the other shows, after this is over, you'll be wanting more. And it is obvious that there was more planned, but it is very doubtful if this ever sees the light of day (maybe in a comic book/graphic novel incarnation).Having said all that, one of the greatest things about this show is its dialog. It is written wonderfully, unless you have an issue with swearing of course. And the way the characters express themselves is something to cherish. One of the most amazing screen characters is Mr. Al Swearengen (or Swengen or something similar as one other fellow calls him too). This might be a role of a lifetime for Ian McShane who is simply mesmerizing, whatever your feelings are towards the character.The pacing might seem (and actually is) a bit slow for some, but if you stick around, you'll be treated. And it's not the ending most people would want, but as I stated earlier, there was more to come. So this Western, with a touch of Aristocracy peppered with a lot of swearing and some odd shooting here and there, is fine dish indeed


                
This was a series not to be forgotten! Very adult for its time. Really put you in the vibe of a Western ye-olde time where gangsters and prostitution was rampant and the norm.


                
I started watching Deadwood a year ago and I was instantly hooked after the first episode. I consumed all three seasons in a month. This series is very addictive, the writing is superb and the connections between the characters are delicately crafted. It is also (as far as I can tell) historically correct and well researched. However -- this is one of the more adult series that HBO has produced. I would say almost all HBO shows are rated R but Deadwood is particularly violent and crass.In particular, characters such as Al and Jane cannot produce a sentence containing less than six cuss words. There is, of course, plenty of sexual content, like most HBO dramas. Deadwood in an odd way, is heartwarming. There are a lot of well developed characters that are unlikely heroes and there are little acts of kindness and loyalty between the characters that makes them seem very real. That is, if you can get past all the violence.Overall, Deadwood is a classic for sure. I would recommend it.


                
Impressive, great character development, highly immersive interplay. It will transport you back though time to meet the real old west. You will be able to smell the manure in the air and be delighted at the same time. This show could be a benchmark for quality air time. Never the less, the show's production does suffer from one disease, the most common one. It accustoms you to a high level of excitement and awe during the first season and then suddenly drops to a pointless lingering about, in other words it seems to be getting stretched needlessly filling the space with empty dialog that serves only to prolong the show, only to commercialize on it. If compressed to about 20 episodes or so it would be a full time mind cocsucking blower.


                
DEADWOOD became quite overlooked at both the Emmy and Golden Globe awards, though it saw Ian McShanan anchoring his Al Swearengen an Golden Globe statue this series should proudly have strutted more awards after its three years run. You won't find a better TV-drama than this, surely we've seen Sopranos-commercial success and Six Feet Under's bizarre and highly original pull-offs, but Deadwood has an edge and guts that's truly, truly remarkable - the character performances for one thing is gold, Swearengen (the leading gusto) is nothing but stunning, his barbarous methods may be devil-sent, but his vision is even stronger as he staves off chaos controlling Deadwood. And although like other HBO-series say Sopranos or even more promptly, the Wire, the show is a slow-burning affair, the episodes are languorosly as they talk and talk, discuss, push & pull - but the narrative moves are so perfectly placed that it doesn't get boring for a single second. All of the Deadwood-citizens are making way for politics, education and culture, law & order doesn't steer Deadwood with its firm hand - Deadwood itself does, anarchy in a western-civilization in which everyone avoids chaos, but chaos is inevitable. Throughout its three seasons we see the Gold Rush Dakota-setting going from its giddy to its change of time, the Great West changing course. You faint of heart, cover your ears and shut your eyes - live fast, die young - Deadwood's in town.
It is understandable that DEADWOOD is not for every viewer, the treatment of women, children and men - regardless of size, shape and color - is often violent or at the least brutal, heartlessness abounds and a pretty picture it does not make. The only thing is, it is done so well you are impelled to watch some more, the characters so convincingly portrayed that even though a great deal of fictional license is taken in portraying historical figures, the feel and sense of the place and the people who lived there seem real. The entire production is of the highest quality no matter what aspect might be considered. And because we intuitively know that this phase of America's history is based on violence and brutality, lawlessness and heartlessness did abound and this does not fit well into the self-image that the so-called Heartland so cherishes. Despite some stiff competition, from Sopranos to Six Feet Under, there is probably no show on television which shows Americans and their sense of family and community better than Deadwood. Hopefully HBO will continue to produce such quality writing.


                
I just finished binge watching this show after years of meaning to. I've never been a fan of Westerns, though I can no longer claim that. Since I'm a Fear the Walking Dead fan, and two of the actors from that are in Deadwood, I figured this was probably a good time to watch it.I LOVED this show! It was so well-made I felt I could actually feel what it must've been like living in those times. Not only were the sets incredible and the costumes out of this world, but the lighting through the whole thing made me keenly aware throughout the entire thing, that they did NOT have electricity. Now, as far as the acting...Robin Weigert as Calamity Jane was probably the single most entertaining performance in a show I've ever experienced. Hilarious, pitiful, brilliant...for me the show would've been good without her, but it wouldn't have been par excellence. What a chameleon that actress is! All the other actors were good, too, and believable in their roles. Tricky giving Garret Dillahunt two separate rolls, possibly thinking no one would notice, but I did right away. I almost thought it was three roles, since Jeff Cahill, who played Crop Ear, looks very similar to Dillahunt. So hoping there really is going to be a movie!


                
Deadwood may be the first TV show (or anything for that matter) that has shown that it can have a ridiculous amount of foul language yet still be one of the most tasteful, classy and smart shows there is. It is filled with original and brilliantly written characters that bring out the greatness of the show. As it is essentially a character drama chronicling the evolution of the camp of Deadwood and its inhabitants, it needs to have rich characterization and lovable or love-to-hate-able characters, which it has aplenty. From the ruthless saloon owners Al Swearengen and Cy Tolliver to the strong-willed prostitutes Trixie and Joanie, the law-bringers turned hardware store owners Seth Bullock and Sol Star to the outlaws Wild Bill Hickok and Calamity Jane, every character is simply fantastic. And this is only a few of the characters. One of the best things about the show is that everything is rooted in history.Granted, some aspects are added for the sake of storytelling, but for the most part the characters were real people who went through the same events depicted in the series. It amuses me that a show's storyline can be spoiled by learning history.Also, there's the dialogue. The dialogue in Deadwood is nothing short of masterful. I have seen it often being compared to Shakespeare, and whilst this show has a more modern sound than his work, it has a very poetic quality to it. This comparison is generally attributed to the character of Al Swearengen, who is acted to perfection by Ian McShane.That brings me to the acting. Now I am fairly new to the wonders of TV drama (I'm 15), but it has been great that with every new show I watch I can see a new cast of actors I've never heard of before bring their characters to life better than many big actors could. Deadwood easily has one of the best ensembles that I've seen. It would be hard to list standouts (apart from maybe Ian McShane) as every actor is just as brilliant as each other.I wasn't even a fan of westerns before this (the closest I've gotten before now would probably be Back to the Future Part 3) but I can't deny the greatness of this show. And all this praise is only for the first season. It thrills me that the other two are considered even better than the first.


                
This is a great drama. The characters, based of historical figures, all feel real, with their own little stories and background. The two main characters, Seth Bullock, who is the sheriff who tries his best to keep law and order, and Al Swearengen, the cutthroat, owner of the local saloon,are the highlights, they are played by superb actors, who fit in their roles perfectly. The rest of the cast is also great as well in their roles, no matter how big or small. The dialogue and script is perfectly written. It is complex, but it is understandable. The actors say their lines with ease and add emotion to them, in whatever situation they may be in. The story is well written, not just having one huge story, just the lives of the characters interlocked with each other. It gives the audience a great insight into their lives, while also learning about the town. The setting is very well done. The town of Deadwood is brilliantly recreated, and the cinematography is superb. The writers took great care and research to make this living and breathing town, and it paid of. Overall, Deadwood is a brilliant drama to ever hit TV.


                
This series pioneered gritty western TV series. It has all the sex, violence and drama you could want from a modern adult series. Could have gone on longer. See it if you haven't


                
When I first started watching this I could not understand what the big deal was. The intensity of the bad language and number of unlikeable characters. A few episodes in and I'm hooked. You start liking the characters you hated initially as you learn about their past, motives, fears and aspirations. A brilliant piece from opening credits to closing.
Spoiler alert
I'd give this a ten, but I can't as they abruptly ended the series. You don't see the real bad guy get justice. I do hope they make a movie to tie all loose ends, though it's been many years now. The wise quotes by "Al" Swearengen are hard hitting, direct and insightful. Worth googling.
The first time I watched Deadwood was on HBO in a motel. I was hooked. The writing for this show is nothing short of incredible...and the characters are frightening and engaging at the same time. Robin Weigert's Calamity Jane is, I believe, the best role for a woman in decades. She wanders drunkenly through the town like some sort of profane one-woman Greek chorus, her soliloquies are really astounding. I watched each episode in anticipation of her appearance. Although all the dialogue is stunning, hers is the most cogent. It is a shame this was discontinued, but it would have been a shame to see this series deteriorate. This is one series I will own as a set.


                
Al Swearengen, a rough, sarcastic saloon owner, but with a heart that he tries to hide. Seth Bullock, a former Marshal trying to run a hardware business. Alma Garret, the lovely wife (widow) of a New York businessman who came seeking his fortune out west (and got more than he could handle.) Trixie, Al's best whore, but one you don't wanna mess with. P.T. Barnum, a weaselly little hotel manager always into town gossip. These are just a few of the many, diverse personalities who inhabit the South Danoka, Mining town of Deadwood in this extraordinary HBO series from David Milch (LAPD Blue). One of the differences between TV and movies, is that with TV, plot can often be of little or no interest. Deadwood is purely about it's characters, and quite frankly it wouldn't have worked any other way. Leading the cast is Ian Macshane, in one of Cable TV's best performances. One could argue that he steals the show, but it's not like he totally upstages everyone else. All the cast pulls their weight, aided by a handful of skilled, writers who have done their history homework.You'll know this is something special once you see the pilot. Take a trip to South Dakota west to Deadwood, and you'll see a new kind of Wild Wild West


                
DEADWOOD: A CURIOUSLY CAPTIVATING NARRATIVEDeadwood was a weekly Western on HBO from 2004 to 2006. Its thirty-six episodes are still available on demand at this time. I now offer a belated exposition of this amazing show, all the while trying to mimic its linguistic style:One of the production's highly entertaining facets is the scribes' efforts to render the actors' locutions and axioms as veritable as possible to the prevailing linguistic discourse of the epoch and the locale in question - namely the Wild West of the 1870s. The consequence is a consummate admixture of disproportionate profanity blended with esoteric and convoluted speechifaction such as what you, dear reader, are experiencing whilst reading the present phrase.I cannot gauge whether the featured linguistic style veritably reflects reality and the prevailing nomenclature of that era, as I was not present, but it is most engaging. As to the ubiquitous use of obscenities by the protagonists, I shall revisit this affair in a moment.The reviews of Deadwood were unanimously rave. Consult for example IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes. It garnered multiple Emmy and Golden Globe awards. It has been designated "the greatest TV show ever."I do not acquiesce in such hyperbole, but I do assign Deadwood a high rating. Each installment's conclusion is poignant, as is the music.The series portrays the savage, venal, lawless, anarchic, perilous and chaotic existence in the no-man's land which South Dakota was during the 1870s, in the aftermath of Colonel Custer's undoing at the battle of Little Bighorn. Speaking concisely, Deadwood is a hell hole. It is a lawless camp to which malfeasants and renegades flock in search of gold and riches, driven by cupidity and rapacity. Women are vilely oppressed. The value of a prostitute's life is less than that of a horse. The underclass finds repose in opiates and other narcotics. Murder and butchery are quotidian. There are many villains and few heroes. Most people's domiciles, vestments and repasts are rudimentary. Reading and ciphering skills are sparse. Many toil under deadly maladies.The premier personage in this captivating narration is a Swearengen, most capably enacted by the Irelander Ian McShane. This personage is the camp's "boss." Other preeminent figures from the firmament of history include the august Wild Bill Hickok ( one of the few virtuous personas) and Calamity Jane - a peregrinating and yet endearing alcoholic. We also encounter George Hearst, the progenitor of newspaper tycoon William Randolph. George is a nefarious individual who commissions a multitude of murders. To appeal him is to summon trouble. The composition of the camp's populace is worthy of remark: Naturally, the juncture being 1876, most people are of European vintage. For example, there are numerous "Cornish" mine workers. Equally well represented is the Chinese race. A sprinkling of Negroes and a Jew ensure that the diversity of Deadwood is well explicated on the whole. There is, however, a perplexing lacuna: No autochthonous Amerindians appear anywhere in the narrative. This absence is puzzling, in light of the epoch and the locale which are portrayed.Now let me revisit the concern of profanities: The frequency of uttered obscenities by the protagonists seems incalculable. Two locutions are used with abandon: "fuck" (and its derivatives) and "cocksucker." It has been deemed that the word "fuck" arises about three thousand times in this production, which is tantamount to 1.56 times per minute lapsed. The rationale for this, so the miniseries' scribes aver, was to replicate for the audience the stridulent ambiance of the epoch. However, it is my assessment that the hyperbolic usage of blasphemous language depreciates the narrative and diverts us from it. Not everyone in Deadwood is a miscreant. For example, Sheriff Seth Bullock, ably staged by Tim Olyphant, valiantly endeavors to uphold the rule of law, through valor and sagacity.Yet one poses in vain any parallel between this miniseries and the classic The Man who Shot Liberty Valance,(1962). That picture's maxim was the transformation of the lawless frontier into civilized society. The difference reflects two contrasting Zeitgeists: half a century ago, optimism reigned, as did our faith in the ultimate triumph of civilization. Today, we are ruled by trepidation about the future and about our ability to root out evil.


                
It has become almost a rule for me to watch whatever HBO throws my way, at least when the subject interests me in the least. I'm no western fan ordinarily, but then again HBO usually doesn't deal in the ordinary. And "Deadwood" is like nothing else.That being said i can admit to enjoying this show very much. It took me a while to warm up to it though, most of the first season actually. But when i did i really warmed up to it. I would now rate this among the finest TV-productions in later years. My personal favorite will always be "Six Feet Under", but this is not as far behind as i thought it would be.First of all i appreciate that this is a really "dirty" version of the west. Whether people spoke the way they do in this show i don't know, if they did i'm glad that we have changed since then. This has to be the most foul-mouthed thing on TV. Also there is violence, sex and practicing of the other mortal sins in abundance. Does it make the show feel more genuine? Most of the time it does. However the thing that brought me to the flock of admirers in this case was not the language, the filth or the exquisite production values. No, like so many times before with HBO it was the casting. It's flawless. Ian McShane as Al Swearengen has to be one of the most imposing screen presences in later years. Powers Boothe has been one of my personal favorites for years and here he really comes into his own. Orbiting these two giants are a cast of well-picked and well-performing actors that underlines the attention to detail that HBO always seems to put into their shows. So while the production values and the whole atmosphere opened the door, it was the actors that brought me in.There is just so much quality to "Deadwood" that i would recommend it to anyone, perhaps especially to people who have previously not been that interested in the Western-theme. This might just be the one to win you over.


                
A very good series that casts a bright light on the western side of the past of the US and that explains a lot what the USA is today. We are after the Civil War in what is a territory at first and it is later on part of a county that is finally attached to South Dakota.The series shows how wild it was at the beginning and how it became more or less legal, legit, law-abiding, orderly, with a lot of time. In such a city with a gold rush going on you have many stores and institutions that would not be even tolerated beyond the city limits in most American cities; Bars, saloons, brothels, gambling halls, and many other more or less immoral activities.Firearms are the daily friends of most men and women and killing someone is just a small event in such a camp. A Chinese community lives and prospers next to it, doing all kinds of tasks for the hotels, bars, and other stores, as well as for the residents: laundry of course but also dirty jobs like getting rid of dead bodies by raising pigs as body-disposals that will end up on the breakfast plates of the people.What the film is built on is some contradictions among some types of people. The gold rush attracts the lowest people you can imagine and even if you have a good imagination you may not come to some cases easily. You will imagine racism is the daily rule, and you will be right for some people and you will wonder why on earth black people would come to such cities. The Chinese are different because they seem to prosper within this ever-present racism by making themselves indispensable, but they cannot use the front doors of stores and they have to remain hidden as much as possible. But imagine the profit of being paid for giving a dead or nearly dead body to their pigs and then selling the bacon to all these nice white people who are cannibals without knowing it.In the city, authority is in the hands of the strong men and a saloon-brothel-hotel is the best place for a strong man who wants to control the situation by providing whiskey, beer, women, food, gambling or whatever solitary men may desire. If you titillate and satisfy the most fundamental desires of men, you will control them through and through. And women are not a real problem since most of them are just backroom workers in bars and saloons. The few who are not like that can be schoolteachers, bankers (why not?), shopkeepers, and I must admit I did not see many housewives. Sexism comes back from very far away in the USA.But, of course, as soon as the city becomes more important, with gold and stores, and a railroad, and a lot of freedom as for all perversions and addictions, some ambitious capitalists come up to capitalize on this human gold mine by taking control of the mining and then the stores and finally the economy of the whole city. These wild capitalists that kill everyone who is in the way of their ambition, lead to plain dictatorship and you can imagine what the market can be in such a situation. "Show me your gun first, and then I will show you mine, so I can adjust my price!" Anyway, if anyone does not like it, either they leave, or they end up dead, most probably with a nice cut across some essential arteries to avoid the noise of a gun detonation.But if you do not like profanities, stay away or buy special protection, obscenity-profanity-filtering earphones for example that you can find on every street corner. Nudity is rather kept low with a predilection of course for women, which is going well with their profession.Entertaining, rather dynamic and swift, and the accent is so heavy you might need a translating machine, from gold-rush-frontier slang to standard English.Dr. Jacques COULARDEAU
Would have thought reviews would show a greater disparity with the C@@@ S@@@@@@ voting negative. A great program, reminds me of stories my grandfather either told or lived, depending on who was around to edit and dispute his versions. Needless to say, as soon as anyone who disputed his versions left the room that person was labeled a C@@@ S@@@@@.


                
Deadwood is a landmark in TV dramatisation - technically as well as logistically. It's also a superb multi-level drama and a stunningly accurate-seeming (who knows for sure?) recreation of a Gold Rush town, with layers of thought-provoking parallels to our modern political situation. The trouble with its overall excellence is that one or two faults stick out like chicken bones in a tobacco wad.Plot:(SPOILERS) Over the whole series there's a sense of anticlimax. Among the much-trumpeted gangs of hired guns and the convoluted human tragedies, the main baddie simply - leaves town; Swearengen decides to kill a scapegoat and that's it. We are already aware that he has a heart, so the decision not to kill Trixie is a given. While Deadwood is commendably faithful to the idea of realism in the plot most of the time, dramatically this becomes a letdown, and nor is it made clear enough why just killing Hearst wouldn't work. I anticipated a new take on a three-way gun battle, and when that didn't happen there wasn't much agonising about anything else. And there were far too many loose ends. Drama suffered here for realism's sake.Characters: There are some classic cameos in Deadwood: my favourites are Doc Cochran, Reverend Smith (why no website profile?) and Richardson, and Trixie is amazingly modern and three-dimensional. The character that doesn't work for me is Calamity Jane, in spite of Robin Weigert's faultless realisation of the script. I see where Milch is coming from - she's a lovable drunk, as opposed to, say, Steve the unlovable drunk - but you only have to see one photo of the actual woman to realise that they've been extremely kind in their casting. If you're going to make Calamity Jane's reason for being in it being a pioneering lesbian, she's got to be the bullest of bull dykes. Robin Weigert's just a misunderstood tomboy. Where was the realism here? I also feel that there are eventually too many characters introduced: if you left the Langrishe Theatre Group out completely it would make very little difference to the overall plot, and while Brian Cox is as good as I've ever seen him, that particular brand of scenery-chewing tends to rub off on the other actors - and it did. Powers Boothe turned from a believable rival to Al into a moustache-twirling pantomime villain, less convincing than E.B. Farnum. The two sassy soldiers at the Stirgis election were fantastically menacing; where was the menace (apart from Hearst per se) in Deadwood itself?Performances: The one performance that really lets Deadwood down (from an Olympian height) for me is Timothy Olyphant. He looks great, and ranges from caring husband to psycho killer beautifully. So why is it that I keep thinking he's about to burst out laughing at the wrong moment? Maybe he's just trying to hide his cute teeth, instead of baring and grinding them. He's like Roger Moore as James Bond: just too smooth. I wonder if that's why they kept giving Seth Bullock all those scars. The face-pummelling on the floor almost becomes a running gag.From the start, I really thought Deadwood was going to blow me away. In the end, while it sets the bar for Hi-Def TV to come, I felt it got bogged down in all that realism, and eventually stopped being a better-than-first-rate drama and became a first-rate docu-drama with a bit too much over-acting in places and far, far more cast than was well utilised. But it's a pioneering chunk of TV, best seen and heard in HD.
