This movie had potential.  It could have informed the western public about an important part of history.  Instead, it caricatured the era, leaving out significant characters (Subhaschandra Bose, etc.), getting many things completely wrong, and making characters like Jinnah, Nehru, and Patel into one-dimensional parodies of themselves.  It also leaves out anything about Gandhi that wouldn't go over well in the west (his obsession with enemas -- and giving them to his female followers himself, his habit of sleeping naked with teenage nieces to test sexual reticence, his statement that the Jews in WWII should just have killed themselves rather than fight against Hitler...).  Really shoddy and a shame.


                
A complete joke of a film whose producers clearly (and unfortunately successfully) try to push the "feel good" emotional aspect of Gandhi without showing the truth and consequence of his actions. Part of the reason of the film's commercial and critical success despite the complete inaccuracy is the basic ignorance of the lay viewer. Viewers just want to see a happy ending regardless of truth and if this happy ending is achieved the expense of the "evil White man" then modern Hollywood feels good about itself.India had been a "country" of numerous racial, religious and ethnic groups clash very violently with one another. The introduction of British trade brought a sense of stability that the region had never seen in its entire history. India is in more of a mess today than ever before. So much of the country has gone downhill that there has been a mass exodus of millions to flood all first world countries as well as many other 3rd world countries. This is even with the flooding of outsourced jobs in the fields of telecom and computers into the region by first world countries! I wouldn't be surprised if India has the highest absolute number of people emigrating.In short this movie stinks. It is completely and entirely inaccurate. Take everything with a grain a salt or even better do not watch it altogether.


                
This movie is very long and very boring making it very hard to stay awake. This movie is historically and factually inaccurate. The British freed the Indians from Moslem rule and brought extensive employment to the region. This movie contains extensive British bashing and doesn't explore the suffering the British soldiers had to contend with living in such a seedy and dirty society. The more the film portrayed the British as evil the more the viewer cheered them on. If British 'rule' was so bad then why are Indians flooding all the nations founded on British rule (i.e. US, UK, Canada, NZ, and Australia)? This movie is a typical Hollywood attempt to make a 'feel good' movie but only the feebleminded will be fooled Pulling out any history books or traveling the globe more often and you would know why. This movie really stinks. I would give it a lower rating but '1' is the lowest allowed. A real stinker.
There is no doubt that this motion picture about Gandhi will always remain a monumental achievement for two Englishmen namely its director Sir Richard Attenborough who despite utter lack of assistance and cooperation from successive Indian governments,doggedly pursued an obsessive idea of making a film about one of the most famous Indians ever known to mankind and unknown actor Ben Kingsley who plays his part with such great perfection that people who personally knew Mohandas Gandhi claimed that they have seen a reincarnation of Gandhi in him.These facts are the only positive aspects of this film as its importance has never been properly assessed in India,a land where Gandhi was born.Each Indian viewer is familiar with the fact that this film is shown every year on 2nd October on India's national television network as a holy ritual to make people aware of this great man's importance.This proves that this film's popularity means different things to different viewers.For a non Indian it is a great visual document about Gandhi whereas for Indian people,it remains by and large a work which they are forced to watch out of compulsion for their country.It is also interesting to note that since some years Gandhi has become a fashion statement for Indian people.This is the reason why at least three films have been made in recent past by Hindi filmmakers about him.This was not happening around 1982 when this film was released globally.Would some serious viewer take a note of this anomaly ?


                
