There is a sanctimonious air to the films of Sir Richard Samuel Attenborough: the earnest desire that fair play is seen to be done<U+0085> Attenborough attempts to humanize his personage by exposing the widening gaps between India's two main religious communities, but he seemed to be quite forced to ignore some of the Indian characters in favor of Western ones, as some of the very important episodes of the film were seen through the eyes of two American reporters...Attenborough, a filmmaker who can rival David Lean for the big set piece without losing a sense of human scale, presents the political events with real dramatic impact...His big challenge was to give the film an epic quality<U+0085> Still, while Attenborough's endless seas of extras testify to his ability to order crowds, his fine motion picture was seen very believable and realistic, with enough insight either into its sublimely serene hero's mind or into the complex realities of Indian history and politics<U+0085>British actor Ben Kingsley portrays the spiritual leader with deep simplicity... Kingsley's Mahatma is amazing, so beautiful in its honesty... Kingsley burns with a strong and purer flame, particularly in the way he ages across the five decades which the film depicts... His wetly blazing eyes as a young lawyer in South Africa, his black hair and immense energy, gives way to the bald small modest man, in shawl, loin cloth, steel-rimmed glasses, frequently thrown in jail by the British authorities...Kingsley takes the qualities and details instructed by Attenborough: Gandhi's fiercely intelligent aura; Gandhi's rational and calm reaction to inflamed emotion; Gandhi's unshaken beliefs and principles; Gandhi's warm smile...A distinguished cast of characters surround Academy Award-Winning Ben Kingsley as Gandhi: Candice Bergen, the Life magazine American photographer whom Gandhi conveys with a sense of humor; John Gielgud, the Viceroy who decides to ignore the man in loin cloth; Edward Fox, the brutal English general who orders his troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowds; Trevor Howard, the Judge who behaves with great consideration, standing and nodding respectfully to Gandhi in the dock before taking his seat; Geraldine James, the adopted daughter, blinded by love for Ghandi; and Martin Sheen, the American reporter of the New York Times who makes Gandhi laugh: 'It would be uncivil for us to let you make the long trip for nothing.'"Gandhi" has a rare combination of deep character penetration and enormous epic sweep with "Lawrence of Arabia." But while 'Lawrence of Arabia' is about a solitary adventurer, 'Gandhi' is a moving portrait of a character with a disarming humility, who spins cotton, walks the country roads, meditates in front of the ocean, or scoops salt from the beach... Throughout the picture, which takes place over a half century, one has a sense of a man discovering his own unique dimensions... Perhaps this is the secret of Attenborough's 'Gandhi,' that at the bottom of all the tumultuous action is a remarkable protagonist, an incredible individual about whom one cares, and feels attract to...
Thinking back, I suppose I have now seen many (sometimes good) films that follow the same recipe: One man makes a difference.But this film is an exception in so many ways:1) It was made in 1982, so it came before many of them.2) It has amazingly well-displayed historical significance.3) Great performances in a near-flawless, frank scrpit.This film does not bother the viewer with an opening montage of scenes of the main character at various ages ("Dragon", I'm looking at you). This is an amazing film that anyone of any religion, race, or nationality can and should appreciate. With its subtle relevance to today's situations in that part of the world, this is a history buff must-see.Watch this film and see great performances (an obvious oscar went to Ben Kingsly), excellent cinematography, and a wonderful inspiring story, whose essence soars well above the corny, do-gooder mentality of other pitiful efforts of "bio-pics".10/10


                
This is one that absolutely must go on everyone's "must see" list. One of the truly greatest movies ever made. For those who found it "boring" or "too long," you folks need to just stick to stuff like "Star Wars," "Terminator," "Spiderman," or perhaps reality TV would be more your cup of tea.For those who like to actually see real human history come to life on the screen, "Gandhi" is a true masterpiece for all times. A excellent summary of one of the greatest and most interesting lives of the 20th. century!I find it odd that aside from a fine performance in "Shindler's List," that Ben Kingsley has really been a major disappointment as an actor following his role as "Gandhi." Perhaps like George C. Scott in "Patton," he was destined to play just one truly great role as an actor. And this was it!For those who keep mentioning that Kingsley is "English," well, yes he is, but he is also "Anglo-Indian." His father is from India. In fact his father was born in the same small sea-coast town as Mahatma Gandhi! While filming the movie in the small towns of rural India, there were those older people who actually remembered seeing the original Gandhi who collapsed in shock when they saw Kingsley in his makeup. Hundreds became convinced that he actually was the Mahatma, returned! Also interesting is that Kingsley was born just after the asassination of Gandhi. I mean that's just a tad spooky, no....?


                
The film, Gandhi, is Richard Attenborough's tribute to Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (1869-1948). Although it won eight Academy Awards, Including Best Director and Picture, the film has been criticized for a variety of reasons by people who did not realize that Gandhi himself was the greatness of the film. Ben Kingsley portrayed Gandhi to perfection. The Indian music was by the great Ravi Shankar.Gandhi was an Indian lawyer, educated in England, who entered the political arena in South Africa to fight against the treatment of Indian immigrants, uniting both Hindus and Muslims in the cause. Everyone, even his enemies, were impressed by his willingness to suffer, even die, at the hands of those in power, rather than back down from a just cause. He won the victory by insisting that his followers use civil disobedience and eschew all violence, thereby depriving the authorities of a justification for violent suppression. Gandhi explained it: "When I despair, I remember that all through history, the way of truth and love has always won. There have been murderers and tyrants, and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end they always fall. Think of it, always."He returned to India after the victory to become that country's spiritual leader. He led the struggle for independence from Britain, still insisting on non-violent means. The goal of independence was achieved but the Hindus and Muslims did not unite as they had in South Africa. Instead, they caused India to be split into India, Pakistan and East Pakistan, which later separated from Pakistan as Bangladesh. Gandhi was assassinated by a Hindu fanatic.Two decades later, his methods were used by Martin Luther King in the fight against segregation in the United States of America. Gandhi and King were both willing to die for a cause and they both did but even now, in the next century, there is still some hatred between Hindus and Muslims in Kashmir state and between blacks and whites in America. Where is the next Gandhi? Where is the next Martin Luther King? Such men are still needed all over the world.
First to understand Gandhi's principles you must read his autobiography. He has admitted in his book that he was having sex while his father was dying. He admitted this when he was  known as Mahatma (a great soul). Who can dare to admit such a thing. He vowed that he will never lie in his life. Is it possible for you and me not to lie in life? He took vow about his cloths and wore same cloths (he was half naked in those cloths) while he was in London in winter!!!  Just imagine a freedom fight against Britain without any kind of weapon or violence!!! And he was successful. He gave freedom to India without any army. In fact his principles should be followed in today's world. I must say this movie was not enough to describe his principle. He was more than movie GANDHI. No body can capture his principles in a movie. For me he is like GOD because of his principles.GANDHI: " My life is my message". " I have nothing new to teach this world, truth and non- violence are as old as hills".


                
this great epic has  - without any doubt - exquisite value as an achievement in the field of moviemaking. the movie is really great by every means and has definitely deserved all the nine academy awards it had won back in 1982. one watches it, breathless, for all three hours, as if it was just 15 minutes long. but there's more. after 9-11 and all the things we have seen happen recently, this great biopic about this extraordinary man is especially worth recommending. it is worth seeing especially for this one line ghandi says in the film: 'eye for an eye will make the whole world blind'.


                
'Gandhi' is a great movie, and I cannot think anyone better then Ben Kingsley to play his role.( The guy IS perfect in the movie. So perfect, that I read in the trivia part of IMDb that many people in India actually thought that Ben was Gandhi's ghost!) Gandhi was murdered in 1948 by an Indian rebel, when he was going to make one of his prayers. This great and simple little man made the India Independent and was against all types of prejudices existent, since racial prejudice until the religion's one. He started his anger with the British Empire when he was going to South Africa, and was throw away from the train because he was in the first class, and the prejudice of that time could not allow any non white man,specially being Indian or black to have the same rights as the white men. From that time, until his death, he made people from India and the English to think about the prejudice and the fact that all people should have the same rights. He was also followed by many white people, in the movie showing the clergyman Charlie Andrews and Miss Slade.PS:A thing that I discovered watching this movie was the fact that Gandhi was an attorney...I would never imagine that the peaceful leader made Law School!
Next to Patton I think this is one of the greatest movies based on a real historical person. The movie is about a lawyer turned great leader. His name is Mohandas "Mahatma" Gandhi (Ben Kingsley). He is a man who just wants India to break away from British rule. Unfortunately he has got quite a number of obstacles to climb over before getting the freedom of India. This movie was just fantastic. The cinematography just made me go "WOW". I can see why it won a lot of academy awards. I recommend this film to everyone living or dead.10/10


                
Ben Kingsley is an outstanding actor, and portraying Gandhi is his most outstanding work.  He shows the young man shocked to see what is happening to his fellow Indians who go to Africa, the idealist trying to form the Ashram in his home country, the leader standing up to the English, and the aging man distraught over the conflict between the religious groups in India.But this movie is worth seeing for other reasons as well.  The rest of the cast turn in A+ performances.  The film is extensive enough to show most of the key moments in Gandhi's life.  The epic scale of certain scenes are all the more impressive considering that today's modern computer technology was not used to depict the large crowds.The sequence leading up to and including the Great Salt March is one of the most moving scenes in film.10/10


                
If I were to liken Attenborough's "Gandhi" to any other epic film, I would choose Spike Lee's "Malcolm X." Initially, of course, this may appear rather irrational, but just because Gandhi and Malcolm X differed in their methods (at least as historians and filmmakers would have us believe) their ends and many of their attitudes were exactly the same.Both men believed in the dignity of their people (whether "their" was defined across racial or national lines makes little difference) and, consequently, both believed in their right to freedom, to liberty. Both served time in jail, both had religious revelations, or rather, so as not to insult their achievements, spiritual revelations. Malcolm X believed in separation of the black population from the white population, though he wanted blacks to retain and gain the same rights as the whites. Gandhi believed Indians should have sovereignty without British interference or control - and retain and gain rights denied to them by their colonial oppressors. Both Malcolm X and Gandhi were struck by social problems of their people, problems of poverty, hunger, degeneracy and loss of identity. This final problem occupied both Malcolm X's and Gandhi's philosophies. They recognized that foreign dominance over their people, i.e. English over Indian and white over black, inevitably led to an inculcation of inferiority in the minds of the subjugated people. In both cases it was institutionalized, socially and politically (not to mention economically). The blacks and the Indians were led to believe by their oppressors that not only were they not capable of having sovereignty, freedom and the rights their oppressors enjoyed, but even if they were, they were not worthy of them. Gandhi and Malcolm X both recognized this problem and tried to resolve it.However, while both men fought to achieve similar goals, they differed in their means. Malcolm X advocated active resistance against the people he hated: the white oppressors. He was not afraid to say so - and employed the very racism that was meant to keep blacks down against the whites. He vehemently opposed the choice of many blacks to strive to gain rights within the existing system. Consequently he opposed people like Martin Luther King Jr. who, Malcolm X felt, pandered to the whites and made them all-too-comfortable. He, like Gandhi, fought for the dignity of his people and he made it very clear as to what this fight entailed.
Gandhi's approach is now famously described as "nonviolent resistance." While at first, this may seem too much like the methods of Martin Luther King Jr. of whom Malcolm X had a low opinion, Gandhi's nonviolence had little to do with negotiation and speech-making. The operative word is "resistance" and Gandhi inspired the Indian people to resist - and what makes Gandhi such an awe-inspiring figure, no doubt an inspiration for an epic film, is his innovativeness in not betraying his nonviolent, peaceful spirit in achieving Indian independence. From the emphasis on economic self-reliance, examples of which include cloth-weaving and illegal salt-making, to self-respect and respect and love for one's enemy, Gandhi's method was not only practical in the sense of economics, but also spiritual in terms of legitimating the goals and desires of the Indian people in the eyes of the British colonialists and, most importantly, in the eyes of the Indians themselves.Both Gandhi and Malcolm X were assassinated not by their oppressors, but rather, by extremist members of groups to which they also belonged: they died as a result of internal politics and internal dissent.
Malcolm X did not exactly achieve a separate black state, or (even less so) a return to the traditional ways of African blacks, to the roots of African-Americans. He did not solve the social problems of blacks, especially in urban areas. Gandhi inspired his people to win Indian independence, but he also did not resolve impending social and ethnic dilemmas that erupted shortly after independence was achieved.However, the world speaks more comfortably and openly about Gandhi than Malcolm X. No doubt, part of that stems from the fact that Gandhi's fight had a much larger scope literally - he occupied world attention. But, it would be wrong to deny that many people, historians among them, choose to put less emphasis on Malcolm X than, say, Martin Luther King Jr. because the former attempted to fight for rights more actively than other civil rights activists. Who's to say he was wrong? Nobody. How do we judge men like Gandhi and Malcolm X? The reason I decided to compare the two films is not only because of the shared similarities in the characters they portray. I also chose the two films because of their portrayal: Richard Attenborough shows us Gandhi, like Spike Lee shows us Malcolm X, without compromises and judgments.
In "Gandhi" Attenborough, through the phenomenal (and I mean Phenomenal) Ben Kingsley, captures the beautiful spiritual clarity with which Gandhi spoke and, furthermore, which he embodied in his actions. The film does not vilify the British colonialists any more than their actions vilify them - it presents and it invites the viewer to judge. It is flawlessly directed and it is one of the few great epics ever made. It obsesses to perfection about whom it is about. In that it is comparable to the passionate portrayal of Malcolm X in Spike Lee's film. However, while "Malcolm X" ends with an unfortunate false note of "social importance," "Gandhi" transcends preaching and forced social commentary.And, most importantly, "Gandhi" reminds us of people who come and go, who love humanity and are not afraid to fight for it on their terms. It reminds us of people whose vision of existence is not stale and full of the empty words of politicians, but instead spiritual and moral clarity. One only has to watch Gandhi's self-confidence in argument with the various British soldiers and politicians he meets - he doesn't have to prattle and propagandize. He has discovered truth and it gives him comfort, strength and confidence - he lets it speak for him. This clarity is something many of us thirst for every day - and "Gandhi" reminds us that it is achievable.


                
Gandhi is one of the best movies I ever saw. The film is about Mahatma Gandhi (Ben Kingsley) and his struggle to free India from British rule. Gandhi is and will always be a classic. This movie should be watched by all no matter what. This film has something it has acting, a great plot, and realism. I recommend this film to all without hesitation.10/10


                
A magnificent movie by Attenborough and a career-topper for Ben Kingsley. Brilliant story of the man who almost single-handedly brought India kicking and screaming into the world as an independent nation. One of this century's true heroic figures, it is a crying shame that more than 50 years later, we are still dealing with the dangerous fallout of the Indian-Pakistani aggression that he so desperately sought to end.Count this movie amongst the great epics of cinematic history. All the supporting performances, particularly that of Roshan Seth as Nehru, are an absolute joy to behold. Classic cinematography, and a masterwork of a score by Ravi Shankar.  Attenborough, of course, when he's not out raising dinosaurs, is a director of epics par excelllence ("A Bridge Too Far" is another stroke of genius). Ben Kingsley spends the better part of 3 hours on screen in an absolutely riveting performance. The road to peace is a hard road. Just ask Nelson Mandela or John Lennon. This movie allows the viewer to take part of the journey.


                
I don't know the real story. At least not more than this film tells me.. So my comment goes primarily towards the film.And it is an amazing film, of a modern Jesus Christ, in an India colonized by Britain (pretty similar to Israel/Rome).The story is brilliant, and the actors does a remarkable job. May be the best drama film ever.. and if it's even half as documentary as it seem to be.. then we're witnessing the greatest mortal man ever to walk the earth..


                
Do you believe in heroes? Heroes to look up to? Because I recently watched a movie which is about a real life hero. The movie is called ''Gandhi''. It was released in 1982 by Richard Attenborough. The movie is about the life of the famous Indian independence fighter Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi or as you may know him ''Mahatma Gandhi''. The movie got nominated for 11 Academy Awards in 1983 and won 8 of them. One of them was won in the category of ''Best Movie''. The movie is a historical drama. The movie starts with the assassination of Gandhi in 1948. It then flashbacks onto his life and the effects he achieved. Gandhi is one of India's most famous persons ever to be alive. He fought, in a peaceful way, for India's Independence. Gandhi's way of living and dealing with problems was unique. He left his mark on people like Martin Luther King or Nelson Mandela. Although the movie is about three hours long, it is full of scenes which catch the viewers' emotions by surprise. Overall this is a great movie because it describes the life of Gandhi pretty well for three hours. The movie keeps the viewers' attention at all times. I would give it a rating of 10/10.


                
The film begins on the day of Gandhi's assassination on 30 January 1948. After an evening prayer, an elderly Gandhi is helped out for his evening walk to meet a large number of greeters and admirers. One of these visitors, Nathuram Godse, shoots him point blank in the chest. The film then cuts to a huge procession at his funeral, which is attended by dignitaries from around the world.The early life of Gandhi is not depicted in the film. Instead, the story flashes back 55 years to a life-changing event: in 1893, the 23-year-old Gandhi is thrown off a South African train for being an Indian sitting in a first-class compartment despite having a first-class ticket.Realising the laws are biased against Indians, he then decides to start a nonviolent protest campaign for the rights of all Indians in South Africa. After numerous arrests and unwelcome international attention, the government finally relents by recognising some rights for Indians.
Wow, the late Richard Attenborough made quite a career for himself, hasn't he? Between acting, directing, and so much more, he has earned a position as one of the preeminent figures of England. You probably know him best from his role as John Hammond in Jurassic Park. If you are older or a film buff, you also know him from the classic film The Great Escape (an interesting move that I will have to review at some point). I hope he rests in peace. He lived a good long life. I hope he had no real regrets. You know you lived for a long time when you don't die until twenty after you played an old man in a film.But of all his accomplishments, his greatest is directed this classic about one of the most important men in the twentieth century. Gandhi is not a perfect movie. It wastes too much time on unimportant topics and does not go into as harsh realities as it should, considering its wide scope. But it is number forty four in my top one hundred films for a few reasons: one, it is the definitive image on how to do a wide-ranging biopic, as well as the definitive image on one of the world's most important men; two, it is one of the grandest movies in history, one with a scale nothing short of extraordinary, a scale that will stick in your mind long after you see it, a scale that evokes the same emotions in the viewer as one imagines were felt by Gandhi; three, it is brilliantly acted on all fronts, particularly by the man who plays Gandhi, the great Ben Kingsley, perhaps proving the adage that Brits make the best actors; and four, it takes the watcher on a journey, churning their emotions up and down like a boat on the stormy open seas, leaving them different and changed and in all venues, satisfied.The film begins with Gandhi getting shot. This is a rather dark way to start what is ultimately an uplifting movie, but it is a good decision if one is to think about it: all of Gandhi's work is against the backdrop of racism and violence and crude, ignorant anger, and this depiction of this cold, callous, resentful act establishes the backdrop of the film, against which we see all the positive, progressive events take place. It is a good way to draw the reader into the story and put them firmly in the world of the film, a decision that becomes even sharper when you think about the fact that this movie is a historical epic, the sort of movie that many people could easily tune out of unless you give them a reason to stay awake. This film certainly does.It is the same trick that LoA (one of my ten favorite films of all time) plays at its start. Well... calling it a trick would be a bit of a misnomer. It's a classical framing device, one that has been used for centuries. I don't even know if it's trying to serve the functions I described in the last paragraph. But that doesn't mean it does not serve them well.It must be noted that this film is a British production. Such is obvious if you read what I've above written or even watched the film itself, but it is important to note. If you know anything about world history, you know that the British owned India for most all of the colonial era. This is something I could go into for pages on end. But I don't have the space or the time. So I will simply say that this is the best of a series of 80s films that could be considered almost an apology letter to India.In any case, it is one of the most evocative and emotional and moving epics. When you watch Gandhi talk, you don't feel that you are in the cinema or in the comfort of your bedroom. You feel like you're on the march with one of the world's greatest leaders in some of his greatest moments. It's like someone reaches into where you are and pulls you into the screen. Of course, in some ways, it's even better than that, for you get orchestral swells and fine direction. It charges you up.As a historical film, it succeeds. If you want a detailed, every-moment-laid-out account, go watch some documentaries. Seriously; there are good ones out there. Films are supposed to, above all else, evoke emotion. So, in the case of a historical movie, they are supposed to evoke the emotions of the era and its events. This film does that. You feel the twists and turns of the difficulties and stresses of the time. You don't just feel for Gandhi because he is the 'good' guy going up against the 'evil' that is racism and violence and disunity. You also feel for him because he you see his vision for a brighter and more prosperous India and world and you see it be attacked at every turn.What I like most about this film is that it does not shy away from the waning years of his life and their disappointments. Yes, he succeeded in many things, not least of which in getting India its independence. But the country was broken into two nations that continue to have bad blood to this day. Nothing exemplifies this more than the ending. We see the beginning scene once more, where he gets shot. But then we are treated to a quote of his, one with which I will close out this review: When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants, and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible, but in the end they always fall. Think of it. Always.


                
Gandhi was probably the most deserving Oscar winner of best picture in the 1980's.  What really makes this film special is Ben Kingsley.  Both the man and the movie required an exceptional performance, and that is what is delivered.  All of the major events in India's push for independence are portrayed, though I do think that a greater Indian rather than British interpretation of these events is needed to make this film an all-time classic.  A must-see.


                
I did not know what to expect when I sat through the film Gandhi. What I found was a beautiful story about a man who had no wealth, no real office or title, who freed a nation through the use of non-violence. What a message everyone needs to hear today. You can accomplish great things without striking blows or killing anyone. Mahatma Gandhi was revolutionary and had a vision I hope others will carry on after viewing this film.


                
I'm a humanist & don't believe either in God or Jesus. Therefore Mohandras K. "Mahatma" Gandhi has become my Jesus & non-violence my religion! I think this movie shows a whole lot about this man which many of us didn't know about before we saw it! For instance; I didn't know that Gandhi's most important work happened in South Africa & not in India. The best scene of the movie is at the end when Gandhi meets a hinduist who asks him for a way out of hell. Gandhi answers "Find a small boy, about this high, whose parents have been killed, and raise him as your own. But make sure he is Muslim, and raise him as one. Richard Attenborough has delivered a great present for the future population & Gandhi's thoughts give hope for the future! What should pacifists of today do without Gandhi?


                
This truly is a World Event, as stated on it's posters. This film made you laugh and made you cry, but there was such a reality and honesty about this piece that any other film I have watched would be impossible to compare to it. Ben Kigsley is a superb actor, and his portrayal of Muhatma Gandhi is truly astonishing, and this film will go down in history as the man himself did. -SLIGHT SPOILER- From the opening few seconds of the film at Gandhi's assassination and funeral you are already touched, but as the film takes you back through his amazing life when it loops back around to the assassination at the end, you really are moved beyond words.You must see this film, there is no other way i can put this other than you must see this film.
When you have a legendary world icon how do you possibly make a movie that does that person justice. This movie is probably as close as you can get to a perfect movie even one on a man like Gandhi. The way a man who was not wealthy, no property, no title or office, wasn't a commander of a military or any kind of ruler. Yet millions choose to follow him to freedom. You have governments, people all around the world celebrate and join hands to a man who freed his country through non violence. This movie is and was such a epic undertaking in a time before cgi, the funeral at the end was probably the last live action crowd of that size and same with rest of the movie. The last scene was probably one of the greatest scenes of cinematic history. Gandhi's message of non violent resistance is showed as a enthralling piece of art. This serves as entertainment and one of most historical figures in the world that took on the British Empire and won. Kingsley was perfect for the role of Gandhi, he nailed the British influenced Indian accent perfectly. He won both the Academy award and Golden Globe for best actor, he didn't just play Gandhi he became him. With the skillful cinematography and scenes in the movie it was as if India became a character in the film rather then just a location. Reading about the making of the movie and the trouble they had with the elite class in the country that a Englishman was making the movie. They were steadfast and were able to enlist thousands of Indians to help with the creation of this film, the crowds used real Indians from that area. It was very captivating how such a work of art can reach the epic proportions that make this almost nothing less then a miracle. The interpretation by Kingsley is nothing but astonishing and should go down as one of more perfect cinema roles. Watching this you almost forget that you are seeing a actor playing a part, your watching a part of history. This movie has everything the crowd scenes, the intimate and emotional scenes all captured beautifully. You aren't watching the scenes you are living and feeling them. The music makes you sympathize and show admiration adding so many other feelings you don't have in movies. Unlike some embellishments from Hollywood when it comes to history movies this is not one of those. A work of art that should be a required viewing for class as the fight of prejudice will be forever relevant in our generation.
Gandhi is not a perfect movie.Far from it.  Cliches are multiple.  Story, despite being based on historical events, is nevertheless predictable.  The use of background is hardly original.  However, the movie is still entertaining on its own merits.  Richard Attenborough did a very good, if not great, directing job. 
What forces me to give this movie a 10/10 is one man:  Kingsley.  In his impassioned, restrained, and accurate portrayal of one of the most amazing men who ever lived, Kingsley, a relative unknown at the time, provides one of the most awe-inspiring performances that I have ever had the privilege to see, and most likely ever will see.  I recently read a post for this movie that stated that the viewer will forget that he is observing an actor portraying Gandhi and believe that he is viewing the Mahatma himself.  This is entirely accurate.  Ben Kingsley plays the Mahatma Gandhi with such heart and emotion that I, just for a second, found myself believing that I was watching a documentary.With his portrayal of Gandhi, Ben Kingsley has placed himself, along with Marlon Brando in the Godfather, Roberto Beignini in Life is Beautiful, Liam Neeson in Schindler's List, Bogart in Casablanca, Peter O'Toole in Lawrence of Arabia, upon a pedestal reserved only for the most magnificent actors ever to grace the screen with their presence.  I honestly believe that Kingsley may have provided the greatest performance ever seen in any movie. If that does not merit a 10/10, I don't know what does.


                
Time magazine voted Mahatma Gandhi "The Man of The Century." And I have come to the conclusion that Sir Richard Atenborough's lavish and epic biography is the "Biopic" of the Century. Told in a grand epic manner in a flashback of his life, the story tells of the efforts of Mohandas K. Gandhi, a young lawyer who went on to play a major role in the independence movement of India and Pakistan, and the great advocate of nonviolent protest. With then unknown Ben Kingsley as Gandhi, leading an all star cast the film over three hours (3 hrs 8 Mina actually) covers his days as a young lawyer in South Africa, attempting to break the back of apartheid, at least for Indian people in that country. He never held office of any kind, but he inspired a world, in the midst of World Wars and social upheaval.Excellent performances by Kingsly, Candice Bergen, Edward Fox, Trevor Howard, Ian Charleson, Michael Holdern, John Mills among dozens of others, set against the beauty and squalor of India compel you to be drawn into the film. The Amristar Massacre alone is both shocking and telling of the great struggle to bring about the end of British rule in India. If you have not seen it, you have truly missed one of the greatest events in history. A must see.


                
If I could have given this movie an eleven, I would have wanted to give it a twelve.  Ben Kingsley didn't just play the role of Gandhi, he WAS Gandhi. The sheer magnitude of the funeral scene is enough to send shivers up and down your spine.  Gandhi is one of essential movies that will stand the test of time.  Future generations will hardly believe that the movie is a work of non-fiction, and that such a man ever walked this planet.


                
Let me clear a few doubts that the viewers have posted on this movie.1. That Ben Kingsley is a British actor - he is indeed a British actor, but of Indian origin - his real name is Krishna Bhanji. His depiction of Gandhi has indeed made all Indians proud.2. Some people are complaining about the treatment Jinnah's character got during the movie. The depiction of Jinnah is perfect. He was single handedly responsible for the deaths of millions in the partition riots and uprooted the life of 11 million people in British India.3. Indian Muslims are Indian citizens and have always been treated fairly by the secular and democratic Indian govt. In fact in 1965, during the Indo-Pak war, a lot of the Indian Council meetings were chaired by an Indian Muslim, because of the illness of the Indian PM. Moreover, during that war, Dr.Zakir Hussein, an Indian Muslim was the President of India. Jinnah's only grandson is a proud Indian citizen and CEO of one of the only Indian Fortune 500 companies in the world. Moreover, Jinnah's two-nation was aptly buried in 1971 when after the Pakistani Army massacred 3 million Muslim East Pakistanis and the nation of Bangladesh was formed after India's military intervention.Even though these issues may not seem related to the movie Gandhi - they actually are - Gandhi stood for peace and equality irrespective of caste, creed or religion and thanks to his efforts today India is today the world's largest democracy and the world's largest secular country. Of course, there have been a few hiccups like Babri mosque demolition in India but in a country of 1 billion people, not everyone is exactly the same - would it be fair to label all white Americans as racists because of one Rodney King incident?


                
