I fully endorse the opinion which the jury at the academy awards shared regarding the quality of this movie. To be fair the scale at which the movie has been produced is massive and grand. The script is beautifully written ,primarily because of the fact that Gandhiji's life and contribution to human emancipation has been dealt with in judicious detail. The movie also shines in departments such as cinematography, screenplay . The inquisitive reader may then quite naturally ask me- Why have you given the movie a miserly 7 points in your rating?. This question deserves the following answer- Firstly, the etiquette of the movie is quite western. This is something which is hard to digest, for the protagonist and the storyline both are Indian. Ben Kingssley's ethnicity is the only thing which is Indian in the movie. His manners and demeanour are purely western. The style of speech and dialogue delivery is alien to the Indian mentality.Let us all thus allow ourselves to independently judge the movie disregarding the Oscars it won.What we get is a brilliant script performed brilliantly but in a manner so completely western that the movie should have named "Gandhi in Perspective".I was about to give the movie 9 but my eyes caught sight of the movie's name at quite an inopportune moment. 7 for it's brilliance, the 3 it didn't get for it's incredible deviation from Indian sensibilities.


                
From my point of view Gandhi is obviously not an attention-seeking film, but a poignant memorial to a great man. Because it is painted on a broad and beautiful canvas, the film is certainly visually stunning and stands out immediately from the huge mass. Especially the fact that the script was written around the words of Gandhi and the situations he became involved in from the beginnings in South Africa to the torture and massacre in India, makes the film special and unique. But the subsidiary characters are very poorly fleshed out. We see, for example, Gandhi's young sons near the start of the movie and yet we never meet them again, which seems kind of odd, because his wife plays a fairly major role in the film. Altogether this is an informative and enjoyable movie <U+0096> watchings it is certainly an education <U+0096> but it's not without its flaws, which while none of them are fatal, still leave one wondering how much better it could have been if the care and attention spent to Gandhi had been spread out over the whole production.


                
Attenborough's `Gandhi' is a solid biopic about the slain human rights leader, and Kingsley's acting job is unbelievably good.  There were times when I would be watching the film and would completely forget that this was an actor portraying the man, based on the few times I had seen film or photographs of the real man.  The cinematography is exquisite on this film, and reminiscent of David Lean's work, and the music is excellent <U+0096> so much so that after sitting through over three hours of film I kept the credits rolling to hear the score.  However, even allowing for the sheer amount of information that had to be put into one single film, I feel that there were some important things that were glossed over, and other scenes that certainly could have been better edited.  Understandably, we first glimpse Gandhi as an attorney traveling to South Africa, where he first experiences the inequality that he chooses to spend the rest of his life fighting, but soon after, when he arrives in India, he is suddenly in the current dress of the poor.  Until then, he had certainly sacrificed, but he had gone from insisting that he `always travels first class' to this manner of self-sacrifice after he is released from prison without any background.  Perhaps surprise was Attenborough's intent, because that was my reaction.  On the other hand, there was a lot of time spent on moments that could have been pared down a bit in order to produce a more even pace <U+0096> for example, some of the many meetings amongst Gandhi's `co-leaders'.  It was moments like these that made the film less compelling than I expected it to be <U+0096> I am normally glued to my chair during just about any film, but I had no problem getting up for a moment or two because I suspected I wouldn't miss anything, which turned out to be a true assumption.These criticisms are fairly minor in the grand scope of the film <U+0096> I knew nothing of this period of history and I felt like I learned some incredible facts and was able to of course correlate these with other historical events.  This was obviously a completely selfless man who died in an ironic manner after the sacrifices he and his family made in order to preach the virtues of non-violent protest.  While I admit that I was a little under whelmed because I perhaps had grand preconceptions, Gandhi is definitely a solid and important film.--Shelly


                
Every year has its movies that mankind has to see. It seems you haven't lived if you haven't seen Schlinder's List and in 1982 you must have been some associal monster when not taking care about this movie. Anyway, the person Gandhi may not be mixed up with this movie as how great Gandhi must be as living person the movie itself comes over quite dated twenty years later. The problem is that Gandhi follows too much the strict base of any other biography and apart from Gandhi who stands up against the British colonists there is no real story. A movie that lasts about 4 hours could have explained more the killing for instance as all by all you still are left with mysteries and someone who sat down such a long time wants to know more, not? Attenborough has never been a brilliant director, he just chooses both his subjects and examples well. Is the movie overrated then? Not at all, it even is a movie that has to be seen (for the extreme good performances from Ben Kingsley alone) but I can't just escape the feeling that in 1982 I would have rated it with four stars whereas now three.


                
A movie about a thin man wrapped in a white sheet and therefore dressed like one of the poor in India. Who would be interested in that? But with eleven nominations and eight Academy awards it is clear that the biography of this man is not that uninteresting. Actually, it is the story of the most important man in the history of not only India and its fight for independence but also for the whole world. Richard Attenborough's Gandhi, starring Ben Kingsley, was published in 1982, 34 years after the actual assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. This is also the opening scene of the movie, followed by the statement that he was even more powerful than empires. Right from the beginning it is clear which effects Gandhi had on his environment. It goes on with the young Gandhi, who is a lawyer being discriminated in South Africa, causing him to protest against the injustices that are caused by the British and after that him being imprisoned. The first of several more times. Again free and back in India, he begins to travel the country together with his wife to "see what needs to be told". He also begins to dress like the poor and, after seeing the bad circumstances in his country caused by the British Raj, he starts to bring people to question things and starts to fight for India's independence. He calls up for a peaceful non-violent noncooperation but the riots get out of control. Gandhi begins a hunger strike to stop them, which actually works out, but still, he gets arrested again, this time for six years. India's independence has nearly arrived as he is allowed to leave. As a last peaceful protest he organizes the Salt March against British salt taxes. He is still underestimated by the British Raj, but as thousands follow his example, it comes to mass arrests. Then, throughout the Second World War, the British are wounded and can no longer hold onto the government of India. Gandhi uses this weakness to request the release of all his imprisoned followers and India's independence. The conclusion of that is on the one hand the independence of India but on the other hand the partition of India into a Hindu India and a Muslim Pakistan (even though he is strictly against this), which causes a brutal civil war. Again, Gandhi starts a hunger strike so that the fighting stops and both sides promise to "die when they lay their hands on each other". Gandhi then plans to go to Pakistan but even after everything he did, there is still a sadness about him that he thinks of having failed. He then makes his way up to a prayer, followed by crowds of people, where the movie ends where it has begun: his assassination. All in all, the biography is really impressive. It does not only show his life and the very key moments of it, but also gives a view into his way of thinking. Throughout the whole movie it gets clear how important nonviolence is to him and how he achieves enormous things by this different, peaceful and unique kind of protest. It also shows how critical he was with himself and how he wanted his environment and the people from all over the world to accept and love each other. The actors are also well chosen so that Gandhi could be shown in a timespan of 50 years of his life and how he grew with his actions and words. The only critic is that 188 minutes is a really long time for a movie, but otherwise there is so much to tell about this thin man wrapped in a white sheet and his life story, that probably another three hours could be easily added.


                
GANDHI certainly did very well. It seems to have won almost every conceivable award. Ben Kingsley does a remarkable job of inhabiting such an inspiring historical character. You'll find you could return to the film on his performance alone.The scenes in South Africa are particularly enthralling. GANDHI has a movie of different styles: documentary, luscious travelogue, and old style drama. The parts with the western media seem oddly reminiscent to the equivalent scenes in LAWRENCE OF ARABIA.And yet, this isn't a perfect film. It feels incomplete somehow. Perhaps the divisiveness of the caste-system in bringing about unity could have been presented a bit more forcefully and the expense of the sectarian Hindu/Muslim divide.Yet perhaps the biggest criticism must concern itself with the simple dramatic setbacks of the film. As Quentin Crisp - "though, very cleverly, the narrative begins with his assassination, we are not continuously drawn forward at an ever-increasing pace throughout the rest of the picture towards this climax. We do not know why he was killed, we were never made aware of what specific danger he was in nor from what quarter disaster would spring."


                
There is no question of Gandhi's wisdom or his bravery. He was a standout on both counts. That makes it a little difficult to make a movie about him because flawlessness isn't inherently interesting. He would have been an easier project if he'd kept an opium den or liked little girls. A little realistic ambiguity never hurt anyone. Look at "Lawrence of Arabia." As it is, we get what I presume is a roughly accurate picture of Gandhi's mature life, wrapped up as it was with the drive for India's independence. I don't suppose it's giving away too much of the ending to say that his life led to the death that such heroic figures so frequently suffer. Why is it that people of peace are always assassinated while scurrilous and dictatorial thugs seem to go on ruling forever?Ben Kingsley is damned near perfect in the lead role. Not just because he LOOKED almost identical to the older Gandhi but because he captures the man's moods so well, humorous and dramatic both. The film is by necessity a hagiography. I mean, he's celebrated as a leader in India. There is Gandhi Day, a holiday. And he's recognized world wide as a man whose protests were, at his demand, non-violent. Christians ought to be sensitive to those kinds of values, considering that they were espoused by Christianity's founder.There is, of course, conflict, first between the Indians and the British colonial system; then between the Hindus and Moslems, which led to the separation of India into what is now three countries -- Pakistan, India, and Bengladesh. There was nothing Gandhi could do to put a stop to the violence, and the enmity between Pakistan and India lingers to this day.In the film, the Moslems seem to come off worse. Their leader, Jinnah, continues throughout to wear European dress, sometimes a monocle. He seems always to scowl and is dilatory during the independence movement.There are several cameos by well-known actors -- John Gielgud, John Mills, Trevor Howard -- and small but prominent roles for Martin Sheen as the kind of newsman who discovered T. E. Lawrence and for Candice Bergen as the kind of photographer who made Gandhi's a familiar visage in the Western world.The movie is somehow neither gripping nor "epic" despite the potential of the material. I really DO wish we'd seen some of Gandhi's weaknesses. He must have had them. After all, he was just human. As it is, we get a picture of the kind of man who once had an awkward moment just to see what it felt like.Fortunately, the movie gives adequate coverage to the Moslem/Hindu conflict. But structurally it's a little anti-climactic. The proper fictional ending would have the hero assassinated just as the battle for independence was won, like Abraham Lincoln. But I don't mind the anti-climax. The reason is that anti-climactic events are often, as here, just as instructive as the events that led to the climax in the first place.It's not just the script that's weak. The director, Richard Attenborough, has clearly put a lot of effort into the film but he's shot it as if it were a TV movies. One close up follows another, not because they are dramatically called for but because Attenborough chose to use this conventional technique. No attention is paid to features of the natural landscape either. India looks like South Africa looked, although, with a few exceptional shots, we don't feel much impact from either location. The movie marches along, a little predictably, and lacks poetry.But the questions it raises have resonance. Is it possible for people to live in peace despite their differences in ethnicity or religion? Or must tribal allegiances continue to lead to more blood historically than political differences ever have, as the priest/sociologist/novelist Andrew Greeley has argued? Gandhi believed that peace could be achieved without violence, but moves on the international chess board constantly suggest he was mistaken.
Actor turned director Richard Attenborough helmed this biopic about the famed pacifist and, as frequently happens with biopics, especially when they're about noble and revered figures, turned it into something perfectly respectable and ever so slightly dull.The film won just about every Academy Award it was nominated for, so that should tell you something right there.Ben Kingsley does deserve praise for carrying this three-hour epic on his slim shoulders, and the film looks meticulous. But it's serviceable rather than inspired, and if anyone's story deserves an inspired telling, Gandhi's is it.Grade: B+


                
Richard Attenborough's historical movie Gandhi is his undisputed masterpiece.
The actor of Mahatma Gandhi, Ben Kingsley, takes you with him through an incredible life which nobody has ever experienced like this before: from an ordinary lawyer to one of the biggest leaders of all time.
In the movie there are a few action scenes but the focus is definitely on the dialogues and speeches, which drag it just a little bit out sometimes. When you watch how Gandhi´s nonviolent protest is demonstrated, you gain nothing but respect for such a frail looking man, who cannot be pulled down. Also, the movie doesn´t glorify the British Empire because it is very critical and realistic at the same time. That´s a reason why the contrast between the Indians and Britons couldn´t be bigger in some parts. For example the minority of typical British Ladies and Gentlemen who amble through the streets in their expensive clothes next to the majority of poor Indians and their children who already struggle with living at least a normal life. BUT it also shows how ruthless and brutal both groups fought each other and among themselves. As a 2000s kid who luckily didn´t grow up with war or violence next door, a few scenes seem to be unbelievable: people who almost randomly kill other people. It is inconceivably nowadays.
Definitely a must-watch for everybody who wants to learn more about Mahatma Gandhi and Indian history. But I would recommend to watch it in more than one part or just not in the late evening because 3 hours can sometimes be pretty long....


                
The life story of Mahatma Gandhi. We see his life from his time as a lawyer in South Africa, to his return to India and his rise through politics, to his becoming a leader of the movement for Indian independence and standing up to the English rulers through passive resistance.Stirring, epic movie, directed by Richard Attenborouggh. Covers Gandhi's life in great detail and shows well the sort of man he was.Superb performance by Ben Kingsley in the lead role, for which he won an Oscar.The movie won the 1983 Best Picture Oscar, plus seven other Oscars, including Best Director for Richard Attenborough.


                
I would have liked to have seen more of the movie focus on Mahatma Gandhi's attempt to fight for the rights of native blacks in South Africa. I know much has been written about Gandhi's alleged lack of empathy towards native blacks in South Africa, but maybe a prequel can be made to address these concerns. Given Gandhi's fight for justice for all, I just cannot imagine he would have disregarded the human rights of black natives in South Africa.Anyway, kudos to Ben Kingsley (who was excellent in Sneakers) and also of course to the director. It would be interesting to know how the movie was received in India. I know that Slumdog Millionaire, a British movie, wasn't exactly well received in India.
Gandhi is a good film, which shows the history of one of the most influential men in world history, Gandhi, I believe that 99% of the world at least already heard, the cast is excellent, Ben Kingsley this impeccable, makes his best performance in his career, Edward Fox, Martin Sheen, John Mills, and etc., the direction of Richard Attenborough is very good, but I found the very long movie, and the script can not hold, has some very boring dialogues, have flat moments , the film won much Oscars, I agree with some, but I would not for best film, the more this is so my opinion, Gandhi is a good movie, but I admit that I expected more. Note 7.9


                
Beautiful movie. I learned quite a lot and it contains a lot of wonderful quotes worth remembering. For example: "An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind."You get to know a lot about Mahatma Gandhi's message and everything he had to go through. However, I wish they would've cut out some scenes and made it shorter. It's so long that it gets kind of boring... It's three hours long and in my opinion, it could have been shorter as some scenes didn't have a lot of purpose in the film. "You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty."


                
Gandhi is one of those spiritual figures that everyone knows of but sometimes you get caught up in the idea of something and forget that they are a real person. I confess, I was one of those people. I never really thought any further about Gandhi past those short statements made about him. "He was a good and kind person, he was selfless and didn't back down from injustice but did so peacefully." Well the truth is he was just a person. Neither good nor bad but he was complicated. His heart appeared to be in the right place but now I wonder if he was just as stubborn and arrogant as everybody else. The impression he made on others may have been created by right place, right time. There are many people out there who fight injustices but we don't put them up on pedestals, sometimes we can't help but tear them down.It gives you a lot to think about if you have never seen this movie or know very little about Gandhi. The three hours are well utilised and the cast feel very invested in this production. It makes you want to like the movie and respect the content. At the end, I haven't changed my opinion of Gandhi but I feel that I have a better understanding of who he was as a person and the trials he went through. Some people may disagree with some of the things he did but since he was only human you cannot expect him to also be a saint.


                
Robert Attenborough did a fabulous job by creating such a movie for us. Gandhi movie has splendid script with proper direction. As the movie based o the real events of British Raj in India the movie has succeeded to provide the actual drama and consequences of British democracy against Indian public. If you want to know what was really happened during the British rule? then I would suggest you this movie, not because of being based on Gandhi but the best standards of its content. This movie may not motivate you but yes it will definitely coerce you to think about the consequences of Indians during the British empire. The director has taken more than 18 years to make story by taking interview of many actual British officers and close ones of Gandhi Ji. He reassembled the story by merging all the facts of Indian independence and produced the final story with his extra-ordinary direction.


                
I was engrossed yesterday to watch such a colorful big movie, that has in itself some of the majors constituents of what can make an epic movie larger-than-life, yet It was about a historical iconic person that made things easier for Richard Attenborough to succeed conveying the humanistic and charismatic features that Gandhi was Known by.The film has 8 Oscars in its awards cabinet, Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (Ben Kingsley), Best Editor, Best Art Direction, Best Cinematography, Best Screenplay (John Briley) and Best costume design, all of these awards emphatically confirm the importance and the highly praised regards that this movie brought once it was released, I can stand as an advocate for the Oscar committee for this One, it was certainly taken as a biopic educational medium that spans the life story of one of the most important man in history : the Hindu Mohandas K Gandhi.Richard Attenborough was certainly a profound admirer of Gandhi's personality; we can feel his joy and excitement in depicting the instances where Gandhi faced the merciless British authorities in what he painstakingly elaborated an fluid eloquence of speech between the British and Him, the unofficial Indian leader. Richard Made it clear at the beginning of the movie.Gandhi faced racial discrimination in a ''British'' train in south Africa, where He was asked to get out of the train even though he has a First class ticket, nonetheless Gandhi hasn't at all plunged into despair and instinctive violent revolt but went to contact and communicate the issue to his fellow people that are facing the same people and stood head to head against the British Authorities to raise the problematic question that occurred at that period which is ''The illicit imperialistic impact made upon the laws and commonwealth of the colonized countries" . Gandhi came back to his country, where he engraved his name as an unofficial leader of the masses of people of different ethnicities. In the court scene, in the presence of some British officers, Gandhi spoke to his fellows Hindus and Muslims about how they are not considered citizens of the empire, everyone enraged at the idea of letting the British harm them, let them embody the pain that they inflict, and by then they'll see that there is something wrong, something that won't suit neither their interest nor ours the Indians'.Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolence disobedience is for sure and certain one of the maverick philosophies of nonviolent resistance, it seems somewhat naive and irrational but it conquered the British Empire. I've been taken much by the personality, but this film wouldn't stand on its feet if there wasn't the magnificent and poignant performance by Ben Kingsley (half Indian), he overshadowed all the others actors, he embodied Gandhi who is a leading role not that easy as it seems, but he nails it, he didn't fall into the cliché/traps of heroic nonsense speeches, on the contrary he was charismatic, and reflecting a Tranquil Force.Towards the end of the movie, Gandhi succeeded to give independence to India through his nonviolence philosophy, nonetheless it didn't prevent India from facing a bitter civil war between the Muslim party and Hindu party, about which the aging Gandhi said '' I am a Muslim and a Hindu and a Christian and a Jew and so are all of you.'', Even though Gandhi was the principal cause for India's independence, the evilness inherited in people's souls made them forget all his great deeds, whereupon an angry dissident assassinates the 78-years-old with a bullet, a mere bullet<U+0085>!! Notwithstanding the length of the movie which is a 3hours 14minutes, the pace of the movie is excellent, I much enjoyed the blank black scene image, wherein only Indian mystical music could be heard (I went to the kitchen to bring me something to eat, and listened to it while enjoying my food Ha:D).Gandhi was killed, a person who sought ''nonviolence'' was faced by an extreme inexplicable ''VIOLENCE'', Whereas this film certainly paid tribute to one of the important icons in history, it's a documentary about Gandhi's philosophy of the resistance through nonviolence and humanistic approach that will spread nothing but peace and love.
I think my overall feelings towards Gandhi is so tepid because I've just seen this too much in movies.  Movies about oppression in foreign land, usually based on a true story.  And though while it does not make the events themselves any less terrible, it makes me numb to any strong emotion coming from films about the subject.  Maybe if I'd seen this film 10 years ago before I became heavily in love with films, I would have found a greater appreciation for it. Attenborough's directing is masterful, and it's his and the cinematographer's gorgeous work on this film and the really elevated it to a higher level.  That, and one of the finest performances off all-time by Sir Ben Kingsley.  I'm not too familiar with the life of Gandhi, but there is no doubt in my mind that Kingsley is anything less than a reflection of the man himself.  His performance was incredible, not to mention a great supporting cast.  The film's hefty running time could have been cut, being as a a few of the films scenes were just reiteration of points already established earlier on.  Pacing is the only real weak element present in the film. 
A technical marvel, Ganhdi should be viewed by all, especially if you are more emotional than someone like me.  You'll no doubt find a much greater admiration for it than I did.7/10* * */ * * * *


                
Few directors know how to do a four hour movie and even fewer know how to do a good bio-pic.Gandhi, the man is a brilliant man with a fantastic story and that's what makes this movie so interesting but the sad part is that this movie gets pretty boring after the first two hours. Nevertheless this movie still has great cinematography and a great performance by Ben Kingsley, who won a well deserved Oscar.2(**)out of 4(****)stars


                
. Gandhi the movie, released in 1982 is the biopic about Mohandas Gandhi's life and his achievements for India, created by the brilliant British director, Richard Attenborough. The first thing we can say about this movie is that it's one of the greatest biopics ever. With a young and incredible Ben Kingsley, the Gandhi's life is perfectly restored, and the viewer has no trouble to get into this incredible, but true story. With a well-conducted technical quality and great acting from his actors, the film plays its full memorial part, and leads us into a well-paced story in which it is difficult to get out until the curtain falls. And it is here that lies the main problem of the film, which is an identity problem. So close from the pure movie, but also similar to a documentary film, the border between the two is blurred, and the spectator often wonder if he does not look a documentary film. With a soundtrack poorly managed, and too long film sequences, the viewer tends to get lost in this sometimes too great blend of historic and fantasy. Although this work presents some flaws, it remains one of the most successful historical adaptations and accomplished in the cinema history.


                
This film shows the story of Gandhi from the beginning of his fight to his incredible triumph. The cast is great, Ben Kingsley's actor's game is amazing, no one could better go into the character's skin.The script respects the true course of events, the director hasn't modified them to make them more attractive, I appreciate this choice. Richard Attenborou shows us incredible Indian landscapes, but also all the Indian sides of the Indian population.I think it's important to see this film at least once in a life because he inspires all of us, Gandhi is an example for humanity. It's thanks to his peaceful actions that he could achieve his goal of winning the independence of India. Don't miss it!


                
I saw this movie with my class during the British Screen festival in Nîmes. I had already seen a biographic movie on Mandela's life and I loved it. So we went to see this movie and I found it enthralling. Some films are able to do something like that, you are directly immersed into the raw image; but I think it's a little bit surprising to start the film with Gandhi's death because it spoils the end... This film shows the key moments of his life; we spend good time watching the film, such a colorful movie. The actors are amazing and so talented, especially Ben Kingsley. The small thing that I didn't really like was that I found it too long. By the way, is and will always be a classic. If I were you I would quickly go to see it on the Internet.


                
After watching the film Gandhi I developed a whole new light on the importance of standing up for what you believe in, even if you have to take some down falls.The Focus was based on Mahatma Gandhi, a man who was mistreated and deprived of his rights for refusing to move to third class from his first class seat that he rightfully owned, which prompted him to fight back against the government laws of South Arica and campaign for the rights of all Indians across the world. The overall film was magnificent I enjoyed all aspects of it and even got emotional at times. The message that was delivered through this film was very powerful and was also incorporated very well.The insight on the problems stemming from the twentieth century created recognition of how ones color could also be their downfall.
First of all, I would sincerely thank the movie making team to produce such a good movie on Mahatma Gandhi and History of India. The whole movie would spell bind the first time watchers as long as they are keen in Mahatma Gandhi and the independence of India. There are two great shortfalls of such a huge production though: - The Blu-ray media does not have Hindi audio, which makes this movie almost useless to the millions of people who understand Hindi. Is this fair or cheating with the Mahatma and the nation on which this movie is filmed. I would like to remind the movie making team that the national language of India is Hindi, and the people of India do have the right to watch this movie in their national language, am I right? What is your though on this Sir Richard Attenborough? - When Mahatma Gandhi was shot, he remembered his Hindu deity God Ram and said 'He Ram' before dying. Only 'Oh God', the English translation of 'He Ram' was kept in light. I am not trying to favor a religion here but trying to be fair with Mahatma. The movie making team at least could keep the text 'He Ram' on the screen to keep the last words of Mahatma intact to convey the same to the audience as it is. What is your though on this Sir Richard Attenborough? I hope such mistakes will not be repeated by other movie makers in future.Let us live and die in peace. Hail to Mahatma Gandhi.


                
This film was beautiful in its storytelling, when I first saw it on World Peace Day at the Filmhouse Edinburgh. Stunning in its 70mm it showed the life of Gandhi and the struggles he went through in freeing India from the British, also portraying the divide between the Hindus of India and the Muslims of Pakistan.Clearly Attenburgh wanted just to portray this as a beautiful story of the man and not try to overly dramatise it or add Hollyood actors. With a brilliant portrayal by the actor who played Gandhi and his wife and supporters. This film shows how India would do anything for Gandhi and what he stood for.


                
