Here indeed is one of the great films of the 20th Century about one of the greatest men of the 20th Century. Ben Kingsley's interpretation of the Mahatma must go down in history as one of the most perfect cinema rôles ever carried out. Throughout the long film you forget you are watching an actor playing the part of a great man in history: you are watching the real Gandhi. A gigantic performance indeed. Richard Attenborough's patient and perfect directing added all the superlatives possible to make a crowning achievement, transporting  biographic films into another dimension.It is all there: from the most intimate and poignant portrait to the incredible crowd scenes, beautifully captured in the most painstaking photography. You do not just watch the scenes unfold <U+0096> you live them, you feel them, so captivating they are; and Ravi Shankar's music tugs at you, spellbinds you, forces you into sympathy, admiration and so many other feelings. Enthralling: how such a cinematographic work of art can reach such proportions is truly amazing; this film is nothing less than a miracle. During 1971 I travelled a good bit around India; I constantly had to apologise to energetic Indians who approached me on the subject of the British Raj. I had not even been born. But as a young and unappointed ambassador, I felt it my duty to bow my head in that country which is a microcosm of the whole planet. Thanks to this film, `Gandhi', Attenborough and Kingsley have said just about all there was to say.< For men may come and men may go, but Gandhi goes on forever >


                
These are Gandhi's words when Hindus and Muslims are killing each other in the 1982 biographical drama "Gandhi" about the man who freed India.It was written by John Briley and produced and directed by Richard Attenborough. Mahatma Gandhi's message of non-violent resistance, called Satyagraha, is displayed in a very interesting and convincing way. I think this movie has already made a lot of people aware of Gandhi's good deeds not only for India. This man did not only free India but he also brought a lot of attention on how the British treated their colonies. The movie shows this in an entertaining way and is an important historical memory at the same time.Even 45 years after its release, the cinematography of "Gandhi" is still kind of breathtaking. From its countryside to big cities like Calcutta, Attenborough portrays many different aspects of India very well. He even used real Indian people for the many crowded scenes. Almost every scene in this movie has something spectacular to it. Attenborough won both the Academy Award and Golden Globe for best direction.Gandhi is played by Ben Kingsley, who was an unknown actor at that time. Kingsley did not only play him, he became Gandhi. Deservingly he won both the Academy Award and Golden Globe for best actor.All in all, I can only recommend watching "Gandhi" as it just is a wonderful movie with a great atmosphere. It is a film which describes the various characters very well and is also beautifully produced by Attenborough. I would say it is a must-watch for everyone enjoying a well-written story line with historical context and nice character description.


                
This film is very realistic. It depends on historical events. Ben Kingsley had played a great role. He had successful to be Gandhi. He had lived the Gandhi. And we learned more about Gandhi with this film. I am not sure about Cinnah's role to divide the India and Pakistan. He shown bad man but is he the one in real life. Civilian unrest shown also. How to do it we can see in the movie. But of course there are some tiny errors like this: the end of part 1, British soldiers kill Indians in a stadium and all of them are fleeing. But some people laugh at this time. Be careful. As a result it's worth to watch again a and again.


                
Sir Richard Attenborough has passed away. The artist who is best known for his Oscar winning directorial venture - Gandhi (1982) is no more. An actor turned director, Richard Attenborough touched the sky of excellence in his making of Gandhi. This was the first English movie seen by me. While paying my tribute to the great filmmaker, I am reviewing that only.Gandhi starts from 24 years old Mohandaas Karamchand Gandhi's journey to South Africa in 1893 with a law degree in his possession. And then starts his quest for truth while sticking to his path of non-violence, together forming his great mantra of Satyagrah. After fighting against racial discrimination for 21 long years on the foreign land, he came back to his motherland to follow the same philosophy and strategy of his against the colonial rule in his own nation. After roaming about the nation on the advice of Goalkrishna Gokhle, he started his struggle from Champaran in 1917 and went ahead with the masses taking that beginning to the point of Quit India Movement in 1942 after which end of the colonial rule in India was just a matter of time. But the problem of mutual distrust and hatred between the communities was even bigger than the colonial rule which divided this great nation and swallowed lakhs of innocent lives including the one which was of Gandhi himself. \ Richard Attenborough has done justice to his work and recreated history on the screen with near perfection. This sincere filmmaker devoted two decades in making of this epic movie and the end result proved to be an invaluable asset to the Indian cinema as well as the world cinema. He showed better sense by showing Gandhi's political journey only in his adulthood and skipped the events pertaining to his childhood. A movie is to be completed within a reasonable time frame and hence it was necessary to leave the initial phase of Gandhi's life.Flaws are there in the movie. Sardar Patel (Saeed Zaffrey) does not look the legendary Iron Man of India from any angle. Ditto for certain other characters alongwith ignoring certain significant historical events of that period. But these flaws cannot snatch the characteristic of being a great movie from Gandhi. Attenborough's in-depth research work and perfect casting of Ben Kingsley and Rohini Hattangadi for the lead roles of Gandhi and Kasturba contributed a lot to make it an unforgettable movie. Ben Kingsley is said to have slept on a small mat for a pretty long period in order to acclimatize him with the immortal character from the history of mankind. And when the movie was shot, he seemed to have created the soul of Gandhi in his earthly body. Lesser known Indian actress Rohini Hattangadi brought Kasturba alive on the screen.Attenborough extracted brilliant performances from almost all the cast members especially the Indian ones. No Hindi movie lover can forget Supriya Pathak as Manu and Neena Gupta as Abha in this movie. Making a realistic movie on that turbulent period of history while keeping Gandhi at the nucleus was by no means an easy task (and that's why two decades went into its making), so justice could not be done to certain historical characters. However the great filmmaker avoided trivial things which any formula-obsessed Indian filmmaker would not have been able to avoid viz. the affair of Acharya J.B. Kripalani as well as that of Sucheta and that of Indira and Feroze.By default perhaps, certain biases and contradictions in the great man's personality have been revealed though there's no bias in the filmmaker's approach either towards Gandhi or against Gandhi.The movie is an engaging one right from the word 'go' to its conclusion as John Briley has written the screenplay with sheer brilliance. The complete narrative moves forward speedily without a pause. The whole milieu is realistic and we seem to travel through that era getting a vision of India that was in the days of the British rule while watching this movie. All the action sequences render a feeling of realism. Technically, this is a flawless movie. Sitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar has prepared optimum music for this extra-ordinary movie I have seen both the English and the Hindi versions of this movie (on Doordarshan, of course) and found that anybody interested in history or the life of Gandhi can watch this umpteen number of times. It entertains as well as enlightens.As asserted in my review of the book My Experiments with Truth also, I feel sorry when I find people seeking pleasure in cursing Gandhi and enjoying the seemingly indecent talks about him (especially those related to his so-called experimentation in celibacy). You cannot understand Gandhi until you have at least a particle of himself in you. Attenborough had it, that's why he could understand what kind of a man M.K. Gandhi was.While paying my tribute to Richard Attenborough, I can't help remembering a dialog from this immortal piece of art of himself. When Gandhi was arrested at a point in the movie, the concerned police officer says to him, 'I am sorry Mr. Gandhi but you are under arrest' and Gandhi replies, 'I am not sorry'. That, I feel, should be our spirit for sticking to our ideals and our chosen path.


                
Gandhi is a sprawling, epic biography about one of the greatest, most influential leaders to have ever walked on our planet. That man was Mahatma Gandhi. He brought about the independence of India from the British Empire without enforcing the need for violence. He also wanted peace between all the Muslims and Hindus in India. This movie perfectly describes how Gandhi set to achieve his goals despite the British Empire trying to stop him.Richard Attenborough's film is about the life of Gandhi from his early adult life all the way to his brutal end. The way this man preached for peace and independence should influence all men and stop the unnecessary violence in this world.This film is very well-acted. I never thought a non-Indian like Ben Kingsley could pull off this kind of role off. But he did. Kingsley truly gave a magnificent performance and I felt like I was watching Gandhi himself. All the supporting actors were very good even though there are too many to list. A trivial fact for movie fans: Daniel-Day Lewis is indeed in this movie.Overall, this is one epic film about a man who united his country. This film has the essential cinematic qualities and it remains one of the top biographies ever made. The only thing that goes against this movie is the running length of over three hours long. But it was well-paced and has very powerful dialog. This film is a must-see for everyone. I rate this film 9/10.


                
This film is about Gandhi, a man with remarkable vision and wisdom, who led India to independence."Gandhi" is truly remarkable. The most amazing aspect of this film is probably Ben Kingsley's performance. He gives a fine performance in every stage of Gandhi's life: as a young lawyer with a unique vision, as a wise and compassionate leader and as a frail elderly.Another striking feature is the vast logistic involved in the film. There are so many crowd scenes with literally thousands of people. The organisation of these scenes is an impressive feat in its own right, not to mention the massive visual and emotional impact that these scenes provoke.Last but not least, the dialog in Gandhi is very well written. Only few movies can deliver powerful lines in every scene. Gandhi's immense wisdom, compassion and selflessness are shown through these amazing words, sending shock waves of respect and sympathy through viewers."Gandhi" is a powerful and emotional biopic. Its compassion touches me deeply. It deserved every Oscar it got.


                
For all the macabre fascination with the unqualified bad guys of history that we have (how often do Hitler, Stalin, or even Mussolini appear as characters in movies), it's worth noting that the influence of Mohandas Gandhi has already outlasted that of any of the twentieth-century bad guys. Decolonization of Asia and Africa looks more permanent than the colonial empires.Gandhi was the most important of those who whittled away at colonial power, and surprisingly the least military and despotic. The Indian subcontinent was not the first part of the colonial world to get full independence, but it was the most important region, and in view of the obvious power of the British Empire it seemed the least likely to get it. In view of the contrast between India and much of the rest of the post-colonial world, India has probably done best in politics because of Gandhi.Gandhi appealed to the best in human nature, and if he didn't always succeed at bringing it out, he at least didn't make a mess of things with a personality cult or a lust for riches. An unlikely hero of a revolution, he had few tools for changing the world: ideas and ideals. Mandela, Havel, Walesa, and of course Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. owed much to him. Better Gandhi than Mao, Ho Chi Minh, or Fidel Castro.The movie moves slowly, as it must; Gandhi was a contemplative man more than his fascistic antithesis, the so-called "Man of Action". Likewise, 'his' India is an undeniably gritty place -- which is all that it can be. This movie is a tribute to the elegance of thought of one of the most genuine, honest, and decent Great Men of History, and the elegance shows.


                
One of the best movie I saw. I got lot of tears throughout the movie. no words to explain what i undergone while and after watching this . Ben Kingsley has done wonderful job . A great man whom should not have have forgotten by anyone. His life is the best lesson for anyone who prepares to see the God. First , He is a human -then Indian -then Hindu. He didn't say this but he lived his life so that one can understand and follow. He always started the principles from himself. He preaches only after he followed and realized the value of what he is preaching. Ben has only given the glimpse of Gandhi yet it is very powerful presentation. He filled myself with Gandhi.


                
Why do people not like this? Why say this is one of the worst movie to win the Oscar for Best Picture? Nobody knew this would not be a timeless movie. Sure Attenborough himself admitted ET was the better movie by miles, but Gandhi is a different kind of movie that is meant to give information and make people think, as Attenborough says "a visual interpretation." Either way, say this is boring or fun, everybody must admit how well-done this movie was. Maybe it was inferior to ET in some standards, but Gandhi rises above ET in the most. Sir Ben Kingsley is chilling to the bone as the Mahatma, giving one of the best screen performances ever. The way he walks, talks and behaves is so much like the real Gandhi that residents mistaken Kingsley for the real Gandhi. Some of his speeches are so fascinating and inspirational about freedom and unity, you know he deserved the Oscar win. Aside from Kingsley's acting and everybody else's acting. The general filming was monumental too, at David Lean and Cecil B. DeMille levels. Although this is inferior to those men's top works, Attenborough brings back that style just when we need it most. The movie may be boring as it suffers from a dragged excessive length that could easily be condensed, the sets and shots are very nice to look at. And the story is one that had not been done in years. I found this to be the 80's Lawrence of Arabia.Take a rare, epic look at the man that set an entire country free and united all of its nations.


                
Gandhi is a great movie, and truly deserved its 8 Oscars. Director Sir Richard Attenbourgh finding an actor like Ben Kingsley, must have felt like he had discovered Plutonium. Kingsley turned out to be more like Gandhi than the Mahatma himself. If you don't learn something from this movie, check into a clinic for Nazis. There are many scenes that touch you. My favourite is when a big important judge played by Trevor Howard is visibly shaken when he looks at Gandhi in the dock. Howard is diminished in stature just by looking at humanity ...in the flesh. It is undoubtedly a true epic (Titanic was not...not even close) and a movie about a man who really was real...and his story very real. The old religions lean on old books that are almost certainly ...no-where near what REALLY happened. To-day the Catholic church scratches around for people who "other people" say did great things, so they can proclaim them saints. Utter rubbish. The first thing The Catholics need to do is stop sexually abusing children.


                
This movie is breath taking and shows in a great way the struggles Gandhi had to go through.And even while the movie takes more than 3 hours to complete, it feels like just an hour.The only "problem" with this movie is that when you're watching, you don't want to stop it. (to eat or drink something)So.... when you have not yet seen this movie:1. You should. 2. Always eat and drink (or take it with you!) before starting the movie.(Sorry if my English lacks a bit, i am Dutch.)


                
No man's life can be encompassed in one telling. There is no way to give each year its allotted weight, to include each event, each person who helped to shape a lifetime. What can be done is to be faithful in spirit to the record and to try to find one's way to the heart of the man, This gem in biographic cinema exactly does that and sketches Gandhi's life.Movie starts as M.k Gandhi in his youth, after becoming attorney comes to South . Africa (1893) . He was thrown out of the train for sitting in the first class being an Indian. After his bitter welcome which took him completely by surprise , he starts his fight for the rights of Indians while protesting against the pass law and being successful . Then flick shifts the focus on his return to India (1915) and how he sacrificed his life in India's freedom struggle and at last India won freedom through his non - violence movements i.e, Champaran movement, non- cooperation movement, burning of foreign clothes , salt march etc. Flick is able to successfully sketch the pain Gandhi suffered while accepting a separate nation Pakistan what made him to took that decision and how that decision become the reason for his assassination .Richard Attenborough fought the world to make this movie, as he struggled for monitory help. He even sold his share of the ownership from famous English play "The Mousetrap". Richard Attenborough pushed Ben Kingsley to his limits for taking out acting performance of a lifetime by Ben Kingsley as Gandhi. Ben is of Indian origin that surely helped his performance, he was so into his role that during the shoot many natives thought him to be Gandhi's ghost. The beautiful screenplay by John Briley and good work by supporting cast , all doing justice to their characters this movie in a complete package.There is very little to write about the flaws . Some of them were , The South African police were shown both arresting and beating Gandhi for burning passes during his protest of the Pass Law. although in reality Gandhi and his fellow protesters were arrested for burning the passes, but were not beaten . And its bit odd when we see Ben as Gandhi addressing Indian mass in English , the movie would have been more real if those parts were in Hindi.There are not many movies which are a must - see for all irrespective of the nationality , languages , cultures or sex , this masterpiece is one of them . If compared this masterpiece with other famous biographic gems like the ''Shindler's List" or " Beautiful mind " they fall behind in terms of effect this movie cause to masses. To greatness of this simple man Gandhi, Albert Einstein added, "Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth."


                
There are not enough superlatives to describe this film and the performances of the actors in it. It takes a superlative film to chronicle the life of a superlative man. It takes superlative actors and acting to tell us the story of the life of a real man whom we can only dream of following. Most of us are not worthy to kiss his sandals.Richard Attenborough gave us a memorable performance as Kris Kringle on Miracle on 34th Street, but he gave us so much more as director of this film. He kept us glued to the screen for the entire 188 minutes, and made a film that we return to over and over.Ben Kingsley was outstanding in House of Sand and Fog, Sexy Beast, and Bugsy, but he was head and shoulders above in his role as Gandhi. His performance helped us understand the man who gave everything for others.The cast included some many stars that to mention a few is to slight others: Edward Fox (A Bridge Too Far), John Gielgud (Arthur), John Mills (Ryan's Daughter), Saeed Jaffrey (My Beautiful Laundrette), Trevor Howard (Sons and Lovers), Martin Sheen (Apocalypse Now ), and Daniel Day-Lewis (My Left Foot, Gangs of New York, In the Name of the Father).And, of course, Candice Bergen as Margaret Bourke-White, who chronicles Ghandhi's life in pictures. While Many will recognize her for Murphy Brown and Boston Legal, it is her work in this film that etches her in my memory.


                
'Gandhi' is a comprehensive biographical sketch of one of the greatest men of contemporary times, and certainly the greatest man in the history of India. It also dutifully covers almost all the major events of India's independence struggle from the rule of the British Empire. In spite of being an historical account, the movie is by no means dry or pedantic, and it covers a large span of years with perfect pacing, often being witty, moving, humorous, thought-provoking and sprinkled with large doses of Gandhiji's famous messages.It is ironic that a Britisher would create such a moving and heartfelt portrayal, and it does hurt the credibility of the movie that every one is speaking in perfect English (even Gandhiji's famous last words are in English). Having said that, the movie is completely successful in exploring the life and character of Gandhiji, and in providing a faithful overview of the difficulties involved in the birth of India.India's independence struggle was unique, and Gandhiji's idea of non-violent non co-operation and shaming the Britishers by attacking their good image and appealing to their sense of morality and honour was a master stroke. As a person, all of Gandhiji's admirable qualities are on full display here : he was a man of strong conviction, an iron will, a sharp intellect and complete dedication to the cause of a strong, independent India.To be honest, the events portrayed in the movie are so far in the past that it is easy to debate about the importance of Gandhiji's non-violent movement in hindsight : India would probably have gained its independence sooner or later since the Britishers had suffered massive losses in the Second World War, but without Gandhiji, it is hard to guess whether would it have been more violent or less violent, and what values and principles we Indians as a nation would have inherited. It is also debatable how much of those values and principles that Gandhiji so strongly advocated have survived in the present time. All that said, it is certainly beyond debate that MK Gandhi was a great man, and his philosophy and his pivotal role in the birth of India will always be remembered.


                
Well, it's only been 36 years since this film came out and i finally got to watch it.
It's long,, very long. But fills the time easily.
It's probably that last movie ever made where you see an actual 'intermission' on screen. 
This is an epic of epic proportions, that's for sure.
Shot in an old style of film making similar to David Lean. 
Ben Kingsley superb in the title role. He does Gandhi better than Gandhi,!
The rest of the cast is also amazing.
This must be considered one of the great epics.


                
GANDHI REVIEWThe movie is a very important part of India's development which shows a realistic hero. Gandhi is a 1982 British-Indian epic biographical drama. It was produced and directed by Richard Attenborough and written by John Briley and it is about one of the biggest personalities of the 20th century. He is called Mohandas Gandhi (Mahatma Gandhi), the leader of India's non- violent, non-cooperative independence movement against the United Kingdom's rule of the country during this century.Richard Samuel Attenborough was an English actor entrepreneur and politician. He attended the British Academy of Dramatic Art and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts. As a film director and producer Attenborough won two Academy Awards for Gandhi in 1983. In this case Gandhi is the eighth-highest Oscar winning film of all time claiming eight awards from 11 nominations, including best film. The late director Richard Attenborough took 20 years to collect all the money for the movie. He was convinced that the movie would be telling one of the 20th- century's most remarkable stories that of the Indian lawyer who returned from racially segregated South Africa to drive the British out of his home country through successive acts of non-violent protests.Ben Kingsley played Gandhi and is therefore the main character in the movie. He was the perfect option because he was a young man who portrayed Gandhi very well. Gandhi was a friendly person who helped everyone and fought for justice. The movie was filmed in Delhi, India and England, UK. The shooting began on 26th November, 1980 in India and lasted up until 10th May, 1981. It cost estimated 22.000.000 Dollars. For the scene where Gandhi died roughly 300.000 people were obliged, just 200.00 of it volunteers. The rest, about 94,600 people, received a small fee. Eleven camera teams were necessary to turn the admissions to this one scene. Summarized I can say that Gandhi is a didactic movie which shows Gandhi's point of view and that everyone can fight with non-violence for their rights and can reach something in their lives.


                
Fantastic! That was the first thing I thought when I watched the movie 'Gandhi' which was filmed by Richard Attenborough in 1982. Starring Ben Kingsley, Candice Bergen, Edward Fox and many other great actors, it was interesting to watch it.The intention of the movie was to show the viewer the life of Mohandas Gandhi (Mahatma Ghandi). The movie did that perfectly. It showed some very important things in detail such as the salt march or Gandhi's conflict with the Britsh government and also that he is was very peaceful type of person.Ben Kingsley, an Indian-Britsh actor, played the role of Gandhi. He performed the role perfectly because he almost exactly looked like Gandhi and he played it as if he was Gandhi himself. I also liked that the film did not set something like a no go. It showed nearly everything, including the worse things like a brutal massacre.Personally I recommend to watch the movie. Everyone should see a movie about one of the greatest persons that has ever lived. I would rate it 9 stars out of 10.
As Einstein said about Gandhi, a quote included at the end of this movie, "Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever, in flesh and blood, walked upon this earth." Critics of this film will say that's in part because of the mythologizing of Gandhi, which director Richard Attenborough contributes to by not showing us questionable aspects of Gandhi's personal life, or some of the opinions he held. Just one example of the latter was his very naïve attitude towards Hitler, which I chalk up to the limits of his idealism more than anything else, not evil on his part – but that would have been 'fair ground' for a more accurate and balanced portrayal of the man. However, I have to say, those who focus on these omissions miss all that was absolutely accurate – and truly inspiring – in the film. This epic movie has beautiful shots of India and is beautiful in spirit. Who can possibly not be moved by this great man, whose simplicity and nonviolent approach to oppression and violence inspired Indians and the world? He endures beatings without raising a hand, and his moral rectitude and dignity never waver in dealing with the British, his countrymen, and his peers in the 'Home Rule' movement. He eschews pomp, embraces poverty, and demands authenticity. In testifying in his own defense while on trial, he says simply "Non-cooperation with evil is a duty, and that British rule of India is evil." In speaking with British officials, he says "In the end you will walk out, because 100,000 Englishmen simply cannot control 350 million Indians, if those Indians refuse to cooperate – and that's what we intend to achieve – peaceful, nonviolent, non-cooperation, until you yourselves see the wisdom of leaving." He tries desperately to hold Hindus and Muslims together in the aftermath, but is frail and then is of course assassinated.Perhaps the most difficult to watch or even fathom is the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar, which Attenborough shows us right before the intermission. The brutality and cruelty of British Colonel Reginald Dyer is staggering, as was his callousness in the inquiries afterwards – and there is no exaggeration in the film. There are aspects that can be questioned about the film – why a white man was hired to play the part of Gandhi (even though Kingsley is fantastic), why Jinnah was portrayed in too negative a light (possibly due to the influence of the Indian government, who helped sponsor the film), and why Gandhi was overly idealized. It's not perfect, and neither was he. However, the truth is that the man was courageous, enlightened, and an awe-inspiring moral beacon to us all. His words were beautiful – and the film gets all of this right. For companion reading, try 'Mohandas Gandhi Essential Writings', which has a number of fantastic passages, and provides a more complete view of the man. In the meantime, I highly recommend this movie. Just one more quote, in his speech in front of a packed house, which threatens to become violent in the face of unfair new British Laws:"In this cause, I too am prepared to die; but my friends, there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill. Whatever they do to us, we will attack no one, kill no one, but we will not give our fingerprints, not one of us. They will imprison us, they will fine us, they will seize our possessions, but they cannot take away our self-respect if we will not give it to them. <U+0085> I am asking you to fight. To fight against their anger, not to provoke it. We will not strike a blow, but we will receive them, and through our pain, we will make them see their injustice, and it will hurt, as all fighting hurts. But we cannot lose. We cannot. They may torture my body, break my bones, even kill me – then, they will have my dead body – not my obedience."Hallelujah.


                
This film tells the life of Gandhi, a highly intelligent lawyer of British origin, which joins the Indian independence cause and plays a key role in the independence of India, after decades under British rule. Directed by Richard Attenborough, it has a screenplay by John Briley and stars Ben Kingsley in the lead role.The film is quite honest in the picture that makes of the life and struggle of Mahatma Gandhi, father of modern India. He is portrayed as an idealistic, utopian, combative and determined to achieving his objectives in a way that he considers appropriate, without resorting to expedients that he knows are not right. An icon of passive resistance and nonviolence, Gandhi is played brilliantly by Ben Kingsley, who managed to live up to the role, giving the character a great moral force. The film catapulted him to stardom in all fairness, after a great character reconstruction work (physical, mental and psychological) along several stages of his life.The film is a classic with classical techniques. No complex special effects or anything like that. The crowds that come in some scenes, such as Gandhi's funeral, are made from real people. An effort partially forced by the absence of cheaper techniques, but compensated by giving a striking realism to the film. This realism efforts found following in costumes, filming locations and sceneries, creating an environment that transports us easily to the time and place of action. In fact, this film could almost be a documentary about Gandhi and the life and society of the British Raj era. The soundtrack is signed by Ravi Shankar, but its far from the impact and relevance of other soundtracks. Anyway, the film reached a deserved consecration, raising eight Oscars (Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Original Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Art Direction, Best Editing and Best Costume Design).


                
When it comes to biopic, there's always some skepticism: people try to find inaccuracies, complain about those, and such. I don't know how much was true and how much was untrue in Gandhi's depiction in this film, but certainly it makes me feel that they wanted to be the most accurate possible. Gandhi is very well portrayed by Ben Kingsley, in various scenes you get tricked and believe it's the actual Gandhi, especially in the second half of the film. It's a really long film, and has even got an intermission (wich allows it also to divide it for two separate occasions). Gandhi's teachings portrayed in the film are definitely some of the best things in this film, they definitely allow to get deep meanings from the story.


                
"Gandhi" is not only a movie to entertain the audiences, but also to educate them. It's one of the best Indian-historical-reference that pose their beloved father of the nation, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. The real character of Mahatma is revealed. Start from his first debut in public speaking, which is very bad, until he can affect the entire nation emotion just by his own voice. The perspective is very unique, because the movie point is not impartial. Such as a scene, when the Muslim and Hindu confront. The movie point take side in the neutral point of view. So just the fact revealed. It is a great idea.Another point is its similarity from the real historical fact. Yes, I think the research to make this movie is very long and detail. So that we can get the very similar situation in the past. And also, the emotion and affection of every character is well-made. We can see, how doubtful Gandhi in his first career, or how uncompromising Nehru is. The idea of the movie is to combine the historical value with the art of history cinematography, which is very good and hard work. At last, I recommend it to all of you, you can get both Gandhi biography, Indian history, and the art of history movie, by watching this 1919-minute- movie. Hope you enjoy it as well as me.
Not often does an Oscar winner for leading actor or actress dominate the entire picture through and through. Everything in "Gandhi" gravitates around Ben Kingsley in the role of a lifetime, or quite simply: the role he was born to play. Mahatma Gandhi's story is about the power of one influencing the power of millions. Richard Attenborough's film aspires to spread that message in this fascinating three-hour biopic about the strength and willpower of the human spirit."Gandhi" is in fact responsible in part for the modern day biopic, a genre that has become a huge part of awards season almost every year. Humbly, the film begins with a message that no film could fairly capture the life of one person, let alone Mohandas K. Gandhi, the lawyer that virtually became a prophet. They needn't be so humble: they easily achieve the goal of capturing the essence of Gandhi, the core of his person. The film starts with Gandhi making political waves in South Africa then taking his message of non-violence and non-resistance to India in attempt to force the English out on their own terms.Attenborough, an actor who had made a couple war films and a Winston Churchill biopic "Young Winston" prior, struck gold with this film. It is not a film that begs a director's signature touches, rather one that requires patience and the ability to surrender the film's influential power completely to the main character. With the exception of some key scenes that don't involve Gandhi, Attenborough is nearly invisible. We're meant to hear this man's words and become as magnetized as all South Africa and then of course India does. Attenborough primarily contributes a worldly feel, like that of a true epic, as well as purposeful and quick pacing.Ultimately, writer John Briley keeps "Gandhi" fascinating by bouncing back and forth between plan and action. Gandhi and his followers or Gandhi and the government meet to discuss how they might make a stand, Gandhi says some instantly-quotable wisdom and then we see the impact on the greater country. It seems formulaic, but it keeps "Gandhi" from lingering too long in one place and losing its impact.Holding those "planning" scenes is the poise of Kingsley. He has that intangible "it" factor as Gandhi. Gandhi was well-spoken, strong-willed and never doubted his position of influence, but he had to have been more humble than any man before him with that kind of political influence. Many Oscar winners have the inner demons of their character to wrestle with in order to add power to their performances; Kingsley does it all gracefully and understated.The difference one man can make in the cycle of violence has never been clearer. Martin Luther King Jr. would become the "next Gandhi" perhaps, adapting his principles and continuing to prove that a single voice can lead a people as it has as far back as biblical times. Humanity needs a face to help rally it sometimes and Gandhi was able to fast to quiet a nation of 300 million (at the time). In exploring the power of this one Indian man of short, unimposing stature, "Gandhi" offers discourse on the dynamics of power between oppressor and oppressed and also highlights that despite how easily one single person can start the cycle of violence, say by throwing a rock at a passing group of Muslims as one Hindu does later in the film, one person -- contrary to popular belief -- can under the right circumstances end it.~Steven CVisit my site http://moviemusereviews.com


                
Spoilers aheadRichard Attenborough's biographical film on Mohanndas K. Gandhi is one of the best movies I have seen. Ben Kingsley is superb as the Indian statesman, and his Oscar was well-deserved. This movie focuses on the most important points in Gandhi's political career, from his struggle to bring social equality for Indian indentured laborers in South Africa; to his desire for British India's political independence, and the nonviolent means by which he does this; to his bitter fight to end the civil war between Pakistan and India, for which he ultimately paid with his life. While not totally historically accurate, the film treats the major events, including the Amritsar Massacre and the Partition War of 1947, with great sensitivity and intelligence.All of the actors in this movie did an excellent job. The Indian actors who portrayed Jawaharlal Nehru and Mohammed Jinnah, the founding fathers of India and Pakistan, respectively, were brilliant, although most viewers probably would not know who these actors are. Martin Sheen is good as the photojournalist who befriends Gandhi and participates in his Salt March, and the lovely Candace Bergen is also wonderful as Time-Life photographer Margaret Bourke-White.In short, this is one of the finest movies ever made, even though many of the actors are unknowns. It is ironic that some of the best acting I've seen in the "Godfather" movies and in "Gandhi" were by relatively obscure and unknown, and hence "non-famous" actors. It just goes to show that being a big "A-list" star does not ensure that you are the best actor there is. Watch "Gandhi". You will not regret it.


                
This is a magnificent portrayal of the life of India's Mahatma Gandhi. The film begins with Gandhi's assassination by a fellow Hindu and his massively attended funeral. It then proceeds to chronicle his life over a half century, from his early years as a young lawyer, to his advocacy of non violent protest as his country's spiritual leader, resulting in the peaceful liberation of India from British rule. Gandhi was an Indian attorney, educated in England, who went on to take up the cause of racial equality in South Africa. He then returned to India and struggled to bring about his country's independence from Britain through the use of nonviolent means. One of his major obstacles was the uniting of Hindu and Moslem Indians in this cause. He achieved his goal of independence but through the formation of two separate countries, India and Pakistan, with a further division of Pakistan later forming Bangladesh. In depicting Gandhi's life, the film paints a vivid portrait of racial discrimination, both in South Africa and in his native India. Gandhi is an important historical figure as other great leaders, such as Martin Luther King Jr. and Nelson Mandela, have employed his peaceful approach to causes of civil rights and racial equality in their own countries.This was a simple & humble man without wealth, property, official title, or political position. Yet Gandhi is seen as India's greatest leader, a man who insisted that his followers achieve their goals through civil disobedience rather than violence. The film captures with equal brilliance his simple tasks, such as spinning cotton or scooping salt, and his dramatic methods, especially his fast unto death. Gandhi's commitment to his goals and his determined but peaceful pursuit of them are well portrayed, as he shows himself willing to suffer and possibly even die to achieve his ends. Ben Kingsley, a British actor of paternal Indian origin himself, is masterful in his portrayal of the great Hindu leader, both during his years as a young lawyer in South Africa and later as the simple and modest man wearing wire rimmed glasses, a loin cloth, and shawl. He perfectly captures Gandhi's humility, intensity, dignity, and inner strength. Although Kingsley had a significant role in Schindler's List, for me he will always be Gandhi in the role he was born to play.The wonderful star studded supporting cast includes John Gieguld as the Indian Viceroy (Lord Irwin) who ignores Gandhi, John Mills as the earlier Viceroy, Edward Fox as the cruel English General Dyer who ruthlessly fires on a crowd, Trevor Howard as the considerate and respectful Judge Broomfield, and Ian Charleston as a local Christian clergyman. Journalistic roles are portrayed by Candice Bergen as a photographer for Life magazine, and Marin Sheen a New York Times reporter.The movie was filmed on location in India and has stunning cinematography throughout. The scenes of India (both countryside and crowded Calcutta) plus the dramatic funeral crowd depiction which features half a million extras, lend this film the impression of a sweeping epic. David Lean's only worthy rival is Richard Attenborough, who directed this picture. It fully deserved its numerous Oscars which include Best Picture, Actor, Director, Cinematography, and Costuming. This is an incredible movie which gives viewers of all nations and faiths an appreciation for the life and work of India's beloved Hindu leader. However, I have some definite qualms about this epic. As is often the case with Hollywood, Christianity is not cast here in a particularly stellar light, Christians are generally depicted as bigots, and the clergyman is not personally very inspiring. Rev. Andrews seems to have a weak theology himself and is portrayed as rather pathetic compared with the wise & great Hindu leader. I have little knowledge of the movie's historical accuracy in its depiction of Gandhi. While one certainly should not cast aspersions upon the deceased, this picture appears to totally overlook any flaws Gandhi may have had. I am quite leery of putting people on pedestals and frankly, the Indian leader is elevated to a state approaching deity in this film. Certainly Gandhi made an enormous contribution to India's history and became an admirable model of peaceful resistance to injustice, but it is Christ who set the example of a life lived perfectly. He is another who lived humbly without wealth, property, title, or position and is the one on whom we should genuinely model our lives in every respect. Gandhi is unquestionably a stunning film, but I bear all this in mind.


                
Ben Kingsley stars as Gandhi, who nearly singlehandedly won the independence for India from the British Empire. Kingsley gives an extremely powerful performance in this as the peaceful but determined Gandhi. In fact, I believe that this is probably the best acting I've seen him do - ever! Candice Bergen portrays Margaret Bourke-White, a highly respected and talented photographer, who was there to record parts of the drama for the world to see. Directed by Richard Attenborough, it won the 1982 Best Picture award, winning over the blockbuster ET, which was expected to win the big award.


                
