Honestly, I don't think I've ever seen anything quite like It's A Wonderful Life. Does it take me back to that place in my heart, that makes me long for everything that once was great and it could be again? Does it remind me of my childhood, Christmas in my home? No. Maybe it's just simply what I always wanted from life and every man I want to be. Everything about this film is well for lack of better words, perfect. No question to it any longer, the best performance by an actor I have ever seen. It's more than just beautiful, timeless or fair. All of Stewart is revealed. Everything coming together for Capra. Lionel Barrymore at his best, which seems to be his worst. Sometimes I think there is a reason why somethings happen. And I'm pretty sure there is some magical reason why this film was made. I'm 27 years old and saw it for the first time Christmas Eve of this year. I've watched it 3 times since. The only movie to ever make me cry. I probably wouldn't have all the answers for you, if you asked me why. I'm still trying to figure Stewart out and just how beautiful was Reed.What can I say? This movie is a life changing experience. Makes me feel good to be alive. What a wonderful little world it is. And if I waited my entire life, it would not be a waste of time.


                
No movie ever made has influenced me more than this classic. I had the honor of doing a play version of it about 5 years ago. I had seen the film thousands of times, had loved it, but I never really knew what it meant. During the course of the production, I suddenly felt alive. I felt that I wasn't having enough fun. I felt that I wasn't doing enough in my life. Crazy things, like kissing my mother or my father. I hadn't really hugged one of them in a while. It makes you think. It's more of a thinking person's film than a mere Christmas film. If you think it's just a Christmas film, I insist you watch it again and again, until you get the message.Stewart gives the finest performance of his career, in one of the most difficult characters ever portrayed. A character all of us are familiar with...a person looking to find himself/herself. It's the great struggle for finding what it is in life you really want to do. George Bailey teaches us so lessons throughout the film and in the end he teaches us the most important lesson of all, that life, although a long and winding road, truly is (for lack of a better word) wonderful...


                
When I heard about this movie for the first time, I thought it was just a forgettable and funny movie. But I was wrong. I saw this movie last Christmas and I did not find it funny, but I loved it, though! Everything is so great in this movie. The story is amazing. The characters are great, and the character's development is fantastic! the cinematography is grea, and the acting is fantastic. James Stewart was mind blowing. The whole movie is amazing,touching and encouraging. You cannot describe how good this movie is. Nor can you describe how good the message is.This is the best feel-good movie ever. It's a life changing movie, actually. It makes you feel good to be alive. Do me a favor and watch this movie as soon as possible! When you're sad, think about the message this movie delivers, because you will get a smile on your face! I'm 14 years old. My English is not very good, but I hope this review was useful!


                
This film has become a Christmas tradition in my family.  We watch it every year and never tire of it.  Frank Capra is a master of creating films with a message that reinforce strong values.  This is probably his greatest film in that regard.  Both he and Stewart have publicly stated that this is their favorite film.The message in this film is one of courage and sacrifice for the greater good as George Bailey, a man with big ideas about seeing the world, continually forsakes his own desires to do what is right for the town.  The second message is that each life important.  No matter how insignificant we feel we are, we are all inextricably linked to each other and play an important part in the fabric of one another's lives.Capra's direction is brilliant.  His genius is bringing human stories to life in a ways that not only make a point, but that totally involve the audience in the lives of the characters.  He is always extremely optimistic about the human condition.  He is known for testing his characters with overwhelming adversity to make them struggle to triumph in a way that causes the world to change and the character to grow.  For this reason his films were always crowd pleasers and this film was the best of all in that regard.Led by Capra's understanding hand, the actors all did a magnificent job. Stewart's wide-eyed enthusiasm and boyish charm, coupled with an unbending strength of character made him the perfect folk hero.  Donna Reed was lovely and charming and attained the right balance between being supportive and inspirational.  The romantic chemistry between her and Stewart was subtle and charming.  Lionel Barrymore was towering as the greedy old skinflint who was trying to take over the town.  Thomas Mitchell plays one of my favorite characters, as the bumbling Uncle Billy in probably his most memorable role.This film is number eleven on AFI's list of best films of the century.  It was nominated for five academy awards and won none.  It was swept in 1947 by `The Best Years of Our Lives', a great film that won seven Oscars that year but in my opinion was the lesser film.  History has corrected that minor injustice by rendering `It's a Wonderful Life' an enduring classic that is viewed and loved by generation after generation.  Of course, I rated it a 10/10.  I can't wait to see it again this Christmas.


                
I am so glad Frank Capra had a vision to make "It's A Wonderful Life". I'm glad he chose Jimmy Stewart to play George Bailey. There are some little gems in life that help make life pleasant. It is not officially the Christmas season without watching this little gem. The supporting cast is perfectly matched. Donna Reed is wonderful as well as all the characters of the town. This would be a great movie, even if it were not in a Christmas setting. The holiday flavor makes it even more charming and memorable. A angel trying to get his wings is a little far-fetched, but Capra pulls it off. The impact of living a good life cannot be underestimated. What would life be like for your family if you had never been born? Our actions do speak loudly. In an age of 9-11, we need this movie more than ever. The values of "It's A Wonderful Life" still hold true today. Yes, I'll say it, it's a wonderful movie.


                
I've always thought that the reason It's A Wonderful Life has had such enduring popularity is that more than in any other film it shows what can be the value of a single individual and the contribution to the greater good they can make.George Bailey as portrayed by James Stewart is the kind of every man hero we can all identify with. He's got the every day problems to be sure, raising and providing for a family, but he's got bigger problems than that. Fate has made him the rallying point of opposition in his small town of Bedford Falls to the "richest and meanest man in town", embodied in Lionel Barrymore.It's a real David vs. Goliath battle. Barrymore seems to have unlimited resources at his disposal. Samuel S. Hinds as Peter Bailey put it so well to him in asking what are you doing all this for? Barrymore does have more money than he could ever possibly use. A little charity wouldn't hurt him.Remember the basic plot outline. A whole lot of people in Bedford Falls one post World War II Christmas Eve see that their friend George is toting a heavy load of mysterious origins. Their prayers reach the heavens where an angel is dispatched to aid.But before Henry Travers the angel arrives, he's given the story of George Bailey's life. And we see the kind of struggles he's had, the sacrifices he's made for the good of a whole lot of others. We've also seen a greedy and grasping Potter, grabbing everything that George Bailey cannot save. Something happens that day before Christmas through no fault of his own, Bailey is in big trouble. It's driven him to the brink of despair. That's why the angel is sent down. He shows him the alternate universe that would have been had he never existed. It's something each and every one of us should try to do, step outside ourselves see just what our contributions can be.But I think what Frank Capra is trying to say in this greatest of his films is that having done that and we realize we haven't contributed to the greater good of humankind, we resolve to do so. It's a simple, but profound lesson.What if Potter got the same opportunity? In a sense Charles Dickens did just that in A Christmas Carol. Would Lionel Barrymore change? It's an interesting point of speculation.In addition to those cast members already mentioned a whole group of players who worked with Capra before grace this film. Add to that some others and you have a perfectly cast feature picture.Donna Reed has an interesting part as well. Your choice of mate is real important in life. Had she not been as loving and supportive to George Bailey, he might very well have taken a different route in life. Mary Hatch Bailey became a signature part for her, more identified than her role in From Here to Eternity which got her an Oscar. It certainly was the basis for her TV series.When Todd Karns who plays Harry Bailey toasts his brother he's saying that the riches of the world are not necessarily things that can be quantified. Your life is not measured in material things, but in how you use the material things given you. And that universal lesson will be taught into eternity as long as It's A Wonderful Life is shown every year. Wouldst we all learn it.


                
This is one of the best films of all time, without a doubt. I challenge anyone to watch this film and not be touched, if you can, you have no heart!James Stewart is one of my favourite actors, and in this film he acts so naturally you even forget he's an actor playing a part, you really believe his story. You're pulled on a roller coaster of emotions throughout this film, and by no means is this a light hearted look at life, as many believe. This is not a rose tinted look at the wonderful life we have, this is a dark, downtrodden start to a film where the lead character is about to commit suicide.However, it is a beautiful film, and is one of the few that you can watch again and again and walk away with the same glowing feeling as you did when you first watched it.


                
No other film comes anywhere near to getting people to find out what things would have been like if an event had or had not taken place - Groundhog Day comes close (my second favourite) and Sliding Doors tries.For sheer emotion this film has the lot. I have watched it over 40 times now and I still get tearful towards the end of the film. If anyone wants to find out why life is worth living, this is the one to watch.


                
Review edited and therefore quite choppy due to maximum word limit.   Has there ever been a truer and more heartfelt character than George  Bailey? This is a man whose life is one of great significance, but he,  like all of us, does not always realize that this is so. He does not  recognize his impact on the world until an angel erases his existence  like chalk on a board. It is then that he is hit by the fact that one  man's failing life isn't always as inconsequential as it may seem.  We all remember when Clarence (Henry Travers) first appears on that  snowy bridge and saves George Bailey (James Stewart) from committing  suicide. He explains nonchalantly that he is an angel and George is  incredulous--until Clarence wipes away his entire past. His mother  doesn't recognize him. George tells her about his uncle as a source of  belief. She states that his uncle has been dead for some time, now.  The best scene in the entire film is that following when George is  thrown out by his mother. He runs towards the camera in an intense wide  shot, his face registering emotions of fear, horror, and ultimately the  horrid understanding of what has happened. This role is the highlight  of James Stewart's career--he never came anywhere close to the superb  performance he gives in this movie. There is a reason it was his  favorite film he ever starred in.  Stewart's portrayal of George Bailey is the grown image of all of us:  As a child he dreamed of nothing but exotic locations and adventurous  travels to foreign lands. But now he is a family man, a father and a  husband. He has left behind his silly bachelor notions, but they still  come back to haunt him. Bailey owns the town savings and loan, left to  him by his father. The cranky Mr. Potter (Lionel Barrymore) wants  complete monopoly over the town, and all that stands in his way is  Bailey and his little bank. But Bailey, an inner disgust and hatred  towards Potter brewing since his childhood days, refuses to cave in and  give it all away.  Then one day, George's absentminded and quite eccentric uncle (Thomas  Mitchell), misplaces a large sum of money, leaving George hopeless and  Potter with a serious advantage. After blowing up at his wife (Donna  Reed) and kids at home, George gets drunk at a local bar, is scorned at  by a schoolteacher's wife, and left dazed and confused, walking through  the snowy town at night during the happy Christmas season without a  hope in the world. Battered and delirious, thinking back over his  apparently pointless and wasted life, he contemplates suicide. He prays  to God and wishes that he had never existed. Which is why Clarence  comes down from heaven to sort things out and answer his prayer.  Essentially bombing at the box office when it was first released, and  then proceeding to fall into copyright problems for years, "It's a  Wonderful Life" resurfaced only years later when it was brought back  into the public domain circa 1970. When other channels were airing  expensive Hollywood movies during the Christmas season, PBS picked up  the film and played it as a counter attack, a weak hope prevailing in  them that the classic film buffs out there would tune in. They did. And  so did families across the nation. Every year the ratings got stronger  and stronger and now, almost sixty years following the movie's initial  release, it is considered a holiday tradition.  George considers suicide as a way of escaping his problems without  really thinking over the possible outcomes given his final choice. He  looks back upon his life as wasted potential; he wanted to become an  adventurer, break his family's small-town tradition and become  something huge. Mentally scanning his life to the point in time when he  stands on that bridge, George Bailey believes that he has simply and  truly created a waste of space. He's ready to end his (assumed)  pointless life when his entire point of view is wholly altered by the  power of God. George suddenly realizes that though he never lived out  his boyhood fantasies, he did so much more than he ever dreamed of. He  saved his brother's life, which resulted in a huge impact in later  years; he made an influence in the lives of others and brought peace  and harmony to an otherwise small town by prevailing at the requests of  Mr. Potter; he married a beautiful wife and had children, all of whom  will no doubt have some measure of significance later in the world. And  his wish on that bridge was that he had never been born.  Often I am asked to name my favorite movie, and though I ignore  requests and state that I have not seen every existing movie and  therefore my judgment carries no significance, I have the lightest  whimsy that "It's a Wonderful Life" may be my favorite motion picture  to date. I cherish few other films just as close, but to me, "It's a  Wonderful Life" is more moving than "Casablanca," a better study of one  man's life than "Citizen Kane," and a movie that will live on in the  hearts and memory of viewers long after we are gone. I believe that  this is the definitive Americana motion picture, regardless of how I  compare it to my other favorites, which may carry the same weight but  not the same true significance. Few films come as close to the heart as  "It's a Wonderful Life." And few films come as close to "It's a  Wonderful Life" at all, for that matter.  5/5.
I just re-watched this film with my family as an annual Christmas tradition (first time on DVD though). I have to say, despite the 10-11 times i've seen this, it still holds up with magnificent strength and emotion. The scenes where Bailey has "never been born" with Clarence the angle and the triumphant concluding scene in Stewart's house where all his friends come to his aid are famous beyond comparison, but still are mesmerizing and emotional. What often is overlooked is the mountain of great dialogue in this film. Barrymore and Stewart have so many great lines-"I'm and old man and most people hate me, but I don't like them either"; "Oh, why don't you stop annoying people!"; "Is it too much to ask that people can live their lives with a few nice rooms and a bath and not have to live in your slums? We need this run-down old building just so there can be somewhere people can go and not crawl to Potter." Jimmy Stewart gives one of THE performances of all time as the ultimate put-upon good guy George Bailey. All he wants to do is get out of Bedford Falls, travel the world and go to college. But, because of a string of coincidences and occurences where George puts others above himself, he ends up never leaving the town. Donna Reed is his loving wife Mary, who waits around for George to realize that he loves her. This situation leads to one of the most touching and romantic scenes on film, where as the plastic magnate Sam Wainwright talks to George and Mary on the same phone, they look into each other's eyes and you see the what they truly feel for eachother. George grabs Mary, saying "I don't wanna get married to anyone anywhere at anytime", but he is cut off in the middle of his speech by the emotion, and they embrace. Rob Reiner claims he can't watch or discuss this scene without tearing up. How Stewart and Reed didn't win Oscars for this scene alone is unthinkable. Also, Lionel Barrymore is great as the evil Mr. Potter (with his wheelchair pilot/crony, Potter is the predecessor to everyone from the Beatles "Mean Mr. Mustard" to Mr. Burns on "The Simpsons")-who you believe is just a mean old man at the beginning, but then when he gives his final major speech to Stewart you realize what a twisted and cruel monster he truly is. The director, Frank Capra, must also be given credit when praising this film. He directs the actors and frames them in such a way that the true relationships and actions between them are so much more meaningful. He really knew what he was doing when making this film. The make-up and lighting department also successfully show the wear of 18 years on the principle actors-this movie takes place with the same actors from the period of 1928-1946, and Reed's and Stewart's make-up jobs are extremely convincing. Some great moments: The close-ups of Stewarts face when 1.) He lears if he doesn't take over the Bailey Building and Loan, the board of trustees will vote with Potter and drive the institution out of business, and 2.) In the fantasy scenes, where he runs away from "Ma Bailey's Boarding House" and realizes that not even his own mother regognizes him. The speech Bailey gives condemning Mr. Potter after Pa Bailey's death and Potter's appeal to liquidate the Building and Loan. A young George Bailey reveals to the pharmacist Mr. Gower that because he was so grief-stricken over the death of his son that he put the wrong medicine in the wrong tablet, and the look from Gower when he realizes that if not for Bailey, he would have done a terrible, terrible thing (this moment always gives me goosebumps). The look of disgust and horror on Stewart's face after shaking Potter's hand after being offered a job, then wiping his hand on his jacket-symbolising his realization that if he had agreed to work for Potter, he would have been selling his soul to the devil. This scene is followed by the wonderfully tender moment between Stewart and Reed where he stares at her in the dark as she tells him she is pregnant. Capra's greatest gift to the common man, "It's a Wonderful Life" still holds up beautifully. It is a morality tale with a timeless message that no man is poor who has friends. It's the ultimate happy ending, and the ultimate Christmas story.
I had fond memories of "It's A Wonderful Life" but, somehow, it never made my top ten. The other night I felt the urge to see it again, from beginning to end, after that fun compilation from the AFI, 100 movies, 100 Cheers. The most surprising thing about this perennial classic is that it's not just a good movie but a sort of miracle. Age has made it more relevant, more powerful. Frank Capra is, without question, its miracle worker. His narration style was a first and in a way unsurpassed. As you may very well know, the film wasn't an instant success. A peculiarity it shares with most of the great works of art. The truth is something that needs time to be confirmed even recognized. James Stewart's performance lived from a 2006 stand point is, quite simply, extraordinary. Capra's films were known as "capracorn" in their day. Strange to think about it now because its sentimentality wasn't really sentimental but a need to find goodness in the darkest places. The great Capra not only found it, it unmasked it with the same relish that he unmasked evil and greed. My only regret is that on this times of technical prowess we'll never see again the likes of "It's Wonderful Life" But, trying to look on the bright side in the most Capraesque kind of way. "It's A Wonderful Life" will be around for ever.


                
George Bailey is a man with goals, ambitions - a man of courage, integrity and pride. But all he has ever done his whole life is assist those in need, never for a second thinking about himself. Wanting to see the world before he sets off to college for an architect degree, he finds that he can't let his town crumble against the miserable, hateful, greedy and powerful 'Potter' and so he decides to stay. His father passes away, and so he must find a way to run the 'Loans' business that his father has kept from the mad man 'Potter'. All goes well for Bailey - a beautiful wife, a few children and a lot of friends. Although still handing out loans like his father before him, he pursues his dream of building and constructs a home village with affordable houses despite Potter's mass influence on the township. Unfortunately for Bailey, things begin to point downhill following the Depression and later bankruptcy where Bailey just can't handle the weight of burden of all the people's money he cannot repay. He comes to the harrowing conclusion that he should never have been born and decides to leave his family and friends and take his own life off a bridge. But the world cannot dispose of itself such a man, so god sends an Angel on a mission to get its wings, or better yet to save George Bailey's life. The Angel shows George what life would have been like had he not been born at all and of what became of the people he took dearly. Miserable under Potter's absolute influence, the town looks like an over indulgent, over spent, money making machine. George gets a glimpse of his own powerful influence on his friends and family and realises just what a wonderful life he really had.Few films have portrayed the value (not the meaning) of life like 'It's a Wonderful Life' has. In contemporary times, we have been fed with recycled stories such as "The Family Man" and "It can happen to you", but none have captured the raw beauty of life like the original, "It's a wonderful Life"- its success partly due to its simplicity. And it sustains your attention from start to finish due to its simple and riveting storytelling. Sets aren't big, the story is quite small and the film is in black and white. What makes this film stand taller than others is the great dialog between the characters which consistently remains on the story throughout the film and not on irrelevant topics - this is what keeps us glued to the screen (unlike with modern films, most of the dialog is blabber about nothing). The acting is superb from the whole cast, but you have got to hand it to James Stewart for one of the best performances of his career portraying the discouraged George Bailey - arguably his best performance - and one of the best performances you will see in any film. What I really love about this film is the lack of music, which gives a sense of realism to the story, like we are there with the characters in George Bailey's world.Frank Capra creates an unforgettable atmospheric experience that remains tattooed in your memory years after viewing. The outdated effects aside, this film has stood the test of time as a timeless classic. The direction was subtle and superb - rarely equaled and I think this film is best in Black and White, even though they already had color in 1939, seven years before this masterpiece was released.I recommend this film to anybody who feels down and depressed, sad and lonely. It really makes you think about the importance and beauty of this life in which you are living. All I can say is that I will be watching this film yearly until the day that I die due to its poignancy. A real classic in cinema history. It really is a wonderful Life!
I've seen this film at least 20 times over the years and it never fails to move me. It Is so relevant more than seven decades later. Our wonderful nation could very well face the same future that Mr. Potter wanted to inflict on Bedford Falls. Amazing how its basic premise of redemption and good winning over greed resonates in 21st century America.The older I get the more emotional this film makes me. It is simply that good.


                
Have seen this film many times--and never tire of it. But this is not a Christmas film!! Christmas is only in the last 20 minutes!!
It is a drama--often becoming like a long Twilight Zone episode. James Stewart gives
the best performance of his entire career.
The supporting cast is marvelous. This film never fails to move me deeply.


                
I once read that It's A Wonderful Life is the holiday gift for all time. Never a truer statement has been made about one of the most popular films to have ever been made.The Plot is a simple one that has since been regurgitated and trundled out almost yearly it feels like. James Stewart plays George Bailey, an all round swell fella, who because of a number of life's circumstances finds himself forever a resident of Bedford Falls. Here he is the principal guy in the running of the family Building & Loan business. When a substantial amount of money goes missing during the run up to Christmas, Bailey finds himself at the mercy of family nemesis, and nefarious town banker, Mr. Potter {Lionel Barrymore}. But George, tipped over the edge by an incident involving the bank funds, has an idea that taking his own life would greatly improve the fortunes of his family and the family business. But as he stands at the precipice of death by suicide, George is saved by his guardian angel Clarence {Henry Travers} and given the chance to see what Bedford Falls would be like having not had George Bailey's influence.Few, if any, directors have rivalled Frank Capra when it comes to successfully portraying the human heart on screen. It's A Wonderful Life is Capra's masterpiece. Rightly so, it is unashamedly sentimental, but also it's rich with the directors faith in community spirit and a belief in the strong bond of family love. The story is loosely worked from "The Greatest Gift," a Phillip Van Doren Stern story that he had sent to his friends as a Christmas card. Aided on screen writing duties by Frances Goodrich & Albert Hackett {Dalton Trumbo is in there sometimes too}, Capra fashioned an ultimate feel good movie that is flecked by sheer darkness and disconcerting "life is tough" undertones. It's most likely that the more dark side of the film, and the wait for Christmas cheer, is what made It's A Wonderful Life a flop on its release. The film made a huge loss, tho not quite as gargantuan as many today believe, and was quickly consigned to the forgotten bin. But annual yuletide repeats on television over the following decades garnered it a cult following. A cult following that eventually swelled to a near universal one, to the point that now Christmas just wouldn't be the same without it. It is by definition, the ultimate comeback movie.Tho all the cast are superb {special mention to Donna Reed as George's wife, Mary} it's Stewart who leads the way in the class stakes. As he drifts from homely, lovable dreamer, a man sacrificing those dreams for others to benefit. To his descent into despair and the undertaking of a nightmarish odyssey, Stewart captivates in every frame, and more telling is that he is believable with each transformation of George's state of mind. However, when all is said and done, it's with the ending that basically the film rewards those who have trusted in Capra and Jimmy. It's an ending warm enough to melt the coldest of hearts. So see it with someone you love {always nice to have someone else to cry with} or introduce it to the poor souls who haven't seen it yet. Either way, it's here to stay forever the timeless classic that it so most certainly is. 10/10
On one crisp December evening, two decades ago, my husband and I celebrated our very first Christmas together as a married couple. One of our yearly traditions, which we established that very Christmas season, has been to settle in front of the TV with a large bowl of popcorn and sodas for a quiet evening enjoying the holiday classics.That evening, my husband flipped the channels and excitedly noted the film "It's a Wonderful Life" had just started playing. After learning that I'd never seen it, my hubby enthusiastically said, "You have to watch this movie - it's one of the best films EVER." I guess my prejudice toward black-and-white TV was rearing its ugly head. I was in no mood to watch a dated film that I thought was of no relevance to us. I encouraged my hubby to see if he could find one of the many holiday classics that we enjoyed as kids growing up in the late 1960s, early 1970s timeframe.My husband chuckled and said, "Trust me, you'll love this story. It's about this guy, George Bailey, who..." After relating a brief synopsis of the film, he warned me that I might find the first 45 minutes or so to be slow-moving. Still, he encouraged me to pay attention closely. "Remember everything happening now to this guy, George," he advised, "It'll pay off in the second part of the film." As I watched George struggle with his devoted wife to raise their kids and pay the bills, report to a job that he never really wanted, battle his devious nemesis Mr. Potter, and yearn for a life that might have been, I thought - okay, there are some universal themes here. But this was a Christmas film? I couldn't make the connection, and really wasn't in the mood to continue watching anything that wasn't about Christmas.I was getting ready to go into the other room to finish my Christmas wrapping when, suddenly, finally, it was Christmas Eve in George Bailey's little world. I remembered looking at that serene little town, decorated for Christmas and bathed in fluffy white snow, and wishing that I lived in such a place. And just as my husband had promised, over the course of the next several minutes, everything started to come together. By the end of the film, as I watched George Bailey come to the realization, with his cherished family and lifelong friends gathered around him under his Christmas tree that George Bailey, representing every man and woman, ultimately realized that he surely had had a wonderful life. I wiped away a happy tear from my eye, knowing I'd viewed something very special.Then two and then four Christmases later, as I sat in a rocking chair, at first with our newborn baby girl and then her baby brother, I watched It's a Wonderful Life with my babies. I have subsequently repeated this tradition with friends and relatives of all ages. Many of them, like me at first thought they were dealing with an out-of-touch film from the mid-1940s, only to come to realize the timeless, wonderful gift we've all been given by Frank Capra.Since Christmas 1985, I have watched "It's a Wonderful Life" countless times. I agree with many other viewers - it is not only hands-down, the best Christmas movie, but perhaps my most favorite movie of all. I love and cherish it for so many reasons, perhaps most of all because it really makes you stop to think about what's important in your own life.And the most special moments of all are those times when I get to share "It's a Wonderful Life," as my husband did that one Christmas so long ago, with someone who is watching the film for the very first time.


                
The first time I am aware of seeing IAWL I managed to catch the last 5 Min's of the movie. It seemed to feature a character running around shouting 'Merry Christmas' at everybody, followed by a party where everyone handed over money To be frank, I wasn't in a hurry to see the rest of the movie. Then several years later, I started to watch IAWL from the beginning, unaware that it was the same movie. I was struck by how comprehensive the character study of George Bailey was. He was a good man, but his ambitions were frustrated at every turn. He wanted an Education, that was just outside his grasp. He wanted to travel, life conspired against him. At every step of the way, one person saw George 'rolling with the blows', that was Mary Hatch. This woman loved George and wanted to stand at his side, so they can face the slings and arrows of misfortune together. This is love of the purest kind.But even Mary's love cannot prevent George contemplating suicide. A single bad day that sees George on the top of the World at the beginning and thinking that taking his own life is the only way out by 10.45 pm.I was stunned when the ending turned into the movie I had seen some time before. But this time I understood, this wasn't just sentiment for it's own sake. To understand the ending you need to have gone on the same dark journey that George Bailey had been on.Many others have commented on the feel good aspects of the movie, so I won't. What I would like to say is that there are a number of scenes which live in the memory long after the end credits.Young George trying to persuade Mr Gower that he had prescribed poison (with young Mary Hatch Looking on).George hurrying home when he heard his father had had a stroke (with Mary Hatch looking on).George waiting at the station with Uncle Billy for Harry to come back from college (only to find Harry is already married and has a job that will keep him away from Bedford Falls).That kiss (I have to check that I am earthed, there is so much electricity in the air).Mary giving up their honeymoon money, to keep the Building and Loan out of Potters grasp.The Bridal Suit (with Ernie & Bert).Trying to talk to Mary in the alternate reality, but managing frighten her. The Ending.I don't think I have seen a better character study, or for that matter a better movie.


                
God forbid if they ever attempt to remake this movie in any way. I know they probably already have in different versions and ways of telling the story, but this is a movie that will never die. Like everyone else, I and my family watch this movie every Christmas eve. It's like a tradition in a lot of families who celebrate Christmas. The best thing about it, is that this movie never gets old. You know the story, you know what is going to happen every Christmas you watch this. But this movie has a very deep meaning to it that a lot of movies in the history of film DON'T have. Every Christmas eve I watch this it gets me in the perfect Christmas mood, and makes me forget about all the worries, problems, and struggles I have to put up with in life. This movie teaches me that everyone in the world can make a difference, and that everyone, no matter who you are has a purpose of existing. Even when its not the holiday season, I'll just watch a couple scenes of this movie just to put me in a good mood anyway. They just can't make movies like this anymore that teach you a very meaningful lesson. Even to people who don't celebrate Christmas can still enjoy this film. I can't wait for Christmas this year, for it is my favorite time of the year, and the time to be very happy in life.
Before writing my comment, I skimmed through the existing 196 user comments and found that much has been said about the way this film reaches out and touches people (some of whom are fully paid-up members of the cynics party!) There have also been some very negative views registered, and I think I can see why some find it hard to relate to this film, with it's post-war values and strong religious tones.Personally I love 'It's a Wonderful Life' on all levels; it is heart-warming and moving, it has a message that is lacking in so many films today and it is a superb piece of cinematic art.  But if the religious frame of the film does not appeal to you, I say look beyond it and appreciate some of the most skillful moments of cinematography and finest acting you will ever see.****POSSIBLE SPOILER*****In my mind the finest scene is that when George meets his brother from the train and discovers that he is planning to marry.  Watch the way the rest of the action becomes incidental as the camera focuses on George, a man seeing his hopes slipping away from him.
I know this is going to sound ridicules, but seriously, I have not seen this movie since I was a child. Even though they play it every year for Christmas, I never really had an interest to see it again. I was complaining to my mom the other day how sad it is that people just look at Christmas as present time and just getting what you want, I almost cried over it because I miss how my family would get me presents, but we'd go the homeless shelter to help out people who couldn't have a better one than us, I always thanked my parents for those wonderful experiences. It taught me that there is always worse and we must help those not just on Christmas, but all year around. Well, we did it again this year, but I'm now in the retail business and when I complained about this to my mom, she lent me the movie and said to watch it.Watching this movie truly touched my heart and brought me back to the true meaning of Christmas. I mean, your heart just goes out to George and his wonderful little town of Bedford Falls. He and his wonderful wife Mary together do whatever they can to make it in life and support their 4 darling children. But when a horrible mishap goes on at the bank that George works at, loosing $8,000, he starts to wonder if his life is worth living. But there is one angel who will not give up on him and shows him what life would be like if George had never been born. In Bedford Falls without George, turned into Pottersville because of the very greedy business man Mr. Potter, no one is happy and Mary is all alone. George realizes that maybe life is worth living and comes home to this loving town that is willing to do anything to help him and his family out."What goes around, comes around", I couldn't stop tearing at the end because it's just so loving. I hope future Christmas's will go back like this movie's examples, where people are just happy to have what they have and realize some are not so lucky, but we must all do our part. Cheesy, I know, but if one person can raise their hand, we all will do our parts in the end. Merry Christmas, everyone! :) 10/10


                
This is my favorite movie of all time. This movie is about a man who hates his life, because he never got live his dream he had since he was a child, due to the death of his father and other reasons, he is now a corporate man. He wants to commit suicide. As the film progresses, you feel every emotion so intensely.This film is perfect whenever you feel low. No doubt generations have grown with this film. If you're reading this, even 20 years from now on, give this movie a watch.It's A Wonderful Film!
Thank you "Its A Wonderful Life" for everything.
Merry Christmas.


                
In my opinion "It's a Wonderful Life" can be considered one of the greatest movies to watch this time of the year. Actually we can say that it's even one of the top 100 greatest films of all time you should watch in a lifetime.The acting is all great, and the same goes for the story. "It's a Wonderful Life" it really is a movie that you can watch over and over again and that makes you think about life in general and how each person makes a difference.I recommend it.


                
Haven't watched this movie in years. It was wonderful... no pun intended. James Stewart is on of my favorites.


                
"It's a Wonderful Life" is one of the Top Ten movies of all time. It's almost a perfect movie. I can't think right now of a reason why it's not a perfect movie. There must by a flaw in there somewhere but right now I can't think of one. It truly is a movie that gets better every time I watch it. I find new things to focus on each time I see it. Sometimes it's the dialogue. Sometimes it's religiousness. Tonight I focused on Jimmy Stewart. Wow, he gives a performance of a lifetime. As I watched him tonight, I wondered about Stewart losing the Best Actor Academy Award. Who beat him out? Fredric March in "The Best Years of Our Lives". March was great but I'd give the edge to Stewart. He's in almost every scene. It doesn't matter which way I approach watching "It's a Wonderful Life". It's one of the greatest movies ever made.


                
