This is on a huge number of people's best films of all time. Sadly, I think that says more about the people than the film. This was a feel-good film made in the aftermath of World War II and is supposed to reference the great depression. We shouldn't expect subtlety from such a morality tale, and truth is the characters are more like those from a Christmas Pantomime than from some carefully crafted, nuanced film plot. So Jimmy Stewart plays the Aladdin/Dick Whittington character, "George" who wants to go off and see the world but instead always does the "right thing" standing by the potentially downtrodden people of Bedford Falls. These, who would otherwise be at the mercy of archetypal villain, "capitalist/banker" Potter. ("Boo"! "Hiss"!) It takes nearly half of the film's two hours plus for George to be pushed into the arms of the pantomime's leading Girl, the saccharine sweet "Mary", by his mother!? The telephone scene in which he finally kisses her is utterly implausible, even risible. No wonder its original audiences and its writers didn't care for it. Then we have the major story arc of "Clarence" the Guardian Angel (= Fairy Godmother), who is trying to earn his wings by saving George from committing suicide (which would have disqualified paying out on his insurance policy). This is why the film is described as re-working of Dicken's Christmas Carol, and they are indeed, fairy-tale morality tales. Scrooge is redeemed, and George is saved from pointlessly topping himself and abandoning his wife and children. Of course there a whole load of holes in the plot line. Just one example; a call to his highly successful younger brother, whose life he saved, would surely have secured a loan to bridge the gap? And the film is misogynistic, sexist and racist: The "world without George" version of the bar in which he originally gets sozzled is just there for "men to get drunk, quick", associate with loose women and has a black guy playing the piano! OK, so Pantomimes are popular at Christmas...
It is a nice movie, but what is the special thing about it? What is the "magic"? The story develops slowly... veeeeery slowly. It might have been appropriate 65 years ago, but today? Storytelling in cinemas changed and that is not always a bad thing. The setup took to long and the struggle of the hero was not believable for me. The acting was good (more or less). The moral of the story was lame. "Your life makes a difference!" It is a calendar motto, the message of a cheap self-improvement book. Maybe I am not romantic enough to enjoy this movie. To me it was OK, but it was not a "revelation". Not a movie, that I want to watch "over and over".


                
You know, at first I thought that this 1947 picture was a heart-felt story about good, old George Bailey and how he was driven (through certain escalating circumstance) to the absolute brink of desperation on Xmas eve.But, I now realize that this film's Christian-driven story-line was actually all about a calculating angel named Clarence who wanted to earn his wings. And so - With that agenda in mind - Clarence is sent down from heaven in order to assist George Bailey. And if he does so this will put him in favour with god and allow him to earn his wings.So, in other words - Clarence helping George has nothing to do with any apparent kindness, charity, or good will towards man - No. It doesn't - It's all just a selfish, self-serving act on Clarence's part to earn those wings that he covets so much.And so - With that in mind - I think that this covetous scenario reduces this manipulative, little tear-jerker to the slimy level of showing us all just how hypocritical and pretentious angels really are.


                
It's a wonderful life chronicles the life of George Bailey (James Stewart) from his early childhood right through to his adult years when he ends up taking over his father's building & loan business after his father passes away.This was a film that I really wanted to like since it does have a lot of heart & warmth to it, but the problem for me is that it was so dull and tedious. I understand that everything that is depicted in George's life did eventually serve a purpose in the context of the narrative, but if I'm being honest I found the journey from A to B to be rather uninteresting. The other problem is that this uninteresting aspect of George's life is dragged out for about 2/3 of the film (had the film been 90 minutes long that probably would have been just about OK, but in a film that is over 2 hours long it's just unforgivable). I just couldn't get involved in the story, I didn't care about the characters and pretty much lost interest in the film.Focusing on the positives, I thought that Stewart was excellent and this is probably the best I've ever seen from him. Likewise, Donna Reed was also really good and I thought that they both had really good chemistry together.Another big positive to be taken from this film is its message and the best way I can describe it without spoiling anything is 'Be Careful what you wish for'. The last 30 minutes of this film were excellent and if I was to rate the last 30 minutes alone I would give it a 9 or a 10. The ending of the film is particularly good and is actually quite moving and it's just a shame that the first 2/3 of the film was so boring.Even though I've only rated this film a 4 out of 10, I would still recommend watching this film because as a 'message' film it's absolutely first rate. However, no matter how good the message is with this film, for me, it didn't make up for how tedious and boring the majority of the film was as a whole.


                
A christmas classic that is remembered only by continuous pondering. The story feels fast forwarded and the acting does not stand out even for the time.


                
I never really watched the whole movie all the way through; The only thing I remember is that there was a pharmacy & pharmacist in the plot(George Bailey?Right?) -- Or something like that -- I'm a retired Pharmacist so it attracted my attention. I was born in 1941, and this movie was made in 1947, so I was only 6 y.o.a. when this classic came out. Interestingly, Direct TV had it as a pay-per-view item(?), and I never really thought it was that good??!!(Or that people would PAY to watch it??!!). I prefer to watch something like 'Ben Hur,' or 'King of Kings,' for the religious aspect of the holidays. More to the point, I adore 'Ben Hur,' and think it's one of the most beautiful movies ever made. And, lest I forget, a Billie Wilder of note, the 'Big Country,' is by far my favorite of all time -- Jean Simmons & Gregory Peck worked well together, along with Charleton Heston, making this movie a classic of all classics, especially in the Western category.


                
The year was 1946 and soldiers were just returning to the states from the war. Among them was James Stewart, an actor who had delivered a knockout performance in 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,' and won an Oscar for 'The Philadelphia Story.' But after 5 years, Stewart planned to take a break because he thought he was rusty, and Lionel Barrymore convinced him to do this film. Thank God he did.This was the first older film that I watched back in December and now I have seen well over fifty classic films. This movie is amazing. As you watch the movie, you will begin to truly embrace Bailey. You feel for him in his highs and lows. Stewart gives the ultimate performance, he greatest of his career. Henry Travers and Barrymore are also phenomenal. Frank Capra created a true masterpiece here filled with emotion that will truly get to you. After you have watched this film, you will be glad you're alive, and don't be surprised if you're in tears as well.A true gem of cinema that you do not see often, filled with heart and emotion that is just as rare. I love watching the film at Christmastime, but there is no question in my mind that this movie can work magic any time of the year. So if you're feeling down, or just want to watch one of the greatest movies ever filmed, watch 'It's a Wonderful Life.' An easy 10/10, higher if possible.


                
