Here's a new definition of cold-hearted: a man or woman who remains completely untouched by the 1946 Capra classic "It's a Wonderful Life". You can't not be moved by this wonderful little gem.The acting is all great. One of the film's greatest strengths for me is making George Bailey - the star of the movie played by James Stewart - a nice normal man. He's not perfect and that's pretty much essential to the film's success because Bailey could be *any* man. The lesson of the movie is fairly simple - we all have our role to play in the world and we are all important. Most movies would make this into a schmaltzy affair but Capra delivered a touching, heart warming tale. Bailey consistently denies himself to allow others to live as he sacrifices his life to make sure people can have enough money to avoid having to sell-their-soul in debt to the evil H. Potter (alas not a Harry Potter...). His complete and utter humility is great - he doesn't see how much he accomplished until his guardian angel Clarence shows him. Again Clarence isn't played in the usual clichéd manner but more as a believable character who honestly loves Bailey for his strengths.The movie is a success because you can't but want Bailey to succeed. The manner in which he does could be classified as corny but, because it's so deserved, that doesn't matter. The music, the set pieces, all the touches add to a wonderful movie and give you hope that life can indeed also be wonderful. A lovely mood-lifter. 8.8/10.


                
... arrived at our exit on the freeway and wondered, "What if I just kept driving?". That very modern - and yet timeless - feeling is at the heart of this film, before life was so complex, when the U.S. was dotted with small towns in which it was possible to be born, make a good living, and die, without ever leaving, save for military service.George Bailey is both an extraordinarily lucky and unlucky guy. He's unlucky because none of the plans he made for himself as a young man ever worked out - his loyalties to family and to his hometown always kept him pinned there. He's extraordinarily lucky because he has a wife and children that adore him. But one Christmas Eve when he is in his late 30's a crisis brought about by his uncle's stupidity is the last straw that causes him to wish that he was never born, and he gets that wish granted to him - to see the world as if he had never been born, and he does not like the view.It turns out over his life, George did a series of good deeds - some large some small - that changed the course of just about every life in his hometown. Basically, without the Bailey Savings and Loan, which without George would have collapsed in the 1920's at the death of his father, the only source of financing is Mr. Potter's bank, which makes Citibank look like a charitable institution. The town has thus been thrown into chaos, a place where alcoholism, prostitution, and broken homes abound. Now I could sympathize with George's horror at seeing the bad fate of just about everybody he knew save Mary, his wife. When George inquires about her fate he is told - "You won't like it. She's an OLD MAID"! Oh the horror! She in fact is the town librarian. To quote someone else on this subject - "in a town thrown into chaos she's an educated woman with a job - what's the problem?". Mary, before she even married George, is full of life and has a sense of style, but just subtract George from her existence and she becomes someone who dresses like a woman twenty years her senior and is deathly frightened of men? Pleeeease! Oh well, if I am going to watch the films of 1946 I'd better be prepared to deal with the values of 1946, but I digress.The fact is George probably WOULD have been better off without these ties that bind. He could have seen the world and done big things and slept like a baby without a worry. But the fact is he realized he cared about these people whose lives would be ruined without him, and that is probably why so many of us don't just keep driving when we hit our exit on the highway. We go home to the people we love and the problems that come with them.
'Every time you hear a bell ring, it means that some angel's just got his wings'. That is the quest for the guardian angel, Clarence Odbody (Henry Travers) when he was assign to take care of a suicidal man named George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart). Clarence must try to show George, the tremendous impact he has had on his community before it's too late. Can Clarence, change George's mind or will this Christmas, be the last for George Baily? To find out, watch the movie! Made just after World War 2, this movie was a favorite for both leading man Jimmy Stewart and director Frank Capra. It's easy to see why. There's so much things to like, about this film. The film is full of delightful moments, from music and a dance sequence, funny comedy, and heart-warming romantic scenes. While, some critics might see this film as too sentimental and syrupy. In fact, in my view, most of the movie's vision is something out of a more modern complex, dark-edged sophisticated film. Yes, there are some really dated dialogue, sayings and behavior, but for the most part, I think modern audiences can still, watch this movie and find something about it, that they can related to. No matter how often, you get to see this Christmas favorite, there is always something timeless with this film, when you do. Important message about the value of an individual life and how one person's actions affect all those around him/her is a great life moral for people to take. Themes about family and friendship are also very important. Another great message is having faith, and belief in yourself and the future. After all, director Frank Capra himself said he made the film in large part to "combat a modern trend towards atheism and Nihilism". While, a lot of people say, that this movie isn't really a Christmas movie, due to the fact, that 90% of the movie is a story about George's life and takes place at some point in time other than Christmas; in my view, the whole Clarence arch, wouldn't had work as good as it did, on any other day of the year. There is something about Christmas, that makes the whole magically redemption story with Clarence somewhat believable. Based on the short story "The Greatest Gift," by author Philip Van Doren Stern, It's a Wonderful Life was never intended to be the Christmastime staple that it is now. In fact, when the film was first released back in 1946, it was generally considered a box-office flop. This film had a resurgence for a while in the U.S. during the 1980s when it was discovered that the copyright on the film was never renewed, which meant the film was in the Public Domain and any television station could legally show it as often as they wanted without paying for a license. Many stations across the country would run it, around Christmas time, to the point, that people label it as a Christmas movie. No matter, if it's a holiday movie, or not. A lot of critics, has point out, that the film protagonist's action are very similar to a Christ figure in all. I have to say, they're somewhat right, but there were some moments that George Bailey got really problematic to sympathize with. Some people feel that brought all his problems on himself by choosing to run an over-leveraged, illiquid bank business even though he's given many opportunities to do something else. However, I didn't find it, too abrasive to watch. What I didn't like, is how he treat Mary Hatch (Donna Reed) for most of the film. He was a little too mean-spirited to her; mostly in the beginning of the film He nearly ruin his first date with her. I really didn't like that. Thank heavens, he got more likable, as the film goes on. Still, the drunk driving scene was a bit hard to watch. Anyways, Jimmy Stewart is wonderful as George. I'm glad, he didn't quit, acting after the war. He gives the performance of a lifetime, here. Alternately affable and bitter, he is the movie's little-man hero. All of his emotional were, mostly play as for real. Seeing this, Capra had to reframe the shot in order to get it closer than was actually filmed because he wanted to catch the expression on Stewart's face. At the time, this shot was an extremely time-consuming project, each frame had to be done individually, making it only one step away from stop-motion animation. Capra spent the whole night doing it. Thank Goodness, he did! Most of the supporting cast are just as good as Stewart, but one-person stands out. Donna Reed is wonderful, despite her character being a one-dimensional manic pixie dream girl. She was really able to show the character's beautiful, supporting and caring nature. Just say the word, Mary, and I'll lasso you, the moon, indeed! I just don't buy the idea that George and Mary are somehow supposed to be soulmates. It's a bit unrealistic to think that Mary can only love George. Nor, do I believe, without spoiling it, that the ending of this film seen can be seem as "happy". After all, George is still in the same position he was before Clarence show up. An investigation is still looming. There are tons of others puzzling questions, still worth debating. So a rewatch, is needed. One thing, when watching it, is not to watch the color version. The black and white works well, to show the symbolic snow of the peaceful Bedford Falls, when compare to the cold and dark sleet of Potterville. It's better to watch that, since Paramount had all the grain removed in 2006. Overall: This well-known sentimental film is a masterpiece. Capra's Magnum Opus. A must-watch. So check it out.
It's a Wonderful Life is an epic story of the life of a man named George Bailey. George spends this life living in a small town, with his nose deep in the lives and problems of its other citizens. He dreams of seeing the world, of conquering it, but somehow always postpones that in order to battle his arch-nemesis - the ruthless local businessman Mr. Potter. Potter perpetually has his sights set on utterly dominating the town's cash flows and, effectively, its life. The idealistic and charitable Bailey family, especially George, are the one thing that persistently prevents Potter from succeeding.However, George has his share of troubles, and they eventually begin to take their toll on his good nature and optimistic outlook. It's now up to his guardian angel, Clarence Goodbody, to open George's eyes to how wonderful his life really is.IAWL promotes friendship, empathy, optimism, and love of life. You can't but admire the excellent way in which it does this. The story, the sets, the actors, the dialogue, the music are all top-notch. Highly recommended! 9/10.


                
The film has what I love most about films, "Inspiration". The story really is built up in such a way that you'll eventually get inspired by it. Acting by James Stewart is superb. The story is about a man who wanted to do a lot of things, but circumstances changed his fate. He never lost hope, but one day things get really out of controlled and he loses faith in everything. It is very interesting to see how the story reaches to its ending.PROS:One of the best acting performances I had seen recently. The whole film rests on its beautiful story. The film is a very fine example of what we expect from life and what we actually get. The life of our hero seems to be frustrating a lot of times but than in the end, you are finally going to get convinced that IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE.CONSI admit that the whole angel thing did not impress me much and I was hoping for more realistic kind of thing. Also the editing at some later part of the film looked bad. It was nominated for the best editing Oscars, but just my opinion. But when you have a very fine story, you have to overlook these small glitches.MESSAGE: "It's a wonderful life."VERDICT: "A must watch for all."


                
Frank Capra's 1946 drama/fantasy IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE is one of the best-remembered films of all time, and it's no surprise; this moralistic tale of human suffering, poverty, greed, courage and determination is one that resounds through the ages, particularly so in our modern age of fat-cat bankers and a growing gap between rich and poor.James Stewart gives a dependably decent turn as George Bailey, a family man who finds himself at the mercy of Lionel Barrymore's criminal banker, Mr. Potter. What follows is lengthy and often profound, an occasionally twee but ultimately moving exploration of the human character and the effect one man can have on his world.What I particularly liked about IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE is the way that every part of the narrative hangs together without any unnecessary extras. Even the little bits like the accident on the ice at the outset later come back to haunt our characters. It's very well written, and expertly directed by Frank Capra; an unashamedly old-fashioned, heart-warming and sentimental piece of movie-making on a grand scale. I'd even go so far as to call it the ultimate Christmas film.
It's a Wonderful Life is directed by Frank Capra and stars James Stewart, Donna Reed, Henry Travers and Lionel Barrymore.George Bailey(James Stewart)is a good man who is well liked,loved and respected in his home town of Bedford Falls. After a run of bad luck he tries to kill himself on Christmas Eve, but is stopped by an angel Clarence(Henry Travers).Clarence gives George a look at what life in Bedford Falls would have been like if he didn't exist.Filled with memorable characters and moments this is uplifting,touching and well acted. There's fine support from Donna Reed as Bailey's wife, the scene where they realise they love each other whilst both speaking to someone on the phone is beautiful, it's moving, passionate and tender. Lionel Barrymore is marvellous as the heartless Mr. Potter who has no time for peoples problems and feelings.It's a wonderful story of love,community spirit,family and second chances. It's hard to except that when this was first released audiences found it too depressing.It's A Wonderful Life has become a part of peoples lives and a popular film to watch at Christmas time.
I have only watched this film about 3 times but I like it for all sorts of reasons. It has an extremely powerful message and for me it is delivered in a subtle way by introducing it very early on in the film. Its almost as though its a very subtle product placement during one of the external scenes. All of the cast are perfectly suited and that is rare indeed. The film is a timeless enjoyable classic and it does not pull any punches when it could have. Due to the year it was made it could have been reduced to a slick waste of money but fortunately the professionals who were responsible for making this tale had the good sense to make it right and I suspect that the actors enjoyed the experience every bit as much as most of the people who have watched this film in the sixty odd years since it was made. At the time of writing this film is at number 30 of the IMDb top 250 and in my opinion it is there on merit. I would thoroughly recommend anybody watch this film but please pay attention and you will enjoy the experience that much more.


                
I should be inclined to say that Frank Capra made his masterpiece with It's a Wonderful Life, and it would probably be the obvious, easy answer to make as a movie-lover. And shock of shocks, it wasn't until today (of Christmas Eve of all times, ho-ho-ho) that I finally sat down and watched it- it wasn't a 'family staple' in my house- but I knew I had to watch it, if only to see James Stewart in the seminal role of George Bailey. It is, no doubt, with enough fantastical scenes to make up a couple more movies, and the heart that sits right in It's a Wonderful Life beats with all the vigor and pride of the most schmaltzy- and rightly proud of it- American spirit. That I ended up not finding it to be a truly astonishing movie may be that I'm just a cynic deep down, or that maybe this kind of story, and how it plays out, has ended up being done so many times I practically knew what the story was before going in. It's the most amazing of credits to Capra and his cast and crew that it does hold up this well, and that the sentimentality stringing together much of what happens is actually well earned. But it does teeter on becoming a bit too dated, or rather that it's appeal of being a fable really only works best when dealing with the crux of the character George Bailey, and almost becomes weird in how it leaps from great happiness to the terrible bleakness of modern American life.Indeed, Stewart was not only the best choice for George Bailey, but the correct one, the kind we'd probably all like to have in our town as the man who despite his better senses commits his life to being there for the ones he cares for. It almost becomes a running gag, however not really funny as much as touching, the way he puts aside his own feelings and self-wants to help save the bank and Bedford Falls from the peril that could come from the dastardly Potter (Lionel Barrymore, cast perfectly for the role as well with his sinister eyebrows and cunning attitude). I first thought it would be all about George seeing life as if he had never been born, but really this is(wisely) kept to the last twenty minutes of the picture. This works because we see how Bailey gets to that point of almost jumping off into the river, which in its selfish way would be, to him, still a selfless act (i.e. worth more than dead). Seeing George's life is like peering into one of those tall-tale American stories where the little guy gets a lot done by just being himself- or at least his better self getting the better of him. All George wants to do as a young man is explore the world, make great buildings and things. But any lofty ambition becomes squashed by reality- of his father's death, of the very sneaky attitude imposed by Potter, and by the townspeople practically needing some hope during the depression. So it's up to him to not only save the town by making a section of the town named after him for low-cost housing, but to marry a girl Mary (Donna Reed) who's fallen totally for George.What ends up being most memorable, for me, about It's a Wonderful Life is the skill which Capra makes possibly one-dimensional figures very real and immediate, and that in this seemingly simplistic world of right and wrong and good and bad there are the slivers of gray that work their way in. I loved one scene in particular where Potter, desperate to gain back control over his possible monopoly in Bedford Falls, tries to will George away to work for him at far more an amount of money he would make on his own terms with his small bank. It's a tense scene in how devilish Potter comes off, and how Barrymore turns on the ideal of greed and necessity and the ego of a man over the higher principles that George ultimately goes for. It's always fascinating too to see how Stewart plays certain scenes and lines and inflections, moments of surprise and delight which probably hide just the bits of bitterness that build up in him. There's something about the American dream that is called into question in American life, even as Capra likes to jump from sweet touches of light comedy to stark tragedy or danger. There's a great juxtaposition that is made too with the characters of Harry Bailey, George's brother, who goes on to lead the life George might have led had he not saved Harry as a boy, and as well in a small part with Sam Wainwright.It's through the sort of realistic groundings then that Capra is able to get away with reaching for the fantasy structure that ends up coming out of the film, the typical 'what if' nightmare scenario that has ended up influencing countless movies and TV shows. Like Christmas Carol, though sort of in reverse, it's sort of meant as a lesson in humanity, and how what is carried in a man or what is lacking in it ends up bringing it out or losing it in others. It all builds to help Capra earn the melodrama and ultra-heightened emotions brought out with Clarence the angel. It doesn't mean that, at least for me, there aren't things that end up being dated (however, scenes like the dance-hall bit in 1928, is timeless in its humor), mainly in how the idealism and old-fashioned ways come out in this day & age. But still, it doesn't stop me from saying that It's a Wonderful Life is a must see, if only once, and there's no doubt why it's been revered as one of the great films about the triumph of the human spirit. Grade: A


                
This movie rises far above most films of its kind.  Not only are all the important aspects of the film done with care and skill, there is much more substance to it than there is to most 'feel-good' movies or holiday stories. It succeeds where many similar movies fall short, and while it is ultimately a feel-good fantasy, many viewers who don't ordinarily enjoy such stories end up liking this one.One of the major strengths is that hero George Bailey is not a one-dimensional good-guy, but rather must combat his own weaknesses and disappointments at the same time that he is trying to help others.  He has his own dreams and hopes, which never seem to materialize, and this is a genuine struggle for him.  And it doesn't hurt that the character is played by a terrific actor like Jimmy Stewart, who brings out all the sides of George's character, and who gives almost any viewer something to relate to. There are many other positives as well - plenty of interesting characters, a very good cast, and a story that makes use of every available resource. "It's A Wonderful Life" is an enduring story that is still worth watching and remembering.


                
We don't live in this world alone. Everyone interact with each other's life in the world.
Remember no man is a failure who has friends.
In the last scene, when Mr.George khows about the value of his life, he thanks everyone included Mr. Potter, he thanks for everything even he has to be go to jail. Isn't it wonderful.
I love the scene when Mr.Potter want to hire Mr. Geogre and the scene Geogre bet for Mr. Potter's help. Being good man isn't enough, you had to be strong to be good man. When Mr. Potter offer to hire him with $20,000 per year, he almost fall for it because he weaks in money (he is young man , 27-28,married, making $45 a week, supporting his mother). But he has endured this tempting because he is strong in character. When he is in trouble, he becomes weak, he can't keep his principle and bet for Mr. George help.
If I want to be a good man, I had to be strong.


                
Now that's what you call a classic movie. The deep emotions and the role one can play in life is well expressed in one of the most wonderful ways. The angel is just symbolic of what if not. George Bailey- not a rich man economically but certainly emotionally and socially. What else one needs if one has friends is the central idea of the movie. 
Superb to watch. Must watch for everyone.


                
This is a very emotional, heart-felt and innocent movie. It will leave the viewers spellbound by the character of kind-hearted George Bailey. It is a beautiful movie having a few scenes which can bring tears to one's eyes and then leave them smiling with the tears of joy. Moreover, it teaches us of being grateful for our life and be helpful to almost everyone.It can be watched more than one time definitely.


                
SPOILER ALERT!!!God and angels, depicted as endearing little flickering stars and galaxies, are listening to the prayers of the tiny town of Bedford Falls -- and they quickly realize that George Bailey, one of the most well-liked people in town, is about to take his life. They decide to send Clarence, George's newly-assigned guardian angel, to help George -- but first we and Clarence must relive George's life, because "if you're going to help a man, you want to know something about him, don't you?"Thus begins and unfolds the film "It's a Wonderful Life", which is all at once, entertaining, uplifting, and sad -- and at its core, a story about a man giving up his dreams, and the consequences. It also forces the viewer to examine one's own existence, and asks us the question "what is truly important in life?"George is a likable but tragic hero (or anti-hero?) from the beginning, starting with his taking a blow and going deaf in one of his ears (which we see later is symbolic of his not ever quite experiencing life to its fullest), to staying in Bedford falls to run the family lending business instead of pursuing his grand dreams "building airfields<U+0085> skyscrapers a hundred stories high", and giving away his honeymoon money to keep the family business open – all while his little brother goes off to live the sweeping and grand life he could have had (again, on George's dime -- George gave up his own college experience to pay for his brother's).The story is told deftly by director Frank Capra, and gives us a priceless view into 40's culture – from cheesy town dance scenes to colorful writing ("Georgie, have you gone crazy? Walk in the grass in my bare feet!?") that you can only find from this era in American history. Young Jimmy Stewart is cast perfectly and at his best as George Bailey, with a great supporting performance from Donna Reed who plays Bailey's wife. The film is an absolute classic, and for the most part enjoyable to watch – but I found the process of observing a man slowly compromising on his aspirations, in return for something that isn't quite clear (even to George), to be saddening to watch."It's a Wonderful Life" communicates some beautiful and important messages, like reveling in the blessings that we do have (such as friends), and not spending our time wanting what we don't. It also shows us the positive impacts that we can have in others' lives, and the satisfaction that can bring us. But one of the last lines of the movie – "You see George, you really did live a wonderful life" -- really stuck with me – and I believe it was Capra's intention to leave no doubt in the viewer's mind that this was the case. I also believe that it was Capra's intention to prove to us that the love of the people in town justified George giving up every last one of his dreams and experiencing life to its fullest -- but I think this is up to the viewer to decide.
George Bailey (James Stewart) is at the edge of financial ruin. He thinks his life has amounted to nothing and is about to jump off a bridge. An angel named Clarence is assigned to give George a second chance by showing him what if he was never born.This is an unabashed sentimental tear jerker. The movie starts with George's life as it is. His dream is to travel the world, and create great monuments. He is constantly dragged back to the unimpressive little Bedford Falls and the family Savings and Loans. He is a good guy who constantly does the right thing.This is classic Frank Capra. The nice guy struggles but always win in the end. This sentimental melodrama is especially fitting for the Christmas period, and derives its iconic status from the constant showing during those times. The failure in its original run is a long forgotten memory.


                
Here's a movie most of the American population doesn't watch for 333 days of the year.  I've found that watching this in late April is more rewarding than mid December.This is your only spoiler warning...That notion aside, I feared revisiting this movie because, like so many other films from this decade, I was worried it would show its age and thus kill itself in the process--fulfilling Bailey's wish.Amazingly, that isn't the case.  This is sentimentality done right in the vein of 'The Elephant Man'.  Why?  The frame of the story; for that reason you should see it and get some tears in the process. First we have the setting of the world where Steward lives.  Then there is Heaven.  All our exposition of Stewart's world comes as a story being told to Clarence.  Meanwhile, we--the audience--are tricked into accepting Stewart's life as reality until Capra slaps us upside the head and tells us "I'm not even started yet!"When we finally do get to the plot, we have Clarence as our navigator.  From God to the Angel.  This is when George sees how the world would be without his influence.Overall, skip 'Terminator' for your need to study the importance of one life.  This is polarized like Capra's other works, but so interesting in the process.  Can Spielberg do the same?Final Analysis = = Learn from this...
An acquaintance of mine recently commented that she thought there was an interesting correlation between this film and Orson Welles' Citizen Kane.George Bailey was the man that Charles Foster Kane would have liked to have been. Kane's tragedy was that like a hereditary king, he was thrust into the center of momentous events, and expected to live up to the duties. Unlike George Bailey, though, he had no real nemesis whose punches he had to block. Bailey was trying to better the lives of those around him, by foiling the actions of Potter.Also, while Kane became a more complex Mr. Potter, he never gave up the longing for a more simple life. This, of course, was personified by Rosebud; it was his Persian Flaw, but one which he never revealed to anyone lest they discover a chink in his armor. By contrast, Mr. Potter had no real longing for simplicity. He saw money and power as the only real gains in his life, and didn't care what anyone thought of him. Witness his speech in his attempt to woo Bailey to his side, "...you know I own almost everything in this town and most people hate my guts...". Potter, although powerful, like Kane, didn't have the same goals. He is very much the spider that Bailey says he is.Conversely, Bailey probably could do the job that Charles Foster Kane did. He was capable of handling a stressful job, and once warmed to it, did a good job. Unlike Kane, however, he would use the power of the Press for the common good, since that is his ultimate goal. That's a thought I find most amusing, actually: imagine Jimmy Stewart in the Welles production!


                
I realise I'm probably in the minority here, but here goes anyway. I really, really like this film. Apart from the last bit. I know everyone likes it for it's feel-good properties and it's happy, happy, happy ending, but let's face it, the vast majority of this film is a downbeat, depressing experience. And that's why I love it. Turn it off at the point where he's on the bridge, and this is a wonderful, wonderfully depressing tale. The way his dreams get crushed and his town becomes his prison is so well done. People have already said how well this film is written, and that includes the depressing parts as well. You have to believe in his suffering, his agony. You have to believe in his desire to jump off the bridge so that you too can be saved by Clarence in the end. That's why I don't want the end section in there. I believe in George's suffering. If he wants to end it, then so be it. If I'm in a depressed mood, and want to watch a superbly put together sombre film, then It's a Wonderful Life is perfect.


                
There are only two things wrong with "It's a Wonderful Life" - unfortunately, they are the beginning and the ending.  (I don't reveal what happens at the end, but I do reveal something about the feel of the ending, and those who wish to come to the film cold may wish to read no further.)To begin with the beginning ...  This is the story of a man's life AND of the way the town would have been had he never existed; but the device whereby we are shown that counterfactual is the most ham-fisted and grating one Capra could have chosen.  It involves a bumbling angel named Clarence who has yet to get his wings (and, if I were in charge of Heaven, never would).  Heaven (or perhaps God - it's hard to tell) appears to be the Crab Nebula and it flashes whenever it utters an accented syllable.  Clarence is a half-witted interstellar firefly.  I'm not making fun of the special effects: I'm questioning the fact that the deus ex machina had to be made into a character at all, let alone such an annoying one.But the ending is worse.  It's clearly MEANT to be a happy ending: the trouble is that it's no continuation whatever of the preceding story. Difficulties are vanquished by being ignored.  It's as if Capra visualised the scene he wanted at the end, and when he discovered it didn't fit, filmed it anyway.  A genuinely happy ending would have been great - even a tragic ending would have been less painful, and depressing, to watch.Now for the good news.  Between the faltering beginning and the sour conclusion it's sustained magic - one brilliant scene after another, to the point where it's difficult to believe that so many good bits found their way into the same film.  And I don't just mean that individual scenes play well, but to no purpose: there really is a fine and complex story supporting them. The ending is a genuine shame, but if you can get past it, good luck to you.


                
This is indeed a wonderful Christmas movie, where James Stewart plays George Bailey, who has dreams of moving out of his town (Bedford Walls) going to college, having an established career and seeing the world. However, after his father's demise, he reluctantly takes on the family business (a loan company), indefinitely putting his dreams on hold.This is a classic story that definitely reminds you of the more innocent times in America and reminds you things will always turn out all right at the end if you have enough hope and faith. The plot keeps you engaged from start to finish as you follow George Bailey's life, from his times as a preteen to him taking on the family business, and finally to him getting married and raising a family of his own - all the while seeing his dreams fade away. However, when things get too down in the dumps for him, an angel tries to help him out of despair and lets him see what would life be like in George's town without him being born. This reminds you to never take anything for granted and to always appreciate what you have.It's a great movie with heartwarming moments and great acting. James Stewart and leading lady Donna Reed had great chemistry together. And, the rest of the cast, from Lionel Barrymore as the villainous Mr. Potter to Henry Travers as the angel Clarence, all did a wonderful job.Even as a movie made in the 1940s, it holds up very well through the test of time and is surely one of the greatest to watch during Christmas time. Highly recommend! Grade A


                
Just a terrific film that needs to be seen each yr, Great acting by James Stewart and supporting actors. I guess audience and critics back then could not support another inspirational film vs Best years of Our Lives which deserved much acclaim after WW 2. Stewart did deserve the Oscar though and that would have made 2 if they got it right, since he should have won for MR Smith goes to washington.director Frank Capra does a tremendous job and its a shame he wasn't given more time and money for creative jobs. BTW its fascinating that the snow scenes were filmed on days of heat waves and you see Stewart sweating in the scenes. A great classic film that holds up and hopefully will be seen a hundred yrs from now


                
This film is a classic. There is very little negative that I can say about it. The acting is incredible and the plot is great and iconic. The film hit with me a lot of different emotional levels and is definitely can be a tear-jerker at times but is uplifting at the end when George wishes he was born again and goes back to his family. The film plays out as a life story for our main character George Bailey and follows the different events in his life such as the people he meets and the things he does. It is powerful and touching and a iconic masterpiece. It is not only a great movie but a great Christmas movie as well. It is something that everyone should see at least once in their life because it teaches great lessons about life. It is not always happy as it does get a little sad at moments but when you sit down and watch it you can have fun with it because it really is just that great of a film. Definitely something worth watching every Christmas.
Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life" has become a staple of the Christmas season. It will invariably be played around the holidays, whether broadcast on T.V or picked out by a family from their DVD collection. But watching it again this year, I realized just how little it has to do with Christmas. To be sure, the famous final sequence takes place around then, but the full film is a broader celebration of life, humanity, and the human spirit. Confining it to simply a glorification of the Christmas spirit seems too narrow.Through the story of the life of George Bailey and the lives of those around him, "It's a Wonderful Life" celebrates basic human kindness and compassion. It praises selflessness and putting others above oneself, as George does time and time again – forsaking his dreams for the betterment of those more unfortunate than he in Bedford Falls. It condemns greed, heartlessness, and fierce manipulation of fellow persons on Earth through Henry F. Potter, the shriveled and devious old businessman played to malicious perfection by Lionel Barrymore. It extols the worth of the life of any living being, no matter how poor or pitiful they appear and whatever their flaws may be. Consider the way George extends a caring hand to his dearly daffy Uncle Billy or to Violet Bick when she has fallen on hard times. Think of what he saves them both from when he could have easily cast them aside on account of their vices and imperfections, turning them away.Are these values appropriate for Christmas? Yes, of course. But they are just as appropriate for any time. Calling this "a Christmas film" somewhat underestimates the power of its themes, themes that are ageless and universal (or so I would hope). This is a film that deserves to be kept in the heart all the year round.


                
This should be the movie making approach..enlightening and educating simultaneously..encouraging and eye opening..though what ever is one's life like but still it is a gift.. Movies like this can make u feel lifted in spirit..must watch and new film makers should think about these kind of positive concepts as new times needs these kind of stories.. James Stewart is superb and so is Donna reed.. I just finished watching this movie and felt overwhelmed by it..i mean the character of James Stewart is just perfect and so is Mr. potter.. Also it shows hat whatever the case be a man should not lose hope about his life and continue to live life cheerfully..good and bad times are only transitory..Simply great..


                
It's a Wonderful Life is as much a part of Christmas to me as stockings, candy, snow dusted-trees and shopping. It was a tradition for our family to watch this movie every Christmas Eve before my two siblings and I were tucked into bed in anticipation for Santa Clause to visit our front door (we didn't have a chimney). I will admit that I am not usually a fan of films from this era (I gave Casablanca 5 out of 10 stars), but this feature is different. It's long, but it has to be. The storyline truly covers the main character's entire life. It all comes together in the end in divine detail. It's uplifting and romantic. One suggestion, only watch this film in December before Christmas, it's much easier to appreciate that way.


                
