One of the gravest sins of cinema is spending too long on exposition. For this reason film makers are given adages like: Show not tell, cut to the chase and so on. This lesson seems lost on Mr Scorcese.This films consists of nothing but expository narration through out the entire length of the film. I simply could not believe it at first. I felt sure that the two narrators, De Niro and Pesci, would stop talking at some point and the acting would start. This point never comes and you realise that this is what the movie will be: nonstop narration telling you what to think about a character, what the characters think, what's happening and what's about to happen.It is unbelievable that someone would set out to make a movie this way.In addition there is a constant 'commentary' of old songs through out. Some of this yet more underlining of the banal obviousness of a scene, such as when we see De Niro looking at Sharon Stone intently, the previous music is suddenly interrupted with "baby baby you're the one" and, just in case we haven't got it, we told in the narration that he has fallen in love. Is this film making for the under 5s? At other times however it seems that Scorcese is simply using the score as his personal jukebox and playing favourites from his own record collection. All of this limits what little character development there is. The characters appear on screen, we are told who they are and what we should think about them and then move onto something else. A case in point is the romance between de Niro and Sharon Stone. He sees her and we are told (in narration) he is has fallen for her. Next we see them together and he asks her for change which she says she spent in the machines. We are again told in narration that this is untrue. So much for subtlety and acting eh? Then we next see them, we see De Niro proposing to her (after a voice-over telling us he was proposing to her naturally).Joe Pesci does his usual schtick of an Italian-American psychopath, so we see him engaging needless brutality from early on. De Niro is his usual commanding self but the non stop narrative actually diminishes him as an actor. The same applies to all the other characters.I could not make it to the end.


                
Right from the opening sequence, with De Niro dressed in a cerise jacket and shirt, getting into car that blows up, and then circling across the title credits, it was clear this movie was going to be a stinker. I don't care if Martin Scorsese directed it. Even monkeys fall out of trees. Why would a cartel of rich men hand over control of a casino to a handicapper, i.e. someone who is good at betting. You need someone who is good at organisation and leadership, a CEO. Any rich man would know that. If he didn't know that, he wouldn't be rich. So the premise, introduced in the first minute, makes no sense. Joe Pesci's yapping voice - as a narrator?! Some silly staged stabbing in a bar over a pen. The other man's hostility didn't even make sense. Just a lazy set up to show how vicious the Joe Pesci character was. And Robert De Niro falls for the annoying girl that's stealing chips from men and throwing everyone's chips around, when with the status of a casino boss, he could choose any of 1000 non-annoying, non-criminal women? Time to stop watching.
Please stop the music! - no spoilers"Casino" is the only movie I ever walked out on.Halfway through the film I found myself thinking "Oh well, `Nights in White Satin"! Is it by the `Moody Blues`?" and "This is the second Stones (or someone else) song...". Then I realized how bored I was and how annoying it is to listen to music instead of watching a movie.During the whole film the sound track just never stops playing 70s music. I wonder what for?! Let the acting and the story carry the film but alas that´s the problem. It´s just boring, it doesn´t work. I guess the producers saw this mess of a film and added the soundtrack in an attempt to save the movie from being a complete disaster. But they did for the worse.
My rating: 1/10 Macauley J. Connor


                
Having read most of the comments about this film, I'm shocked how anyone liked it.  3 hours of a half hearted attempt to remake Goodfellas.  Lets get a bunch of very talented actors and normally good director and make a film for the sake of it.This film is so pointless, it's predictable from the start and nothing really happens.  It's all been seen before, oh and lets throw in some meaningless violence that'll make it look arty.All the scene's are well acted and even well filmed, but to what end.  The story goes no where.  It's an obvious, boring, gangster story, that's been done a thousand times before.The reason it's so disappointing is all the talent involved, surely they could have done something better than this.


                
This might not be Scorsese's worst movie  (that would be  *Kundun*), but it may be his most negligible movie, given that it's very much a remake of the director's own  *GoodFellas*, which was a pretty empty affair to begin with. That makes  *Casino*  extremely empty -- call it a black hole.Once again, we get the nonstop soundtrack comprised of Bobby Vinton-esque oldies and 70's album rock.  Oh, there's snatches of grand opera, too, especially when little Joe Pesci is killing someone.  The point of all this music, presumably, is to punctuate with either emphasis or irony what we're seeing on the screen . . . an easy indicator that the director doesn't have much to show us.  And in case that wasn't enough, Scorsese tries to fill the gaps with nonstop -- and I mean, NONSTOP -- voice-over narration.  This may be one of the few movies a blind person could watch without missing anything.  As cinema is a visual medium, I'm obviously not being complimentary to Mr. Scorsese, here.Scorsese keeps trying to outdo his earlier film with MORE narration, more walk-on characters, more gruesome violence  (one guy gets his head squeezed in a vice), more domestic squabbling, more more more.  But it's all meaningless, quite apart from being as boring as hell.  What we have here is the story of small player from the Kansas City mob  (Robert DeNiro)  who wants to be a big player.  His bosses send him to Vegas, where he feels he has a real opportunity to not only be a player, but to be  "legit"  in the bargain by becoming a real casino boss.In the meantime, he's got to deal with an old associate, the violent Joe Pesci, and a whory wife  (Sharon Stone)  who's addicted to drugs and, most laughably, a mullet-haired James Woods.  I can buy the whole wife thing, maybe . . . men WILL do stupid things when it comes to blondes.  But I absolutely cannot take Joe Pesci seriously as a fearsome, bloodthirsty mobster who blows into Vegas looking for his own action.  De Niro and Pesci should've portrayed each other's roles.  But what do I know.


                
I didn't really like this movie I generally don't really care for mafia movies as much as other dramas but this really seemed dumb. It made little sense to me at the end. You don't really know what happened to the main character's (Robert DeNero) wife and kid. I am not that huge of fan of Sharon Stone but besides that I really can't fathom why she was nominated for an Oscar for this. Joe Pesci pretty much plays the exact same short tempered jerk that he plays in Goodfellas. Only this time he is his own boss. It was so long too. I liked how The Simpsons parodied the scene in this movie where Robert DeNero has a guy's hand hit with a hammer. That scene isn't that great either. I also didn't care for the amount of cussing in this movie. It had 422 uses of the Fword. Which is a record. Almost every single line in this movie used the Fword. I know Goodfellas used the Fword but not nearly as much as this movie did. Overall this movie was boring and I didn't really like any of the characters.
I decided to give Scorsese one last chance (I'm now trying to erase the entire film from my mind, and Mr. Scorsese's name, as well). I understand he's supposed to be a great director and that the acting is supposed to be great (I just don't see it - and I tried *very* hard to see good things in this film. I paid to rent it, I wanted to like it. How can someone ruin a movie about my favorite themes - Vegas and the mob? I mean, I'll watch practically anything about this topic.This movie's pacing is arbitrary and amateurish. Scorsese knows he has to provide some gruesome violence at some point - we were checking the time of this flick at 1 hour, wondering when it would *ever* be over. I figured then that the violence would be immediate, gratuitous and upcoming - merely because it had to be there, to keep anyone watching. So there it was. A TV-style shoot-out, followed by torture scene (don't worry, I'm not spoiling much) that's filmed with overly artsy and arbitrary camera angles. I've never seen a film that relied so heavily on narration. What was Scorsese thinking? That he'd get remembered for having the most over-narrated film in world history? There are TWO overly wordy narrators, but you can't make up for the lack of cinematic action and believability on the screen - unless you are watching this during a cocktail party or something. Or you really like movies that don't require a strong plot, and blast you occasionally with set decor or violence.The sets are great - that's what kept me going through the movie, but set design and production design do not a great film make. He should have DeNiro be naked to provide interest, though. DeNiro does his obligatory pug-dog face, with the wrinkled forehead way too much, and that bobbing and swaying thing where he crosses his arms and looks intense way too much.The side characters are overwrought and stupidly dressed (that huge bolo turquoise guy is an example). Once again, Scorsese is like a cartoonist that hates cartoons. He can't even put meaningful props around the set, they appear to be symbolic (but apparently are not) and he shows us all kinds of things that never come into play (that's just bad directing - very B movie, actually). I guess I can see how a movie like this one (cartoony) can be popular, though - I just can't handle the shifts in tone and pacing throughout the flick. There are too many scenes where the frame is tilted, comic book style, that have NO comic book content - and where in addition the acting and dialog are overshadowed by set decor or costume - and the dialog/events do not move the movie forward. Why do that? And why then force so much narration (in a boring tone, mostly from DeNiro) onto the audience? I love B movies, and was prepared to view this entry as Scorsese's attempt to make one, to forgive him all the other directorial excesses he's been guilty of. If he had done that - at all, I would have liked it. Or if we'd seen naked Sharon Stone (that's how bad this was - I was praying for Sharon to lose her panties in that one scene, or at least give DeNiro a blow job, but no - nothing).The Italian mobsters and their food look fake and last minutey - as though someone composed those scenes on a Sunday morning, with a hangover, using the most obvious and basic film student style composition techniques and set pieces. Even the decor failed at many points - and it didn't have to.Oh, and by the way, Martin, if you're reading (which I doubt - if I had made this film, I'd never read anything critical about it, I'd never want to remember I'd made it) - merely sticking old slot machines in little trios on the floor here and there to denote "basement" doesn't work. Neither does using geometric window patterns or Renaissance colors to provide visual distraction to make plot elements loom large when in fact, it's just standard stuff. Watch a Tarantino movie, will ya?
Casino copied the storyline of the enjoyable television series Crime Story from 86-88. I heard how this was such an original and uncompromising movie. Wow, I would have failed my essay in college for pulling a stunt like this.


                
A foul mouthed low life degenerate movie written by some foul mouthed talentless slime ball with a bunch of foul mouthed degenerates trying to pass themselves off as actors who if I never meet I will have missed nothing. Hollywood has become a cesspool of foul mouthed jerks with little or no talent. When I watched part of this movie on cable I finally turned the sound all the way down and watched the ending then I canceled the station. I have been a stage actor for 47 years and a musician who plays 15 different musical instruments and have done so for 44 years during my act I tell jokes and never once during my many years on the stage have I ever used profane or foul language.
All the talent is there. But aside from Stone, we've seen it all before (and usually better). I guess if it were about an hour shorter and the dialog didn't suffer from banality and the pacing weren't so slack, it might be just about OK, but nothing great. Ridiculously gory (think The Wild Bunch, but without the style). Obviously some loved this film, though I've never met anyone in person who did. The few I know who have seen it basically thought it was a waste of time, a disgusting waste at that.


                
I need two lives to count the ways I hate this film. Let me just put it in three words: over the top. Everything is over the top. The violence, the screams, the pseudo-pathos (DeNiro's slobbering unrequited puppy love for Stone). Pick anything, it's overdone.IMDB requires 10 lines. Well, here goes:This film is bad.
This film is overrated.
This is Scorcese on steroids.
Avoid this mess.There. Ten lines. You asked.


                
I absolutely hated this film. It was a complete waste of time, money, and celluloid. The only reason I endured the interminable hours spent on screen by the unpleasant, boring, borish, and nasty characters and the very bad story was I was keeping my friend out of his house so his wife could set up a surprise birthday party. (Actually, there was one redeming quality to it-- the look at the inner workings of a casino was interesting, but the Discovery Channel version was better, without the incessant profanity.)


                
You really have to be an unbridled fan of mobster movies to like this. I will admit I only watched the first 40 minutes because it was so bad. I decided to give it a shot because of all the glowing reviews here at IMDb. Big mistake. The people that wrote those reviews are probably the same sort of people who dress up in Jedi costumes and wait for days in front of theaters for the next opening. I admit I am not a fan of the genre, having watched 20 minutes of one of the Godfathers and less than that of The Sopranos. The characters are cardboard, overly romanticized, embarrassingly conforming to what someone thinks the stereotype is, and the dialogue is pitiful. Scorcese ought to try making a real movie instead of recycling this gangster swill. Mean Streets is the only thing of his I've sat through because it was gritty and real. Everything since - hogwash. You would be better off watching the old gangster movies with Bogart or Cagney or Edward G. Robinson. They were far more believable and at least you and they knew they were acting. Better plots and dialogue too.


                
The film is pointless. It supposedly shows aspects of the heydays of Las Vegas and the way Casinos worked. In fact though, it is a series of violent events, decadent situations and disgusting scenes after which the spectator comes to realise that there was no reason to watch the film in the first place. Films like this should be watched only to test one's neural bearing.


                
During the first act, as we learn the intricate ins-and-outs of a 1970's Las Vegas CASINO... taking us so close inside the operation we feel part of the roulette tables and the dice rolling across them... it's intentionally created in the same fashion director Martin Scorsese showed us with an entire mob's operation in GOODFELLAS...But then something happens, or stops happening, or both: But first, the main character, Sam "Ace" Rothstein, played by Robert De Niro, is a man of mind, not action. He's to gambling what Scorsese is to directing... a natural... and the casino itself becomes an absorbing character: we feel pulse of the machines, and the men behind the scenes, keeping the moneymaking beast alive while protecting it from cheaters, con artists, and crooked politicians.Enter Joe Pesci as Nicky, Rothstein's childhood friend: the muscle who is familiar and cocky, dangerous and ultimately undependable. And there's the flavor of the month, Sharon Stone, as Sam's trophy girlfriend turned wife, Ginger, who becomes the apple of his eye - and soon, for a man who seemed so infallible, nothing matters but trusting a woman who repeatedly warned him not to.The movie hits a wall with this escalating-downhill relationship between Sam and Ginger, but it was faltering beforehand - De Niro, Pesci, and some of the other shady characters, although colorful and formidable, aren't interesting enough to really care about - unlike GOODFELLAS, RAGING BULL or TAXI DRIVER, they all seem more written than real.The duel-narration here... while beautiful in GOODFELLAS between Ray Liotta and Lorraine Bracco... works here and it doesn't: De Niro's by-the-numbers account is fine in the beginning, giving us a firsthand account of how things run, but it becomes a rambling safety net for the lack of a streamlined plot: especially when his business luck turns sour.Meanwhile Joe Pesci's counterpoint is completely unnecessary, sounding like a mafia goon's version of Bugs Bunny, filling us with details better left for the audience to figure on their own (and given his character's fate... is the narration recorded in Satan's private broadcasting station?)...Then the last half runs itself completely ragged: juggling the dull doomed love story straight out of a nighttime soap, and Ace and Nicky's edgy friendship that meanders to a predictably violent conclusion (and they never seemed that tight to begin with for an unraveling to really matter).If Scorsese and scriptwriter Nicholas Pillegi stuck closer to the Casino, perhaps CASINO, and its characters, might have had more purpose. What we're left with is too much style without substance.(And has there ever been a character more deserving a bloody death than James Wood's pimp/hustler who not only repeatedly steals Stone from DeNiro, but kidnaps, and continually threatens, his daughter? While we witness the immense, overboard bloodshed of everyone else, James comes out with a few bruises. What the hell were they thinking?!)
Robert DeZero over-does his 'cigarette holding' in every freaking scene to the point where it becomes unintentional humor. Him and the little short director, Martin Snoresayzee, were too stupid to realize this.That was just one of the many screw-ups in this repetitive flick. Joe Pudgy is on hand (again) to play a gangster. Portraying DeZero's wife is Sharon Stoned. There's really no point to this movie except to team DeZero, Snoresayzee, Pudgy, and Stoned. In the role of Pudgy's right-hand man is Frank Pissant; playing the mob's lawyer is Kevin Potluck; in the part of DeZero's lawyer is former real-life mob lawyer, Oscar Hoodman.Zionism is alive as usual in this lame movie filled with the 'f-word' so we'll all think it's really cool. Of course, intelligent people know that it's not. Same old DeZero-Snoresayzee-Pudgy garbage.
