A complex, multilayered, beautifully directed film, Martin Scorsese's Casino is a masterpiece of destruction and betrayal. Few films take so many chances and succeed so wonderfully. It takes some of the basic formulas that were found in Goodfellas and applies them to another type of story - while Goodfellas' view was ground-level, telling the story of the "blue collar" gangsters of NYC, this film tells the story of the guys who controlled those guys. And it's fascinating to watch these people run Las Vegas, control the flow of money, and then fall from the heights of power due to lust, hubris, and greed. An amazing film that will hopefully get the recognition it deserves in the years to come.


                
If you haven't seen Casino yet, stop whatever it is you're doing, rush to the nearest video store, rent it, and watch it.  Along with Mean Streets Casino is probably Scorsese's most underrated and unheralded picture.  I would also venture to say that this is probably his most ambitious film. The film deals with a particular time period and a particular atmosphere and accomplishes an overwhelming achievement by creating and accurately portraying both.  The art direction is splendid, most likely the best of any film Scorsese has ever done.  The acting is superb.  I never thought Pesci would be able to top his dynamic performance in Raging Bull until I saw Casino.  Every time I watch this picture I fall in love with it all over again.  This is the most honest depiction of Las Vegas, especially of the time period it was portrayed in.  Scorsese's direction is flawless. Perhaps it is because I watch alot of Scorsese and Kubrick films, but I am becoming less satisfied with plot driven films and more enamored by films that possess the freedom that typical stories just don't seem to hold.  Sharon Stone gives the best performance of her career, and as far as the editing is concerned, well if you believe like Kubrick and Pudovkin that a film is not shot, but built who better to have on your team than long time cohort, collaborator, and editor Thelma Schoonmaker.  Ultimately, the genius of Scorsese is not just in the mastery of the medium, but in the understanding and appreciation for the necessity of great collaborators on all levels that Scorsese has consistently utilized throughout his career.  Casino exemplifies not only the best of a Scorsese film, but transcends it.  This film is truly a gem.


                
This is one of the best films of the 90's hands down. Without a doubt this has become one of my favorite movies. I'm not sure why really, I just love it. I think because I read the book and a lot of what happened in real life happened in my little town in Chicago. No names, and my old boss who runs our town grocery store actually knew "Ace". Again, no names. That was always pretty cool to me, since my town really didn't have much excitement. I guess also because I'm a huge fan of Martin, Robert, and Joe's. When they work together, they create masterpieces. I've read a lot of comments on IMDb, and more than 50% of the comments are calling this "Goodfells Part 2". Is it "Goodfellas Part 2", in my opinion, no. Yes, it's very similar situations, but it's not the same plot. It's a little more gory and more bright. "Casino" is mainly about the rise and fall of Las Vegas. When Robert DeNiro's character says "It's more like Disney Land now". Actually that's true, it's not like it used to be. I'm only 20, but my mom and dad told me how different the times were in the 60's and 70's. Everyone was more close and wanted to know who you were and how everything was going. Everything is more corporate greed now-a-days. But back onto the movie, it does have gangsta's in it, and with that comes some pretty gruesome violence.Robert DeNiro. No words can describe how wonderful of an actor he is. If you read in most of my comments, you can tell I'm a fan. This movie is actually what made me into a huge fan of his. He's dialog and image is very powerful and you understand his position. You want to love him, even though technically he's a bad guy too, you still think he is so cool. A lot of people I talked too: the guys wanted to be him and the girls wanted to be with him. What a performance, it deserved more praise.Joe does it again being the A$$hole who thinks with his gun and not with his head. Joe as an actor is very remarkable. He's only 5' 6'', but he is so intimidating. His speech in the desert with Ace and the big confrontation. "You want me to get out of my own town?! Don't *bleep* with me, Ace!" Does he swear in this movie? Oh, yeah. A lot, we're talking 400+ f-words, guys. But you get past the vulgar language and just enjoy what Joe says and does. The head vice scene and the metal bat scene with Joe is two of the most disturbing scenes in cinematic history.Sharon Stone, what can I say? What a remarkable performance! She was very much robbed of her deserved Oscar. I was reading in my "Rober DeNiro: A history of his films" that Sharon over shined both Joe's and Robert's performance. In some ways that is very true. She plays a gold-digging, druggie, drunk, hustling, whore. She is very glamorous in the film though, she is covered in beautiful gowns and jewelery that no guy could ever resist. Her first scene where Robert first sees her and she is stealing chips from a guy who has "hired" her for a night was extremely effective. You can see why Ace fell so hard for her. What a terrific performance in the end. When she screams at Ace "I will go to the FBI! I will go to the police! I'm not protecting you anymore!", you get scarred and can't help but watch more even though you are sitting on your butt for more than 2 1/2 hours. You hate her character so much, you want her to get what's coming to her, that's what makes a terrific performance. When you actually want to make sure that this character gets the justice he or she deserves. Sharon, I apologize, you deserved more praise as well.Martin Scorcesse. One of the greatest living directors of our time. This film was very wonderfully made with great visuals. The soundtrack really adds a lot, I'm telling you, and the theatrical trailer with the song "Gimme Shelter" by the Rolling Stones, what a great feel. Martin has been nominated several times for an Oscar, but they snub him. I think because his films are so violent and typical. But they remain classics. I'm disappointed with the Oscars, this man deserves more. Whew. "Casino" is an excellent movie that I highly recommend for mob movie lovers. Don't compare this to "Goodfellas", let it stand on it's own. But please, this is not a movie for children in any manor. For the parents, this is a movie that should be on the wait until the later teens. It's very violent, we're talking a head in a vice, a beating with a metal bat(just to name a few violent scenes, there's more)drugs, sex, and very vulgar language. This is for adults only!It's a great movie that deserves very much to be on the top 250. I'd like to see it in the top 100, but we'll see. 10/10
As a lifelong gambler who has crossed paths with a few fringe types portrayed in the film, I'm well aware of the story, the culture, and the ambiance of the Tangiers, the fictional casino placed in the control of Sam "Ace" Rothstein (Robert Deniro). Rothstein is not a mob member, but a "moneymaker" for them because he's the nation's best sports handicapper. It was refreshing for a movie to finally show that not all gamblers are stupid, but instead one of those who takes advantage of the many who are.Rothstein's partner in crime is Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci), who is far less convincing as a mobster than he would seem to like to believe. Sharon Stone plays the psychotic Ginger, a once-in-a-lifetime role in that it was the only time in my life I could bear to watch her on film. The supporting cast is strong, led by James Woods and Don Rickles (excellent in his dramatic capacity), and the movie is generally well-acted.If you are a gambler or know the "wiseguy" culture, the movie doesn't have to be explained, while if you aren't, you'll feel like you've stumbled upon the secret meeting place of the mafia and made privy to what is said, without anyone knowing you were there. This film is based on the true story of what happened when the mob tried to put its men in suits and have them heading a casino, and why it has never been tried since. The homage paid to the incestuous nature of Nevada politics was an excellent touch.Most of us wouldn't like a guy like Sam Rothstein, nor would we like to be him, but if we go to Vegas for a weekend and stay at a casino/hotel, we'll have a better experience if his watchful eye is ensuring that our stay is a pleasant one. The film's nod to how Vegas has been sanitized since those days is also accurate, and reflects sadness at a lost era, where the baby (the "old school" types who made Vegas great) was thrown out with the bathwater (the organized crime influences).


                
I saw Goodfellas first and more times than Casino. Yet, I totally love Casino as it is one of the best movies I have literally ever seen. I find Goodfellas to be overrated and Casino to be the movie that learned from the former's flaws. Something I really do think (more than my own opinion) is that if this was released before Goodfellas, this would be more liked. No new ground was broken, everything was just elevated. Robert De Niro gives his most underrated performance--as well as the second best of the year (behind Nicolas Cage in Leaving Las Vegas)-- as Sam "Ace" Rothstein. Ace is an unbeatable gambler who secures the mob's casino shenanigans while his lifelong best friend, Nicky Santoro (Pesci) keeps everybody in line. The only real difference between Nicky and Tommy from Goodfellas is Tommy has curlier hair. There's divided opinion on who is crazier/more violent. I lean towards Nicky. Ace helps the casino grow and eventually seizes full power by becoming the owner. Nicky's wild and crazy antics get him banned from every Las Vegas casino, so he decides to create his own. Meanwhile, Ace blindly falls for a beautiful prostitute named Ginger (Stone) and they get married. Her habits don't change and Ace does all he can to help her out. The love story in this is amazing. Ginger is unlikeable but we can't turn away from her. Her and Nicky both contribute to Ace's fall as well as the rise of other casinos in Vegas.One easy thing I loved was the performance by Robert De Niro. He is very likable and my heart breaks every time he is screwed over by Ginger and Nicky. He was easily a better lead than Ray Liotta and his character was more likable and deeper than Jimmy. In fact, all three of our leads in this are much deeper developed than the leads in Goodfellas. Ray Liotta is a dummy who is not cut out to be a mobster, while we see the conviction in Ace as he tries to make everything work out. Casino is also much more flashy and nicer too look at than Goodfellas which takes place in New York. The music in this is not distracting or overpowering. The filming is a step up. the flow is much better. And the story is superior. This has more of a linear and stable story than Goodfellas, which is just a man's escapades in the mafia. Everybody that watches Casino is impacted more than Goodfellas. To watch Casino, you have to be in a mood and well prepared. A movie has really done its job if it does that to a viewer, and actually has a purpose for its content.
Casino is by far my favourite film. I enjoyed good fellas, thought Raging Bull was great and enjoyed Taxi driver but this is a cut above the rest imoI have seen this film to many times to count and i am yet to become even remotely sick of it. The acting is flawless, story flows at a great pace for the full all but 3 hours, great narration and a great soundtrackPesci and De Niro play their parts so well as does Stone. When watching this film I started to wonder what PEsci is really like in real life. Is he a crazed man like he so often plays? After seeing Casino you are likely to wonder, he is that goodI also think the characters in Casino are far more believable then those in good fellas.Must see for any gangster film fan


                
What a fantastic movie, thanks to its cast, top heavy with stars and fine direction of the "Oscar begging" Martin Scorsese. Robert de Niro and Joe Pesci are great, as always, together. But, surprisingly, it's Sharon Stone that comes of with all the acting credit, she simply effervesces as the gold digging casino hustler. After witnessing her performance myself I couldn't agree more, and think she deserves a place above Susan Sarandon who "stole" the Academy Award from under Sharon's nose.  The photography is phenomenal and combined with great acting is a recipe for a classy film.  However occasional brilliant sequences, are often marred by the continuous commentary, which prevents any real, deep, emotional involvement with any of the characters.  Great stuff, just slightly flawed.9/10.


                
Casino has to be one of the most underrated films that Martin Scorsese directed in the nineties. The acting by the leads is good and the script is excellent. Robert Deniro gave an Oscar worthy performance and Joes Pesci is chilling yet funny again. Even Sharon Stone is good in this brilliant film


                
Martin Scorcese's harsh and yet delicately balanced masterpiece rises above anything petty meaning that if one wishes and has the ability and means to create a Sicilian mafia movie he should do so with grandeur and put into it as much effort as possible for people remember those who take advantage of their talent and circumstances and are diligent in their undertakings. Casino is in my opinion an epic, but it's much more than that. This film speaks even to those who dislike the subject of organized crime. You have to be objective when judging this movie and those of us who criticize everything that stands out amongst the grey background of that which is mediocre are fools who envy others' accomplishments and view them as insults to their own personal uselessness. Casino is one of the best movies of the 90's. In fact, in my opinion, it's one of the best organized crime movies of all time. Its moral is that no matter how tough you think you are there's always someone you answer to and that you ultimately will, indeed, if you screw things up.


                
Just to give a bit of background, I thought I'd start by explaining what it actually takes for me to score a film 10/10, because at this point the top score on here has lost a lot of it's significance. Not that this is a serious issue obviously, but I thought I should open by stating exactly how good I think a film should be in order for it to justify a rating like that, and hopefully in doing so the point will be put across as to how highly I rate this film.For me, a 10/10 film is a film whereby not only each and every facet of is at least of a very high standard, but one that is so good that there is literally no single aspect of it that stands out as being even marginally weak, whether that be the acting performance of a character, a particular scene/section of the film, the dialogue or any other aspect that could be picked up on. Right from the off, the film must set a standard and a tone and keep on that course so as to at least remain within the same bracket of quality, whilst also excelling in every possible aspect along the way. Any deviation from this path represents an imperfection in terms of the way the film is balanced, and as such will prevent a perfect 10/10 score from being given.Given this criteria, take The Godfather as an example: a timeless masterpiece that is rightfully held up as one of the greatest films of all time. The acting is sublime, the plot is compelling and the characters are all well fashioned. Despite these strengths however, Michael's development at the start is not handled with the same precision and quality as the rest of the film in my opinion. It stands out as being more rushed and less carefully crafted when measured against the rest of the film, and I felt the opening stages were in need of a couple more scenes to bridge the early phases of the transformation with what followed. This stood out for me in context of the quality of the rest of the film, and I would therefore deduct half a point on that basis. The difference in quality here is enough for me to call it a sizable imperfection in a relative sense.Another example to use is Once Upon A Time In America, which is sometimes labelled 'the best gangster movie ever made', with people highlighting the exceptional plot and the wonderful soundtrack by Ennio Morrocone. These are, of course, valid points - the music is amongst some of the finest ever made for film, and the plot is as absorbing as it is complex. That being said, the acting is considerably lower across the board than in other classics in similar genres (Goodfellas, Godfather I and II, City of God, etc), and the score is often applied over-indulgently: the melodies of Deborah's theme and the main theme for example are destroyed by the end of the film, and scenes are sometimes made to seem exaggerated and jarring as a result. On top of that, there are occasions whereby these beautiful melodies are highly inappropriate, with one particular rendition actually making me laugh loud because of how bizarre it was (hint: the Cleopatra part of the film, after the...incident...in the car).For those reasons, despite it's strengths, that film is an 8/8/5 for me. Very good, but there are too many imperfections and imbalances.Anyway, I give that brief analysis of those two up there in order to illustrate my view that there are no literally no such relative imperfections and imbalances to point out with Casino. The film starts off well paced and sharp, and from the very offset it maintains an extremely high standard of acting, storytelling and pacing throughout.Even nitpicking, I cannot think of a single weakness, and on top of that the strengths are seriously strong. Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci, as usual, are fantastic in their roles, and I honestly can't remember ever seeing anyone play a character like Sharon Stone plays in this so well. For all the right reasons, she made me feel hateful, angry and unpleasant. I cowered and cringed because of how well it was acted, and I spent most of the time watching her thinking about how much I wanted her character to meet a horrible, yet just ending.Seriously... this film is a must-watch. There are a lot of unfair, unfavourable comparisons to Goodfellas in here, but I honestly think this is better. Does Goodfellas keep up the same standard of plot like this does throughout? I don't think so personally - the closing scenes are slower and weaker, where as Casino maintains an extremely high level, delivering accordingly right at the end. The ending is satisfying (for whatever reason - no spoilers here), and the tension that has been built up throughout is sufficiently capitalised on. Goodfellas, on the other hand, more peters out by comparison.That is obviously is not to criticise Goodfellas - as a film that's about as close to 10 as you can get without it being 10 in my opinion. It's just that Casino is better paced, more consistent and more complex and nuanced in its plot. As well as this, it gains from the greater emphasis on De Niro and Pesci, who both play superior, more fleshed out characters in this. The combination of these two and Sharon Stone in conjunction with this plot makes for an absolute masterpiece, and I highly recommend this film to anyone with even a passing interest in film and Scorsese. I was in awe of it throughout and think that, alongside Raging Bull, it's probably the most underrated film I've come across so far on IMDb.


                
Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci, two great actors, star in Martin Scorsese's underrated, and in my opinion, almost best, Casino. Casino is a very entertaining, very engaging, very well acted, very long,and very terrific film. DeNiro and Pesci play two mobster friends who's friendship dies when they go to Vegas and DeNiro becomes pit boss. Money and greed brings them up to the top. DeNiro gets married to Sharon Stone's character, who is kind of a criminal with a bad love past.I didn't give too much of the plot. Because a lot happens in the film's slow three hours.Magnolia,One of my favorite films, is three hours long. The Lord of the rings trilogy is three hours long. Schindler's list is three hours long. Titanic is three hours long. Those films are all three hours long. Those films are all fantastic. Casino is a fantastic film. But still, it's not quite as good as The Departed, which is my favorite Scorsese film. It probably comes in second place for me.Casino is a very engrossing,very well acted, very interesting, very long, and very great film. That is all I can say about it. I loved it. Despite it's length. That was the only problem I found with it.Casino:A+
Casino is my favorite movie of the last decade of the last century. Just like in Goodfellas, Martin Scorsese rivets the audience to their seats without a real hero to root for. It's the power of the characters he creates.Robert DeNiro as the gambler boss of the Tangiers casino in Las Vegas of the 70s and 80s and Joe Pesci gangster are long time boyhood pals from the mean streets of Brooklyn. Both move out to Las Vegas seeking their respective places in their related fields at the orders of the higher ups in the criminal world. But circumstance drives them apart and one of those circumstances is Sharon Stone.People descending into degradation is always a role that will get you noticed by the Academy. Sharon Stone's part as Ginger is no exception here. She's a high price call girl when we first meet her and her descent into drug addiction isn't pretty, but Scorsese keeps it very real.But the main story line involves DeNiro and Pesci. To see ourselves as others see us is one elusive goal not attained by many in this world. These two aren't an exception. Each can see how the other is screwing up and absolutely cannot see what he's doing.The key scene in the whole film is when DeNiro and Pesci meet in the desert where a lot of problems have been known to disappear. If you can get passed all the cursing which is how you would expect gangsters to talk, each is making very realistic assessments about the other one and neither is listening to a word the other is saying. This is why I love Casino so much. I've never seen that particular theme ever handled so well on the screen.


                
Casino is so fast-paced and entertaining, it doesn't even feel like it's 3 hours at all. Fans of Scorsese, DeNiro, and Pesci will love this. They're all at their usual greatness, but the pleasant surprise from this movie is the electrifying performance by Sharon Stone (who won a Golden Globe award and got an Oscar nomination for her role). She's truly the crazy bitch you love to hate.It isn't all too original, it uses the same formulas as other Scorsese movies (particularly Goodfellas), but it just works. It's a fun movie. The camera moves as if it has a life of its own, almost every scene is set to great music, the dialogue and narration are top-notch, and everything is just perfect. What more could you possibly want?It's the closest thing to Goodfellas II, but it still stands on its own very well. Everyone should see this movie. It's 3 hours well spent.My rating: 10/10


                
Martin Scorsese strikes again with this raunchy classic about the Italian mob taking over the city of Las Vegas. De Niro excels as he plays 'Ace' Rothstein, a classy business man, who throughout the movie gains success and popularity which soon leads to his downfall. Pesci plays tough guy Nicky Santoro, who has more of an old fashion way of solving problems, but none the less, gains power and succeeds throughout this film. Sharon Stone was a flawless gem in this film. Sharon stole every scene if it was with her laughing, crying, sobbing or living it up. Casino is the most enjoyable film on the 90's, a must-see classic.


                
Scorsese, De Niro and Pesci team up again for a amazing movie with unforgettable performances.The film portrays Las Vegas at a time when it was dominated by the mafia, extremely well directed by Scorsese that film shows Robert De Niro as manager of the Tangiers Casino who have to deal with his unstable wife that used to be a high-class prostitute but who can not forget her pimp Lester and his childhood friend Nicky that is taking the city with extreme uncontrolled violence bringing a bad image to the plans that the mafia has in Las Vegas.Sharon Stone definitely give the best performance of his career in this film and the secondary characters convey very well the image of the great leaders of the mafia.Casino is a classic and a must-see movie.
This Martin Scorsese film,Casino,depicts Las Vegas--it has a glittering, glamorous face, as well as a brutal, cruel one.It is based on the non- fiction book of the same name by Nicholas Pileggi, who also co-wrote the screenplay for the film with Scorsese.The movie stars Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci as Ace Rothstein and Nicky Santoro respectively, mobsters who move to Las Vegas to make their mark, live and work in this paradoxical world. Seen through their eyes, each as a foil to the other, the details of mob involvement in the casinos of the 1970's and '80's are revealed. Ace is the smooth operator of the Tangiers casino, while Nicky is his boyhood friend and tough strongman, robbing and shaking down the locals. However, they each have a tragic flaw--Ace falls in love with a hustler, Ginger,played by Sharon Stone, and Nicky falls into an ever-deepening spiral of drugs and violence.The movie is definitely one of the best made about the mob.It definitely ranks up there with The Godfather and another Scorsese film,Goodfellas. Excellent story and acting are both characteristics of the movie.The story was great in the sense that it focuses on the excesses of language, of violence, of ambition in the life-styles of the rich and infamous which makes the movie smart from start to finish.Also,great performances were given by the lead stars De Niro,Stone and Pesci. Finally,it reveals to us what is Las Vegas all about - inside and out. A movie that deserves a 10/10 rating!!!!
Easily surpasses Godfather and Goodfellas. The story is written very carefully and presented beautifully, with perfect narratives and dialogue throughout the movie.The characters are quite complex and display much depth, played by actors that live and breathe for these roles. Robert De Niro couldn't have been better; even though he plays similar characters in flawlessly in many other movies, this one hit the jackpot. Sharon Stone's performance is exceptional, especially during the end of the movie, I wouldn't be surprised if she really was on drugs just for the movie. Joe Pesci hits the same note as De Niro -the highest one. Like De Niro, he plays similar characters in other movies, but in this movie it fits in with the other characters and the story so obviously, it wouldn't have been the same without him, nor his character. Like all other mafia-type movies De Niro and Pesci have been in, their characters, in contrast, portray a wide spectrum of opposite attitude, feelings, and motivation that is simply entertaining to watch.In a style parallel to "Goodfellas" that's become the signature of Martin Scorsese, this movie might seem like just a repetitive sequel set in Las Vegas. But don't be fooled, this film is as underrated as Titanic is/was overrated, whether you judge by popularity, box office gross, or critics' ratings (or even IMDb's present user rating). Casino is a masterpiece and will not disappoint keen viewers.
Casino shows that GoodFellas, the milieu if not the overall tenor as this is more of a full-blown epic in Las Vegas can still be well done when people like Martin Scorsese and Nicholas Pileggi do it right.For a long time this was among the top, top favorites from this director. I don't know if it's still one of THE bestest of the best, but it's still massively enjoyable and after all these years there's still things to love about it. And, actually, though he got the Oscar for Goodfellas, Pesci might actually be *better* here, more nuanced, crazier, more on-fire, more F-bombs. So much underrated material here. And who doesn't dig James Woods as a pimp and Don Rickles as a casino manager?


                
To the fans of Casino, I see the whole film as an allegory for the way the world is run. Think about it. A bunch of mediocre and incompetent Italian gangsters send their cleverest Jew to take over the gambling business in Las Vegas. He does a great job and makes them rich. But these moronic and aging Italian gangsters send one of their own (a violent and psychotic Italian enforcer) to watch over the Jew. The Jew is doing a good job but he gets carried away and marries a beautiful but materialistic and drug addicted woman under the false notion that he can change her ways. He also pisses off another ethnic group when he refuses to take back an incompetent employee. Meanwhile, the psychotic Italian systematically undoes all of the Jew's hard work. Things get messed up. So like I said earlier, I thought the film was an allegory for the way the world is run. There are some really incompetent and mediocre people at the top. The really clever guys are in middle management but even they get carried away. Ethnic groups are perpetually involved in power struggles. And in the end, the large corporations and the squares replace these guys. The film is almost like an ode to the old ways (however mad and violent they might have been) before the corporations took over everything. The film predicts Wolf of Wall Street in the way Scorsese's films would be made and edited. There are two narrators who talk us through the sensory assault filled with interesting camera angles, fast cuts, violence, beautiful women and the opulence of Las Vegas. Three hours simply ran by. De Niro and Pesci are ably supported by Don Rickles, Sharon Stone and James Woods. Best Regards, Pimpin. (10/10)
I just started Martin Scorsese's movies one by one. By far this is the best movie ever. After I saw this movie, I read about the goofs in this site and to be frank I observed only two of them and I watch movies very closely.This is one of the best examples where director actually glues your bum to the seat.Absolutely no highs or lows in the movie, the tempo is carried from very first scene, continuing in every frame until the last one.Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci and Sharon Stone gave amazing performance. I felt jealous and pitied at Sam, frightened at Nicky and hated Ginger. Amazing performers and superb action. I never ever felt that it was a movie and everything is screen-played.With the naive experience in watching Marin's movies, I guess camera becomes a slave to Martin ( of course right after Coppola). Beautiful angles and wonderful screenplay.And of course Nicholas Pileggi is genius to begin with and Martin Scorsese is another to go into Nicholas' head and produce the same.A beautiful movie which actually defines an R rated film without any gross scenes.


                
This is, unquestionably in my opinion, the best film of all time. I wont waste time outlining the plot in detail, I'm sure other reviews have that covered. The mixed reaction this film has been given has absolutely stunned me, reviews range from the worst film people have ever seen to the most impressive they have ever seen. This is of course the most underrated film of all time and not enough credit has been given to Scorsese, De Niro, pesci, stone and even the supporting cast including frank Vincent. The reason for much of this films criticism is its comparisons to goodfellas. This is not goodfellas or a goodfellas inspired film! (despite Nicholas peliggi's involvement). De niro and pesci surpass their performance in goodfellas with much to spare in this film. Pesci in particular has added more venom to his performance than seen in goodfellas (which was already as venomous as a venomous snake swimming around in venom).Enough of this goodfellas talk, casinos finest quality is the development of the characters throughout the movie. The decade in which this movie covers allows Scorsese to work his magic and has time to brilliantly lay out this fascinating tale of the mob's control of a las Vegas casino...and the las Vegas streets. De niro is at his usual best which means long time movie partner Scorsese can direct with ease because nobody is better than De niro at his best. His performance is cool, calm and collected and his character is easily likable and understandable throughout. De niro's casual performance means it is down do pesci to take care of the more brutal parts of the movie, and he does this very well. Scorseses directing skills combined with De niro's fine acting and laced with pesci's raw power, not to mention a sprinkle of glitter on top in the form of Sharon stone, means there is no level on which this film does not deliver. the best there is, the best there was and the best there ever will be.
I think it is fair to say that Casino is overshadowed by Goodfellas, which was an enormous success on release. Many see Casino as simply a continuation of Goodfellas, after all it is set in the decades succeeding the events of Goodfellas. However, I feel Casino stands out as an equal to Goodfellas as a crime drama and in some ways, it fell it may be superior.Casino follows Sam 'Ace' Rothstein (Robert DeNiro), a gambling handicapper, who takes control of the fictional Tangiers Casino in Las Vegas. Along with friend and mob boss Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci), Sam ensures the money keeps rolling in and makes sure the bosses 'back home' get a little extra by 'skimming' from the casino's profits. As the years go by, Sam marries working girl Ginger (Sharon Stone), thinking that he can ensure her trust. However, money, drugs and betrayal ultimately get the better of them...I think what I really like about Casino is the destructive love triangle of Sam-Ginger-Nicky which dominates the second half of the movie. I think their is a greater sense of ambition and the individual than Goodfellas, which was mainly concerned with the family. I also sympathised more with Sam than Henry Hill, as Sam has to cope with Ginger, who is troubled by drugs, alcohol and former lover/pimp Lester (James Woods).Whilst it may be difficult to live up to Goodfellas, I think Casino does a pretty good job.
Every scene, a thrill. Every shot, a beauty. Every line, a breath-taker. Scorsese's films are masterpieces and Casino is too. I've called Casino a masterpiece since I was seven hard to believe because I saw about half of it when I was younger and loved the look and feel of it all. Now seeing the whole thing again seven years later I love it and call it my favorite Scorsese film. A lot of people choose Goodfellas over this, but Im the opposite, I think Goodfellas was a great mobster movie and a real life look at the 50s Mafia, but I just love Casino for everything it is.The three main actors De Niro, Pesci, and Stone have all outdone themselves here. This is the best work for all three of them individually. They play their roles with power and serve a unique purpose. Without De Niro, the narrations wouldn't have the same effect and be less powerful. Without Pesci, there would be no Italian to swear as good as him. He swears with meaning and makes you fear him when he steps on screen. His cutthroat, no BS attitude is what stands out on screen. Just like the quote said by Robert Di Nero.Having heard that I repeated it to myself numerous times to get the full effect. It was one of the most powerful quotes in movie history to me. Last, but far from least, is Sharron Stone's portrayal of Ginger McKenna Rothstein. She takes the role in full effect by strutting her gorgeous self in front of the camera with every shot of her being a slick one. Her attitude the whole movie really sticks with you and the fights her and De Niro have are very shocking, yet powerful at the same time. Its a feeling, I've only got from this film.The plot is true and is about Sam "Aces" Rothstein (De Niro) working as a bookie at the Tangiers Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. He takes his job beyond seriously and is usually caught in the minx of everything. His goal is to double Casino profits which is then skimmed by the Mafia which is then reported to the tax agencies. Whatever he bets on, he wins, thats that. He has never made a bet he wasn't sure he was going to win. Hes a smart guy and has never done a bet wrong. He is constantly bothered and put at risk when his buddy Nicky Santoro (Pesci, character based on the real life Anthony Spilotro) is sent to Vegas to assist Same, but winds up antagonizing all the casino members and his brash language and overall personality gets his name in a Black Book which lead to him banned from every casino in Vegas.Sam falls for the hooker and hustler Ginger McKenna (Stone) who he winds up having a child with and marrying. He gives Ginger his trust and puts her jewelry, and $2,000,000 cash money in a bank in which she can only access. Sam regrets it deeply when Ginger is still sneaking around with her ex con boyfriend Lester Diamond (James Woods). Their marriage soon crumbles, leading her to a strict and pervasive drug addiction with only Nicky to to.I don't want to go in full detail because the movie does have various surprises including the end, which I saw when I was seven and has traumatized me since. Seeing it again didn't have the same effect, but still scared me for life. This time, I cant say it's just a movie. This honestly happened. The events in this movie really happened and thanks to Scorsese is taken in a serious approach with characters that are in depth and to the point. Nobody but Scorsese could have done this movie. It is a true beauty and shouldn't be taken for granted.I play poker with my friend Mike using fake chips and having no real money involved. It something we do to pass the time. After seeing this movie it almost makes me not want to touch a card or chip again. Sure just playing slots, poker, Blackjack, Roulette, or any poker game wont put you in the position of Nicky, but it makes you think how much hot water these guys really sunk in. This is a job that depends on life or death and is not something I'd ever think to do. Money is one thing, risk is another.The movie is often shown on networks like Bravo and much of it has to be cut out because the f word is said exactly 422 times in three hours. Also because of the drugs and violence about thirty minutes is trimmed out too. My opinion is if this isn't shown in the raw, it shouldn't be shown at all. Profanity is common in this movie, but it shows you how strict Italians got. Various racial terms toward Muslims and Jewish people were brought up. Without the feeling or tense and frustration inside these people the movie is bland. It needs to have profanity to be true to the story of mobsters and gamblers. As well as the violence. Its jam packed with violence, but it needs to be there to show the full aspect. Without it, its tame and false.Casino is a genuine film that maybe overshadowed by Goodfellas and Raging Bull, but to me it's a one of a kind, gambling masterpiece with a four star cast, a four star plot, and a four star feeling after watching it. It has the rare effect of after watching it you feel like you lived it. A true masterpiece in the film industry and Scorsese's best film.Starring: Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci, Sharron Stone, James Woods,, Frank Vincent, Don Rickles, and Alan King. Directed by: Martin Scorsese.Full review at: http://stevethemovieman.proboards.com


                
First i don't think that this is a sequel to Goodfellas in any way shape or form,, I loved this movie from start to finish,, i am a big Deniro/Pesci fan,, i loved seeing Don Rickles in here as well,, Sharon Stone was hot in here as per usual. This movie is based on a true story as well,, It takes place in the 70's at the Vegas heyday,, when the mobsters were right in the thick of things in the Casino industry,, the Teamsters Pension fund to be exact.. The cast of characters in this movie is just endless,, like James Woods a small role, but very effective in here. The plot is very good ,, the bosses give Sam "Ace" Rothstein a casino to run,, hire a front man,, to make things look on the up and up,, and then the midwest bosses start skimming the casino,, ie. doing short counts,, losing fill slips... and what really does it for me, is the accuracy of filming in the count room,, i used to get in the count room when i worked the casino's "back east" in the late 80's and 90's, and it's pretty accurate,, cept for maybe the guy in the suit coming in and walking back out,, that would never happen,but hey,, it's pretty accurate,, the hard count room,, soft count room,, the cage,, all of that is real casino stuff,, i spent 10 years in one.. anyway back to the movie,, i thought that it was wonderful,, Robert Deniro has all of the class , charm , and charisma you could ask for ,, Joe Pesci,, steals the shows for me,, as the muscle in the movie,, i mean puttting a man's head in a vice,, very neat idea ,, if you wanna get information out of him,, all in all i would recommend this movie to anybody who is a fan of gangster movies.. 10 of 10 for me.


                
I've seen this about 7 times. What i liked was the disintegration of the relationship between Ace and Ginger. Although founded on shifting sand, it came as a shock to me when they were arguing at the restaurant, and Ace came out with - "Listen you f---g c--t!" That was the first time I had heard that combination of words used in a film, and was delivered with such venom that you knew right there there was no going back for them.And another scene i liked was when the sheriff held up a magazine, that had a story on Ace in it, and says -"Of course its true! Its right here!" pointing to the article....Blueberry muffins, an EQUAL amount of blueberries in each muffin! And the chefs exasperated reply -"Do you know how long thats going to take!" ha ha haAnd, a tip for life"be a man! and not a f---g pimp"Had a lot of laughs. I wonder if Bugsy had the way it all turned out, on his mind!


                
