During the first part, as we learn the ins and outs of a 1970s and '80s Las Vegas casino<U+0085> taking us so close to the mechanics of the operation we feel part of the roulette table or the dice rolling across... is intentionally created in the same fashion director Martin Scorsese showed us the mob's operation in GOODFELLAS.But then something happens, or stops happening, or both.The main character, Sam "Ace" Rothstein, played by Robert DeNiro, is a man of mind, not action. He's to gambling what Scorsese is to directing<U+0085> a natural<U+0085> and the casino itself becomes an absorbing character: we feel pulse of the tables and machines, and the men behind the scenes, keeping the moneymaking beast alive while protecting her from cheaters, con artists, and crooked politicians.Enter Joe Pesci as Nicky, Rothstein's childhood friend: the muscle who's cocky, dangerous, and ultimately undependable. And the flavor of the month, Sharon Stone, as Sam's trophy girlfriend turned wife, Ginger, who becomes the wormed apple of his eye – and soon, for a man who seemed infallible, nothing matters but trusting a woman who repeatedly warned him not to. The movie hits a wall with the escalating relationship between Sam and Ginger, but it was faltering beforehand – DeNiro, Pesci, and some of the other shady characters, although colorful and formidable, aren't very interesting nor are they people to care about – unlike GOODFELLAS, RAGING BULL, or TAXI DRIVER, they all seem more written than real.And the duel-narration, beautifully wielded in GOODFELLAS between Ray Liotta and Lorraine Bracco, works and it doesn't: DeNiro's metronomic account of the proceedings is fine in the beginning, giving us a firsthand account of how the casino runs from the inside, it becomes a rambling safety net for the lack of a streamlined plot: especially when his business luck turns sour. While Joe Pesci's counterpoint is completely unnecessary, sounding like a goon version of Bugs Bunny, filling us with details better left for the audience to figure on their own.And the last half runs itself completely ragged: juggling a doomed love story straight out of a nighttime soap with Ace and Nicky's doomed friendship that meanders to a predictably violent conclusion (and they never seemed that tight to begin with for an unraveling to really matter).If Scorsese and scriptwriter Nicholas Pillegi stuck closer to the Casino, perhaps the film, and characters, might have had more purpose. What we're left with is too much style without substance. So to pay homage to vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen's comment to Dan Quayle's comparison of Jack Kennedy: "I saw Goodfellas. I know Goodfellas. You, Casino, are NO Goodfellas." And (spoiler alert) has there ever been a character more deserving a bloody death than James Wood's pimp/hustler who not only repeatedly steals Stone from DeNiro, but kidnaps, and continually threatens, his daughter? While we witness the immense, overboard bloodshed of everyone else, James comes out with a few bruises. What the hell were they thinking?!For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
Can you say the "f-word??" They can here - 353 times, according to Entertainment Weekly. This movie, as few others, will assault your senses and make you numb by the time it's over.Constant bickering, yelling, and Sharon Stone's out-of-control character the last hour will have you uttering a few expletives yourself after this Martin Scorcese sleaze-fest mercifully ends.As bad a character as Stone plays, the all-time champion profaner is - no surprise - the one played by Joe Pecsi, who must use the f-word every other sentence. Robert De Niro comes across as a choir boy compared to these other two jokers.The sad thing is, this could have been a decent movie, if Scorcese wasn't just so preoccupied with being so verbally degenerate (see "Goodfellas," "Raging Bull," etc). If the film had been cut down 45 minutes from 3 hours (too much of it dwells on the marital problems involving Stone) and cut back on the profanity, you might have had an interesting crime story with some very colorful cinematography and good narration. However, Scorcese can't seem to make a crime film without all the excess."Brutal" might be a good word to describe this movie. It's too much for anyone above trailer trash morals to endure.


                
Watching Casino for the first time and it's rubbish. I thought this would be awesome but I really can't get into it. It's impossible to get into the lives of characters, they seem to just narrate themselves, then start narrating others, then the others take over and start narrating themselves and it just goes round in circles. I'm not even sure what's going on. Robert De Niro is running a casino, he's banned a few people, there's been a few fights and that's about it, I'm over an hour in and I really don't know where this is going. Also, why does De Niro basically always seem to play himself? He's basically the same in every single film he's ever been in, apart from a couple where he's been slightly more angry than normal. More importantly though how has it taken me all this time to realise this? He's like the most boring actor ever. You only need to see one De Niro film and you've basically seen them all. I've still got the film playing, but it's basically background noise. When I've finished on facebook I'm turning it off and going to bed. This film has done nothing but made me angry. 2.5/10


                
Scorcese is overrated. If you want to know why just watch this dog with an unbiased mind and remember that many fans call it "masterpiece". As for myself, I only watched it out of curiosity, because from time to time they put it on local TV and I was always catching only bits of it. So I checked it out without too many expectations and WDYK, I wasn't disappointed. What I wondered later was why this flick had to be made at all, as it constitutes a clear Been There, Seen That example: the inside workings of a Casino--mainly from the POV of its security--those of a mob hierarchy and, as a bonus, an inside look at a screwed up "romantic" couple. Also this is one you can see without any feeling if not that of remorse for having spent 3 hrs. of your life you'll never get back and that you could have used in a more sensible way--swallowing flies for ex.The main flaw of Casino is that it hasn't any solid plot. Events build upon themselves like rows of brick giving shape to a wall, without any central guiding idea. The thing goes just by the formula: bad guys do bad things, kill people, get their comeuppance. Now, the usual set up in many action flicks is that bad guys do bad things and we feel bad--so we feel good when, later, justice is done. But here everyone is so shallow, contemptible and lame we don't care when they kill someone or are killed themselves. They are all indistinguishable pieces of the same pile of sh*t. But even in that case, you'd say, there may be occasion for a nice building up of tensions, for a thrilling atmosphere, with the use of clever plot twists and an appropriate cinematography. No such luck as, I said, there's no plot, so the only way to keep characters in the movie is by keeping them doing bad or stupid things. The clearest ex. of this is Ginger. Already early on she's in danger of being left aside, her flimsy connection to the "plot"having become ever thinner; at some point she's just De Niro's love interest, so she becomes virtually superfluous. And what do you know, at such a conjuncture the best way they found to put her back aboard is by bringing back her former pimp. And there you got it: the true reason for the soap that becomes that marriage, which consumes excruciatingly long segments of the flick, is not the fact that she was an unrepentant whore, but the more banal one that the writers had lost her and had to bring her back some way--not to mention the $$ Stone was costing. They could've turned her into a faithful wife, devote mom, just the same and we wouldn't have noticed, so shallow had been her characterization; but of course that wouldn't have helped selling tickets. The same thing may be said of the others, with the possible exception of Rickles' Sherbert. No depth, no nuance, no complexity there. Pesci plays the same violent, foul--mouthed SOB he has been doing forever--even his JFK's Ferrie is indistinguishable from Casino's Santoro--and De Niro plays the same self-restrained, still--waters--run--deep goon he did in OUATIA and in others flicks.No plot, no characterizations. What's left? Oh, mood and atmosphere. The sumptuous setting should serve to establish at least the second with some help from the acting and the score; but no help there either. The problem here is, we have seen the same thing sooo many times before--ever vigilant Casino goons, managers; smart-ass players who get theirs in the biggest burner; random wise guys getting their clock cleaned. Mob bosses getting their cut, ordering hits, imparting justice...yawn...So, 2/10, only for settings, cinematography.
