It should be clear to anyone who has followed Scorsese's career that he continues to fall back on several crutches in the construction of this film: casting his cute lil' mama, Robert DeNiro, Joe Pesci and a boat load of the other goombas who ended up on "The Sopranos"; the utilization of character voiceovers (a totally lazy device employed by otherwise ineffective storytellers) and yet another boring and way-too-loud classic rock soundtrack handpicked by a guy still living in the 60's. We get it, Marty: you REALLY like The Stones.Take your pick, and I will show you several films for which Scorsese received well more credit than he deserves: the muddy, ponderous "Mean Streets," the mediocre "Taxi Driver," the execrable "New York, New York" and "The Color of Money," and the predictable duo of "Cape Fear" and "The Departed," the latter of which was utterly ruined by Mark Wahlberg's shrill, one-note performance. Additionally, Scorsese's overblown video to Michael Jackson's "Bad" was complete jive and gave the regrettable Wesley Snipes a stairway to stardom.Ultimately, "Casino" is poor relation to the superior "Goodfellas," which, along with "The King of Comedy," is Scorsese's only film worthy of the heaps of praise showered upon his overall body of work. I should also mention that Sharon Stone's performance in "Casino" is just plain embarrassing. Don't get me wrong, friends. I think Martin Scorsese is a decent filmmaker, but he sure ain't Cinema Jesus.


                
After telling a friend I enjoyed The Godfather trilogy, he recommended I watch this film. And I'm sorry to say I totally regret doing so.This film is the opposite of The Godfather. It has zero emotional content. The characters are intentionally one dimensional, idiotic and therefor impossible to identify with. Most of the movie feature narration, which at first feels welcome and classic, but soon grows tiring because instead of the movie just "happening", the narration disrupts the acting all throughout the 3 hours.Now I know many might consider this one a classic, but I will bet you right here and now, that non of the actors playing in "Casino" would willingly sit through this 3 hour torture.


                
The unsavory, trite,dull Mrs. Stone was the very wrong choice for her role; De Niro keeps telling about how she charmed everybody and was a sex goddess<U+0097>rubbish, she looks like a hag! Pesci makes a good role, and Woods too. The main objection against all these mafia dramas (Coppola, Leone <U+0085>) is their premise<U+0097>they tend to be character<U+0097>driven, which is wrong. They pretend that the mobs portrayed are interesting as people<U+0097>i.e., as drama characters. They're not. That is why Pesci and Woods are good, while De Niro flops once again<U+0097>the first two have well<U+0097>written roles. The directors behave as if the hoodlums they are filming are Kane or the Ambersons, and not some scumbags.It has zero human content. For a thriller, a genuine one, it is lousy and pretentious and almost flaccid. Who invented Scorsese, anyway? CASINO is meant to be satirical and sometimes funny; but Scorsese is one of the least witty persons in the whole Hollywood. The characters are such that you can not relate to; and not a single stream of sympathy is allowed. It is addressed and meant for the most dubious audience. It's MTV style is banal and vulgar. I mean Scorsese would have been supposed to narrate intelligently about brutes; but the story itself is rubbish.CASINO is a MTV<U+0097>style brutal extravaganza, mindless and remarkably empty, devoid of any emotion and idea, and of overwhelming, overbearing bad taste; Scorsese boasts in cinematographic tricks that at least at the age he was when he made CASINO should have seemed less appealing to him. Pesci's performance is the only good thing in it (Woods, as I said, is very good too, yet his scenes are too few). Like other Scorsese flicks, CASINO takes pride in a sort of mean, cold, empty, academic formalism ,very conventional and dull. That's why Scorsese (even less than Coppola or Palma) says nothing to many cinema buffs.
This movie could have been a very interesting drama about Las Vegas gangsters, but Martin Scorsese ruins it with the film-making technique he used in "Goodfellas": expository narration. It was annoying in "Goodfellas," but is very heavily used here. Instead of letting the action guide the plot, he has characters give background narration for every single point of action in the damned film. You're TOLD rather than SHOWN what happened. If I wanted to be told something, I'd read a book. Movies a re more interesting when character dialogue and action move the plot. Narration slows the movie down to a grinding halt.Oh, and there's "Casino's" claim to fame: the most uses of the "F" word in an English-language non-documentary film. Every other word is "F" this and "F" that. I know gangsters are tough, macho men who love to speak dirty, but this is way too much. Again, this is where action may have helped to convey the characterization of tough gangsters, rather than the "F" word every second. This film needed better dialogue. "The Godfather" has excellent dialogue, and though there are dirty words, it's balanced out by intelligent writing. "Casino" doesn't have going for it in terms of good writing, unless it's to show that the Vegas mob was run by a bunch of unintelligent morons who can't form a complete sentence without the "F" word.The acting is extreme and over-the-top. Sharon Stone is less than spectacular as a drug-addled, high-strung moll. She's either laughing or screaming, and nothing more. She chews the scenery like a starving pit bull. De Niro does little but blend into the background. Joe Pesci seems like his SNL caricature, screaming and squeezing heads into vices.Granted, I'm interested in the history of the Las Vegas mob, and this movie is based on a nonfiction book; but the writing was bad, and the narration device distracted from my enjoyment of the action. I didn't like "Goodfellas," but it was leaps and bounds superior to this dreck. I do not recommend this, except maybe for a rental. Watch the DVD extras that feature an A&E documentary on the real Las Vegas mafia.


                
The great thing about this movie are the strong cast and the strong characters they portray. The incredible acting talents of Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci definitely bring their characters to life. In reality, THEY, and other incredible talents made the movie memorable. And they are the ones who prevented this movie from being nominated for the worst picture award.Because when you look at the whole movie without those incredible talents, it is very lame and impotent. It has a great beginning, an interesting ending, but much of the middle is worthless. Out of 3 hours of movie, maybe 1 is watchable.It can be compared to a practical joke that involves a piece of paper that says, "How do you keep an idiot busy, turn over." And on the other side it says "How do you keep an idiot busy, turn over." In terms of entertainment and development, it would as effective to make a 20 minute movie, and repeat that exact same 20 minute movie over and over again until near the end of the movie. Cause it has no interesting plot twists. No real character development after the initial introduction around the beginning. And much of it falls under the "yeah, and?" category.Altogether, this movie gambled and lost.


                
I'm giving this a four out of ten because it is not necessarily a bad film. But for Scorcese, it's not a good film. Goodfellas is highly superior to this crock. Where Casino is showy, at times arrogant, and even excessive, Goodfellas is nuanced, hungry, and even new. Casino just feels recycled. It is beyond me how people can endlessly praise this movie and pejoratively reject films like 'Gangs of New York' or this year's 'The Departed.' Rent and rave if you want to fall in with the crowd, but otherwise, keep an open mind and try something different.However, this does not mean the film isn't good - it's fine. But, as I mentioned before, it isn't new.


                
Pure style and flair demonstrates that a dream paring with Martin Scorsese really can be the highlight of your life. Robert De Niro, once again proves that he is a masterful actor, right up their with Marlon Brando. Anyway the film Casino, is a dark thriller where De Niro plays a casino owner. It shows the rise and fall of his character, the up's and downs of his relationship with Sharon Stone and the downfall with his best friend played unforgettably by Joe Pesci. Acting- sheer class, moving and majestic.Directing- Can't be bettered by anyone doing a mobster film Story- charismatic and undeniably thrilling.There's nothing else to say apart from, that this is another classic by Scorsese and one that should stand the tide of other gangster films.
I have never been a great follower of Martin Scorcese and I have never bothered to find out the reasons for which his films are admired both by critics as well as cinema lovers.All that I know is that the themes of his films are different and that he gives a so called specific Martin Scorcese touch to them.Casino is a bit long film for its 180 minutes duration.Sometimes it seems like a documentary about gambling industry.Acting performances by Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci are OK.Sharon Stone's acting performances are plain bad and sometimes it appears as if she is having a tough time giving a decent acting performance.Message of the film is still not clear to me as Scorcese has neither painted a glorious portray of casino industry nor does he appear to have a critical stance against gambling as a vice ? This film is good from a sociological point for those people who would like to catch a glimpse of the rise and fall of a powerful gambling boss.


                
I am not the biggest fan of Martin Scorsese at all, in fact, I don't like him and I think he is a tad overrated, and this film is a proof of why I think that way about him. It's a bad film that no supposedly 'great' director would do. It's a film moved by nothing. Seriously, there is no point to make that film. It looks like a worsened version of Goodfellas, that frankly also wasn't that great. There is the crazy Joe Pesci yelling and killing people and the quiet and conscious but also despicable Robert DeNiro. In fact, it can be considered a reprise of their roles. But unlike Goodfellas, that has an intelligent narration an is so over the top that you even laugh at some scenes, Casino has no redeem value or whats or ever. Is a mess. It's so predictable and so repetitive. Why should I spent three hours of my time to see things that were not only made before a lot of times, but made way better before, after all? It is not worthy watching at all. Not mentioning the fact that the film is ugly as hell, it has no art value and it looks like those low budget films made in the 70s. Total fiasco. The music was great, oh yeah, some great stuff on it. But it was all over the place. I merely believe how bad the music was on this film. But if the music was that bad it was because of the editing. One of the worst that I've ever seen in a 'big' film. Seriously, who are the editors of this film? What a lazy work. What they are thinking? I mean, what they are thinking? And the art direction was so tasteless, it looks like *rap. Sorry for the swearing, but it is literally what I meant to say. I know that the intention of the sparkling colors in the ambient was to make the bandits looks even more extravagant and repugnant than they already were, but it couldn't have been done in a better way? Well, I totally think so. I'm not even bothered by the horrible and senseless script, since that there is things much worse than that in the film. Anyway, it succeeds in passing the intended message, that is to show how dirty and how works the casino's world, but the rest, is a mess. The only good thing about it was Sharon Stone, that was by far the best actress in the film. 4.5/10


                
