"A lot of holes in the desert, and a lot of problems are buried in those holes."I learned three things from Casino: running a casino is a tough business, Las Vegas is a complicated town, and a terrible wife makes life much harder. Casino is a lengthy movie about the rise and fall of a couple of Vegas big-shots, and  the loss of the essence of old-school Vegas, itself. The story is told primarily from the points of view of Sam "Ace" Rothstein (Robert De Niero) and Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci), two guys who have known each other for years, and come to make money in Vegas in very different ways.Sam is a genius at all aspects of gambling that's tapped by the mob bosses back east to run a casino for them, while Nicky is a muscle guy who's there to protect Sam's operation. We watch them make a lot of money, and get into a lot of trouble because of their respective weaknesses/excesses. It's an entertaining movie, and the 179 minute runtime will pass by pretty quickly.Both De Niro and Pesci were excellent, with many other great actors supporting their performances. A lot of your enjoyment of this movie will hinge on your preference for the genre. Casino is very much a mob-type movie, though it's not a Godfather Part II Las Vegas re-tread, by any means. If even someone like me who's not a particular fan of this kind of movie can enjoy it, then that's a promising sign that most others will enjoy it, too.        


                
A reprise of Goodfellas, mostly, as has been pointed out, and although long, not as tired or boring as some have felt. How could a movie with Steve Allen and Jerry Vale be all bad? People have wondered why Scorcese and Coppola keep coming back to mobsters, specifically the Mafia, and all that corruption mixed with loyalty. Of course no one knows, perhaps not even the directors. But I suspect there are at least three reasons: First, it works economically. It draws the audience in. There is power and violence and sex to appeal to the men's fantasies. There is loyalty, intrigue, sheltered family lives, and the excitement of a wealthy rogue male for women. Second, Italian-Americans may return repeatedly to stories of the Mafia for the same reason that Southern writers deal over and over with themes of minority relations. In spelling out the stories, they are explaining the odd customs of their subcultures to the rest of us. Yes, we are hung up on these obsessions, just as you believe, and here is how things work -- a bit more subtle than you'd thought, aren't they? Finally, in exploring these themes in the interests of the outsider's better understanding of them, they can explore their own conflicts in model form, as stated in the anthropologist John M. Roberts' conflict-enculturation hypothesis. When we view something with ambivalence we tend to poke around in it, to touch it, fascinated by it. If we can't actually DO the thing itself -- become a mobster, endorse slavery -- we can play games with the idea, constructing little mock worlds in which we can jiggle the concepts around. In conflict about having children? Well -- you don't really need to. You can nurture something that is a model or surrogate child. Cats and dogs will do fine. But if your conflict is more intense, you are driven to less recognizable models. House plants, say. And if the conflict is VERY intense, you can start a coin or a stamp collection. What, after all, do you do with a stamp collection? You conceive of the idea, you start it when it's small, you feed it, you watch it grow and get bigger, and when it gets too big, or when you lost interest, you sell it on eBay and it moves out of the house. Directing a movie means constructing a model world too, like the model social world of a chess game.In a movie, you lay out a plot, cause the characters to do certain forbidden things, and imagine how you might feel if you were doing them yourself. I'm not surprised that Scorcese made this movie, or that he's filled it with Italian-American actors. I'm not surprised that Faulkner wrote Intruder in the Dust, or that Judith Rossner wrote Looking for Mr. Goodbar, or that Philip Roth wrote Portnoy's Complaint. These model worlds they've created deal with issues like crime, race, female sexuality, and ethnic loyalties that have kept Italian-Americans and Southerners and feminists and Jews marginal to the rest of our culture. The artists are trying to explain to us and to themselves how things look from the inside. If these issues ever disappear, which is most improbable, the conflicts will ease, marginal populations will no longer be prompted to produce such intense work, and the rest of us will be poorer for it.Maybe in this case Scorsese did too good a job of it. I found myself listening to DeNiro's voice-over telling us that the James Woods character was a "scumbag" because he was a small-time chiseler chasing dentists on the golf course, taking money from the whore Sharon Stone. But who is DeNiro's character to make such judgments? Woods is detestable because he's a vellicating minor hood with no money? Whereas DeNiro is morally superior because he's a major player with LOTS of illegal gains? We admire DeNiro because he is the more successful crook. The moral calculus is a little confusing. On top of all that highbrow stuff -- man, does Scorsese know how to stage a fierce family fight. I should know. And that opening scene -- a car explosion backed by the majestic sweep of Bach's Missa Solemnis!


                
Martin Scorsese's Casino has all the ingredients for a great crime film. It's got hits, bad language, Robert DeNiro, gambling, lots of Italian Americans - it's all there. Furthermore, it's got a great soundtrack, the Las Vegas setting makes for a great location and the acting is largely very good...but somehow, this just isn't a great film. Scorsese has missed the mark thanks to a lack of emotion. There is no reason to care for the characters in this movie, and that makes the film hard to connect with on the whole. The movie also follows the common Scorsese format, in that some guy gets rich and respected, then something bad happens and he finds himself back where he started. In fact, the ending of this movie is only an "I'm a schmo" away from being a complete copy of Goodfellas. Still, at least the movie manages to stay interesting for most of it's runtime, and it's easy to forgive the flaws when you're watching Joe Pesci threatening someone who's head he's jammed into a vice.Casino lasts almost three hours, and it's fair to say therefore that this movie is overlong. It's not so bad for the first two hours, but once the film enters the final third; cracks begin to appear and the film isn't as interesting as it was, not much unlike Goodfellas; which also suffered from a trite final third. Tarantino's influence on cinema is felt in this movie, and that is obvious from the way that Scorsese has seen fit to saturate the movie in 'cool' old classics. Still, some of these songs; such as Fleetwood Mac's "Go Your Own Way" and The Animals' "The House of the Rising Sun" are really good songs and actually bode well with the action on screen. For this movie, Martin Scorsese has re-recruited the excellent pairing of Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci, and both give their trademark excellent performances in this film. Casino may well be DeNiro's last great performance before he went on his downward spiral, which started with the fellow 1995 movie "Heat". On the whole, while this film is technically sound, it lacks emotional bite and there will be times during the film when your interest will trail off. It's an entertaining ride, but it's one that is ultimately shallow.
The story feels very engaging. How Martin Scorcese tells it makes the audience leave the movie screening feeling enlightened. I really like how the movie used so many narrations as a supporting way to help the scenes build up. Add that with the clever and dramatic visuals using camera trickery, you get the astonishing look at the crime scenes. Particularly, the scene where the con artist gets his hand smashed is really neatly done.It's actually simple trick using camera angle and mock props, but the movie used it in a sudden way that is guaranteed to pull your eyes to the screen. The acting work is also great. Robert DeNiro nicely depicts the cooler mafia while Joe Pesci repeats himself as the great actor of the ruthless kind of the mafia. Sharon Stone did well in balancing both men.
Martin Scorcese is a film legend. No matter what anyone might say about any of his films, his reputation is unimpeachable. Even his misfires have terrific scenes. "Casino" isn't a misfire - far from it - but only manages to be a good film weighed down by the ponderous style and overly didactic expressionism that is Scorcese at his worst."Goodfellas" was a Scorcese classic. This isn't "Goodfellas," but it sure feels like a mediocre extension of it. For what it is, "Casino" is enjoyable. Unfortunately, one of the hurdles that lesser Scorcese films face is that they bring to mind his better work. This is especially a problem when one of his films uses similar themes and even actors from his classics. Here, we have Joe Pesci from "Goodfellas" doing his angry mobster shtick again, and Deniro also reprising his standard wise-guy turn. Further, we have crude hoodlums increasingly turning on each other, having mundane personal problems that cross over into their "work," and exhibiting increasingly bizarre behavior after starting out seemingly in complete control. Sound familiar? Well, it probably does if you've seen "Goodfellas" or many other, better Scorcese films.Robert Deniro, who at times is brilliant and at times seems to be suppressing a smirk in his "love" scenes, overall is fine as a middle-level mob boss who mistakenly begins to believe he is the top dog. So, we have the age-old theme of the inevitable mistake of taking your actual bosses for granted. Throw in Joe Pesci as his old friend who reaches the same conclusion about himself, and watch events unfold. Anyone who's seen mob films stretching at least back to "The Godfather Part II" on down the line has to see this train racing down the tracks. No real surprises, standard decline-and-fall stuff relieved by the usual Scorcese flourishes which, alas, went over much better elsewhere.Sharon Stone is the empty center of this film, despite the fact that it supposedly is about Deniro's character. As the antagonist out to smash Deniro's controlled world, she is set up as the biggest thing in Vegas. She has to be for her character to work. Unfortunately, but none of that comes across, at least it didn't to me. Not enough time was spent on her character to show why at first she was so popular (which is odd, considering how long this film goes on), so her inevitable decline doesn't strike the emotional chord it should. Reviewers like to say she deserved the Academy Award, but I don't see it. She does get numerous histrionic moments, but then leaves huge gaps in her devolution. Her character lacks continuity. Stone gives two performances, one as a reluctant bride (why?), and then one as an increasingly unhappy wife (again, why?). Admittedly, she does a good job of acting, but it all seems forced and like, well, acting. Her character didn't grab me.The single most annoying aspect of this film is a self-indulgent Scorcese trademark that reached its nadir here and in "Gangs of New York." You may find it charming, or helpful, or entertaining, but to me it is downright distracting and needless. That is a banal historical (this is "semi-fictional" in the worst way) explanation and constant narration by the Deniro and Pesci characters which continues right to the end. A little of that works, but it gets way out of hand. The characters repetitiously "explain" things that don't need to be explained. For example, the narrator will say, "And then she hit bottom and blew her money on drugs and pimps," and we see Stone stumbling down a hallway, doing her mighty best to show herself "hitting bottom." "And when they found her body...." and she immediately falls down in the hallway, right on cue. Nice acting, Sharon! The technique is patronizing. It is as if Scorcese is directing the film toward people who are complete blank slates, and know nothing about people, or history, or motivations. But, in reality, the audience is not stupid. It can be trusted to draw the appropriate conclusions, given a story rather than a monologue with accompanying moving pictures. I think Scorcese forgets himself sometimes. I think most viewers would find thinking things through themselves more enjoyable.In other words, skip the quasi-documentary stuff, and this would be a far superior film.Despite my major quibbles, I enjoyed the film because it does transport you to another time and place, Vegas in the early '70s, before, as Deniro the narrator so unnecessarily (but characteristically) explains, "It became Disneyland." The fashions (Deniro sporting a gold lamé suit is a riot) alone are worth the time. Just try not to compare this film to true classics.


                
Martin Scorsese does deliver a vivid, pulsating look at what goes on behind the scenes in the temples of gambling out west, but fails at the human drama. Robert De Niro stars as Sam Rothstein, a Midwestern bookie with mob connections who is sent to Vegas in the '70s to run the Tangiers Casino. Sam is a hard worker and keeps his bosses in Kansas City happy with regular deliveries of cash-filled suitcases. Things start to go awry when his childhood buddy Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) comes to town. Nicky is a psychotic gangster/lowlife whose strong-arm enforcement techniques eventually do him in. Sam has also fallen for blonde bombshell Ginger (Sharon Stone), a gold-digging hustler. For some unknown reason, Ginger can't seem to give up her former pimp, the slimeball Lester Diamond (James Woods). Maybe she's just attracted to his name. The jewelry collecting Ginger would certainly find "Mrs. Diamond" more her style than "Mrs. Rothstein." We unfortunately remain passive observers of the downward spiral that consumes these characters. As the third hour dragged on, I just got more and more impatient for the whole thing to be over. I want to be leaving Las Vegas. De Niro does De Niro as usual, but the character's emotional revelations are small potatoes. Pesci does a veritable reprise of his GOODFELLAS part. Funny at first, with his "F"ing vocabulary, Nicky soon starts to grate on the nerves. Quick, bring out the baseball bats. Sharon Stone does a respectable job as Ginger, but a Golden Globe win over Susan Sarandon (not to mention the ignored Kathy Bates) is a bit tough to swallow. The non-stop soundtrack of 70's hits is distracting at times, but the costumes and set designs are just right. Frankie Avalon, Jayne Meadows, Steve Allen and Jerry Vale play themselves. Guess Wayne Newton was out of town.


                
The last collaboration between director Martin Scorsese & actor Robert De Niro as of today, Casino is a tale of money, power, greed, deception & murder that takes its inspiration from real-life events to paint an interesting portrait of both the glamorous & grisly sides of Las Vegas and is expertly steered by stellar performances from its terrific cast.The story of Casino follows a gambling handicapper who is sent to Las Vegas by the Mafia to oversee their casino operations. When his supervision doubles their profits, they send a mob enforcer who's also his childhood friend to look after him. The plot covers their friendship which turns sour over the years as they compete over a gambling empire.Directed by Martin Scorsese (best known for Taxi Driver, Raging Bull & Goodfellas), the story opens with a bang and comes full circle over the course of its runtime but there is no proper narrative structure to it. We watch people going about their daily business and few people dying, and that's what goes on for 3 hours. But the interest isn't all lost, thanks to Scorsese's fine direction.However, the repetitive nature of it does diminish the earlier excitement and after a while, the only thing that keeps it going and makes sure that the film steers past the finish line are its trio of excellent performances. The 1970s casino ambience comes alive in vivid detail but the story is at its most gripping when depicting the other side of Las Vegas that's violent, merciless & uncompromising.Coming to the performances, the film reunites Robert De Niro & Joe Pesci yet again and while the two play their respective roles with comfort & confidence as expected, it's Sharon Stone who steals the show with her at times broken, other times volcanic rendition of the avaricious character. We may not like the characters this film has in store but there's no denying the performances from the cast is absolutely top-notch.On an overall scale, Casino is another fascinating crime epic from Martin Scorsese that recreates the 1970s casino scene in splendid detail and presents its cast at the top of their game but just like most of his other works with De Niro, it's a picture that I admire more than I love. A three-sided character study that takes its trio to the top, only to throw them off the summit, Casino isn't going to be a smooth ride if you can't handle lengthy narratives or don't have the stomach for strong, intense violence.


                
Casino was a cool movie. I liked it because it didn't follow traditional lines of storytelling. It's almost like director Martin Scorsese keeps wanting to make "non-poetic" gangster movies as a rebuke to the Godfather. perhaps not. But his gangster movies are always "realer". And less likable. All the more reason as to why I enjoyed this movie very much.Dinero as usual gives and outstanding performance. As do Joe Pesci and Sharon Stone and James Woods. Don Rickles steals the movie. There is great tragedy on this comic's face. The Voice Over narration works well in this movie and I was interested in it all the way through. The songs also kept me interested. Where do they get all of these old songs? it was really great. The editing and pacing kept it moving very fast, but not so fast that you couldn't easily follow the story line.It's violent, sou you would want to warn any youngsters before you watch it with them.


                
"Casino" is by no means a bad movie but it rather is a flawed one, which is mainly due to the story and its characters. The first two-thirds of the movie is certainly great but after that the movie takes some negative turns and it loses some of its credibility and I lost some of my interested.No question in my mind that Martin Scorsese is a great director but he however does push it at times with this movie. People compare this movie to "Goodfellas" for a good reason. Just like "The King of Comedy" and "Bringing Out the Dead" were similar in many ways to "Taxi Driver", "Casino" is on many ways similar to "Goodfellas". It's a tough gangster epic with lots of graphic violence, lot's of cursing and backstabbing characters. The main storyline is especially parallel to "Goodfellas". Yes, you can truly describe this movie as "Goodfellas" set in a Las Vegas casino in the '80's. Unfortunately the casino world is not as interesting to follow as the gangster world as portrayed in "Goodfellas", at least that's my opinion of it. The movie is too often about 'nothing' really. Style over substance you may say.But also when you judge the movie on its own good you have to come to the conclusion that there are flaws in it. Sharon Stone is great in this movie but her character is distracting from the movie at times, especially towards the ending when almost the entire movie evolves around her character. It gets tiresome at times after a while and the movie loses some of its credibility because of that. There also are way too many characters introduced in the movie, which makes it hard to follow at times. I also never really got in to the character, not even the main characters. I couldn't really care for any of them and it was hard to understand and follow them at time. The movie is also too violent and graphic, even for my taste. It's a bit too much and some scene's are unbearable. Scorsese really pushed it there and should had hold back a little.There's nothing wrong with the style of the movie. It's fast paced and wonderfully looking, also mainly thanks to the director of photography Robert Richardson but also of course to Martin Scorsese's stylish and unique way of directing and storytelling. Yes, there are some memorable sequences present in this movie, which certainly helps to make this movie a better one than most of the others in the same genre.Also of course the presence of some well known good actors make this movie a good one to watch. Robert De Niro is never disappointing in the main lead and Joe Pesci yet again plays a typically hot tempered Joe Pesci role in which he always is just great to watch. The movie unfortunately under-uses James Woods. They could had done some more and better things with that wonderful actor.Great to watch for the fans of the gangster genre. Overall a good, yet flawed gangster-epic that is certainly worth watching but not worthy of the high rating.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
This movie is 2 minutes shy of 3 hours! With an incredibly depressing plot about the decline of an empire he needs to keep it short. The human heart (and bladder) can't withstand it. Even Goodfellas, with a similar plot was too long at 2 hours and change.


                
I worked for a Mississippi casino at the time this film hit the big screen. Obviously, there are tremendous differences between Las Vegas casinos of the 1970s and Biloxi casinos of the 1990s--but even so I was stunned by the accuracy with which Scorsese's CASINO nailed the industry and the personalities that inhabit it. From the slick hair and pin stripe suits to the endless profanity to the count room to the surveillance room, CASINO is uncomfortably close to the truth.Based on the life of 'Lefty' Rosenthal, CASINO offers the story of Las Vegas' last gasp of mob domination before the big corporations began to move in. Robert De Niro is "Ace" Rothstein, a mob-connected gambler who rises to control of one the biggest mob-owned casinos in town--and then sees his control slips away through his misplaced love for beautiful and brazen Vegas hustler Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone) and his association with gangster Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci.) And when their various activities begin to draw heat on the mob bosses, can murder be far behind? The cast is really top notch. De Niro and Pesci offer memorable performances, as does a superior supporting cast that includes James Woods, Don Rickles, Kevin Pollak, and Melissa Prophet, to name but a few--but the real laurels go to Sharon Stone, who plays out the rise and fall of the glamorous Ginger with surprising skill. But even so, and in spite of its memorable cast, dialogue, plot, and production values, CASINO has a slightly awkward feel to it. Part of the problem is the film's inconsistent reliance on voice-over narration that shifts uneasily between De Niro and Pesci; part of the problem is the film's uneasy shifting between love story and gangster movie. And in the final analysis the film seems overlong.For all its flaws, CASINO is an extremely watchable, very memorable movie that stands up very well on its own in spite of inevitable comparisons to GOODFELLAS. In passing, I note the DVD package has few extras, and most viewers will be as happy with the VHS version as with the DVD. But be it DVD or VHS, the film is strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
It's not cute or cloying and manages to avoid trade in many of the clichés we have come to recognize in films about Las Vegas. And for a film nearly three hours long it never drags. My first viewing of this movie, however, leaves me satisfied but not mesmerized, content, but not changed in any way. Still, I appreciate the contribution this film has made to our understanding of and perspective on the history of Las Vegas, even as the film failed to evoke in me a nostalgia for what was lost with the crumbling of the old casinos. Sharon Stone's performance as Ginger has deservedly won praise. On the surface, Ginger is a classic character type -- the hustler seduced by the promise of a conventional, comfortable life. In the end, she is undone by her choice to trade in her joie de vivre for a chance to be arm candy to a casino boss. However, watching her come unglued is fascinating. She's as unpredictable and dangerous as any character in this movie. The moment when Ginger and Nicky lash out at each other, each like a feral, desperate animal, recalls the fathoms each character has traveled from a much more placid and controlled persona. As the Vegas hustler who catches Sam Rothstein's eye, Stone's Ginger goes from the apple of the film's eye to a dead junkie lying desperate and forgotten in a hotel hallway. Along the way, she invites our empathy as a forlorn and seemingly confused trophy wife, to convincingly portraying a conniving and cold-hearted woman intent to get what she can out of a marriage of convenience. The film travels in its characters' hubris. Sam Rothstein, as played by Robert DeNiro, makes the fateful decision to fire an inept but politically-connected employee. Nicky Santoro, as played by Joe Pesci, displays a will to power that overtakes even ambition, engaging in a tryst with Ginger, whacking anyone who displeases him, and generally acting as if his run of luck in sin city will never come to an end. These three characters, Sam, Nicky, and Ginger, are bound, in different ways, by oaths and promises, by traditions and conventions, all of which come unwrapped as the Vegas outsiders find their welcome finally wearing thin with the local powers that be, and perhaps, with the laws of nature. As the system they have established starts to sputter, so does the friendship between Sam and Nicky, and the love, if one could ever have called it that, between Sam and Ginger, does not hold, indeed cannot hold. Casino does not offer a morality tale. It does not warn us, at least not overtly. But the caution and road signs are there for those who would read them. What ultimately prevents this from being a great film, however, is a stronger sense of what it all means. Excess is on display: greed, will to power overtaking common sense, addiction, lust, and anything else you would care to name. And the relationships? Of course it is no surprise that they do not last. But the director, Martin Scorsese, fails to tell us what the unbinding of the old order really entails. At the end of the film the protagonist, Sam, intones over arching shots of exploding buildings and new Disney-like casinos. One close shot of the lion at the MGM Grand suggests that a new showmanship has replaced a grittier, earthier place that really meant something. We even see hordes of obese seniors storming the casinos. Scorsese hints, strongly, that something has been lost. But certainly more has been lost than violence and organized crime? We might be willing to go down the road of regretting the loss of an older, more meaningful era if the director had set up a film that showed the consequences of vice overcoming the bonds of friendship. What if DeNiro really drove home for us how the vices of sin city prevented a marriage between Ginger and Sam from ever taking hold? But we never really get this. Instead, the film spends rather too much time on the mob bosses from out of town who always get their suitcases, and rather a lot of time on Nicky's propensity for violence. More could have been done to delve into Rothstein as a character. Was he always a narcissistic strongman with a need for control? Or, did this happen to him in Vegas? We never really find out. The film also never really explains the unraveling of the marriage between Sam and Ginger; we simply encounter it as a fait accompli. Ultimately, if this film wants us to mourn the old Las Vegas, it needs to give us more reason to think something existed worth saving in these characters and in their way of life. Their respective fates, Rothstein's unexpected survival, Ginger's slow fade, and Nicky's brutal murder, seem disconnected and anomalous. A film that trades in so much nihilism shifts, unexpectedly, near its end, to sentimentality, asking us, with its tribute to the old casinos and revulsion at the new edifices of corporatism, to finally sentimentalize the characters and their milieu. But audiences may not be so quick to whitewash a corrupt and violent era, even with its sharp and colorful personalities. Corporate-backed casinos emerging on the ruins of a corrupt and violent era? Might seem like a small price to pay, after all.
What could go wrong with a Martin Scorsese picture, with Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci.  Casino demonstrates that with great awe. It is a very unoriginal movie, especially Pesci. The movie isn't so bad.  It is entertaining, and well acted.  It is marvelously directed too, but the story is so lame.  We have seen it all before. RATING = 7 of 10


                
Joe Pesci is a beast in this film! The ending was kind of a letdown though


                
I adore Martin Scorsese he's an amazing director and has ultimately mastered the mob movie with films like Goodfellas which I love, but I often hear people talk about this movie as if it is on par with it but I have to disagree with that I find this movie a bit overrated but far from terrible. I also like to start reviews of positively so I will say that I loved the world that was set up in this film, the whole mobster world hidden behind the guise of casinos in Las Vegas was a very entertaining aspect to this movie. Robert DeNiro is really good in this film I loved the scenes he had with Joe Pesci and Sharon Stone he was very imposing and did a great job in this film. Joe Pesci was good but it definitely felt like we've seen things like this from him before. But by far the best performance in this movie was Sharon Stone she was amazing in this movie she was perfect at conveying a damaged and sick woman with no way out and her break down scenes are just amazing to watch. This movie is extremely violent but I loved that about this movie, the violence was effective it showed the brutality of this system and made it feel all the more realistic. However I think this movie has some very big flaws that people has ignored. For one the first 30-45 minutes of this movie are nothing but exposition through narration your given all the inner workings of this world and everyone in it but it just doesn't work because it's given to you all at once and your struggling to catch up and should have been given slower and more gradually across the movie. Another massive issue that has been addressed with this movie is how many similarities it has to Goodfellas but it never comes close to matching that films greatness. Since its structured and layed out so similarly to Goodfellas the film feels like it has the massive hole in it, since the characters that DeNiro and Pesci are playing in this film are so similar to their characters in that movie you feel as if there should be another character in it to fill the place of a Henry Hill but there isn't and the film never recovers from that. This film is also very long and makes for a lot of moments to drag on and I wasn't really satisfied with how they wrapped up Sharon Stones character arc. Casino is a flawed movie it's got some really good performances, it's very well directed and has a great world to it, but the simple fact is that we've seen movies like this from Scorsese before and it's has far to much narration given out over to long a time. Though it's far from Scorsese best it's still a solid film. B-/71%


                
Sam 'Ace' Rothstein, a mob-connected casino operator in Las Vegas, attempts a civilised lifestyle with his money-conditional wife, ex-lady of the night, Ginger. Nicky Santoro, a boyhood friend of Ace and now a Made-Man of the Mafia, arrives in town with an ambitious agenda of his own that soon disrupts Ace's life.....The thing about Casino is that almost everyone who thought Goodfellas was a masterpiece would undoubtedly have monumental expectations for this, what could be classed metaphorically, as a sequel.Well while it never reaches the dizzy heights or beautiful character arcs of Goodfellas, it's still a solid movie from Scorcese, and proof that he and De Niro were a the top of their games when they worked together.Even though it's almost three hours long, it's just unmissable cinema. For example, it was on TV the other night and I thought to myself 'I'll watch this for thirty minutes before I go to bed', but it's hypnotic cinematography and soundtrack made me stay until the end.De Niro is wonderful as usual, channelling a little of Jimmy Conway's attitude, but this time, Sam is a little more of a coward than before, and although he has good intentions for everyone, where money is involved, you can't please or trust anyone.Pesci surprisingly is the weak link in the film. I'm not saying he's no good, the man is a phenomenal actor, but here, he's literally doing his Tommy Devito character, and when you channel a character as memorable as that one, it's going to get noticed.........much like his face being pinned back to make his look younger.Stone gives the performance of her life as the insufferable Ginger, when an actress can give a performance where the audience has not an ounce of sympathy, or empathy for the character she's portraying, that's a job done blooming well. She deserved every award going that year, her Ginger is a poisonous, money hungry addict, evil to the bone.It's beautiful to look at, the desert confrontation between Sam and Nicky is insanely intense, but at the same time beautiful.The film follows the same narrative structure as Goodfellas had, the main character narrating the story, and certain songs depicting the year, which again is a weak point, because you just keep referring to that film.So all in all, it's a solid film, beautiful to look at, with a career best from Stone, but it feels like it's trying too much to be Goodfellas, which gives it a little air of desperation.
'Casino' feels somewhat like 'Wise guys' all over again, but grander and longer, and with extensive drama and bloodshed. Still, this one is also very much worth the while. I most prefer the parts where the actors (De Niro, Stone and Pesci in particular) interact in the more elaborate, dialogue-driven scenes. There's quite a few 'quick updates' (with voice-over) here and there to keep the story going, but I felt that, even though they may be necessary to understand the whole plot, there is just too much of that getting in the way of the story - or at least in the way of the dramatic build-up. I suppose it's not an easy story to tell. The idea of giving Pesci's character a voice-over as well, worked out pretty good, though, and quite a few shots were simply cinematic magic.A fine film once again by Martin Scorses, all in all. A big 7 out of 10.
Repetition occurs in cinema at every level. If something is successful, highbrow or lowbrow, there is a good chance that those responsible will simply rerun the formula to get the same result. In 1990 iconic gangster movie and filmmaker's favourite Goodfellas was directed by Martin Scorsese from a script by Nicholas Pileggi, and starred Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci. In 1995 gangster movie Casino was directed by Martin Scorsese from a script by<U+0085> You get the idea.Admittedly Scorsese and Pileggi did work well together, the director illustrating the writer's every word with a well-placed pan or close-up. It's a bit dizzying and the constant musical switching gets a bit tiresome, but you still have to admire the craftsmanship that goes into a picture like this, especially in Scorsese's meticulously planned tracking shots. There's one near the beginning where we follow the skimmer into the casino, and the camera eagerly overtakes him as he heads towards the counting room, really engaging us in what's going on. Or there's the tracking shot at the wedding, where Sharon Stone's flick of her head seems to propel the camera on to the next table. It's a very artificial, obtrusive way of making a movie, but it is nevertheless carefully designed to involve us in the story's world.This was the eighth, and to date, the final time Robert De Niro has starred in a Scorsese movie, and this is predictably familiar ground for him. Sam Rothstein is really just a slightly more relaxed version of the De Niro character in Goodfellas. De Niro can at least do menacing without using his fists, and of note is his articulation of the word "dead" when he threatens his wife. Joe Pesci's role here is nigh-on identical to the one that earned him an Oscar in Goodfellas. He's good at it though. Look at how he stabs up the man with the pen; he really gives the impression of a little guy who's had to get the kicks in quick to survive. But reliable as these two are there is very much a sense with De Niro and Pesci that they are going through the old familiar motions. The real standout in the movie is Sharon Stone. For this part she has to be angry, tearful and drugged-up, as do a lot of actresses, but to do so for such a large chunk of the movie and remain believable throughout, never slipping into over-the-top hysterics, is admirable.Being a repetition of Goodfellas doesn't necessarily make Casino a weaker movie. It has almost all the same merits and flaws as its predecessor. It is perhaps a little more lacking in true drama and comes closer to a documentary, at times being little more than a list of anecdotes, which makes the nearly three hour runtime a little wearing. One area which, for me, made Casino stand-out was its costume design. Garish as they are, there's a mad kind of co-ordination in Rothstein's suits. There are plenty of other tawdry yet outstanding outfits throughout the movie, such as an Ace of Hearts dress worn by a bit player. Sharon Stone's leather suit in her climactic scenes is memorably striking, and as such helps to highlight the fact that she's been in the same clothes for several days. For me, it's the clothes more than anything else which evoke the misguided glamour of Casino and its denizens. Unfortunately, this isn't what people tend to consider in the gangster movie, so it seems to have gone largely unnoticed<U+0085>


                
Gargantuan epic(some critics and Scorsese fans considered it his "failed epic")about mob-run Las Vegas focusing on casino "boss" De Niro, his flashy junkie wife Sharon Stone, and volatile "muscle", Joe Pesci, how they had it all and squandered it due to their own faults and frailties. De Niro, without a legal license to run a casino, was able to run operations of a specific casino successfully with help from city commissioners, and, most importantly, major Midwest mobsters who skimmed from the "counting room" in order to allow him his opportunity to earn lots of money and live a life of luxury. Pesci was the mob's go-to-guy when they needed people whacked or kept in line, anyone who threatened to take from the mobsters what they considered theirs. Pesci is feared, but unstable and ill-tempered, and soon his presence in Las Vegas wasn't wanted, his criminal activities catching the attention of the police and FBI out to put him behind bars. Sharon Stone is alluring and attractive to De Niro, but she's involved with a lowlife pimp(played by James Woods)and unable to let him go. Stone has the looks and personality that benefits De Niro, helping him bring in the right kind of people to profit from in his casino. But her drug habits and alcoholism(not to mention, her inability to relinquish her love for Woods who is manipulating her to give him money behind De Niro's back)slowly over time ruin the marriage and this deterioration places her in the arms of Pesci! Scorsese's film is, as you'd expect, very detailed and the screenplay quite elaborate in the inner-working of the criminal enterprise ran by the mob who used wiseguys as their eyes and ears in Las Vegas. We see how De Niro and Pesci's personalities bring about their downfall, and Stone's addictions lead to a tragic conclusion. With all the money, clothes, and jewelry, Stone couldn't find happiness, agonizing in a joyless marriage to a man she never loved to start with. De Niro, as much as he was skilled at making money for his mobsters, couldn't help himself when it came to Stone and running such an efficient casino that he couldn't appease the city commissioner to allow his dumb-as-dirt brother-in-law(Joe Bob Briggs, inspired casting)a small position. Pesci's explosive, corrosive temperament, and unwillingness to play by the rules when it come to behaving in casinos, meant that he was doomed to eventually be discarded by his superiors. As was the case in GOODFELLAS, CASINO has startling scenes of brutal violence as the FBI get the pinch on a stupid mobster goon who gave up the names and subject matter of his people with the old-time gangsters setting in motion the executions of anyone who might rat them out. Watching the glamorous Stone unravel by film's end is disheartening and rather pitiable, going from elegant and stunning to washed-out and browbeaten, the drugs and booze turning her into a hobbling, malevolent, blabbering misfit. We see Pesci stab a man with a pen for cursing De Niro, shoot a woman while eating her supper, and bash poor Don Rickles across the face and skull with a telephone..it's not surprising what his character's outcome is. De Niro, though, because he's such a money-making machine, might escape a grim fate, although Scorsese opens the film with him in a car that blows up. Scorsese leans heavily on voice over narration from both De Niro and Pesci who explain the ways things were run in Las Vegas before the corporations took over. Clocking in at 3 hours, CASINO is certainly long-winded, and I'm not sure these are the kind of characters one wants to spend this amount of time with, but I found the story Scorsese brings to light compelling enough to withstand the entire journey.
As a modern tragedy, 'Casino' is downright intoxicating. Every Martin Scorsese film is a wonderful gift, even the ever-so-slightly disappointing 'Shutter Island'.'Casino' charts the rise and fall of Sam 'Ace' Rothstein (Robert De Niro) who is assigned the task of running a Las Vegas casino. Things go decidedly pear-shaped when his friend Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) decides to join him in the gambling capital of the world. A real firebrand with a very short fuse, Nicky is violent and erratic and attracts too much negative attention. Soon things are spiralling dangerously out of control.Sam courts and marries a beautiful hustler named Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone, in the performance of her career). But her surreptitious ongoing relationship with sleazy ex-boyfriend Lester Diamond (a wonderfully oleaginous performance by charismatic character actor James Woods) pushes Sam to the outer limits of his endurance.Like 'Goodfellas', 'Casino' is based on the book by Nicholas Pileggi. And while 'Casino' does not reach the dizzying heights that 'Goodfellas' did, it is still well worth your time. Sharon Stone steals every scene she is in; casting her was a big risk - she was perceived as more of a sex symbol than a serious actress - and it paid huge dividends. She delivers a bravura performance and is a genuine pleasure to watch. As Nicky, Joe Pesci simmers with that deadly rage which made his character of Tommy DeVito in 'Goodfellas' so frightening and so electric to watch. And in a straight role, Don Rickles is very good as Billy Sherbert.Clocking in at just under three hours in length, 'Casino' never feels overlong. And, once again, Scorsese fills the film with wonderful songs by artists such as Fleetwood Mac ('Go Your Own Way'), The Moody Blues ('Nights in White Satin'), and - of course - The Rolling Stones ('Long Long While' and 'Can't You Hear Me Knocking' (which opened the film 'Blow'). Lavish, violent, and almost operatic in its dramatic scope, 'Casino' is highly recommended.
A Martin Scorsese's film, casting with his longtime partner Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci, like another "Goodfellas". This time the story is about Casino, but mobster is still an indispensable part of it.The film began with a car bomb and then flashed back to how Sam carved out his way in the casino business, how he desperately kept the balance between business and his mobster background. At the same time, this film emphasized his unsuccessful relationship with his wife, Ginger. Which is quite unusual in a Scorsese film because most of his films female characters are just ornaments. But this time, Ginger (played by Sharon Stone) is indisputably the leading actress in Casino.Violence is another important ingredient of this film, torture, beating, bombing and killing, all to bring forth the cruelty of the living world. If you're a typical Scorsese's fan, you will love it.The accurate and realistic depiction of Casino business is also remarkable. The colorful world filled with gambling, cheating and hustling. But all gamblers are losers, the only winner is the casino itself. Business is business, making profit is the ultimate goal. When Sam had made great fortune by running the casino, he wanted to be a normal businessman and didn't want to be involved into mobsters anymore. But it was difficult to quit because he had already made the countless ties with them. When it concerns with benefits, it's not a thing one man can decide anymore.Talking abut the actors, I have to admit that Sharon Stone is wonderful in this film, her only Oscar-nominated role by far. But there is something I must complain about, that is the role of Ginger, which is so stupidly written, she was just a mindless Blondie who only wanted to marry a rich man to enjoy a luxury life. We don't blame her for that, nevertheless how could she be so in love with James Wood's role is beyond redemption and totally unconvincing! Maybe the answer is either me or Martin Scorsese does not understand women at all. Robert de Niro and Joe Pesci's acting are some kind of continuing of their roles in "Goodfellas", good but far from excellent.This film is not Scorsese's best work and Sharon Stone shines in her bitter and badly-written role.


                
By 1995, Martin Scorsese had well and truly etched his name into the film making book and Casino is really just a cherry on the icing which was already on the cake; this means it's not a bad thing but just feels unnecessary. Whilst this film took me two sittings to get through (I had to cut it off with about 40 minutes remaining the first time I sat down to watch it), I can still see why it's gained a somewhat cult status amongst the masses.What's good about 'Casino' is its energy and vibrancy. The film is very colourful and attractive and it sucks the viewer into its world with several brilliant voice-overs that are informative and dark yet often funny. This is twinned with some brilliant use of colour giving us stone wall proof that cars don't just have to be metallic dark green or blue; jackets don't have to be grey Armani's or pinstripe suits <U+0096> (they can be pale red!?) and that walls and buildings can be splashed with every colour of the rainbow and still look moderately average. Everybody has a favourite colour and so, when the viewer is drawn into the world giving the feeling you're actually there, sitting in the bars opposite the characters, walking and talking with the croupiers and gambling with the rest of them; it feels like there is something there for you <U+0096> everyone, in fact and the colours act as a focal point as you map onto various items, objects, props and costume that bear your familiar favourite shade, making things easy on the gaze. This is how Casino's early attempt at drawing you in works.Although the film stays in the exact same gear for at least thirty minutes and the voice-overs (which you think will depart once the scene is set) remain, you can ignore it in a certain sense. There is that nagging sensation, however, that the whole opening is just a watered down back-story <U+0096> explaining what happened in the first film, making 'Casino' actually feel like a sequel rather than a new, fresh film in itself.What's also odd is the fact that a lot of scenes just feel unnecessary. Pesci's character's dialogue scenes and twitchiness can only feel genuine and spookily evil for so many times and the results from his mounting relationship with a female character can be seen coming from quite a mile away. Although they feel out of place, the scenes are still entertaining enough <U+0096> especially for the viewer who wants to see Pesci pile on his evil, bad-guy, 'wise-guy' caricature that he's been made famous for over the years. It's these things that bulk up the running time, frustratingly.What really grabbed the film by the scruff was the whole plot point that catapulted it into its final third. Without giving anything away, I'll mention one word: 'corruption' that involves (in some crazy way) absolutely everyone. And, as the final third reaches its, and the films, climax; there seem to be several twists and flips of the coin that involve characters floating here and then to there and then back again and then to where they were two stages ago<U+0085>..and so on. This was very annoying and was a disappointing, messy way to finish the film. It concludes, then re-opens and then concludes again before partly opening it back up before finally allowing the equilibrium to catch up with itself.Although brave, bold and energetic; 'Casino' ultimately felt like an excuse to pool together a couple of big name Hollywood actors, actresses and a director just to make another gangster film that everybody will probably love. If you want a film like this one but better, try Wayne Kramer's 2003 film 'The Cooler'. At least that's not as ridiculously long.


                
When a director makes a fantastic movie, sometimes there will be a follow up movie that has a similar idea and story. This isn't a sequel, but it is pretty much the same movie with a different location and list of characters. This can be done by the same director or a different one. In this case, Martin Scorsese made Goodfellas in 1990, creating one of the greatest movies of all time. In 1995, he came back with another movie of the same caliber as Goodfellas.Casino is the story of the rise and fall of a casino in Las Vegas called the Tangiers during the 1970's and 80's. Casino operator Sam "Ace" Rothstein (Robert De Niro) and his friend Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) try to make this casino the best there is while making a huge amount of money for themselves, their wives, and for the "bosses" back home. They use some interesting methods of persuasion for cheaters in the casino so they never come back, and of course there are payoffs to police, security, politicians, and anyone else who needs to be "taken care of". With so much corruption in this town, they fit right in.Sam's wife Ginger (Sharon Stone) is the woman of his dreams, or at least that's what he thinks. Together, the two of them go on a roller coaster ride through everything. Just when things are looking great, the whole operation falls apart. The Tangiers is running smoothly, no one is ratted out, and they are becoming kings of the Las Vegas strip. Little by little things crumble down into oblivion. Snitches, FBI agents, and all sorts of trouble rain down on this paradise in the desert. Scorsese does a nice job of illustrating the rise and fall of this casino. It is very reminiscent of Goodfellas, the story being the rise and fall of the crime family. Casino the same idea with a different story. The good thing is that there isn't a problem with that because the movie itself makes up for it. Scorsese brings back De Niro and Pesci from previous movies like Raging Bull and Goodfellas to make this movie worth watching. The addition of Sharon Stone, who received an Oscar nomination for Best Actress for her performance as Ginger, gives the movie more of a reason to watch.The only problem with this movie is that is really long, running just short of three hours. Some parts seem to drag on, but with the changing storyline, it's always something new. Scorsese does what he does best and that is tell a great story. His use of narration throughout the whole movie by De Niro and Pesci is very well done. The transition from the 70's to the 80's is noticeable in the equipment used in the casino, the clothing, the music, and the lifestyles they pursue. Whether it's watching the casino floor or taking some guys out back to "talk" with, there is a lot to watch and be entertained by. The hard work put into running a casino and all of the in's and out's are exposed. It's a hard life out there, but when a problem arises, all they have to to is dig a hole in the desert and let the pistol do the talking. Casino is a great story that is definitely worth a viewing at least once. As the saying goes, "What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas...". Thankfully this movie got out for us to see.


                
I know I'm not alone in my fascination of Las Vegas casino "culture." I've only been there once, but I was completely awestruck by the delicious, glowing obscenity of it all (mind you I'm a jaded New Yorker, not some babe in the woods). "Casino" only adds to the fantasy. The irony is that while Vegas is seen as a separate universe where vice is as commonplace as streetlights, it's probably the only HONEST city in the world. Every other city is as full of vice and corruption, but Vegas is the only place that admits that these things are at the core of our lovely civilization. Scorsese has many tools at his disposal; here he uses his scalpel and Bedazzler above all else. The one thing that really bugged me (other than the usual Italian-American stereotypes, but what are you gonna do) is the OVER-use of voice-over. Voice-over is pretty annoying to begin with, but here it's just way too much. It almost sucks the life out of the movie (especially when coupled with Scorsese's snappy montage style). Visually it's quite breathtaking, and the performances are top-notch, especially from Sharon Stone, who emits a raw energy not common among today's leading ladies.


                
