Based on a true story, Martin Scorsese "Casino" is a motion picture about two characters and their chance to rule the desert paradise of Las Vegas<U+0085> We are introduced in with all the lights, the noise, the flashing and the colors of the town that doesn't sleep day or night<U+0085> De Niro's character, Sam 'Ace' Rothstein, is based on Frank "Lefty" Rosenthal, who was a hell of a handicapper<U+0085> He was so good that whenever he bets, he could change the odds for every bookmaker in the country<U+0085> Genius at what he was doing with numbers, he proved to a lot of guys in the Chicago Mob that he was a tremendous earner that he could make a lot of money for them<U+0085> As a result, he was able to accomplish whatever bookmaking, handicapping, he wanted to do, with the umbrella of protection from those guys<U+0085> 'Ace' runs the casino with an iron fist refusing any outside people cheating at his tables<U+0085>But he had a fatal flaw<U+0085> 'Ace' always felt that he could logically and intelligently deal with things, even to deal with emotions<U+0085> So he decides on making a life with a woman who, he knows, does not necessarily love him<U+0085> Anyway with such a sexy wife and money to burn, 'Ace' was the epitome of opulence, confidence and power<U+0085> Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone) was fascinating<U+0085> Great woman, truly beautiful, one of the best-known hustlers in town<U+0085> For her, a guy like 'Ace' was the ultimate score<U+0085> So the way to Ginger's heart was clearly money<U+0085> 'Ace' knew that but he didn't care<U+0085>What he wanted was to marry her<U+0085> Sharon Stone really stood up to the challenge in her role as a casino hustler who is so wild<U+0085> She was young, fresh, confident, looking absolutely fantastic as the independent woman whom everybody desires<U+0085>Joe Pesci succeeds in his scary tough role as the strong man who has nerve, and isn't afraid of the cops<U+0085> He was reportedly a mob hit man reputed to be a sadistic killer<U+0085> (In one scene, his character is shown torturing someone by putting his head in a vise.) To protect his friend and adviser, Nicky (Pesci) would beat to a pulp any street guys who messed with 'Ace' or didn't give him the proper respect<U+0085> Over the course of their friendship Nicky delivered a number of these messages always making sure that 'Ace' didn't get his hands dirty<U+0085> 'Ace' witnessed several beatings on his behalf<U+0085> Nicky's mission was to show his worth to the family as an enforcer<U+0085>The clothes on De Niro looked very straight, more dangerous and very threatening<U+0085> They were very important cues to his character, and again, to the progression of the story<U+0085> 'Ace' was an extremely fastidious guy<U+0085> And, of course, as you follow the story he starts out in more conservative colors and as things become more chaotic, the colors become more chaotic<U+0085>


                
I have to admit my bias, because I believe that Scorcese cannot do wrong - ever.  Even his lesser-known or critically panned films are above the "great film" line, and Casino is certainly no exception. Casino spans three decades and chronicles the true story of a faction of the mob who ran Las Vegas casinos.  Robert DeNiro plays Ace Rothstein, a fantastic bookie who is chosen to run the Tangiers hotel and casino.  Along the way, he marries a drug-addicted con-artist trophy wife (Sharon Stone) and struggles with his friendship with loose-cannon Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci).  Rothstein is a complicated figure in that he is not a heavy, yet he wields a lot of power due to the respect he has gained from his mob bosses back home.  Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci are both fantastic in their roles, and Sharon Stone actually turned out a non-irritating performance.  As the viewer, you can't stand her, but that is the point.  Scorcese's normal supporting cast are also involved in this film, including his great mother - even though she usually has incredibly minimal roles, they are always memorable.
Scorcese seems to have several different directing styles, and Casino follows in the tradition of Goodfellas as a pseudo-documentary.  A lot of the exposition is revealed by the characters themselves in the form of voice-overs, and several scenes are filmed in documentarian fashion.  The entire production however, is sleek and very quick.  The use of music bears mentioning as well: Most Martin Scorcese films have an amazing soundtrack that adds to and enhances the scene.  Being a child of the MTV age, I'm a sucker for good uses of music in films and Scorcese is a master.  Scorcese doesn't just utilize the soundtrack, he makes it part of the storytelling - by the music, we chronologically know what time period we are witnessing, since one cannot rely on other factors, such as fashion alone.  One of my favorite scenes in film which effectively involves music is actually from Casino - the very intense scene when the relationship between DeNiro, Stone and Pesci come to a head in the climax of the film. The pounding music cut throughout this scene is a cover of "Satisfaction" by Devo and the result is absolutely brilliant.  Being a complete film geek, I generally don't go to films that feature certain stars, I go to films by certain directors and Scorcese is one of them.  While this was probably the tenth time I'd seen this film there were more things I noticed, and I'm sure I'll notice more upon my eleventh viewing.  The man is a complete genius, and a gift to film - my suggestion is to watch some of his films, then check out his unbelievable series, "A Personal Journey with Martin Scorcese Through American Movies" which was done the same year as Casino.  The series is essentially a primer on the history of film, sectioned off by film genres.  You not only will experience his amazing intellect and massive knowledge of film history, but his incredible humility as well.--Shelly


                
Casino is a very good film. If you're at all interested in gangster/mafia films, or if you're at all a fan of director/co-writer Martin Scorsese, novelist/co-writer Nicholas Pileggi, or actors Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci, Sharon Stone or James Woods, then Casino is without a doubt a must-see. I'm a huge De Niro fan, and I'm a fan of Scorsese and Woods as well. I certainly enjoyed the film.But I don't think that Casino is at all a "perfect" film. An 8 out of 10 may seem high, but if you're familiar with my reviews, you'll know that it's not that high of a score from me--it's closer to average from me. There are plenty of flaws here, and I'm going to spend some time pointing them out, particularly since the film receives so many 10's.Casino is based on the story of Frank "Lefty" Rosenthal and the Stardust casino in Las Vegas. The Rosenthal character is here named Sam "Ace" Rothstein and is played by De Niro. The hotel became the Tangiers for the film. The mob backs Rothstein but has to set up a false front while Rothstein "secretly" runs the hotel, because of his gambling charges back East. He falls in love with and marries former hooker/call-girl and current Vegas hustler Ginger McKenna (Stone), who remains in love with her pimp, Lester Diamond (Woods). Meanwhile, mob strong-arm Nicky Santoro (Pesci) heads out to Vegas to protect Rothstein, but eventually ends up running his own rackets and trying to effectively take over the town. Casino is the story of the relationship and political problems that this cast of characters and a number of associates run into. It's roughly a gradual road to destruction for everyone involved.The film is unusual in many ways. The most prominent oddity is that a large chunk of it is told via alternated narration from the two main characters, Rothstein and Santoro. The aim was probably to include a lot more of Pileggi's book, in a more literal way, than would have been possible through more conventional means. It's remarkable that the narration works as well as it does, especially because a lot of it is given a rapid-fire delivery. For at least the first 15 minutes, there is barely a pause in the narrational dialogue.One of the reasons it works is because of the style that Scorsese uses to accompany it in the opening. He employs a lot of fast cuts while presenting very stylized, documentary-like footage. The opening feels as much like an entertaining behind-the-scenes look at how the typical casino works as it feels like a fictional film about gangsters.Eventually, the film evolves from almost 100% narration to almost no narration (although the narration never completely leaves the film). This happens so subtly that one hardly notices. Scorsese's directorial style likewise evolves from the fast-cut documentary approach to something more conventional.This is all well and good, but on the other hand, the gradual evolution can only happen because the film is so long--it clocks in just a couple minutes shy of 3 hours. That's a bit too long for the story being told. By at least the halfway point, it starts to feel a bit draggy. All the material is necessary to the story, but it could have been tightened up a lot more.Another unusual aspect is the score/soundtrack, which consists primarily of pop hits from a wide time span--30 years or more. While I like the songs--I've owned the CD since it came out and I listen to it often enough--and the songs can help set the mood for some scenes, they become a bit too incessant and overbearing for the story after awhile. It begins to approach the dreaded "mix tape" mentality, where the songs are just there because the director wanted to share some bitchin' tunes that he likes a lot. A bit of ebb and flow with the music, and music better correlated to the drama, would have worked even better.Presumably, Scorsese was shooting for something like a sensory assault, since that's what you get in Vegas. The visuals are filled with neon lights, flashy clothes (I love Rothstein's suits), flashy people and such. The soundtrack is probably meant to match. But in that case, if I were directing, I think I would have went for a combination of commissioned music that incorporated a lot of casino sounds, or that mimicked a lot of casino sounds--the cacophonous electronic symphony of various machines constantly going through their modes--with schmaltzy show tunes, ala Liza, Jerry Vale, Tom Jones, Wayne Newton, etc.That Scorsese was trying to give a Vegas-styled sensory assault is also supported by the audio-visual contrast between the Vegas scenes and the scenes in other locations, such as Kansas City. So I can understand the motivation, but I'm not sure the final result exactly worked.Of course the performances are exceptional, even if everyone is playing to type, except for maybe Woods. The plot and characters are written and performed so that the viewer can see the disasters coming way before the characters can--and that's how it should be. For example, as a viewer, you know as soon as it starts that it's a bad idea for Rothstein to kowtow to McKenna to win her hand in marriage, but Rothstein is blind in love and he ends up paying for it. Everything unfolds almost a bit predictably in this respect, and another slight flaw is that we're shown the penultimate moment of the film right at the very beginning. It tends to make it feel even more stretched out, as you keep anticipating that scene.But the slight flaws shouldn't stop anyone from seeing this film, and of course, quite a few viewers feel that there are no flaws at all.


                
Casino is less of a film about casinos and gambling and more of a film about two mafia men's very different attempts to build a new life in Las Vegas or build a foothold mafia colony in Nevada.The casino and the gambling industry is simply a backdrop to the story - the film could've been about any other industry with little changes to the main story, which is the two men, almost completely disconnected from the mafia bosses, who run things their own way in a bizarro-land.It is a bizarro-land in that what's illegal is legal (gambling and bookies are legal), the businesses (casino houses) are very powerful and have their own muscle, there is no mafia presence (other than themselves), no street crime, no rival families or gangs, law enforcement is not as organized, a different kind of government/way of doing things/getting permits and licenses that they're used to, and how they adjust to this completely different environment.If one were to group mafia films into categories: beginnings of an organized crime family, rise/decline of a family, rise/decline of an individual member/boss of the family, wars between established families, and so on, this would be its own category of mafiosos in a completely unfamiliar environment.The film is long, but doesn't feel long. It's packed with story - the scenes are short, dialogue is to the point, it is filled with events. It is a long story condensed and cut down to almost 3 hours rather than a short story stretched with long panoramas, filler, story threads that go nowhere, mood scenes and such. There is no fat in the film and the story to footage ratio is almost 1:1 - you can't cut anything without affecting the story.It's a great film, not just for its time, but for all time. It's not the most original film, but how original can a mafia film be nowadays? It's not high on originality, but it's high on quality.


                
It first seemed like a difficult film to sit through, however, once again Scorsese's direction is always awesome...Robert DeNiro is awesome, Joe Pesci is fantastic and Sharon Stone was a very good surprise. The shots are fantastic, music is good, but there's always someone asking: "Is it better than Goodfellas?". Well, I say it is...Don't kill me okay? For me "Casino" is better just because of the pacing(I find it more funny). And I think it's very underrated for what it really is...WATCH IT!!!


                
It would be difficult to find a flaw in this film. It has been criticised for its violence - its a violent story, its language - the characters swear a lot, and even that it has all been done before - is there a completely original idea anywhere? I really liked the use of the narrative too.I must admit, I saw a television version so a great deal of the language and violence was removed, but this was still a polished and classy film with an engaging story-line and talented cast. This film of paradise slowly unravelling is an interesting morality tale. Definitely worth a watch. My vote 8/10


                
"Casino" is a near perfect and almost classic crime film. Why "almost"? Well, in my particular case, it reminds me of "Goodfellas" way too much. You know, the plot, some characters, violence, etc.Being objective, I think "Casino" is very well made. It has excellent Direction courtesy of Mr. Scorcese who once again proves he's a top class act. He created a dynamic, slick, spectacular movie with the aid of avid camera angles and his well known style.The acting is superb. Robert De Niro demonstrates he's one of the most versatile actors in modern film history. His display of different emotions, courage, and temper is outstanding. His character required plenty of temper. Sharon Stone delivers a very good performance. She's a fine actress. Joe Pesci once again shows his incredible talent while portraying mobsters. James Woods and other supporting actors deliver memorable performances.The atmosphere is splendid. You really get to feel the vibe of a casino even if it takes place in another era. The whole gambling, tactics, and obscure interests behind the business is impressing. This should be considered as a classic crime film. The 90's had genre defining movies and "Casino" perfectly follwed the tendency. It brought to cinema something never explored that way and it generated plenty of follow-ups.
This is based on 2-Disc Special Edition release. I have not read the book, nor did I know anything about the real people this was based(apart from what's on the Trivia page). And yes, in case you have heard... this is quite similar to Goodfellas. There's the obvious, such as Pileggi writing the novels behind both, and some of the same cast. Beyond that, though, the story-telling(such as the frequent and effective use of voice-over monologues, and multiple narrators, I could go on) and overall flavor are similar. And why not? It fits for one as well as the other and they're well-done and not the exact same film(having watched one does not mean you've already seen the other, I'll put it that way). The plot is engaging and interesting throughout. Characters are credible, well-developed and consistent. The acting is excellent, for everyone involved(including the kids). DeNiro and Pesci nail their roles, Stone gives what may be the most powerful performance of her career, and Woods is spot-on as always when given appropriate material. The dialog is impeccable, with countless memorable and well-delivered lines. Cinematography and editing are marvelous. The music is great, the score well-composed, and they are used expertly throughout this. This has constant strong language, plenty of brutal, bloody violence, disturbing content and a bit of sexuality. The DVD holds deleted scenes(among them an outtake or two) and six featurettes, four of which are on this site, and that I will review individually, the last two being a documentary called Vegas and the Mob and an episode of a History Channel show entitled True Crime Authors, both of them well worth the time. I recommend this to any fan of Scorsese and/or anyone else who helped make this. And that's that. 8/10


                
Most people I know haven't seen the true-story brutality that is Casino. Taking place in the early 1980s, two mob friends, Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci, are put in charge of a Las Vegas casino. Their job? To make certain everything runs smooth and to make sure that the bosses get their black bag of money. What happens? To put it into a short context: things start to fall apart. The dysfunction represented in this movie is amazing, every little thing leads to something worse. The beginning shows the rise of the Mafia's empire in Las Vegas: from the towering casinos to the floors of the casino, you get a little taste of everything in here. What's really interesting is that if you played by the rules, they treated you like gold, but if you double crossed them things could get pretty ugly (see the hammer scene). Casino, put simply, is a great movie. The only problem I experienced was that there were parts that seemed to drag out. The movie weighs in at a hefty 2hrs and 59min so don't expect to go anywhere soon. If you haven't see this yet then give it a chance, it really is a great movie.


                
I've just lately learned myself to dig Scorsese movies as much as I do. Casino is actually a very good example of what it's all about. A long movie (almost 3hours) with lots of characters, explicit violence, dark humour, beautiful cinematography and very good acting. Robert de Niro plays the jew Sam "Ace" Rothstein who's getting in charge of a casino in Las Vegas. After a good start things start messing up themselves. Rothstein falls in love with the wrong girl (Sharon Stone) and his gorilla (if you can call Joe Pesci gorilla) is getting way out of line. Casino turns out to a quite basic gangster movie. Robert de Niro reaches one of his best performances ever as Rothstein. Sharon Stone is very good as Rothstein's girlfriend. I guess the Academy at this point understood her potential since she got nominated for Oscar. With Basic Instinct she should've gotten it. Joe Pesci is as good as he always is playing the same character. He really got his way of pronouncing the F-word. Also there are a lot of smaller roles with older actors who really gotten themselves looking like mafia bosses. All in all a very good movie as long as you take the time to concentrate on it.
"Casino" explodes onto the screen like Martin Scorsese doing an overblown riff of a Martin Scorsese film. All of his hallmarks are here in spades as he weaves his epic and vividly detailed saga of organized crime in Las Vegas. Much of the style here is over-the-top, and when you combine that with three brand-name movie stars (DeNiro almost hilariously subdued here, Sharon Stone at the pinnacle of her appeal and showing an amazing range here as DeNiro's gold digging drug addicted wife, and an insane Joe Pesci doing a gonzo take on an insane Joe Pesci) acting to within inches of their lives, you get a wildly entertaining albeit over long three hour ride. Toss in some scenery chewing from Don Rickles, James Woods, and that hilarious Italian grandmother (Scorsese's real life mother) in the butcher shop, and you can't lose. However, when the central conceit of the movie is to explore the criminal underbelly of a city that legally peddles crime and sleaze as entertainment, "Casino" ultimately seems a bit redundant.


                
Casino is currently the last film in the legendary De Niro-Scorsese pair-up, and has aged incredibly well, after being underrated and dismissed as a clone of Goodfellas upon release. Indeed, the film sometimes might seem a remake. De Niro is the coolheaded professional, Pesci is the crazed psychopath, as the audience are again taken on a trip into the criminal underworld that predictably falls from paradise to hell.Yet, it would be more accurate to call Casino a comparison piece to Goodfellas, as they match well while going off in satisfying tangents. The first hour of both is essentially the same setup. A glamorous exposition of their current gangster high-life, setting up the game and the players. Its quintessential Scorsese, with tracking shots, voice over exposition and a brilliant, catchy soundtrack. But here they diverge, as Goodfellas, the much shorter film, continues to deal with the work and its consequences, while Casino really delves into its characters as they lose themselves. Casino is certainly a character driven narrative (one could argue Goodfellas is instead a plot driven narrative made perfect by its characters). Our leading trio, the aforementioned males and Sharon Stone in a masterful portrayal of an enigmatic, destructive hustler, all inflate their egos with a deluded conviction of the correctness of their respective visions. In part because of being the lead, and in part as the least destructive character, De Niro's 'Ace' comes off best to the audience, but all are afflicted by delusions of grandeur and greed.The film juggles the character's conflicts and growths well within the three hour film, which is itself a gorgeous depiction of the 'classical' period of Vegas' history, lamented as a relic today. The design, the visuals, the mood feels a different time, and is arguably Scorsese's most well-realised world. The soundtrack adds further to that. And Scorsese's direction is on top form, as is expected, and one finds it difficult to forget Scorsese's masterful hand guiding the film.In terms of the performances of the leads, while De Niro is undeniably excellent, he is really the base from which the other two launch. Joe Pesci is at his very best here, surpassing Raging Bull and Goodfellas, and while the role is essentially a retread of the latter, it's expanded, deeper, and thematically goes with the film; the character is still a wild-card, but not nearly as much as a black sheep. His ego, his desire, they fuel him. Sharon Stone rounds it off, deserving of her Academy Award nom, providing a physical manifestation of Vegas: the money, the excess, the greed, the lure of self-destruction. Her relationship with De Niro is the core of the film.The film is certainly excellent. And one tries not to compare it too much to other Scorsese films, especially Goodfellas. Yet its unavoidable when considering their similarity in theme, style and even cast & crew. Casino basks in its own excesses more than necessary- the length particularly. And it does many things right, but nothing much new. It's Scorsese at his most derivative of self, with the possible exception of being one of the few of his notable films to portray a strong leading woman (who is an independent character of herself) alongside the many men. The film is almost lazy in its unoriginality. And unfortunately it never matches the memorability of, say, Goodfellas.Nonetheless, Scorsese is on top form, with a fantastic setting and cast, and worth a watch.


                
Yet another gangster film in the same flavor as Goodfellas, Martin Scorsese show's us the ups and the downs of gangster life from Kansas City to Las Vegas and back again. The film is Casino, based in Las Vegas in the Seventies, the original Sin City, we are now presented with the dirt of the Vegas underworld that often isn't even seen in the pit rows of the casino halls. I enjoyed Robert De Niro, (Sam "Ace" Rothstein) a professional gambler selected by the mob to run the biggest casino in town. You really start to believe Ace as a real business man looking to run a straight and clean establishment. Things seem to be going his way until his childhood friend, the wacky and crazy Nicky Santoro(Joe Pesci) turns up with his own very different agenda, of how he is going to run things for himself and thus the mob bosses in Vegas Gangster movies remain to be cool and I can watch them over and over again and I look for the next one to be a little more modern day to see how things have changed over the last 10 years. Casino is a well directed, acted and edited masterpiece, which does a great job telling the story of 2 friends that in the end don't quit see things eye to eye.


                
This film grows on the viewer, the first time I saw this film it reminded me of Goodfellas too much.  After, seeing the video a few times, I belong to a movie club, the movie rates as a classic.  Long movies usually become boring, however this story is easy to follow.  It is directed well, and acted well.  I read the book, and the film follows it closely, a few events changed because of time considerations and where shorting.  The film had to be long for it to reasonbly follow the book.  This is a interesting story, and the movie follows it accurately, and the viewer goes along the journey as he was there. My opinion when you feel this the movie is very good one.


                
No matter how many times I watch this movie it still amps me up like it's my first time. it's nice seeing what real men used to act like.


                
In 1983, Sam Rothstein (Robert De Niro) leaves his casino and gets blown up in his car. Ten years earlier, he's running Tangiers with money from questionable sources. The money is getting skimmed and delivered to Kansas City for the mob bosses. Billy Sherbert (Don Rickles) is the manager. Andy Stone (Alan King) is the head of the teamsters and Phillip Green (Kevin Pollak) is the front man. Sam falls for con woman Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone) who has a weak spot for her old pimp boyfriend Lester Diamond (James Woods). Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) is his violent childhood best friend who comes out to Vegas and causes problems pushing his weight around.I'm not always good with narration. The constant narration could have thrown me off but it fits perfectly. This is simply Ace and Nicky teaching the audience the way of their world. De Niro and Pesci are terrific. Sharon Stone brings something different to this. The movie is stretched out a bit at 3 hours but it never loses the tension. Scorsese brings a real beauty to this Vegas landscape.


                
Robert de Niro playing a big role here.This movie shows the glamorous life style just like a dreamland on era 90th. Martin Scorsese Casino is a dreamland of destruction and betrayal. Their acting is good and the script is awesome. Robert Deniro worth the Oscar performance and Joes Pesci is cool. But, surprisingly, it's Sharon Stone that comes of with all the acting credit, she simply effervesces as the gold digging casino hustler. After witnessing her performance myself I couldn't agree more, and think she deserves a place above Susan Sarandon who "stole" the Academy Award from under Sharon's nose. The photography is phenomenal and combined with great acting is a recipe for a classy film. However occasional brilliant sequences, are often marred by the continuous commentary, which prevents any real, deep, emotional involvement with any of the characters. Great stuff, just slightly flawed.9/10. Even Sharon Stone is good in this brilliant film. If you like the glamorous life and lifestyle of dreamlandcasino watch this movie now.highly recommended.
"Casino", remains another superb masterpiece by Martin Scorsese. Sadly this film is not really talked about enough, or at least among my peers. Many seem to acknowledge it's brilliance and just say "Oh yeah, that's the head in a vice movie".Like "Goodfellas" (1990) before it, the film is based on another True story. Sam "Ace" Rothstein (Robert De Niro), is called by the mob to oversee the day to day operations of the most successful Casino in Vegas. As we see, "Ace" is constantly on duty, yet successfully is running the business to it's full potential. Along the way we meet Sam's old friend Nicholas "Nicky" Santoro (Joe Pesci), an extremely volatile man who would kill you if you even made eye contact. Later he is also introduced to extensive gold-digger Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone), whom Sam falls for and eventually marries unaware she's still with her slimy con man boyfriend Lester Diamond (James Woods). Ultimately these encounters mean doom for every one of them, among the inevitable collapse of the mob's power."Casino", maybe just for it's length is an epic movie. Showcasing both the familiar tropes of violence and greed, which leads to the downfall of any human being. But the genius is that all these people suffer different forms of fatalities, both seen before and some surprisingly original. Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci are as great as ever in these kind of movies. It's great to see both tread familiar grounds, read exposition while the story continues and still assume different characters. James Woods was extremely subtle in his role, which works well for him as I did not recognise him in the beginning. Finally Sharon Stone's character is somewhat the emphasis of the entire movie, and she delivers that Oscar nominated performance so tight as the object of lust it's astounding. Funny enough is that I absolutely hate her in these kind of roles because she's so good at them, all in all making her the perfect choice.Final Verdict: Though the film is long, those who can sit through it are in for another great piece from Scorsese's filmography. 8/10.
Scorsese's brother film to Goodfellas, is a longer engrossing film with a few similarities. Deniro and Pesci, reteamed again, share the narration. Here's another true mafia related tale, about the corrupt vices behind a casino, where it's new boss, Sam Rothstein, (a more gentler soul to Deniro's semi frightening Jimmy Gent in Goodfellas) has a close call with death, via a car explosion, where too the Ace as he was known, survives many interrogations, and some terrifying moments of paranoia, not knowing if he was going to be the next body dropped in the desert. We see him take continual hounding by the FBI, but the Ace always managed to beat him. Of course, Deniro's faultless, his mate, mafia cowboy Nicky Santoro, (Joe Pesci, solid) bares some similarities to the incredibly frightening Tommy in Goodfellas, though I know who I'd pick, if I having to choose a room alone. Stone is at her shining moment, playing the junkie pro Ginger, who became Mrs Sam Rothstein, despite having to a constantly cling on to a scuzzy low life pimp, Lester, (Woods in one of his best performances) who maintained this sort of hold on her. Again there are violent moments that shock, one as excessively illustrated by the big boys upstairs, to players who rig games, another one involving insult, plus Pesci's foul mouthed antics, and womanizing, even doing Stone. Even more enjoyable than Goodfellas, it's running time had me worried, stretched out to nearly three hours. Casino, sort of has an excess feel to it, judging by some themes, that have us questioning if they were true, but again it's just another engrossing Scorsese hit. I dare him to make one that it isn't. A great night at home.


                
Casino is a fantastic movie with a very long and detailed storyline that stretches out to nearly three hours but it never stops being interesting and enjoyable.The cast of this movie is all brilliant and inspired,Robert De Niro,Sharon Stone and of course Joe Pesci all deliver very impressive performance,James Woods is also very good in this movie as usual but I was disappointed that he wasn't really in it that much,I thought he would have a much more important role in the movie because i've always found his acting very impressive.My only problem with the movie really is that it could have been less detailed and also,my same problem with Goodfellas,is the fact that they get different characters narrating,it should all revolve around one characters point of view so we can hear their story instead of different peoples point of views.It should have all been Robert De Niro's point of view and not changing it to Joe Pesci at times and some other characters as well.A must see for fans of Martin Scorsese and Robert De Niro movies.Story of Sam Rothstein (Robert De Niro) and Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci) as they begin running a casino business and let their greed get the best of them.


                
Robert De Niro, Sharon Stone, Joe Pesci and James Woods star in Martin Scorsese's 1995 crime drama based on the book inspired by true events. This story tales place in Las Vegas, Nevada reflecting on Sam "Ace" Rothstein (De Niro) and his life in the mob with best friend, Nicky Santuro (Pesci) and ex-wife, Ginger (Stone). When Sam makes his way as Casino manager, he, Ginger and Nicky's life become consumed by crime, drugs and violence. Woods (Once Upon a Time in America) plays Ginger's ex-boyfriend & pimp, Lester Diamond whom she's is still in love with. I like just as much as "Goodfellas and De Niro, Stone & Pesci are terrific in it. I recommend this great crime drama.
An Excellent Movie on Crime,Greed,Money and Power based on a true story by Martin Scorsese where he shows the dark side of Las Vegas and the Gambling Business in the Casino with quite a bit of violence in the type of movie in which he is a perfectionist, along with great performances and narration of the story from Robert De Niro And Joe Pesci who are the main backbone of the film,along with a great performance from Sharon Stone and a good story and great background music which is so common in Scorsese's movies.The Story is about Two Mobster Best Friends of one(De Niro) is a Casino Owner and a great gambler, and the Other(Pesci) is told to keep his back,and it shows us how Nicky(Pesci) becomes obsessed with money and power after coming to Las Vegas and how he becomes a wanted gangster, while that friendship between him and Sam(De Niro) affects Sam's reputation quite badly and how they slowly become enemies,while Sam having to also deal with his alcoholic wife Ginger(Stone) and family after his wife is frustrated of him and wants to end the marriage and is greedy for a big amount of money kept at a bank in her and her husband's name. This Shows how Money,Greed and Power can change a human being into doing very bad and horrible things.The Performances from De Niro as Sam 'Ace' Rothstein who is a very excellent and clever gambler and Pesci as Nicky Santoro who gets obsessed with money and power after coming to Vegas are excellent as they Potray there characters perfectly and at times acting like real mobsters, their chemistry in the movie in the scenes together is great and the dialogue delivery of both throughout the movie is also excellent and they narrated the story perfectly..Sharon Stone also does a very good job as Ginger McKenna who gets frustrated after some years of getting married with Sam and gets greedy of the money which is in the bank, she portrays her role very well as a alcoholic greedy for money, with a bigger influence to the movie in the latter part of it, making the movie a three sided battle between the actors.Martin Scorsese does an excellent job in directing this and showing the dark side of Las Vegas and the Casino world with quite a bit of violence and abuses but at the same time keeping the viewers interested in the movie,and how the city can make a person obsessed with Money,Power and Greed, with helping the characters adapt to their roles very well,and also helping Sharon Stone give one of her best performances of her life,also utilizing a good story which he also had a part in writing very well in making a great crime movie in which he is such a perfectionist in.The Story which was actually based on a book by Nicholas Pileggi was excellent and reveals the dark side of Las Vegas and shows that it always is not the greatest place on earth, due to an excellent screenplay from Screenwriter Pileggi himself and Martin Scorsese. The Background music in the movie is also excellent as it is in any Scorsese movie and great job from the legendary director and Robbie Robertson in giving some great songs in the movie which suit the scenes perfectly.This Is A Great Crime Film on how Money,Power and Greed can absolutely change a person into doing very bad and horrible things,and its perfectly shown by Mr Scorsese along with a great acting from the acting trio.
I have not had the pleasure of seeing many of Martin Scorsesee's films, and this might actually be the first. I have heard that he is a well known director with a unique style, but as I have not seen any of his films, I cannot comment on it; but if they are anything like Casino then so far I am impressed. I heard of Martin Scorsesee not from watching movies but from a Alternate band named King Missile (known for a song which they wrote about as certain part of the male anatomy that a person was able to remove, and then ended up losing, and finding it again and having to fork out $20 to buy it back - weird group). I will not go into the details of what their song was about and what they wanted to do to Martin Scorsesee even though they said that he made the best films.Casino is a movie about people and about how that begin with everything and end with nothing. The movie is based around Sam (Robert DeNiro) who is made the director of a Casino by the mafia. His childhood friend Nicky (Joe Pesci) comes to Las Vegas to apply his business - thuggery - to the town almost untouched by thugs. It is set in a time when the gangs ruled Las Vegas and gambling was a game of skill, and enticing people out of their money was done by the way one arranges their poker machines. The conclusion shows us that those days are passed as now the corporations own Las Vegas and the casinos only exist if their theme is worth it.As I said earlier the movie is about people, and to explore the movie we must explore the people and the relationships that they have with each other. There are three main characters and they are Sam, Nicky, and Ginger. Sam and Nicky do not change where as Ginger does. This is important because the Ginger and Nicky claim that Sam has changed, but this is differential to the nobility of his character. One might ask how can Sam be noble when there is no honour among thieves? Well, in this time there is honour and this honour his held at the point of the gun. There is a way that the mafia does things and if people don't do what the mafia tells you then you will find yourself buried in a hole in the middle of a corn field. Yet the problem with this honour is that it works on the assumption that might means right, meaning that once somebodies power exceeds your own then either you comply or suffer the consequences.Sam's character is the central character. He is clean, an spends the whole movie clean. He is a man that does not take risks, he only takes certainties. As is said at the beginning of the movie, he is a man that when he makes a bet, the entire bookmaking industry changes. As such he is the perfect man for a casino because he knows how to make money. Now he has a record in illegal gambling so it is difficult to get him into a casino, but as long as you treat the authorities in Las Vegas okay, then they won't happen you - the minute you step over the line and upset somebody, then they can put the pressure upon you.As I said before, Sam does not take chances. He is a man that runs everything his way. He is obsessed that everything runs smoothly. He does not pay people to think because their thoughts are not his thoughts and they don't know how to work the people and the floor. The example is the poker machines. He puts the big jackpot machines in plain view rather than hiding them. Hiding them keeps people away and as such they don't run the risk of hitting the big jackpot, but having them in plain view brings more people to them so that they waste more money trying to win the big jackpot. Of course his obsessiveness with things running his way is very much a flaw, as he wants to always know where his wife is, and this leads to distrust and finally to the breakdown in their marriage. It was not all his fault as he tried to marry a woman who was not meant to be married and it ended up destroying him and her. The blueberry muffin affair is another instance where is compulsiveness goes overboard.Casino is about power and the question of who really rules. In one way we see that the mafia rules Vegas from the east, while on the other hand, the authorities are so corrupt that they let them, yet if you upset the authorities then they can and will tighten their fist. Or is it the king of the thugs - Nicky - who rules. It seems like he does, but in the end he only finds himself in a pit in a cornfield.
I've only seen about half of Scorsese's body of work, but I don't believe I would be too wrong in sticking my neck out and saying that Casino is probably his most entertaining movie. 'Cape Fear' was pretty much a solid thriller as well, but that film was a little too tense and frightening. This is really his one film where you can safely switch off your brain, and just relax and watch Scorsese do his thing. The fantastic visuals, the humour, the incredible sets and of course the masterful editing all together contribute to what is finally a lavish and jaw-dropping feast of a film. The way Scorsese directs his actors and sets his scenes with such utter perfection - the whole thing just makes you giddy with delight and blows your senses. Also, this movie is going to make you love 70s' American music - I guarantee it ! All the actors are a pleasure to watch here. In particular, James Woods as the "country club golf hustler" is hilarious - strange, why doesn't Scorsese cast him more often ?? Sadly the film is unable to keep up the kinetic pace of the first two hours, and becomes somewhat dull and overlong near the end. BUT - this film very much falls into the category of must-sees.


                
"Casino" is at its best when its essentially just a very stylish, masterfully done documentary on the history of Vegas and the back-room dealings with the mafia. The primary plot of the movie is good, but doesn't have the same kind of replay value and ultimately just above average.The film's dramatic story is good stuff, but what's important about "Casino" is the overarching information it reveals about Vegas, and the amazingly sleek and fun way it does so. Nearly 15 years after Casino, the story depicted in this movie has become essentially the official version of the history of Vegas. It's assumed that something more or less like what's depicted in the movie is what really happened in Vegas from the 1960s and 1970s. Most people don't want any more information - Scorsese's version of history is good enough. And why not? Some of the fine details are wrong, but Scorsese basically used a feature film to unveil to the public for the first time a generally accurate history of organized crime in Las Vegas. In many ways this is what Coppola did with the Godfather - no, every fact isn't true in either film, but both create a narrative, the general gist of which the public accepts as the story they want to believe about a certain chapter in the history of crime.The second reason "Casino" is so influential is purely stylistic. This movie is chock full of very indulgent, flashy scenes with very overt camera work, heavy narration, catchy music, busy scenes with dozens of characters at times, and generally a style that is very forceful and exciting. This sort of style seems to have become a mainstay of Hollywood films that were big-budget and looking for box office returns, but also wanted some respect from the critics. Some of the major films that fit that description over the next few years - Boogie Nights and Ocean's 11 pop to mind - hang their hat on scenes directed very much in the lavish, showy way Scorsese does so well in Casino.Altogether, "Casino" stops just short of delivering on the promise of its stellar first hour. Perhaps Scorsese wanted to avoid reusing too many of the devices he used to wrap up "Goodfellas", but unfortunately, with Scorcese putting away the cinematic fireworks after intermission, I think people remember all of the excitement of the first half, and the second half is just a blur of the stars gradually heading downhill in the predictable ways. Still, with a first half like that, the full film can't help but be a classic, if an uneven one.


                
