I expected a lot from this movie. I really tried to like it, but I couldn't. The animation was confusing and annoying; lots of colours and psychedelic effects, poor use of frames, etc. The story didn't really make sense, and the characters just weren't relatable to me (mind me, I'm a 20 year old latina, but I just LOVE Peter Parker. Is the personality that matters). I found Miles dislikable, as well as Peter D. (Or B?) Parker. Other characters didn't have enough screen time to show any personality. It was long, boring, and the humor wasn't as good as other SpiderMan content. I had to force myself to watch it to the end because I already paid for it, and well, maybe it'd get better at the end. It didn't. I guess I can't understand the hype.


                
My Eyes! I don't understand the rating behind this movie. I couldn't even finish it because of the god awful animation. The way the characters move disoriented me and hurt my eyes so bad, I had to leave theater. I was determined to finish the movie so I came back and just listened to it with my eyes shut. Even then it was still awful.


                
I'm only happy that in some parallel universe I never went to see this movie.


                
Apparently, the background in much of this movie is comic book pages which were printed with the blue and red inks not quite matching up. That made them "fuzzy". I found this very distracting, and by the time I had finished the movie, I was worn out. Also, there were endless chase scenes and endless superpowered- characters throwing other superpowered-characters around. The usual stuff, which I find silly. And it was long. And loud. I guess this entire genre is targeted at children. I found nothing interesting in this movie.


                
The current assortment of reviews tell me that this movie is almost universally liked, so I am expecting to make a lot of friends by saying that I hated this movie, in that I didn't find it made a lot of sense, had numerous plot holes, and was just plain strange.By this time, there is probably not a single person in the industrialized world who knows the story of Spider-Man: radioactive spider bite, uncle dies, becomes superhero. Sure, every incarnation of Peter Parker has been a little different: Toby McGuire was an awkward bookworm, Andrew Garfield was a skateboard rat, and Tom Holland built Lego with Ned. Spider-verse features a replacement for Peter Parker: Miles Morales, who while spending his time with his delinquent uncle vandalizing abandoned stations with graffiti art, a fitting substitute for building Lego with Ned, finds himself bitten by a radioactive spider and of course you know the rest there. Why a radioactive spider was hanging out in an abandoned station was never explained.After realizing what happened, Morales returns to the station to check out the spider, only to become involved in a fight alongside the original Spider-Man over a machine that opens doors to parallel universes. The original Spider-Man dies after asking Morales to help him, so Morales decides he needs to become Spider-Man's replacement, only to learn that the portal his brought into this world other spider-people from different universes: another Peter Parker, who is dumb and eats too much, Gwen Stacey as Spider-Girl, a young Asian girl from the future who has a robot, a black-and-white Spider-Man from the 1930s, and a two-dimensional animated pig. Of course, why the portal only allowed spider-people to pass and not the criminals or anyone else for that matter was never explained either, and also leads to the question on whether there are Miles Moraleses in other universes or Gwen Staceys in this one. And then, Morales has developed the mysterious power to turn invisible. Where that came from was never explained either.The whole thing is bizarre, and the animation in trying to convey these interdimensional fights is so strange that it is often hard to figure out what is going on. At this point, I am trying to figure out what the public finds so appealing about this movie, and the only explanation I can come up with are the political aspects, the fact that Spider-man does not need to be a white male anymore, and when he is he doesn't need to be smart.
So the 1 rating is to offset all of the fake "10" greatest movie ever reviews. This is truly a 6/7. The movie is aimed squarely at the tween/teen audience with a grating urban contemporary soundtrack. This has little to no connection to the actual Spider-Verse series. The story they came up with was acceptable. I liked the interaction between Miles his father and uncle. Not all of the humor hits. They chose some of the lamest spiders from the Spider-Verse. Especially bad was the manga spider and Spiderham is less cartoony in the comics. Did not like the Kingpin voice or portrayal and every other villain such as Tombstone is just wasted. The movie had heart which elevates it over common kiddie animation. Not even close to the best Spider-Man movie.


                
Too childish, too boring. There's never an interesting plot nor a good narrative, and the humor was terrible... All the characters are dislikeable, and the animation, well, the one from the late 60's is far better than this, you better watch that instead, it's more interesting.


                
I'll be upfront, I'm giving this 1 star because of the treatment of Peter Parker.They didn't do the Andrew Garfield thing and turn him into a bully. But they did do that Modern Marvel Comics thing and turn him into an idiot screw-up in an effort to alienate the fans and somehow make Miles better by mocking Peter.And I'm not a fan of that. Parker is a dork, he's got a smart mouth...but he's really smart, a genius, totally heroic, and well, the call him "The Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man" for a reason. He cares, specifically he cares about the average working schulb.This kind of just took Peter Parker and almost mocked him and, honestly, I can't get behind that. i couldn't get behind it when they turned him into a bully in the Garfield movies, and I don't care for it when they mock him here.


                
Distracting, inconsistent graphics. Lazy dialog, predictable plot


                
If spiderman into the spiderverse wins, the academy will officially have fallen as low as they possibly can. It is ridiculous how marvel and producers are so greedy to even think about making a completely new movie about a character which is popular at the moment. The spiderman homecoming series hasn't even ended and they're already working on new projects about the same character. It just causes confusion and in my case disappointment. This is why the amazing spiderman series never got a final end. Sure, spiderman homecoming hit the box office quite good... but was it seriously necessary to do a movie with thousands of spidermen just to take advantage of the popularity the character has? I've always disliked marvel because of their lack of passion for filmmaking. They do huge budget movies every year which only take about 6 months too complete just for money. All the movies follow the same plotline. None of them are original. Its just remakes and sequels, one after another. Spiderman into the spiderverse has been the most ridiculous project so far.


                
It's a animation/a cartoon people. Not even close to the best/classic animation ever made either! When you see this many 8/9/10 reviews of a movie somethings not right. I watched this cartoon/movie, in a New York minute I don't believe ALL these are real bias reviews.Don't be fooled, this cartoon was made to be to be viewed in IMAX 3D! The 2D conversion made & released by Sony studios is TERRIBLE & a joke. This is just like the story of "The Emperor's New Clothes" or as a used car salesman spiel. They worked 4 years on the 3D release & on a blurry mess of a miss-conversion 2D release.The old adage is true here, "When something is too good to be true it must not be".This is NOT the best picture of the year!
This is NOT the best picture ever made!
This is NOT the best cartoon ever made!An honest review,
It's somewhere in between a treasure & a junk, = 5.
Now that's believable.


                
Yeah they put a lot of money into it picture wise and hired a great cast. But it's the same idea from the Flash TV show different dimensions or worlds of the same character. I gave it a shot as a Spiderman fan but it doesn't do it for me. Spider Gwen? What the hell..really? And that hood out fit with the shorts was lame and ghetto for a super hero. Bonus powers? yeah, I don't think so buddy. This movie is for little kids but not hard core Spider-man fans. I'm sure they're going to start doing this with other characters now, Yeah no, that's really stupid. This whole concept was stolen from The Flash with a marvel spin to it. I didn't even like how crusty Peter Parker was looking in this cartoon either.


                
I'll give you a point for the animation but nothing else, the historytelling Wars crap.


                
Worst spider-man movie I've ever seen. I respect Phil Lord and Chris Miller but this movie gave me headaches.


                
I just watched this painful animation with lots of colours and predictable story. Just a bunch of mixstuff of everything u've seen before and most dislikeable heroes 'ever. Bring back Peter Parker and stop this huge BS road that Hollywood is on.
Save your money its not worth it.


                
It's overrated at crap. It's not even that good and it's babyish. I hope the sequel bombs at the box office.


                
This is by far the worst high rated movie on IMDb. Makes zero sense how it got here. I walked out halfway through after watching an hour of trash on the screen.


                
Everything that was Spiderman and Peter Parker was abused in this piece of video. I have grown up watching Peter Parker and Spiderman and getting inspired from him. This movie annihilation of all it. It's a junk made with a thought. It puts every Spiderman fan to shame. Very poor story that makes nosense. Movie is just commercial cheap flick. Even as action movie it remains dead. Would inspire none. Strange to see critics like it. Well critics usually binge junk either ways.


                
I was so excited to watch this movie..heard so much hype..it was totally disappointing..This is the worst spider-man movie ever..After seeing all those swirly colors- i literally dozed off for a while...so better i would stick to homecoming & far from home. Into the Spider-Verse was nice concept but bad cinematography..No sequel please


                
This movie was absolutely awful. The animation blurs every time a character moves. It hurt my eyes it was so bad. The characters were annoying, and it's full of God awful cringe throughout. People have been so completely dumbed down in recent years by the absolute TRASH Hollywood splats out to screens. It's very depressing to see how many people are so accepting of something this caliber. It ticks every cliched box of every comic book movie that comes out anymore. Especially the eye rolling, idiotic one liners constantly spit out, and the extreme political correctness that constantly litters every screen around the globe now-a-days. Basically, it's the same comic book movie you've seen over and over and over again, but animated in a terrible way. Just being honest.


                
Weird story...even for a cartoon story with a lot of poetic licence. Story line JUST does not make sense. On top of that, psychedelic lights/pictures, and loud disconcerting music jumps out at you every few minutes. After a few minutes, I was worried that the rest of the movie would continue to suck, and was hoping for a reprieve...however that never came. After looking every which way to justify sitting in the theater, I could not - and walked out for the last bit. I think the wisdom of the public (97% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, as of Dec 31, 2018) has failed for this movie - this movie really, really SUCKS. I guess this is what results after the studios have squeezed out the story every which way to commercialize it.....


                
This film along with the vast majority of other marvel films is heavily overrated. It genuinely infuriates me that it has the same rating as City of God, Spirited Away, Interstellar and Silence of The Lambs. Please people, explore the world of cinema before you watch this and score it 10/10.Let's be honest;
The story majorly lacked character development. An unavoidable fault however, as the audience raving about it are the same people who can't sit through a 2hr+ film without pulling out their phones and branding it "boring". The plot concept was fun and very interesting, but execution was mediocre at best. You could predict the entire film from watching the trailer to be honest. A lack of development in to key events made the majority of the watch emotionless. Huge opportunities like the passing of Fisk's wife, or the fact that all the alternate Spidermen could disintegrate; were brushed over. Though not exactly a Hans Zimmer masterpiece, the sound was okay. The picture also wasn't to my taste, however I appreciate the creativity and intention.I'll admit 1/10 is a harsh, I'd actually give it a 6.5 or 7, I was only trying to level things out. It's just unfair that this is going to be remembered as one of the top 20 films in history because of uneducated raters who find Blade Runner:2049 confusing, but think Spiderman is "the best movie ever cos of awesome fight scenes and tonnes of action".P.s. I'm not being boring and a superhero film hater. The Christopher Nolan batman films are my favourite trilogy in history. I appreciate all genres, this was just poor execution.
Saw this today thanks to AMC's A-List. It was truly awful. I fell asleep and when I woke up, Miles formed some sort of Spiderman team with some Japanese girl in a suit, Spiderman Noir(?), Spider Pig, who I actually remembered from the nineties and some other characters. This was just absolutely weird. This movie was just all over the place, I don't think Marvel could possibly have had anything to do with this mess unlike Spiderman Homecoming. I'm at a loss as to why Sony has problems making a decent Spiderman/Venom movie. Yes, I know Venom did well, but let's be honest, people only went because Homecoming was so good, so they thought Venom would be as well. They didn't know Marvel wasn't allowed to have any say on that film though, sadly.Thanks for wasting 2 hours of my time. Don't waste yours.


                
What nonsense did I actually watch, same story, same villain, just bringing up extra 5 spider-men doesn't change anything, the origin story of Miles should have been better, creative not something that people can easily find in the comics! What was the difference? Lame radioactive spiders roaming around, biting people turning them into spiders! The entire world will turn into spiders then! Guys you completely lost it, the millions that were used should have been saved for some better origin stories! What a waste of time and money! Definitely requires a refund for this! Completely ruined my 2 hours! A bit of respect I had for spider-man film is completely destroyed.
I don't understand the people who are giving 10/10 for this movie where everything is so much predictable. These are all loyal spider man series fan that watch any garbage story if there is spider man. Really?? 10/10 for this movie. This movie deserves 5/10.


                
