After seeing the movie in IMDBs top 250 movies list. I watched the movie with more expectations..Its not up to expectations. Story theme is good, but not the way it presented.At the end of movie.. I didn't felt its a great movie.. Its normal regular movie.Actors performed well. Especially the way Nurse talks, expressions, they are the best. Characterization of each and every character makes real feeling.Jack performance is really good. Few Dialogues are simple and make sense.


                
In the book, McMurphy was a lovable rogue, Falstaffian in character. Jack Nicholson turned McMurphy into a stupid jerk a**hole, not the least bit likable. Besides which, McMurphy was a big hulk of a guy and Jack Nicholson is a tiny little wimp guy not the least bit like McMurphy. In the book McMurphy fought Nurse Ratchet because he had the best interests of the inmates at heart and she was a sadistic monster and deserved a comeuppance. In the movie he fought her just because he was a jerk. She came across much more like a decent nurse looking out for the inmates, undeserving of McMurphy's torments. Nicholson's McMurphy could never have torn up the sink and thrown it out the window, he's just too small for that. The book's McMurphy was big enough to make such an act believable. I was so disappointed by this movie I quit seeing Jack Nicholson movies for several years. As I thought about all the Jack Nicholson movies I'd seen over the years, starting with Easy Rider, I realized that in every movie his character was an a**hole. That made me think maybe Jack Nicholson is really an a**hole. Then he shined like a star in About Schmidt. I loved that one. So I will now go see Jack Nicholson movies again. I guess age has improved him. Separate from Nicholson's McMurphy ruinations, I really missed the part where the chief's hand grew gigantic in anticipation of using it as a monster weapon as he contemplated some taunts. The book made that a great scene. The movie just ignored it. Too bad, it would have been good. Not that I can tell you how to film such a mental struggle in the chief's head but I'm sure some creative Hollywood type could figure out a good way to do it.


                
I can only think of one movie adaptation of a great novel that was worse than this film, and that is "The Color Purple". They both suffer from similar problems. Both novels focus on the internal experiences and perceptions of the main characters, and rather than doing something creative, the film-makers simply tell the story and leave out the point of view. In the novel the entire story is told from the point of view of one of the patients. Sometimes he is drugged, sometimes he is in a fog and sometimes he's thinking clearly. To the reader it is as if you are experiencing being incarcerated in the asylum. All of this is lost in the movie. I really recommend reading the book and forgetting about the movie. Or at least read the book FIRST, you'll thank me later.


                
"One Who Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" (1975), based on the novel by Ken Kesey and directed by Milos Forman earns a 2 out of 5 stars based on the plot, pacing, and characters. After reading the book, I decided to watch the movie, to see how it was translated on the big screen. Unfortunately, the movie throws around the plot of the book. People die in the middle of the book, and by the end of the movie, they are still alive. The deaths were a huge part of the novel! Not only that, but the fishing trip didn't go how it went in the book either which was a huge disappointment. Along with the plot not being followed, the pacing of the movie mad every scene feel so rushed. I didn't have time to transition from one thing to another. The pacing almost made me lost because I was trying to catch up. Lastly, The characters were a slight disappointment. In the book McMurphy was loved by the other patients, but in the movie it seemed like he was a jerk and people couldn't wait to get rid of him. I also pictured McMurphy to be much bigger because the movie described him that way. Jack Nicholson is not a big guy. Overall, I was disappointed. Because of the plot, pacing, and characters I believe "One who Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is worth 2 out of 5 stars.
After reading the book, I decided to rent the movie, just to see how well it was translated for the big screen. In fact, it totally screws around with the plot. People die in the middle of the book(Cheswick drowns), and at the end of this movie, he's still alive! That was a big part of the novel! McMurphy doesn't steal the bus to go fishing, in fact, it was suggested as a field trip, to which Nurse Ratched agreed to if he brought enough men.This movie is one of the worst adaptations from a book I have ever watched. This movie does not deserve all of the praise it gets. If anything, Jaws or Dog Day Afternoon should have taken home Best Picture of that year.
1/10.


                
The film itself is brilliant, with superb acting from Jack Nicholson as McMurphy and Louise Fletcher as Nurse Ratched. It does well in exploring the juxtaposition between man and machine, and the controlled institution that Kesey targeted in his novel.However, having actually read the novel before watching the film, I can't say that I'm impressed. It's unbelievably inaccurate, and Fletcher is not cruel enough with the role of the Big Nurse; she doesn't convince me at all that she is supposed to be the matriarchal core of a large, dangerous machine that "kills" the personality. The characters are mixed up and tossed about, for example Taber and McMurphy often swap lines and the sheer fact that Taber is in the institution when he's actually supposed to have been released back into society to "pass it on" to his family just ruined the point of his story. There is no sense of a loss of power with regards to Nurse Ratched's neck injury, also. It just appears as if everything goes on as it used to.Overall, I'd say this is a good film to watch if you've not read the novel first. Otherwise, you'll be severely disappointed.
I would rate the movie "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" directed by Milo Forman in 1975 a 2 out of 5 stars because, although the movie has a decent plot and the actors did their job well, the movie was far different from the book. 
 I thought that the actors did a nice job. These actors played their parts well and from the looks of it, enjoyed participating in the production on the film. but what I struggled with throughout the movie was that the actor's appearances did not match what I had visualized while reading and did not meet the books physical description of each individual character. Personally, I would not have picked the actors that they did because of they did not fit the characters personality and looks. I also felt that they movie skipped from one scene to the next with little transition. Another large problem I had with the movie is there were so many new scenes and the entire movie felt rushed as if they were trying to fit too many things in at once and I feel that it ruined the quality of the movie. I found myself getting confused on where the scene was taking part and what was going on. I feel that, if the movie was slowed down with less scenes and more details, I would have enjoyed it more. This leads me to my final criticism that I may have already made fairly clear. I read the book before watching the movie and would 10/10 recommend the book, but was very disappointed after how the movie ruined the story. There were a lot of events that did not match up, some in which did not even happen. This really look away from the meaning of the movie and the awareness it was meant to bring. Overall, I think I did not like the movie because I had read the book prior and enjoyed it very much. The movie would have been much better if it would have followed the original plot from the book, if the actors would have matched the looks and personalities of the characters, and if the movie didn't skip through every scene is such a short amount of time.


                
