It's tough to really judge this movie. Is it Milos Forman's greatest directorial masterpiece or Jack Nicholson's best performance. Tough to say, but the marriage between both director and actor are quite phenomenal. From the first time we see Jack Nicholson to the sad, yet uplifting ending, one cannot escape the sheer power of the film. When a film is parodied as many times as this one has been, typically, greatness can be associated. Well, greatness was achieved, and let's hope this one never falls through the cracks.


                
Czech director Milos Forman seems to be obsessed with rebellious characters that don't like to go with the flow. Just think about Larry Flynt in "The People vs. Larry Flynt" or Andy Kaufman in "Man on the Moon", in the two most recent movies of Forman. The central character in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" played by Jack Nicholson is also one of those characters, that wants to break the routine and even starts a revolt against the staff and nurse Ratchett in particular, in a mental institution.The movie is perhaps more comedy and entertainment than heavy drama. Still that doesn't mean that the movie isn't filled with some powerful emotional sequences. The tension between the patients and the staff gets more and more notable and grows throughout the movie, which eventually leads to a 'wonderful' ending which I'm not going to spoil.Yes, Jack Nicholson is truly splendid in his role and it seemed like he was improvising all his lines and actions during the entire movie. It was a really Oscar worthy performances, which he also received. Another Oscar winner for her performance was Louise Fletcher, which in my opinion is a bit too much credit. She plays her role well but nothing more than that. She did not deeply impressed me or anything. This movie also marks the debut for some today well known actors such as Danny DeVito (he looked so young and different!), Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif, who also received an Oscar nomination.Really one of those movies that you must have seen at least once in your life.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975) is a film you'll appreciate more as you mature. I saw it a few times when I was younger and, while I thought it was good, I didn't 'get' a lot of the insights the film conveys. Viewing it again recently, I 'got' it.Set in the early 60s, the story involves R.P. McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) and his arrival at a mental institution in Salem, Oregon (where the film was shot). He plays the "mental illness" card to get out of prison time, thinking it'll be a piece of cake, but he's wrong, very wrong. Everything appears well at the hospital and Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher) seems to be a benevolent overseer of McMurphy's ward, but there are sinister things going on beneath the surface.The movie criticizes the way institutions deal with mental illnesses. Their "therapy" is futile and only makes the patients dependent on the institution itself, thereby creating its need for existence (at the taxpayer's expense). McMurphy is a threat to the establishment and therefore must be "dealt with." A lot of people criticize the film by suggesting that Nurse Ratched "isn't that bad" or that "she was only trying to do her job", etc. I had the same reaction the first couple of times I saw it. This reveals an aspect of the film's brilliance: Ratched's malevolence is so subtle that the filmmakers allow the possibility for complete misinterpretation. Yes, from an administrative point of view, she seemingly does a good job, she's authoritarian without being sadistic, and she cares for the residents as long as they follow the rules (more on this below). Yet she is absolutely demonic as a robotized arm of a dehumanizing system. She maintains the residents in a state of oblivion and marginalization; they are deprived of their dignity because the system sees them as subhuman.The filmmakers and Fletcher make Nurse Ratched a more effective antagonist by showing restraint. Compare this to, say, Faye Dunaway's portrayal of Joan Crawford in "Mommie Dearest," which pretty much turned her into a cartoon villain. Ratched isn't such an obvious sadist, yet she uses the rules to tyrannize the men and reduce them to an almost infantile state of dependency and subservience. Her crowning achievement is Billy Bibbit (Brad Dourif).McMurphy, despite his obvious flaws, is the protagonist of the story. Although he's impulsive and has a weakness for the female gender, which got him into prison in the first place, he has a spirit of freedom and life. His problem is that he needs to learn a bit of wisdom; then he can walk in his freedom without causing unnecessary harm to himself and others.Nurse Ratched, on the other hand, represents legal-ism, which is an authoritarian spirit obsessed with laws or rules. This is clearly seen in the World Series sequence: Even though McMurphy gets the final vote he needs for his ward to watch the Series Ratched refuses to allow it on a technicality. When McMurphy then PRETENDS to watch the game and works the guys up into a state of euphoria, Ratched reacts with sourpuss disapproval. That's because legalism is the opposite of the spirit of freedom, life and joy. Legalism is all about putting on appearances and enforcing the LETTER of the law (or rule). The problem with this is that "appearances" are not about reality and, worse, "the letter kills." Despite his folly and mistakes, McMurphy does more good for the guys in his ward than Ratched and the institution could do in a decade. How so? Not only because he has a spirit of freedom and life, but because he loves deeply, but only those who deserve it – the humble – not arrogant abusers. When you cast restraint to the wind and love with all your heart you'll reap love in return, as long as the person is worthy. A certain person hugs McMurphy at the end because he loves him. McMurphy set him free from the shackles of mental illness and, worse, the institution that refuses to actually heal because it needs mentally ill people to exist; it only goes through the motions of caring and healing (not that there aren't any good people in such institutions, of course).No review of this film is complete without mentioning the notable character of Chief, played effectively by Will Sampson.The film runs 2 hour and 13 minutes.GRADE: A


                
Put a straightjacket on me, because I think this movie is insanely good! Based off, Ken Kesey's novel of the same name and directed by Milos Forman, One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest tells the story of Randle P. McMurphy (Jack Nicholson), a convicted criminal admitted to a mental ward, when he pleads insanity, to escape labor duties in prison. Once there, the rebel, wild-man, McMurphy bump heads against the authority figure, and head administrative nurse, the oppressive Nurse Mildred Ratched (Louise Fletcher) on the way, she treats her patients. McMurphy believes that they should be treated like real men with more personal freedom, while Ratched couther his argument by stating that any more freedom, would lead to chaos, anarchy, and death. In my opinion, while she play as the villain, she's in fact, she was somewhat, right and correct by her judgment, but the way, she enforced order on the mentally disable in highly crude and inhuman. In fact, by egging McMurphy on, she made things much, much worst. One might view this movie as anti-institution, anti-religion or anti-government. One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest was written in 1959 and published in 1962 in the midst of the civil unrest. It deeply changes to the way psychology and psychiatry were being approached in America, while also challenging, how government should treat its people. By the end of the 1960s, the controversial movement towards deinstitutionalization has become, a real deal, while trust in government officials were in an all-time low. When 1975 came, most of the mentally ill found themselves, untreated and living in the streets and government being highly criticism for corruption and overused of power. The 1970's were bit anarchism at the time. It wasn't until later, that things became more balance and confinement. In a way, social institutions do serve a purpose; and the movie serves as allegory tale, showing how things like order vs chaos can become really off-balance. The movie really goes into deep detail on how different authorities, McMurphy and Ratched control individuals through subtle and coercive methods. A supporting character like the Chief (Will Sampson) talks about 'the Combine' in reference to the mechanistic way, both manipulate and process individuals. Nurse Ratched controls the inhabitants of the novel's mental ward through a combination of emasculation and subtle shame. While, McMurphy controls his fellow men by encouraging them to be wild men and challenge conformism. It was no surprise that both Louise Fletcher and Jack Nicolson won Best Actor/Actress at the Academy Awards that year, as both delivered such a gripping, gritty, and genuine performances. The movie has just as good, supporting cast with several unknown actors of the time, stars like Christopher Lloyd, Danny Devito, and Brad Dourif helping in. I like how the movie was shot. Forman's direction is dead-on, as he manages to capture the monotony of routine on the ward without allowing the film to drag. You get how eerily quiet it is. Order is impose on the patients with almost religious cult-like rigor. When the medicine is delivered. It's like communion. It's so zombie-like. The animal running along a man-made chain fence- representing wild vs civilize. The movie is full of hidden gem themes like those examples. Yet the movie was missing a few things from the novel such as the Fog which symbolize a lack of insight and an escape from reality and McMurphy's Moby Dick Boxer Shorts, which interpretation as a phallic symbol and blatant sexuality. It can also represents the pervasive evil that inspires Ahab's obsessive, futile pursuit. Both Ratched and McMurphy is trying to humiliation the other, by exposing the faults of each other's gender. A third interpretation is that Moby-Dick stands for the power of nature, signifying McMurphy's untamed nature that conflicts with the controlled institution. Although it's hard to find fault, it's certainly possible. Overpowering women are seem to evil by the writers and weak women are shown to act like sex object. It's somewhat noticeable that the movie is a bit misogyny. Another thing, is the movie's love letter message to society anarchy and black and white approach when it comes to, the hospital vs the patients. Another fault of the film is how the Chief was cut down as the narrator and put into a much smaller role. Much of his life prior to the hospital was not shown. You see a lot of Native-American themes throughout the film, despite that. The music by Jack Nitzsche, sounds something out of a western. It's represented the struggles of true freedom over confinement. Despite its dark and strong drama undertones, there were some comedic tendencies. It was a lot of fun to watch, as the drama slowly evolves into tragedy toward its conclusion. It's wasn't slow and painful. It was a very entertaining, well rounded film. The movie has aged well, with newer DVD copies, putting out the best quality for it. Overall: The film is powerful, and moving. It's a must-watch. I recommended it.
Very touching and emotional movie ...
Jack Nicholson's performance is historical
This is one of the greatest movies ever made


                
"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" may be Milo Forman's best work to day and stands the test of time as an enduring classic about an eccentric McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) at odds with a wound up nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). If any film examines the social issues on people's minds back in 75' as well as "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", it's grandeur should replace this one because this film takes a thorough and complex dive into insanity and its definition. Based on the book by Ken Kesey, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is a fleshed out and realized story of a man who pleads insanity to get out of jail/work time and is therefore, admitted to an insane asylum. While there, he disrupts the inmates flow of order and routine and wreaks havoc on the employees with Nurse Ratched. The film tends to balance this tightrope of insanity by presenting characters we not only believe in, but somehow feel we know personally. Potentially due to incredible characterization through outstanding performances, plausible dialogue, and clear direction from Milo Forman. "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" features one of Jack Nicholson's best performances ever put to film; Understandably winning Jack Nicholson a "Best Actor in a Leading Role" Oscar. His electric and wildly entertaining performances however, doesn't overshadow Louise Fletcher's stern and deeply intimidating performance as a menacing, strict, and unfeeling antagonist. While both our protagonist and antagonist are clear from the beginning, the story wisely blurs that line of hero and villain by asking the audience "Who is crazy?" near the end of the film. The film also makes a case to examine the individual consequences wrought on by mental institutions with all their imperfections. When we see images of cages, walls, and windows to represent barriers, we understand a humanistic need to break them and explore uncharted territory. Alternatively, most inmates in the asylum feel so institutionalized by said asylum which stunts further healing from whatever conditions debilitate them. So while "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is wonderfully characterized and unified in plot right up to the end, it feels like an important film with things to say and questions to ask about insanity and what makes a person crazy.While "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is indeed a masterpiece of filmmaking as many lead it to believe, it isn't without its flaws. As the film draws near its end, we learn who was really changed in this story and who's story this is to tell. This was indeed a powerful narrative tool in the end which makes its climax sensical, more context and characterization for this character would've improved the ending for a more satisfying conclusion. A lot more catharsis could've been rendered if we had a chance to connect with that character more and the movie could've driven some more clearer points home to help understand why watching the film would be important regardless of time period. Aside from the smaller negatives, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" is an unforgettable and wonderful movie that deserves to be watched and studied as carefully as possible.
The 1975 instant classic One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was a blistering and intense comedy-drama that was the first film since 1934's It Happened One Night to sweep the top six major Oscars.This film, based on a novel and play by Ken Kesey, is the story of one Randle P. McMurphy (Jack Nicholson), a career criminal who has been given the option of going to jail or going to a mental institution and his swift and immediate battle of wills with the institution's iron- fisted head nurse, Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher), who he challenges at every turn, not to mention his Pied Piper effect on his fellow patients, which doesn't help endear him to Nurse Ratched either.Kirk Douglas starred in the play on Broadway and his son, Michael Douglas, won an Oscar as one of the producers of this film. Milos Foreman's meticulous direction also won him an Oscar, but it is the electrifying performance by Jack Nicholson that, after four previous nominations, finally nabbed him an Oscar, as he created a truly original character in McMurphy who is a consistent enigma throughout the film, specifically in the sense of whether or not McMurphy is really mentally defective. Nicholson presents a character that allows us to ponder throughout without never being richly entertained for every moment he is on screen. McMurphy induces cheers when he gets overruled to watch the World Series on TV and he pretends to watch the game on TV anyway without turning it on...there is such a joy in watching the other inmates figuring out what he's doing and joining in the game. His final climactic confrontation with Nurse Ratched also will induce cheers.Louise Fletcher won the Oscar for Outstanding Lead Actress for her bone- chilling performance as Nurse Ratched. Fletcher beautifully underplays this extremely unsympathetic character, never resorting to scenery- chewing histrionics, but never forgetting that Ratched is clearly the villain of this piece. It's sad that Flecther's career did a swift downhill after this film because it's a masterful performance of such subtlety and delicacy. Meryl Streep is the only other actress I can think of who could have pulled this role off.Brad Dourif was robbed of one of the few Oscars the film didn't win, Best Supporting Actor, for his moving and riveting performance as Billy Bibbit, the soulful, stuttering manchild with mother issues whose hero worship of McMurphy helps him to develop some backbone up to a point. Mention should also be made of the performances of William Redfield, Danney De Vito, Vincent Schiavelli as fellow patients and especially Will Sampson as the quiet giant Chief Bromden, on whom McMurphy has a remarkable effect.A one of a kind motion picture experience with one of the most beautifully optimistic endings I can recall in a motion picture. 9/10
When I was recommended this movie, I only knew Jack Nicholson was involved, nothing more, then I read some reviews, and, unfortunately, realized how the ending would be (No Spoilers).This did't mean I would't watch the movie. I was talked awesomely about this film, and I wanted to see how good it really was.When I started, I could't move away from my TV's screen, 'cause what I was watching, was a real "Good Film". Jack Nicholson's portrayal of Randy McMurphy was fantastical, also Louis Fletcher and Brad Dourif, who surprised me very much.Until the end, I was enjoying this "must-see masterpiece" without caring about the fact I knew how it would conclude, so, when the time came, I started to feel like talking to McMurphy, literally, to make him aware of what would happen to him. I was caring about Jack Nicholson's character, something Milos Forman nailed.I won't say what happens, because that's something you need to find out, but what I can say, is that I almost cried. The soundtrack, the acting, the cinematography, everything just before the credits is perfect.I really recommend this film, if you haven't watched it yet.Thank you Milos Forman, for one of the best films I've seen.


                
Jack Nicholson's mere presence in this picture was enough to bring this production to the screen, after the novel written by Ken Kesey was dubbed as 'unfilmable'; once Nicholson had his name on the contract, Hollywood took over. Nicholson's performance granted him an Oscar with acknowledgements that he was born to play the role of a misfit gone crazy when admitted into an insane asylum. The picture was moving yet simple and funny and was labelled as a dramatic masterpiece as it highlighted society's distorted outlook on the 'mentally unstable' and eventually won the 'top five' Oscars and was the second film in history to do so. This could never have been achieved if Nicholson's reputation had not got the ball rolling on this project in the first place. This picture was rightly the definition of the character that Nicholson should play and made him the top choice to play Jack Torrance in The Shining and the Joker in the 1989 interpretation of Batman.
I would rate "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," directed in 1975 by Milos Forman, 9 out of 10 stars. The actors in this film were very well casted. All the actors looked and fit their part. I don't think they could have found better actors for the characters in this movie. The characters were easy to connect with and relate to. Jack Nicholson does an excellent job playing the role of the stubborn McMurphy, and Louise Fletcher does a good job playing the role of the mean and scary Nurse Ratched. Watching them two bicker and compete against each other during the whole movie was quite enjoyable. The movie was pretty well paced. None of the scenes in the movie seemed rushed to the point where you wouldn't be able to understand what is going on. My favorite scene in the movie is when McMurphy brings the women onto the ward and they cause chaos during the night while Nurse Ratched is gone. The only thing about this movie that I did not like is that it does not follow the book completely. There are some scenes from the movie that are included from book such as the fishing trip and McMurphy and Chief Bromden getting sent up to Disturbed. Some events not shown in the movie are Cheswick's death and Chief's hallucinations. Chief also was not very prominent in the movie as he was in the book, which was kinda disappointing. Because of this criteria, I recommend watching this movie. I think it is one of the greatest films ever made.


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerThis film is a classic that should be seen by everyone. The story is funny, disturbing, and the characters are so unique and genuine. The story shows us what can happen is authoritative figures become consumed in their own power.The acting is amazing. Jack Nicholson is perfect. He plays a wisecracking man who defies all authority. Louise Fletcher plays the infamous Nurse Ratched. She is absolutely perfect. All of the actors in this film perform very well.The pacing is perfect and the runtime is short for the source material.Milos Forman has made films, that on paper seem mundane and boring, that capture the mind and soul. He is a master of storytelling.Pros: Funny yet disturbing story, a great character study, unique characters, amazing acting, perfect pacing, a good runtime, and how Milos Forman can create such intriguing and capturing filmsCons: The film is rather old but it holds up in most parts. The acting can seem outdated and the cameras used for the film make the film seem grainy Overall Rating: 9.4


                
When One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest came out in 1975, it undoubtedly left an impression on moviegoers that still lasts to these days. It clearly was a direct and frontal indictment on the mental health care system of the day, when antiquated and primitive methods of treating patients with mental illness were still being used. The movie indeed had a lasting effect on the study and treatment of mental illness afterward.The movie presents a difficult subject for many to comprehend and appreciate given the natural perception of many towards mental illness. The movie was a complete success thanks in great part to a well assembled cast of actors, who played complex and vulnerable individuals trapped in circumstances not of their own making. The movie portraits very well the conflict between stern disciplinarians, technically-apt (impractical and unwise) professionals and social custodians vs. the carefree and unfortunate individuals in society, that still is relevant today.


                
This film is a brutal commentary and observation about mental health services in the United States. Many of these facilities have since closed. Many of these patients would be homeless on the streets. I only saw bits and pieces of the film in the past. Finally to see it altogether, Jack Nicholson is perfect as McMurphy. Nurse Ratched is well played by Louise Fletcher. Nurse Ratched is seen as the villain and labeled one of film history's villains. I don't see Nurse Ratched that way though. I don't know her enough. I believe she is doing her job which is difficult heading a psychiatric ward. I guess we see her coldness and true nature at the end when she discovers Bill's indiscretion. She uses it against him cruelly which leads him to tragedy. But I still don't think Nurse Ratched is this monster.


                
an iconoclastic book crafted into a brilliant but difficult movie; obvious cudos to nicholson (back when he was acting), screenplay, direction; shooting is average; oddly, was recently shown (nov '12) on tcm as part of their series on handicapped, disability in film; the strange take being that films showing demented people (or crippled people, or otherwise disabled people) are somehow off, not true, not up to par; the PC culture reigns supreme- even, according to tcm, for movies set in the 17th century, like bedlam; as though best years of our lives should not have shown homer with no hands- even though the book it's from showed him with a horrible series of much more disturbing problems; so if you approach the movie with that PC view in mind it's so flawed; on the other hand it's a tight look at the individual versus the system, the loner versus the crowd, what you think you should do even when everyone says you should not; the late 60's-early 70's message, unfortunately, is that you lose- as though it presages the coming of the nanny state, the transposing of jfk's what you can do for your country to obama's what can your country do for you;though there are many movies about asylums and dementia, this one stays almost till the end on the edge of sane or not; that's what makes it interesting


                
This film should be thought of as a re-imagining of the book. It may be different to the novel, but so what. The film is a good film, a separate entity to the book. When a director adapts a book to the big screen, a better film is made when they're not working within the boundaries of someone elses perception, after all, whats the point of having a carbon copy of the book on screen? Jack Nicholson is nearly always great, and it has some great impacts when its shifting from scene to scene, funny then depressing, a microcosm of emotions, a clasic film, I loved it


                
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is one of the most beloved classics of all-time and features Jack Nicholson as McMurphy, a man who's been ordered by a court to undergo psychiatric evaluation at a mental hospital. McMurphy doesn't show signs of mental illness, but he does have a strong anti-authoritarian impulse, and he establishes himself as a leader among the inmates shortly after his arrival. He's an obvious wild card in an otherwise stable population of patients who are tightly controlled by Nurse Ratched, played to chilling perfection by Louise Fletcher. Ratched employs a host of manipulative suppression techniques to keep the patients under her thumb, and McMurphy becomes her nemesis, attempting to subvert her authority wherever possible. The film, which swept the Academy Awards, on a surface level is about the personal struggle between the ideologies of the two major characters, but it can also be viewed as a metaphor for the culture wars of the 60s and 70s. The film also powerfully illuminates the oppression of the mentally ill under a system incapable of treating them with dignity, as they are stripped of their humanity and kept out of sight from society.


                
This film is one of the classic movies of the 1970s, thanks in no small measure to the talents of director Milos Forman. It was Nicholson's first Oscar win and this remains, in many ways, his signature performance. I enjoyed the picture because it is an action romance, worked out in wonderfully inventive detail and presented with mesmeric immediacy by one of the screen's most resourceful directors.
This is one of the few movies that hasn't and will never age with time. An all time classic. Jack Nicholson is stellar as always but in this role in particular, he just knocks it out of the park.You can recognize some early faces of major celebrities such as Christopher Lloyd and Danny Devito. I've heard that the movie differs from the book but knowing the changes I think it still works. I don't really care about the Oscars but thank god this one got recognized back then, it would have been a crime to not prize this movie. Another thing I can say about this movie is it's subtlety. The main character isn't exactly an hero and the "antagonist" can't quite be categorized as a villain. It's up to your interpretation. I thought that was a nice to this masterpiece.


                
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was a social protest film that attacked the social stereotypes and tragic failures of the mental health system. The film pulls no punches and is often hard to watch, but is so powerful in it's message that it remains a classic film of the 1970's. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a complex film, about complex people misidentified as simple. Much like other modern protest films One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest applies to one societal problem, but can transcend its subject matter and represent more modern problems, making it truly timeless.Many films have approached the community aspect of human life, some attacking it some defending it, this film seems to do both at the same time. The film contains a major paradox, both criticizing those who shun people from society for their differences, while showing that community is part of the human way of life, and that even society's rejects need community. Most of the shots throughout the film are medium or close ups, which most likely represents what a close group the patients are. It's both tragic, brilliant, and heartwarming to see how a group of neglected and forgotten people can band together, when society turns its back on them.The most impressive aspect of the film is the treatment of the characters, which is most likely a representation of the time it came out. Many of the characters in this film are connected by the fact that they have mental health issues, and they are rejects, but the characters are all distinctly different characters, and not just stereotypes. The treatment of the characters is impressive in it's own right, because today critics would probably say that the film is insensitive, it's humor is occasionally a little crude, but it's the exact opposite, the characters are treated as normal human beings, which is the most equal way to treat any character in any film.The movie contains a very angry message pointed at the methods of treatment for the mentally ill, and is an extremely powerful, albeit a little hard to watch, because of it. Simply put as the film progresses we see all of these characters, go through the horrific treatment they were subjected to, all the while following one main character, Randle. By the end of the film the main character is a vehicle for the message being sent, as the story takes Randall, a broken man, and breaks him permanently. By the end the audience should realize that they have watched a film, exemplifying the tragedy of the failing system.In conclusion One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a powerful, social protest film that uses great characters to send it's message. Beautifully acted, tragic, and infinitely complex, its message transcends its subject matter and represent a tragedy of the system's ineptitude. It's also one of the few movies that can tackle such a tough subject with care, respect, and finesse, it's just in general a great film.


                
The story Goes about the Main character McMurphy accepting his new life in the hospital, and nurse Ratched plays the antagonist, despite her role being the good guy and McMurphy being the bad guy. This isn't a story about Anti hero, but Rather about how far do people push each other until something serious happens. Both McMurphy and Nurse Ratched push each other like a competitive game, and it the end it hurt them and innocent victims who were in the wrong place at the wrong time. The acting was great, and the stakes they held were reasonable, they had a realistic view on the environment that they were in. I read the book too, but despite the book having much better detail, the movie did great, it told the story well.


                
Cuckoo's Nest fills you with all the awe human hope can give, then it slams its dead remains right in your face, just as you despair it then offers to revive it one more time.A roller-coaster of emotions, one might say.I haven't seen Chinatown yet but I've seen a lot of Jack Nicholson and this is my favourite role of his. He plays a believable Jack-the-Lad, the kind you knew at some point in your life: annoying to some, endearing to others. However you viewed the Jack in your life, he always had time for you, perhaps even changed you in some way.But this isn't just his story, that's the beauty of his character: he has time for everyone and thus you feel the stories of the other characters in that Nest, you might relate with some too, or at least recognise someone.And Nurse Ratched? If you don't know anything about her character best to stop reading about this film and just watch it.Undoubtedly the best mental-asylum film ever, without trope...just bags of humanity (all shades of it).


                
Have you ever found a piece of old schoolwork and realized how dumb you were? That now, with all of your more developed skills, you could've done that same assignment to a higher degree of quality or ease? That's how I felt watching One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest for the second time. 2 years ago I enjoyed the plot, characters, and ending, but now, 2 years and over 150 films later, I can appreciate One Flew Over for what it is: a masterpiece of fiction, and a deceptively challenging piece of art.I'll jump past the plot synopsis and get to the heart of the film: R.P. MacMurphy. The slacker, rebel, that kid in class who just wouldn't listen. How can you deal with a character like MacMurphy? Is something wrong with him? This is a major thematic point in Cuckoo's Nest, and the answers aren't simple. What gives someone the right to make choices for another? What is the point that someone can't think for themselves? Is there a point? Questions beget questions, especially around the idea of "authority".That authority is personified by Nurse Ratched. She looks like an authority figure: icy glare, skull- like face. Instantly you dislike the nurse. You're pointed in that direction by the patients. But personally, when looking at her character objectively, I didn't find her bad for most of the film. Let me elaborate: a few weekends ago I met an children's organ transplant doctor. It is the most noble of work, but visually I could tell it took a toll on him. He wasn't rude, or volatile, or detached, but what he described himself as "serious". Working in healthcare, seeing things go wrong, that wears you down. I believe Ratched, working (for a long time), hearing mental patients yell about trivial things such as cigarettes, day after day, takes its toll. You wouldn't be a cheerful soul after years of that. Of course at the end she does flex her cruelty and we really grow to resent her, but for most of the film I thought she was just doing her job.This is a great film to analyze because it's so opinionated. Two similar people can see it, and based off of their own experiences will draw very different conclusions about the message and characters. Many others hate Nurse Ratched. I'm sure there are those out there who don't like MacMurphy. Some will say control is necessary, others that freedom is the most important thing out there. Cuckoo doesn't really force you into believing one certain way.The hospital itself if juxtaposing: the setting is a plain, boring hospital with drab white everything, but the characters are quirky and colourful. I loved them all, and didn't find anyone really annoying: Chezwick's extremity, Tobar's big reactions, the Chief, General, Billy, and a near- silent Stanley Kubrick-alike. This band of misfits are a joy to watch, and have some laugh-out-loud moments like Martini eating the dice and the basketball game.Despite the hospital setting, Cuckoo is a generally smile-inducing film with a fantastic script that develops its characters well for the conclusion. And oh, the end. It is really a twist, but the second you realize what's happened, how the chips have fallen, you give an audible gasp. This is one of the great film endings, bitter and sweet, but very satisfying. It may even bring a tear to your eye. 9.4/10


                
Oregon 1963. Randle McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) a criminal ,is admitted in mental asylum due to insanity, faked by him to avoid jail . His ward mates are the stammering nervous wreck Billy Bibbit (Brad Dourif) who fears his mother, timid & childish Charlie Cheswick (Sydney Lassik, delusional Martini (Danny DeVito) ,paranoid Dale Harding (William Redfield), profane Max Taber (Christopher Lloyd), Chief Bromden (Will Sampson) a gigantic deaf & mute native American.The institution is run by the domineering Nurse Mildred Ratched (Louise Fletcher).McMurphy discovers that the patients fear her & their fear of her is stronger than their will to get cured, her therapy sessions & schedule meant to keep the patients docile & under control than curing them. McMurphy quickly becomes the dominant & most troublesome patient in the ward by his complete disregard for authority & rules, challenging Ratched whenever possible.When she refuses to let him watch the world series, he defiantly stands in front of the switched off TV, shouting baseball commentary,causing other patients to disrupt the ward.He also teaches the patients basketball ,making the withdrawn Chief admire him. Once he steals the bus meant to take the patients on a tour, herds his fellow patients aboard, picks up his hooker girlfriend Candy (Marya Small) ,and on reaching the shore, takes them all fishing in a boat after tricking its captain.This is one of the only two outdoors scene in the entire film, and it makes the viewer feel the brief freedom that the patients enjoy in the open sea, away from the claustrophobic environment.This leads to stricter restrictions on him. He learns that the hospital can detain him indefinitely. All the other patients in the ward, except hard cases, are voluntarily committed. During one of the sessions, Cheswick,McMurphy & Chief fight with the guards and are hence sent for electro-therapy.McMurphy learns to his delight, that Chief has only been pretending to be deaf & mute all this time to avoid attention.That same night, he decides that he has had enough and decides to escape, as he cannot risk being sent back to prison. He asks Chief to come with him, but he declines, stating his fear of the world. He calls Candy and another girl, asking them to smuggle liquor with them. They sneak in, and McMurphy even ropes in the warden in the liquor party involving the patients, which quickly leads to the dismantling of the entire ward.McMurphy prepares to leave and sees that Billy is the most emotional to see him go. He decides to have Candy spend a night with Billy. McMurphy and the other patients then, unluckily for them, fall asleep due to combined effect of alcohol and medication.Nurse Ratched and the orderlies arrive in the morning to find the ward wrecked completely. All the patients are summoned. McMurphy and Chief are held back as they try to make a quick getaway. She is enraged to find a half dressed Billy with Candy, who for the first time faces her confidently without stammering. Ratched ,using her usual weapon, threatens that she will tell his mother about it. Billy reverts to his old stammering and nervous self and is locked up in a room. Unable to control his nervous breakdown, he kills himself. McMurphy is devastated and viciously attacks Nurse Ratched. He nearly strangles her to death before being knocked down by the orderlies and taken away.The scene moves many days ahead. All kinds of rumours are flying around about McMurphy, ranging from he has been subdued like a lamb to he has escaped. The Chief listens curiously. Nurse Ratched is shown smiling weakly, a shadow of her former self.Late that night as others sleep, McMurphy is brought in and laid on his bed. Chief rushes over to him and whispers that they escape right away. Getting no response, Chief tries reviving him and is horrified to see that he has been lobotomized .Chief decides that he cannot leave his friend in such a pitiful existence,as a symbol of Ratched's victory. He suffocates McMurphy to death before the others wake up. He then smashes the window of the ward by a heavy slab and escapes just as dawn breaks.Jack Nicholson as Randle McMurphy is the soul of this film, and he plays the anti authoritarian, rebellious, crazy and unpredictable character to perfection. His performance is a lesson for any aspiring actor and a treat for any admirer of cinema.Louise Fletcher brilliantly plays one of most coldest villains ever.Of the supporting cast, Brad Dourif as Billy Bibbit is the best.Small but significant performances are given by Christopher Lloyd , William Redding . Will Samspson as Chief Bromden is impressive.Milos Foreman adapts the novel with a few minor changes (in the novel, Chief Bromden is the narrator and all the other inmates escape in the end).The story uses the context of a mental institution to portray the never ending & largely hopeless struggle of the individual against the establishment, resulting in the certain destruction of the individual / section fighting it, but it has to be carried on for the hope of change. The film ends in McMurphy's defeat &destruction, but he also ends up shrinking Ratched into a mere mortal from someone who looks invincible. Out of the two people whose life he changes, Billy meets a sad end, but Chief Bromden lives upto the hope sowed in him by the doomed McMurphy, thereby signifying a little change that has been achieved.The closed settings depicting the mental ward and the robotic movements & compliance of the patients to the numbing schedule depicting safe but hated slavery of the individual is a contrast to the final scene of the film which shows the dawn breaking through the smashed window from which Chief Bromden escapes to an uncertain but welcome future.Which one would you choose?
A tragedy drama that makes you look forward to what Jack is going to do next.I remember the feeling I had the first time I watched this movie over 10 years ago, the feeling was mutual watching it again in 2012.The movie is based on the 1962 novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest by Ken Kesey and it was shot at Oregon State Hospital in Salem, Oregon, which was also the setting of the novel.The director Milo<U+009A> Forman made sure that you get to feel a sort of attachment with the characters so you share their feelings of joy, sadness, remorse and loss at various times in the movie.The movie is blessed with some nice classic actors like Jack Nicholson, Brad Dourif, Christopher Lloyd and Danny DeVito just to mention a few.The movie focuses on the free spirited Randle P. McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) who is sent for evaluation at a mental hospital.Upon getting there Randle had an idea that he was to do time, not knowing that he was there till the doctors say he is free to go.He made friends with some of the patients in the institution like mama's boy Billy (Brad Dourif) and silent Native American Bromden (Will Sampson) who all thought was deaf and dumb and whom he called Chief.The psyche ward is handled by Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher), who is seen more like the antagonist in this flick.McMurphy was an instigator of unruly behaviour from breaking him and his fellow patients out from the hospital to go on a boat trip and to a night party at the hospital which led to a tragedy.The movie did have a message, live free, be happy don't allow yourself to be tied down by anyone or anything or let either stand in the way of your happiness.Two of Milo<U+009A> Forman films, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) and Amadeus (1984), both gained him an Academy Award for Best Director.The movie was the second to win all five major Academy Awards which were Best Picture, Best Actor in Lead Role, Best Actress in Lead Role, Best Director, and Best Screenplay, an accomplishment not repeated until 1991 by The Silence of the Lambs.The thing about the movie that gets to me most has always been the ending, tragedy never sits well with me sometimes especially in the case of this movie.Well if you haven't had a dose of this movie, then you need to.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Jack Nicholson plays the best crazy person that I have ever seen. This is the pinnacle of his career! Unfortunately, this is probably the movie that secured in everyones mind that Nicholson plays a crazy person well. He's been type casted ever since.It has a great story that actually very accurately depicts the inner workings of a mental facility like that. Especially for the time. You may think that the barbarism that takes place in the movie no longer existed at that point in time, but actually it still takes place in facilities like that all over the country. You better hope that if you get locked up, you get put with someone like Nicholson!


                
