Watching this, you can just tell that Larry David thinks he's the funniest person ever. He thinks he's so funny that every episode can be like a slow-paced version of Whose Line Is It Anyway, starring only himself. His performance is so fake and full of self-admiration that you can almost see him grinning proudly at the camera whenever he hears the sound of his own voice. But it's just not interesting to hear him go on and on in a stereotypical, slow and uninspired version of neurotic-Jewish-comedian style. It's especially annoying when he repeats the same thing over and over in an obvious attempt to appear humorously neurotic that quickly becomes boring (eg "a guy in a suit stealing my newspaper? A GUY IN A SUIT STEALING MY NEWSPAPER? A guy in a suit... stealing my newspaper!?" ... repeating a joke that's already obvious does not make it better).Not to mention that the humor is basically the same style as in Seinfeld. Yes, of course this show is not identical to Seinfeld; it's less clever. I will never understand why everyone else seems to think this show is so great.


                
I get the feeling that a lot of the people who have positive comments about "Curb your Enthusiasm," heard good things about it and just went along with the crowd in thinking it was good. Folks, this is the worst show I have watched recently. Larry David is no actor and it seems like the scenes were all done with only one take. Some people like the improvised style but I have seen many directors do improv much better.Larry David comes off as an angry anxious guy. His situations really are not funny. I found the DVD so mediocre that I didn't watch the whole thing. I haven't done that in years. Yes, I did not like Seinfeld either.


                
This show contains all of the annoying traits of "Seinfeld" and none of the humour. I watched the pilot and most of the first episode. What I saw was people misinterpreting situations (example - the tenting of the pants), people over-reacting to situations (example - the Hitler comment), and people being rude to other people (example, Jeff's making a big fuss over having HBO pay for Larry's porn video in the hotel). This isn't comedy. This is just irritating. This is just grown people acting like children. This is the same reason that I could never understand why "Everybody Loves Raymond" was such a big hit. The only redeeming feature of the show is the complete lack of snotty kids who treat their parents with complete disrespect and contempt.


                
While there are moments to comedy setup worthy of broadcast, the series is rife with extended bitching by Larry David with unnecessary profanity. Plots are strained in logical flow and forced in trying to make points. More often than not, the best acting is delivered by the cameo appearances of professionals in non-Seinfeld related industries.The only redeeming performance of this series is given by Cheryl Hines who gives a strong and steady dose of level sanity to her part, but whose career takes a hit every time she appears on the show. Her choice of staying is showing its impact in her limited repertoire in production relegating her to voice-overs in equal amounts to performances which fail to show her at her best. If she left, the show would be nothing but a cameo bust; if she stays, she should be commanding a significantly higher salary.Really a waste of time and money.


                
CYE is undoubtedly one of the worst shows of its type I have ever had the displeasure to watch. Yes I know Larry David thinks he is so absolutely brilliant, witty and funny. Actually he is just a balding middle aged unattractive guy who likes to endlessly babble a lot and, in fact, seems to have lost it. If he has any talent (and I am certain he does) then he left it behind to do this excuse for a TV show.It is a load of tiresome trash and I cannot believe the networks allowed it to run so long. The Government should use it for torture instead of water boarding. It will be far more effective.The fact that irritating nonsense like this survives so long in the US is testament to how effective the "dumbing down" of America is.Ah - yes. That is correct. I did not like the show at all. (See what I mean about dumbing down).But then a few people made a lot of money out of this and at the end of the day that is what it is all about. Good luck to them.


                
Larry David as Larry David plays a self-entitled, rich white man who thinks that the world revolves around him and he can get anything and everything he wants. His performance in this is so anger inducing because you see a lot of these interactions everyday from people of Larry's age who think servers, nurses, toll operators are pieces of dirt and should be treated like dirt. His delivery hits you at a spot where you feel sorry for everyone he comes in contact with and at the end of the episode you feel that whatever comeuppance he receives is not enough because he won't change his ways at all and rather be even more horrible the next time around. This is a show that you wouldn't want to watch if you have a bad day and needed comfort. This is a show you want to watch when you're in a mood for revenge, or are in a fit of rage from something because you will curse at Larry David over and over and take particular pleasure from seeing him suffer.


                
This TV show is really bad. it s always the same and it s not funny. I think most of people are dumbs because of the rate of this think This is too easy not smart. I understand why there is such think as Jersey shore and avatar making money. Maybe i should take a lot of drugs to appreciate.This TV show is really bad. it s always the same and it s not funny. I think most of people are dumbs because of the rate of this think This is too easy not smart. I understand why there is such think as Jersey shore and avatar making money. Maybe i should take a lot of drugs to appreciate.This TV show is really bad. it s always the same and it s not funny. I think most of people are dumbs because of the rate of this think This is too easy not smart. I understand why there is such think as Jersey shore and avatar making money. Maybe i should take a lot of drugs to appreciate. it s like my review


                
What a lazy show this is. I read somewhere that it's entirely ad-libbed, and this must be true, as the dialogue is so bad it's a discredit to its nonexistent writers. Or at least I hope they're nonexistent.It's self-important schlock like this which makes me feel so alienated from the rest of society. A bunch of rich people strut around in front of a camera and do nothing and say nothing. Larry David starts fights for no reason at all. His manager makes icky misogynistic comments. Is this entertainment? I skipped around a bit waiting for it to get good, but it didn't.The top review for this show assigns numerical rankings to each episode, rounded to the closest 0.5/10. I suppose there were some which were too good to be 8's, but not quite 9's. This same self-indulgence saturates everything on TV right now, and I'm sick of it.


                
I am really shocked at the positive reviews, I think Larry David must have paid people to write them. Speaking of Larry David, the man is not a good actor and sees to think he is WAY funnier than he is. The only good thing about this show are the guest stars and even that is not a reason to keep watching. This is a show that should have never been made.


                
This show is very Seinfeldesque except for one thing- It is about a rich guy having a bad day, which I am sure the majority would not be able to relate to. For eg. Larry is not able to buy the jewelry he wants, doesn't have small change on him etc. This show is only for those who are pretty well off and have an odd bad day or those who desire of one day being rich. Some other reviewers have the nerve to tell that those who do not like CYE should be rejected!


                
