Like Alan Partridge, which is a show from the UK (which pre-dates this) which is a similarly cynical grumpy older guy, but far far far less funny. At points it's superb, but overall it's only OK. Very watchable, but not brilliant.I would say American comedies aren't that great. They're put together by a team of 30+ people, whereas great British comedies, which are far superior are usually written in a closer knit team of 2-3. Case in point American office vs The Office, and this vs Alan Partridge. I've watched maybe two dozen episodes of this, so feel although I haven't seen them all, I have seen enough to comment. 4/10, watchable, but highly over-rated.


                
After avoiding this show for a very long time, a friend insisted that I would like it and should watch it. I was able to force myself to watch ten episodes and I'm far from impressed. A few episodes in you realize that David was the person who wrote all the gum jokes for Seinfeld. This show is literally 40% gum jokes and gum isn't funny. And why are Larry's wife and agent the only ones who don't play themselves? This is better than most network shows but that's not saying much.


                
I was on episode 4... the Bracelet, and I called it quits, this confounded show has well over 8 seasons?? How in the world is this comedic or considered funny in any way? The situations are pathetically methodical, nothing feels authentic, it is all so darned awkward and hard to watch.The Office is funny, Parks and Rec is hysterical, Friends is timeless, Bill Burr specials are hilarious, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is a comedic masterpiece but this show... this show is contrite. Its so pretentious, you can see on Larry David's face he thinks he is the center of the universe. What with him and Seinfeld, this has to be the most overrated, overly cherished and unfunny thing to have ever been conceived.Absolutely Fabulous for however quick and rather washed out with nonsense may be is funnier than this show. This was absolute torture to sit through for just 3 and a half episodes, I do not know how people managed to sit and finish it!!!!! WHAT?!


                
