Curb your enthusiasm continues to have its spurts of hilarity although it doesn't feel as relevant as it did 15 years ago. Larry David still has the same charm.


                
Curb Your Enthusiasm is in its 10th season of production, which is amazing when you consider Seinfeld only went nine. Larry David, like the self-centered-even-for-a-Seinfeld-sitcom George Costanza character, takes some getting used to, but he does things that most of us wish we would. Such as confront some jerk who parks in two public spaces. It is only a fictional sitcom, but David seems like he would do that in real life.
Some episodes go too far even for this darker comedy. Bringing back Michael "Kramer" Richards to poke fun at his 2006 real-life racist rant was a new low, until David likely went lower by eating the last meal of a dying dog. All he and his manager had to do was buy the yogurt and bring it back for the dog. I didn't laugh when they ate the yogurt during an argument on the ride home and was caught doing so by an acquaintance; I merely wondered why they couldn't buy yogurt cups for them if they were hungry. It didn't work as comedy - making light of a dog dying rarely does.
This is as much parody of society's excesses as any sitcom and does make you think of how the somewhat smaller nuisances in life can grow to become bigger problems. As pure entertainment, I prefer an Indiana Jones movie, but it makes me laugh in places. David is more mature than the Seinfeld characters, and he should be, being quite a bit older. But he still leaves me lacking many times.


                
I hired the first season of this show, and found it so hilarious, inspired, original, and engaging that I went ahead and purchased seasons 2, 3 and 4 sight unseen.Larry David, creator of Seinfeld, plays himself, and he really seems a charismatic, confident, laid back guy who would be great fun to hang out with. His mix of unflinching honesty and witty social commentary coupled with the outlandish situations he finds himself in through said honesty and his intentions frequently being misinterpreted by strangers and acquaintances, is riveting and often very funny.Similar to Seinfeld, his actions early in episodes, come back to trouble him later on, and he more than gives as well as he receives.I was really keen to love the follow up seasons just as much as the first, and for a relatively long time I managed to fool myself (I did spend $150 on these seasons, I didn't want to think I messed up)into thinking they had the same originality and fun.In fairness there were a couple of scenes per episode on average that brought a smile, but by and large, unfortunately for me, and every other person lucky enough to see the first season, far to much of the social situations Larry finds himself in, seem far too contrived to convince, also the frequency with which Larry finds himself in shouting and swearing matches with guest stars and such... well it loses it novelty.


                
It's tough to rate a show which was so good the first half but such a let down immediately thereafter. While many may disagree, surely there must be equally many fans like me. The first four seasons in my opinion are unprecedented comedy with some episodes so timeless that I could keep watching them forever. What happened after that I don't know, but to me, not a single episode from season 5 forward had any of the wit or spontaneity that seasons 1 through 4 had. Every joke seems old and predictable, as well as the execution. Even the parts other than Larry's. The only reason I stuck around for a while was a character named Leon, who was able to fill some of that comic vacuum for some time.While I'm afraid to recommend the show the way it is now, seasons 1 through 4 are a must see if you want to know what's been the greatest and smartest comedy ever produced on TV. Favorite episode: The 5 Wood.


                
