Honestly, Why this has not been picked up by a mainstream network in the UK I don't know. OK the content to put it mildly is risqué and the profanity is a little excessive. But I thought a late slot on BBC2 would be ideal (I think it may be on one of the channel 4 cable channels).Anyway this is a masterstroke, If any body thought Larry David was all spent after Sienfeld they were wrong (Assuming the average HMV shopper even knows who Larry David is). I strongly recommended you give this a go Seasons 1-3 can be picked up for a tenner on most websites.For once don't fall back on the heavily marketed shows the networks want us to think are real life (Friends Et al) Take a risk on this lovely little HBO number.


                
What got me into "Curb Your Enthusiasm" was the sense of humor of Larry David, and that's really the fulcrum on which the entire show sits. The guy really knows how to make all sorts of something out of nothing - primarily mucking up your everyday social situations. It's the kind of material in which you'll invariably mutter, "Oh, that's gonna go badly." It usually ends with Larry suffering some or other misfortune . . . or getting into a shouting match with a group of Girl Scouts. His character is an epic jackass.This show's got a (re)watchability almost as high as "Seinfeld". It's fantastic stuff.9/10


                
HAHAHAH. CYE is one of the few American comedies i can bring myself to watch. It reminds me a fair bit or Seinfeld in the way it observes life's quirks and unwritten rules. Larry David uses awkward and realistic situations that puts human nature in the spotlight.However this being said it is not for everyone. People who like cheap gags or forced humor might not be impressed with CYE. I myself would have given it a ten but gave it a nine not for this reason, but because it does have some suss bits and the constant swearing makes it less enjoyable (for me anyway.) Larry David is a terrible example of a Jew, and we get to see what being him is like. It's odd because it is about the real Larry David (unlike Seinfeld where it was only partially autobiographical.) There are constant Seinfeld references on this show and you will see the actors who played the characters in Seinfeld in CYE.Definitely bordering on a new genre of comedy, this is definitely worth a look for those who can handle a more dark, sophisticated brand of humor.


                
I learned about Curb your Enthusiasm way to late, i think it was 4 years ago. Still never bothered to look it up. As i went to all the Seinfeld episodes for the +/- 5th time. I just had to try it. And sir, i was not disappointed. Brilliant. Comedy as it should be. Larry David is king. In my opinion there are only 3 good comedy series, thats Seinfeld, Scrubs and Curb your Enthusiasm. There i Said it. There is only 1 point of critic, there are some jokes in the series that i already knew from Seinfeld. Little references or names. Thats why this series gets a 9 out of 10 from me. Seinfeld is 10. Scrubs 8. Yada Yada Yada.....


                
The older characters of this show are one of the best parts of CYE-- don't miss them!!! The older folks who are part of their friendships- funny. The older folks who are part of their neighborhood , also funny. The random older folks- hilarious. The guest or friends of someone within their families- a riot. The workers around them in various places-- very humorous. The new friends who have family, who are older-- also very good. The older actors in general-- just will crack you up! Love them and don't be crazy and miss them, or some of their crazy reactions. Tivo if you have to, because the show moves in episode order.


                
If Kafka were a screenwriter living in the Mid-Wilshire district, this is the show he'd write. Larry, here channeling a monied Egbert Souse' ('accent grave over the 'e''), is just a guy trying to get through life with as few bruises as possible but he finds life stalking him.He gives offense when none is intended, he sees offense where none exists. To this add the obvious circumstance where self-defense calls for small arms fire and you have a day in the life of a Westside mensch.Surrounding himself with capable, if largely unknown, supporting players and a generous helping of guest stars, usually playing themselves, David then settled on the genius of improvised dialogue within scripted situations. The result is nearly sublime.The episodes seem to move at a snail's pace and yet turn on the relationships of well-developed characters dealing with just a soupcon of continuing plot lines to provide a sense of continuity. The Jewish sensibility is mined for the humor but is never overwhelming. This could just as easily be about any essentially decent, white middle-aged guy who has known a little success and doesn't have a good explanation as to how it happened. In fact, Larry doesn't have a particularly good explanation for how anything happens in his life, it all seems to move mysteriously from one unanticipated crisis to another.This is not for all tastes. While I find it laugh-out-loud funny, many will find the humor alternately sophomoric or obtuse, some allusions too esoteric or topical, the subject matter occasionally off-putting and in poor taste. But, in a way, that's the point, just like real life. (Disclaimer: Like Larry, I am an avuncular white guy with thinning hair and an aversion to coitus with known Republicans.) Coo-Day-Lah, Larry, Coo-Day-Lah.


                
This is another amazing series that Larry David has created once more. This series would become even more and more popular and have more hits if it was a local network such as NBC, ABC, CBS, or FOX. Since it is HBO, not many people are privileged to view HBO in their homes. Thus, if they cannot watch the show, they will not be aware of its genius and humor. Although, there is a catch, if the show is not on HBO, the creators of the show are not allowed to use profanity, which make the show much more hilarious. Like Larry David's previous mega-hit series, Seinfeld, CYE uses many of the same techniques that made Seinfeld such a success. Brilliant show, just a shame how the networks work.


                
This is comedy of the misanthrope. As you get older you understand that everybody actually is full of **** It's refreshing. Bob Einstein will be missed as Marty Funkhouser.


                
Honestly, I never really got into Seinfield. I have no idea why, I admit I need to give it yet another shot and force myself to watch the entire first season to see if I get into it. I've heard it said that you're either of lover of Seinfeld or Curb but not generally both - I have no idea how true that is, but it does seem to be true for me. 
I love how LD takes current cultural trends and then pokes fun at them. Personally, I think the later seasons are even better than the first! (but they are all good to me!)


                
Considering how bleak and depressing the new has been lately. the one positive glimmer is that Larry David has finally decided to do another year of "Curb" after a 4 year hiatus."CYE" has been accurately described as an R rated version of "Seinfeld" and I'm sure that everyone on this site knows that LD and Jerry were the creators of TV's biggest sitcom. As "Seinfeld" was,this is pretty much also a show about nothing. LD is playing himself and the LD character is a completely self-absorbed jerk. Rude, usually cheap. a complete busy body and the most genuinely obnoxious person ever on TV.(In short, what might have happened if George Costanza, Larry's alter-ego, had ended up rich, famous and living in Brentwood with a trophy wife.) Although there have been other loathsome TV characters, I can't imagine a writer making that person himself. Maybe Gleason as Ralph Cramden comes to mind, but "The Honeymooners" would always finish with the sweet scene when Ralph apologizes and hugs Alice. As in "Seinfeld" "CYE" does not allow any type of sentimental imagery. There is a bit of similarity between "Homeymooners" and "CYE." Quite a few of season 1-7 episodes deal with the misadventures of 2 married couples, Larry and the very hot Cheryl Hines and Jeff Garlin and Susie Essman, as their good friends, the Greenes. The rotund Garlin is also Larry's manager and quite a few episodes deal with the repercussions that occur after some of their various moronic schemes, as which happened with Ralph and Ed Norton. Hines actually has the Alice Kramden slow burn down pretty well. But absolutely no similarities between Susie and Trixie Norton, whose anger was limited to folding her arms, scowling and mouthing an exasperated "Oh Ed!" Susie Essman is the most incredibly foul mouthed spouse to have ever existed in the sitcom world and she steals every scene she's in.Their are more than a few clunkers in the 80 episodes and Larry can get on anyone's nerves after a while. Still, Seinfeld fans should love this. I would just hope in the renewal that the guest appearances by Ted Danson, Mary Steenburgen and Richard Lewis, playing themselves, are cut down, as well as a few other of the semi-regulars. Also keep Larry single as in season 8, more script possibilities.


                
The title already says it all: Creator/writer/actor Larry David makes perfectly clear that one shouldn't expect another "Seinfeld" from him, the show that he co-created, wrote and voice-acted in as well. Instead he goes for an experimental approach: He injects ingredients once already used in "Seinfeld", like sitcom fiction based on derivates of real persons, makes it all improvisation-based, and forms something entirely unique out of it that pushes the envelope - not in the laugh-out-loud style, but rather the cringeworthy way: In "Curb" Larry David is in fact Larry David and doesn't need to hide anymore behind a character named George. Even though it's a fictionalized Larry David - the character still has a lot of Larry himself, and he is direct, outspoken, awkward and embarrassing, basically exemplifying a lot of what many might carry in themselves but are more comfortable to watch on screen done by someone with a real name and goes through as a comedian. If social rules and etiquette have always been a thorn in your side, you'll be pleased to find a militant ally here. "Curb", like "Seinfeld", is a "show about nothing", with real life at the core, even though in this case it means the life of a well-off Jewish writer whose working schedule is somewhat unclear - not really the norm. But despite the apparent differences to the regular person one can nevertheless more and more relate to Larry the more one gets to understand the character in the course of the series and see him at loggerheads with a plethora of guest stars.The key element why "Curb" works of course is precisely why it is not a regular sitcom, the fact that it defies what we've been used to see in situation comedies: The show is not shot on sound stages in front of an audience, but in Los Angeles, there are no canned laughs, no scripted jokes. What's scripted are merely outlines, the actors ad-lib throughout and bring spontaneity and freshness to the scenes, which makes common comedy fare look staged and dated. "Curb" doesn't always succeed, but it feels organic and closer to life - and what more could you possibly ask for than to laugh at a slice of life, because it's just so true?


                
I would like to start by quoting a review i read on IMDb.'This show is awful. For all the people who think it is brilliant, yes I do "get it". I'm a big Seinfeld fan, and this is no Seinfeld.' There is one thing i would like to say to the author of above mentioned quote; NO, you clearly don't get it.Because it is obvious that this is clearly not Seinfeld. Seinfeld is more of a traditional sitcom, whereas this is more of a improvised experiment in comedy, and a genius one at that. It's like Seinfeld in a way because the humor and situations are quite the same. You can see Costanza in Larry David. But this is more realistic and true to Larry's real life.For 'Curb' is probably the most hilarious series since the office UK.


                
Larry David - Creator of 'Seinfeld' in an improvised show on HBO. What more do you want other than naked women? The thing with Curb Your Enthusiasm is that it is a very specific comedy. If you like sitcoms involving immature jokes about sex and gay people - this comedy isn't for you. Like 'This is Spinal Tap', 'Waiting for Guffman', and 'The office(UK)', a lot of the comedy is down to situations, lies and comedy gold embedded within short lines of dialogue that will be overlooked by the average Joe. Larry David's character 'Larry David' is simply how the real Larry David would act if he had no conscience. He is obnoxious, easily irritated by the common social rules we all live by and is slightly selfish - creating elaborate lies in order to meet his own ends, even though the majority of the time the end is beneficial to other people. An example which leaps to mind is Season 6, Episode 3 titled 'The Ida Funkhouser Memorial'. In order to please his wife and Loretta, he gives them flowers. However he stole those flowers from a road-side memorial to his friend's mother who passed away. The reason why he didn't just buy one was due to fact the fifty dollar note he has came from a sweaty shoe. The views and opinions of Larry you strongly agree with, you get angry and frustrated for him and the injustices that occur regularly around him creates memorable character indeed. Comedy gold is so often present within lines, born from improvisation and interaction. Curb Your Enthusiasm, due to the fact its improvised, has its slow episodes and its excellent episodes. No episode is the same in terms of hilarity and plot. Each series has a series arc - an ongoing event which is current in every episode of that series e.g. One series is about Larry being in a theatre production of 'The Producers'. Unwritten rules such as the losing of clothing from the dry cleaners being OK, finding a friends watch but then losing it yourself - does that mean you owe them a watch and when a host of a birthday party says no gifts - do they mean that are but a few of the vast mountain of social misunderstandings which Larry forever questions, often causing everyone to yell at him. Larry's character, realistic humour, original music and clever camera-work makes Curb very heart warming and creates big laughs and more genius than that - a deep understanding of Larry's emotions of frustration and also his plans and reactions to the results of the plans themselves.
Larry David plays himself, or, more likely an exaggerated version of himself. His character is rude, uncaring, self centered and vile (similar to the characters on Seinfeld), yet he manages to be extremely funny in all of his unlikability. He kind of portrays an everyman, and you can't help but root for him on his stupid, pointless adventures."Curb Your Enthusiasm" is filmed almost like a documentary. Most of the show is ad libbed, which gives it a really nice, casual feel. The show focuses on Larry David, who is a comedian, but seems to be living off his Seinfeld money. In most episodes there is some sort of misunderstanding, and Larry is abused in one way or another. Unlike Seinfeld, this show does not always rap itself up. Most of the episodes are just a progression of events, leading to an ending that may not rap up the story, but usually works.If you can't stand hostility and anger, then this isn't for you. Otherwise, check this show out.My rating: *** 1/2 out of ****. 30 mins. TVMA


                
Funny in a reasonably unique way.Written by and starring Larry David, who, with Jerry Seinfeld, created Seinfeld. David ostensibly stars as himself, though many of the details are not true to his own life for comedic reasons. Takes the Seinfeld idea of a show about nothing and ramps up the edginess and inanity. Being HBO, rather than mainstream TV, this show has a lot more freedom than Seinfeld in what it does and says.Very funny and quotable. The episodes often skirt a line between the possible - many incidents could happen in real life - and the downright ridiculous. Not as good as Seinfeld though. Due to concentrating on four characters, rather than one, Seinfeld had more sub-plots in each episode, thus more dimensions to it. Seinfeld always had a warmth about - everything was okay in the end - while Curb Your Enthusiasm revels in unhappy endings, crankiness and mean-spiritedness.Does deliver some amazingly creative scenarios and skits though.


                
This show is a must see for anyone looking for a smart, original and amazingly funny break from the every day. Larry David is absolutely hilarious in his awkwardness, and the stories and ad-libbing make this show better than anything currently out there. Really a must watch. I would say that if you feel like looking back at old Seinfeld episodes, this also may fill that need due to the fact that the guy is the mastermind behind the whole thing, but even if you are not a Seinfeld fan, this show stands strong on its own and is definitely a no-miss deal. I laugh myself to sleep every time I put one on while going to bed, without exaggeration.


                
Whoever wrote the last review of this show apparently has no sense of humor, or perhaps just a really bad one. Let me give a more appropriate/accurate review. Not only is this show brilliant, but the acting makes it complete. Everyone uses their real life first names and most of the show is improv with basic predetermined guidelines. Larry David has an incredible screen presence, and the rest of the cast is equally impressive. If you found Seinfeld even the least bit entertaining I recommend you check out "Curb Your Enthusiasm." If you like cynical satires and Jewish, neurotic old men, this show is for you. If not, go watch old episodes of "Friends" or something.


                
