I congratulate myself for being able to get through this ordeal. I had to pause the movie three times out of anger and frustration with the main character, Lucas. He is so unrealistic and unhealthy as a human being that he actually deserves all that happens to him. He actually makes it happen. You can't afford to be an introverted drama queen when your life is on the line with such a serious accusation as child abuse. I mean, to work with people and have a sense of empathy and to handle the problem the way he did...totally wrong. And you can't say he did not see it coming. But it is a movie, and I'm guessing the director thought "Never mind logic and how a normal human being would have handled the situation, let us put on a show !" I was cringing every time Lucas just stood and stared, avoided communication or threw a tantrum. I mean...how indifferent ( or overly confident ) to your own well being can you be to act so childish ? Of course people will understand you wrong. It made no sense. Never mind.
This poor guy is mistakenly singled out in his small community as a child molester. NOT EVEN CLOSE.He is denied sustenance at the only grocery store in his small town. Then, he's beaten up, and his faithful Cocker Spaniel is killed and dumped in his dooryard, after some £$^% throws a brick through his window.I kept waiting and watching for it to live up to the rating (1st recommendation on IMDb). This is tedious, and the ending DOES NOT justify all the crap. I think this is the lowest I have ever rated a movie, EVER.Don't waste your time with this one, but I am still shaking my head over the high rating, and if someone much more enlightened than me wants to correct my thinking on this it is welcome.
*my review contains not a detailed spoiler BUT a light one(bottom line)*Putting actors' acting or sophisticated analysis of movie aside, if i tell frankly, I felt terrible and enraged whole time watching this movie for the absurdity of the way that people of NL think which i suppose cannot be generalized 100%. it was really heart throbbing and angry to watchthe story is not much. one little damn girl in the kindergarten lied since Lucas didn't accepted her heart though she wanted to kind of rely on him and totally ruined one man's life making him a total outcast.people who's minds are dirty and jump to conclusion enrage me and in this movie there were full of them.why do they treat Lucas that way even there is no evidence and there is as much possibility that a child had lied as the incident had actually happened? how dare could they make an assumption? should they have done "jagten"?i have no idea why i picked this movie but would i recommend this one to others? definitely no. not worth the time this movie also made me think again of NL
I rarely comment on movies because I don't usually think I can bring anything that hasn't been said before. But I just read a bunch of reviews and nobody mentions how predictable this movie is. From the very beginning I kept thinking: "oh, this is going to happen now", and then it did. After cycling this a good 5 or 10 times, I gave up on the movie after 40 minutes (less than halfway). Sorry, but after living through Outreau, there's nothing new that this movie bring to the table and its sheer predictability is its downfall.


                
