I hate to give this a bad review as I am a big fan of Mads BUT there are so many ridiculous parts to this story I can not believe how people have rated it. As a teacher, firstly the whole premise of this film is that 'kids never lie' well I'm sorry but any teacher who's been in the job more than a day knows that kids lie all the time. Secondly the other kids would not just make stories up about being abused - and collaborate on a story; especially at a nursery.Why did he never mention the fact she had tried to kiss him?! I found it so frustrating I almost switched it off.They would never send a male to interview a female student and they do not use such direct questioning. A teacher would not get sacked without even asking where the abuse is said to have taken place.Finally, although the film is beautifully shot and Mads plays the role brilliantly his 'best friend' had the most ridiculous fake beard I've seen since the Life of Brian.
About three quarters in this movie, I was wondering where was it going. This movie starts out making sense and interesting, then took a turn towards nonsense and madness. A resident of their town was accused of a crime and was basically charged with no proof. Even after there were strong signs that the man was innocent they were still attacking him, life is not fair but this movie took unrealistic to a new height. It was difficult for this movie to make sense and it become very annoying after awhile due to its nonsense. The lead actor did a good job playing his part, but storyline is nonsense. As a result I give it 3 stars. In reality an accused and innocent man would stand up for his rights and not allow himself to be taken advantage of such as what we see here.


                
A society of boorish alcoholics, who seem desperate to get away from their wives, to "socialise" in large groups, whilst out hunting. A society in which the highest aspiration is to own a gun, and go out hunting... a society which believes that a boy becomes a "man" when he finally gets his own rifle, aged sixteen. A society willing to turn on anyone they don't like, in which there hardly seem to be a single happily married couple, and in which all the children are hyperactively, and brainlessly aggressive at all times...Seriously. Forget the "lie". This film shows us a truly rotten society. There's no surprise just how willing they are to turn on one of their own number. This is one of the most neanderthally crude communities I've ever witnessed, and I'm sure they would need no excuse to ostracise anybody that didn't conform, let alone someone they suspect of being a child molester. Killing a dog for them would just be another day in the park.To me, this film, if you ignore it at face value, and really examine the society being depicted, is truly worrying, and if I was Mads Mikkelsen, fitting in would be the last thing that I'd want. I'd want to get out, and fast. The most worrying thing about the story itself, is just how shaky it is. It's a reasonably compelling storyline, definitely, and it's difficult to argue with the acting, which has been universally praised. In a film that exists to be grim and challenge subjects guaranteed to offend, it's important to analyse just what you're being told. In this film, the message seems to be, that it's impossible to prove, one way or the other, whether a child has been sexually abused. In the film, that point is glossed over, in favour of the paranoia which even the hint of scandal produces. But in the end, I'm disturbed by the way this story is presented. It takes one side of the story - that children never lie - and critiques that, making us believe the contrary. I'm sorry, but if a child comes up to you ,and tells you that she's seen a grown man's willie, then don't ignore her, like this film seems to encourage you to. The reasoning behind this deus ex machina is very shaky, but that's irrelevant. The fact that Lucas; A) Never denies this openly , and B) then gets away with it, seem to drive this point home. In spite of what I said earlier, the people in this community are absolutely justified in persecuting Lucas, because everything points towards him. So why do dozens of other children suddenly admit to supposedly false accounts of abuse at Lucas' hands? Again, another clunky plot point, smokescreen to allow Lucas to get away with the whole thing, which he wouldn't have if it had just been an isolated case. Children lie all the time, this film says. Don't believe them. That's pretty messed up.So why do we need an art house film, telling us how easy it is to get away with abusing children? One wonders. A story about an evil community turning on one guy they think is a sick pervert. I'm sorry to bring this up, because I do think Mads Mikkelsen is a great actor, but I wouldn't trust him - I mean, why hire someone who's made a career out of playing uniquely sinister, unsavoury villains, to play Mr. Normal Guy?Another mark of bad scripting, is people behaving in totally ridiculous fashions, and for a film all about tightly written, supposedly "realistic" society, this is something of a handicap. If someone tells you they've been accused of molesting children, then you do not laugh (like Lucas' girlfriend does.) If someone accuses YOU of molesting children, you protest vociferously. You do not sit there for thirty seconds thinking (like Lucas does.) There is no reason for Lucas to kick his girlfriend out when he does, other than so we can have Lucas as a totally isolated character, with no-one to turn to, just because she asked if he really was a child molester. Also, the grocery shopkeeper's policy of "We don't serve your kind here", is quickly amended to "We don't serve your kind here, unless we kick the stuffing out of you, then you come back in and then head-butt me in the face". Yeah, like that's going to help your case at all.Also, another moral objection to the film, is that it features strong animal cruelty moments, which I'm sorry, but I don't care how good your film is, it doesn't justify you hurting, or in this case, killing, an intelligent life form. We see a deer getting shot dead for real, to show what a nice conformist Lucas is, and we see a real dead dog being buried in a moment of nastiness.Also, I think, again outside the box, that it's unfair for Annika Wedderkopp, a sterling actress at her age, to have to say some of the things that she does, and be engaged in a film with such an unpleasant topic.In conclusion, then, what I respect about this film, is that it is intelligently made. It does have exceptional acting, of a sort rarely seen in today's movies. But what I object to, is the film's moral obscurity, which is anything but mature. It's an okay idea, rather clumsily executed. It is a bleak film, but not necessarily in the very heavy handed force feeding of tragic human drama we're presented with here. This is a film with a brain, no soul, no heart and very little in the way of morality. It also has a totally cop-out fairytale ending, which, if you forget the final shot (the reality), can be summed up in two very simple words; "It's Christmas."
Vinterberg's characters are once again captives of a violent emotional force. But I hate to admit, that what worked so well and ideal in terms of dramatic narration in Festen – give Dogma's style some credit for that – seems a bit out of control in The Hunter. A small child here, holds the grenade and pulls the pin, turning a school teacher to a beast. Over-hyped Mikkelsen, is the victim of fatalism, and there is a constant effort by the movie to lecture us, the battle of persuasion. I wasn't moved by his tragedy, nor fascinated by the climax of this drama. Perhaps if the director asked more questions to justify the accusations, or a more engaging twist, I would appreciate it.
"The Hunt" is not an action film. If you're looking for action just forget this one. The pace of the film is very, very slow. The actors do a good job interpreting several conditions of human nature, such as giving too much credence to what a little girl says without really verifying facts first. There are many situations that set the story up but aren't credible. There seems to have been a rush to set the stage. First we see this male teacher in is forties playing with kinder children. He has just divorced and is trying to mend fences with his son, who cannot see him as his mother won't let that happen. A little girl is shown a pornographic picture of an erect penis by her brother who also tells her a very graphic description of what's going on in the picture. Next thing, the girl makes, wraps and gives a gift to her male teacher and kisses him on the mouth while playing. The teacher tells her this isn't the right thing and next thing, the girls invents a story telling the principal that her teacher abused her. In the meantime, the teacher has no problem rebuilding his love life. In a matter-of-fact scene, a school colleague who is an immigrant (she isn't fluent in Danish but speaks good English) becomes his lover, you know, just like that. Love at first sight. The films progresses (slowly) showing several situations on how the school principal, the teacher's friends, the girl's parents, the community at large and the teacher himself, deal with this innuendo. The teacher is beaten several times by the town's men. It's curious that the town folk take the law in their own hands. There seems to be a police investigation under way but we never see it. Had it been part of the plot, the police investigators might have shown how the girl lied, how the principal of the school mismanaged the situation and would have put in jail several males in the community who attacked the teacher without really being involved in the problem and who didn't have the facts with them. But the director of the film chose not to include either the police investigation or a trial. This would have spoiled the story. There are two candidates that could have abused the girls: her older brother and her own father. Two scenes lead the viewer to consider that but there's no conclusion. A year after the event we see everybody celebrating the coming of age of the son of teacher in a party. The boy gets his first rifle and goes for his first hunt. His did is also hunting when someone fires a shot a him but misses. We see him on the ground looking at someone with a rifle, aiming at him. He can't see who that person is as the sun is behind him/her, and then this person leaves. In summary, this film shows several values like friendship, love at different levels (between couples, parents-to-children, children-to- parents, among friends), loyalty and perseverance. But the story isn't too solid and many things are taken for granted to make the plot work. This is a slow-paced film - very slow-paced. The end of it is open, in the sense that the situation depicted isn't solved. The stigma on the teacher as a sex abuser will haunt him down and two possible abusers are free to roam in a little Danish town. You can skip this film all right.
There are not many movies about child abuse - apart from this one, I remember of 'les Risques du Métier' from french director André Cayatte. Why then are they both built on a lie from the child? Isn't there enough case of child abuse, every year, cases that hardly anyone believes, because it is often done by a close member of the family, in a deafen silence? What does a director want to hide or protect, when he chooses to shoot a movie about child abuse from this viewpoint? I can see the big strings used by Thomas Vinterberg, he obviously doesn't like the people, so eager to lynch the first innocent in the town.The script is very thin. The actors don't play well (except Clara the girl), they seem to not believe the story. Funny is the fact that former Dogma addict Thomas Vinterberg shot an actor, Thomas Bo Larsen, with a fake beard,


                
