This film comes right after the hysteria generated by the Jimmy Saville abuse scandals and the revelations about pedophilia within the Catholic Church.Suffice to say it is refreshing and pertinent to see a story about the damage that can be caused to an innocent man, by a false report. We live in a society that is increasingly insecure and paranoid about pedophilia, rape and abuse. Virgin Airlines won't allow a man to sit next to a child who is traveling alone. Men are given funny looks in playgrounds. Mothers are reported to social workers when they give their screaming kids a slap in public.This film demonstrates the danger that comes from that hysteria and reminds us all that children, for whatever reason, do not always tell the truth. The consequences are brutal and made all the more realistic by a stellar cast of actors. I give props to the young actress playing Klara, the girl who makes the false accusation, she was fantastic.Distressing, highly emotional, but unlike an American movie, never over-bearing in its sentimentality, minus one or two slightly cliché metaphors in the dialogue. It makes you empathize with all the characters, not just the protagonist and really makes you think about what you would do if you found yourself, or someone you loved, in that situation.


                
In a small town in Denmark, the life of the kindergarten teacher Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) turns upside-down and is destroyed when Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), the daughter of his best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen), lies and tells to the director Grethe (Susse Wold) that he showed his sex to her."Jagten" is a Danish-Swedish drama with the storyline of These Three (1936) and The Children's Hour (1961). The cruel and heartbreaking story about how destructive a lie may be is updated and the screenplay well-written and with great performances. The commercial conclusion with Lucas apparently fixing his life again after all the bad things that happened to him is the weak part of the plot. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Caça" ("The Hunt")


                
This finely crafted, thought-provoking movie examines conflict in a small, close-nit Danish town confronted by one of the great moral corruptions of our age. Sharing, caring and community quickly descend into vindictiveness, violence, and marginalization. The cast is excellent, with Mads Mikkelsen putting in another mesmerising performance, and the evocative cinematography captures austere but beautiful Danish landscapes and small town life.But perhaps I lost something in translation, for this otherwise standout movie has some frustrating plot flaws I couldn't overlook. Maybe Danes are naturally taciturn people who can't handle confrontation, because the protagonist when faced with accusations of child molestation merely nods and accepts them, instead of vigorously professing his innocence, then he shuns those who dare doubt him, instead of defending himself. Or maybe this movie is a savage indictment of the Danish legal system, where it seems you can be sacked for unspecified charges with no right of response, and we are supposed to go along with his infuriating silence. The Hunt is certainly a savage portrayal of Danish mob psychology and political correctness gone mad, but the script clumsily constructs the events that allow this to happen.The final scenes are also problematic, with an unlikely ending given all the events that preceded it. As a gripping piece of social realism, ultimately The Hunt fails the reality test, and a good script editor might have been able to turn this very good movie into a great one.


                
Sorry, but I have to give this a 1 out of 10 just due to that the grown ups in this movie follow no logic. A child just said he saw a mans dick stiff, and apparently just this is proof enough that he is a child molester. Even though the girl who lies about this ha a perverted brother who constantly shows her pornography movies on his mobile in front of his parents. Maybe a bell should ring? And the guy who is accused defends himself horrible, speaking way too little almost like he actually molested the child! Plus before this the girl kissed the man on his mouth and sent him a love letter, and when he told her that "this is for grown ups", and tried to talk some sense to her she said that she hated him. He should now understand that this obviously is a revenge from her side (typical girl / woman psycho mind) and should explain this. All this caused just irritation and is frustrating to watch. Very bad script and story. The actors over-act a bit too and the main character is under-acting.
Some movies don't hit you straight away. I came away from The Hunt (Jagten) disappointed by the obviousness of its messages; frustrated by its conservative form; and irritated by its predisposition to sympathy (the quickest shortcut to audience response). But after reflecting upon the film, these elements have coalesced, and now I see them as combining to create a film of clarity, psychological depth (particularly in relation to group dynamics), and understanding of the human condition. I still think it's more concerned with sympathy than empathy at times, but there is a boldness to this approach which will hopefully see the film appeal to a wider audience.Mads Mikkelson excels as the schoolteacher, Lucas, who in a single month goes from kids' favourite to community outcast, after the daughter of his best friend accuses him of sexually abusing her. Klara feels neglected - but there's no doubt that she'll get plenty of attention now. The film reminds us that children lie and deceive in order to feel loved. Klara isn't manipulative, just lonesome. It's the adults who manipulate - sometimes themselves - in order to satisfy their own inadequacies, as well as uphold their own myths about the children in their care: innocence and absolute virtue, as if we're born that way. Ironically, through our sentimentalising of children, it is children who've become the outcasts, compartmentalised from the rigours of reality, treated as a different species.This is a quietly important film for these times of wildfire rumour and networked innuendo - one which goes some way to adding some grey to the black and white relationship between adults and children.


                
'Jagten' is mostly filmed as a rather middle of the road, decent drama, and even the core content (child abuse) does not change much about that. But the story has some strong moments that felt quite original. As such, there is the way Lucas fights back, as does his son Marcus. Then, there is the ending, which really threw me off, and still puzzles me. The same goes for more moments in the film (why was nobody able to link Klara's inappropriate talk to her brother?).The acting was over-all very good and natural, though here and there it felt a bit over the top, mostly by Thomas Bo Larsen, but it could have something to do with Thomas Vinterberg's direction as well.A good film, one that offers plenty to think about, but I was hardly blown away. A good 7 out of 10.
I really wanted to see this film back in February around Oscar time, but naturally when 2012 truly wraps up my interest does too, so this viewing is a long time coming. And inevitably it is a bit of a disappointment but it certainly has its merits. Perhaps it's more fitting to watch it now with the recent story about the man in the UK who was burnt to death for the accusation of being a paedophile. It's a terrifying and utterly impossible stigma when it's false. And the first hour of The Hunt is built on the impending doom of that setup. The first few sequences keep you tense as you see Lucas innocently interact with kids. This half is really well-written and utilises its slow burn pace with precision. Utterly tragic how the best and worst things possible happen to Lucas simultaneously. Mads Mikkelson gives a fantastic sympathetic performance without overdoing it.Unfortunately the narrative seems to leave him for the second half and the film isn't quite sure what to do. We are deliberately left with the question of did Lucas actually do it or not, but then it quickly abandons that compelling tension for certainty that he didn't. Instead, it begins with melodrama with Lucas' son and then features two big forced outburst scenes. I just didn't believe Lucas was at that irrational point in those situations and it lost me. That said, I don't think the film quite went far enough in its concept given what can really happen in these scenarios, especially after the last 10 minutes where it decides to go happy but illogical. But then, perhaps that's up for debate. It's a shame that it couldn't quite nail the tone in the second half but The Hunt is still a really good film with great photography for the most part, though I'm curious why Thomas "Dogme" Vinterberg used unnecessary special effects at times.7/10


                
There's a lot to admire about The Hunt, foremost of which is probably Mads Mikkelson's performance as the protagonist Lucas. The cast is all-around strong, enlivening characters who don't necessarily have all that many hidden depths from the script itself, and the direction is always at least competent and at best very good. But despite that I just can't love this movie somehow. I've rated it a 7 because it would sort of seem insulting to the actors otherwise, but it really hovers around a 6.5 in my mind. Maybe I'm bringing some baggage to the movie myself since I'm already familiar with historic child molestation social panics, such as the rash of satanic ritual abuse accusations in the 1980s, and I have a rough idea of how something like this might get started. I certainly think this is an important topic to make a film about, and it does throw some interesting light on the way adult relationships are affected by children in various ways (specifically in small Danish rural communities, I suppose, but I'd say the themes are pretty universal).But once The Hunt got going, there was almost nothing in it which took me remotely by surprise. After the main action begins, assuming you have read a one-sentence synopsis of the film, you can pretty much always guess what will happen at any time by asking yourself "what is the worst decision Lucas could make right now which is nonetheless fairly reasonable from his point of view?" More generally, you might ask "what plausible outcome from this scene would be the worst for Lucas's case or position?" Just like water flowing downhill, you can pretty much foretell where the entire film is going to go from the beginning right out until way in the end of the fourth act.Now, I don't need every movie I like to be some kind of sui generis bolt from the blue that makes me see cinema in a whole new light. But I do like the occasional curveball every now and then. The Hunt, for all of its good qualities, just seemed pre-ordained to run along tracks I could already see. It's worth watching if you're a fan of Mikkelson's or haven't thought about the issues involved very closely, but otherwise there's probably a much more interesting movie about this out there somewhere.


                
"The Hunt" is about how the life a man, Lucas, is changed forever when a young girl of nine, Clara, accuses him of molesting her. A little lie, told out of a childish jealousy, spreads in the whole small town, turning Marcus's friends and neighbors into his enemies.While Marcus's life become more and more of a nightmare, Clara, ironically, becomes the center of the attention of her parents, who often quarreled with each and ignored her.One of the film's main themes is how much man is free in determining his own fate. In the case of Marcus, he seems to be utterly without a choice about his fate. A respectable man with a good reputation become the villain in a matter of days, all because of the childish lie told by Clara. Even when we think he has recovered from the evils that have happened to him, we find out we are wrong. No matter how he tries, he is haunted for the rest of his life.I think "The Hunt" has a high chance of winning the Academy Award this year.


                
I spotted this Danish film because of the star of Casino Royale, then I read what it was about, it definitely sounded like a worthwhile watch. Basically Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) is a well-liked kindergarten teacher in a close-knit Danish community, his hobby is going deer hunting (hence the title). He is divorced and struggles to maintain a relationship with his teenage son, Marcus (Lasse Fogelstrøm), who eventually comes to live with him, and his co-worker Nadja (Alexandra Rapaport) is making advances towards him, eventually becoming his girlfriend. Seven-year-old Klara (Annika Wedderkopp) is one of Lucas' students, she is the daughter of his best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen). She has a crush on Lucas and one day puts a heart-shaped ornament into his coat pocket, she then gives Lucas a kiss on the lips, but he rebuffs it, this hurts her feelings. In anger, drawing on a memory of a pornographic picture her older brother showed her, she makes a comment to the kindergarten director. Klara has a run-away imagination and concocts a lie about her teacher, saying that he indecently exposed himself to her, the directors asks leading questions, but the little girl's answers are unclear. The adults have a meeting to discuss Lucas, the director convinces them of this story of sexual abuse, dismissing Klara's later contradictions as denial, this story soon sweeps across the community. Before Lucas has even been able to understand what is happening, or defend himself, he is shunned by the community as a paedophile and sexual predator, and quickly becomes an outcast of the town. His friendship with Theo and his relationship with Nadja are destroyed, and his son Marcus is publicly ostracised. The teachers ask other kindergarten students leading questions, who also say they have been abused, claiming they have been in Lucas' basement, but this supports his innocence, as he has no basement. Lucas is arrested, but released without charge, but the community are still suspicious of him, and soon the ostracism turns into violence. Lucas' dog Fanny is killed, and a large stone is thrown through his kitchen window, and when he goes grocery shopping, he is attacked by store employees. On Christmas Eve, Lucas confronts Theo during a public church service, while the children are carol singing, but this also turns into a violent exchange. Theo overhears Klara apologising to Lucas for the consequences she has caused, he realises he is innocent, he visits him, bringing food and alcohol, to make a peace offering. A year later, tensions in the community have calmed down, Lucas and Nadja are in a relationship again, and Marcus has been accepted into the local hunting society as an adult. During a hunting expedition, an unseen person apparently shoots at Lucas and misses him, he is unable to see who it is in the sunlight, the attacker, real or metaphorical, disappear, so Lucas is still fearful of his reputation. Also starring Susse Wold as Grethe, Anne Louise Hassing as Agnes, Lars Ranthe as Bruun and Sebastian Bull Sarning as Torsten. Mikkelsen gives an excellent performance as the completely innocent teacher who has been plunged into a nightmare of mass hysteria, a man not without faults, but he never loses our sympathy, it really is a reminder how misinformation, all from one innocent little lie, can snowball into something a massive misunderstanding with severe consequences, a most plausible and tense drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film of the Year, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good!
Although I see that this film has a relatively high score, it did not leave me impressed. Although the performance of Morgan Mortensen was at an exceptional level, the concept of the story gives me the impression that it is a very naive story. Namely, a girl eagerly accuses her teacher of sexually abusing her. Only on the grounds that the girl said that, the teacher was exposed to the torture of the entire society. It is not my fault that on the basis of unproven ill-treatment, the entire knave of the story is set up so that someone is guilty in advance, although at the end of the film the truth has been clearly seen. Imagine someone says: You stole big money and on that basis you are on the pillar of the shame of the whole society, your life will be destroyed without any evidence. No proof of that. Emotions in the film are abundant, but that's not enough for me to rate this film with a higher score.


                
This was a great film, which explores how quickly an innocent lie from a kid could turn the life of a seemingly good natured man in chaos. The hunt leaves in my opinion too much for interpretation, and there are some areas of the story that I would have liked be explored in more detail.Major spoiler alert from here: To me the story revolves more around Torsten than what most people realize:1) Torsten is seen crying when him and his sister do the Christmas decorations - Is he really so concerned about his sister, or does he feel guilty for showing her that pornographic picture. Or something more sinister - Was he maybe a victim of Lucas? 2) In the beginning Lucas tells Klara that he used to teach Torsten but that the school was closed down. When he arrives at Theo's house, Torsten seems somewhat strange. 3) When Marcus visits Theo's family Torsten greets him also in a nervous fashion. 4) Torsten killed the dog in my opinion 5) Torsten takes a shot at Lucas in the final scene.It leaves me to wonder - It is clear that Lucas was innocent on the nursery school charges, but I am really playing with the idea that something was up between him and Torsten.I know it may not be the most popular theory, but with a story that leaves so much open for interpretation, it is my most logical conclusion.Sometimes it is great to view films that leave so many questions unanswered, but in this instance, I would have liked a few more plausible hints.Good film however.
To my surprise I get to see this movie, without expecting much of it, everything has to be said. I find myself with difficult film. Difficult for what counts, for the position taken by the director, for how it counts but I think it comes out afloat and very well. It makes you feel bad, you feel bad for him. For me it is a good idea to put at the beginning what happened with the girl and how everything has happened and how the girl reacted. If I had not done so, I should have explained it later and it would have been worse. If he had managed to get the spectators to remove from our retina what we thought of the protagonist since if he did not know, nobody in his right mind would have gone with him.I think he's well kept up and how he counts. Although the rest of the address is not surprising but rather austere. It has no nice blueprints or anything.Neither has a spectacular photograph.The grace of this film is to get into the area that has gotten and to put the side that never is never counted.
The subject matter is a difficult area and the film handles it extremely well. The drama centres on false allegations of child abuse and the impact this has on the central character.The acting is first rate particularly from the young girl at the centre of the drama. The events are carefully and subtly drawn and invite careful consideration of how those in a position of authority, but with no experience in the area, can investigate suspicions of inappropriate behaviour from one of their colleagues.Whilst the story is told very effectively it feels small and constrained in its scope. The emotional impact on this viewer was limited although it certainly gave pause for though and contemplation.


                
The Hunt (Jagten)This film is recommended.A teacher is falsely accused of sexual abuse. In The Hunt, we watch as mass hysteria infects a town and its people in this taut psychological thriller from Denmark. Director Thomas Vinterberg mined this type of scenario before with his earlier film, The Celebration, a film exploring incest and family dysfunction. In this film, he examines the repercussions of half truths and lies on an innocent man who slowly comes to grips with this accusation and its ripple effect with family and friends.Films like The Children's Hour, The Crucible, Doubt, and Prisoners, have laid the groundwork for this genre of film. Vinterberg, along with his co-writer Mogens Rukov, have successfully fashioned a screenplay that never clearly states the obvious and allows the moviegoer the ability to interpret the story on various intellectual and emotional levels. The subject matter is skillfully handled, but as written, the main character takes on heroic status. The accused shows far too much quiet dignity and reserve when anger and rage should really surface. The initial reactions of this man seem atypical and totally out of kilter. The town's reaction emphasizes the mania which overtakes the community. One can only accept this collective response as human nature at its worse. But even Lucas' reactions when accused of this heinous act appear unnatural and do not seem logical or remotely real. But it is Mads Mikkelsen as Lucas, the accused predator who delivers a multi-faceted performance. He imbues his role as the common man helplessly placed on this precarious path. With an inner grace and a subtle vulnerability, the actor allows his character to feel the pain and anxiety of a man on the edge of a breakdown as the situation escalates. One can easily relate to this main character and personalizes his traumatic circumstance due to Mikkelsen's powerful portrayal. Yet, the townsfolk in the film seems to live in a moral vacuum. The investigation of this crime by the police are an afterthought and the legalities with the criminal justice system are strangely downplayed. There is no lawyer for hire, a glaring oversight in the script. Reality tends to weave in and out of the plot. The film veers into pure melodrama in the last section of the film. Especially unsatisfying is the film's conclusion, one that never completely fulfills its carefully-plotted story points and its well-drawn characters.All in all, The Hunt is a gripping drama that engages its movie-going audience. The director has created many tense moments and establishes a wonderful relationship between Mikkelsen and the two young actors with whom he interacts: the sweet Annika Wedderkopp as Kiara, the confused child who sets all the insinuations into motion, and Lasse Fogelstrom as Lucas' loyal son. They are the key to the film's emotional center and allow the insightful storytelling of The Hunt to take direct aim at its compelling topic. GRADE: B Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com


                
Schoolteacher Lucas lives in a small Danish town . Things are going well . He enjoys his job and has a first date with his colleague Nadja but his whole world is about to change for the worse when he's accused of sexually abusing one of his young pupils I'm often in a hurry to state that Britain has a monopoly on a dramatic sub-genre called "grief porn" where film makers try and make the most bleak and depressing film in recorded history . I'm being slightly forgetful because Denmark also contributes to grief porn . I do remember seeing a few Danish shorts and can't think of a single feel good moment in any of them . The country of origin should have warned me as to what THE HUNT was about but it was the casting of Mads Mikkelsen who caught my eye , one of the most consistent actors I've seen in the last few years who brings an unearthly and intense quality to his roles I wondered how he might play for what is to all intents and purposes an everyman role To be fair it's not a bad performance but any actor capable of giving subtle nuance could have played the role of Lucas who finds himself being ostracised by his community when he becomes a suspected child abuser . Early in the story it's revealed that his so called victim Klara has been lying and so there's no ambiguity to the story except for the title that can be interpreted as THE HUNT as in the characters hunting deer in their spare time or THE HUNT as in witch hunt . It does have a human topicality as in if you let small minded genies out of bottles it's very difficult to put them back as more than a few British celebrities can tell you , of listening to self styled experts and of giving in to mob mentality . Despite all this the story itself is fairly basic and rudimentary and I did find myself expecting a bit more from the film


                
Mads Mikkelsen does a great job in this movie. Featuring a teacher whose life gets suddenly ruined, he manages to transmit the feelings of somebody who has lost it all.The movie is about a kindergarten teacher that suddenly sees himself involved in a child abuse scandal after his best friend's daughter says she saw his private parts. Dealing with a very sensitive topic, the movie manages to portray on one side the importance of the issue, together with all the prejudices and violence that imply living in a small town where everyone gossips and nobody is inclined to consider Lucas' innocence.The ending is somewhat disappointing, and many things are left unexplained. In that sense the story is very catchy, but doesn't quite deliver the public's expectations. The last scene tries to sum it all up, and it is indeed quite shocking, yet when the credits come one has the feeling of "what? but, what about this and that?".I still recommend the movie. It is beautifully shot, very human, and it's nice to see from time to time a film that is far away from the shining Hollywood style.


                
The Hunt lays out a very surreal scenario in which Lucas, a charismatic Kindergarten teacher, is accused of showing his private parts to one of the students. We know the whole time though that Lucas is innocent and that the accusation is not just a misunderstanding but a wildly out of control fire that is getting worse with every minute that passes. The administrator Gretthe (sounds like Greta) who first heard these accusations from the six year old Klara, leads the initial investigation in the worst way possible, putting more ideas in the girl's head than she should have, and bringing in unequipped, incompetent administrators who force even more heinous ideas into the girl's head by suggesting them in the first place and then burdening her to say yes because they believe she is forcing herself to forget. Without spoiling everything, I can say that the ending was somewhat satisfying because the psychological turns that Lucas goes through as a character, though lacking development, is sickening and terrifying. He doesn't evolve as much as he survives the investigation and gets to a point, after all the threats against his life, where he stares down his antagonists. It's worth watching to see just if he survives all the angry parents. One of the central strengths of the movie is the believability of the mob mentality, and it most certainly is believable here. But the one, single most frustrating aspect of the film is Lucas's inability to deny anything. He never once says, "I didn't do this!" Or "I couldn't do this!" It's amazingly irritating because all it shows us is how fantastically fragile his ego is. Not even during the first confrontation does Lucas tell Gretthe that he didn't do it. He shows little worry over the truthfulness and looks guilty. It's scary. I would believe he did it just by that alone if I weren't the viewer!But there are so many other great aspects like the acting. Madds Mikkelson is devastating. The actors who play his son, Marcus, and his accuser, Klara, are phenomenal. The characters themselves are somewhat typical, but they show complexity when necessary. Klara for instance is a girl in a neglectful home; someone who isn't in the best environment (and that's the reason all this happens), but she shows us the innocent yet unexpectedly evil part of being a kid, exploited by adults (namely Gretthe who thinks that children don't lie). The film moves tenderly, uncomfortably, and at times, suspensefully, through the tough subject matter of adult-child relations and how that is corrupted. If you want to see a great film this year, you can't go wrong with The Hunt, but there are definitely better films.
This is a good movie in many respects, good acting, good at building atmosphere, it has pathos.But in the end it left me feeling unsatisfied. The movie is sooo slow. There was not enough going on in the plot, and the ending is depressing and open-ended.The movie, while moving at some points, was not enjoyable to watch overall. It's like coming home for Thanksgiving dinner and all your family members that you avoid the rest of the year are there, and you spend the evening continually wincing at how horrible human interactions can be. And we're so helpless to do much about it, and often it's not really anyone's fault really. This movie is about how legitimate fears and mysteries can turn well-meaning people against one another. It's scary and sad in a creeping, enervating way.


                
This is a very different role for Mads Mikkelson as he's previously played but he does a fantastic job. I'd recommend watching this film just to see his performance of a man who has everything and very quickly has nothing. Reality is sometimes a very powerful and shocking thing to deal with but Mads Mikkelson delivers a fantastic character in this film.This is a great insight into a small town in the heart of Denmark which has been filmed and captured beautifully with a great cast and a plot that will keep you gripped until the very end. If you expecting a film about hunting then this isn't the film for you.


                
This Danish drama focuses on a kindergarten teacher accused of child abuse due to the lies of a female student, upset over the teacher scolding her for kissing him. Mads Mikkelsen is effective in the lead as his life slowly unravels with a suddenly tarnished reputation, but it is hard to sympathise with him when much of his misery is his own fault. It never makes sense that he does not report the kiss, nor talk to the girl's parents given that he is close friends with them. In fact, it is hard to say what exactly Thomas Vinterberg was trying to convey here as the townsfolk who turn against Mikkelsen start putting words in the girl's mouth, suggesting what may have happened and with the girl's own mother telling her that she is just repressing when she finally admits to lying! The film would almost work as an indictment of how paranoid modern societies about suspected child abuse if it were not for the townsfolk coming off as plain ignorant. The movie is well-filmed whatever the case, with hand-held shots sublimely capturing his anger when Mikkelsen returns to work and finds others talking about him. There is also a lot to like in the genuine bond that exists between Mikkelsen and the girl, accusations aside, but this is a tricky film to watch with the regrettable actions of not only the whole town but the protagonist himself who could have so easily avoided the whole ordeal by reporting a simple kiss.


                
Very watchable film, with good acting all round. However, I noticed from most of the other reviews, that it is believed that the main character is innocent. Im not so sure.The whole film pushes the audience to think he is innocent, eg the fact the girl sees an inappropriate mag and then appears to associate the image with her teacher, who has embarrassed her about her gift. Or the fact he tells her kissing is only for mum and dad, ie it is not appropriate to do that to your teacher. Such scenes make us think he is innocent. And of course the fact that when other kids apparently make similar accusations, they claim they were taken to his basement, which didn't exist.And I was assuming he was innocent right up to the end, when he went to the forest with his son for shooting deer. Other reviews have said the person who seemed to fire at him was unknown, but I thought it looked like his son. Regardless of whether this was 'real' or imagined by the main character, I wondered if it meant the son had been abused when he was very young. And either he knew or had repressed those memories (the head mistress had said that to the little girl) - either way, the father knew. I am convinced the shooter was the son, either real or imagined. And that means something.
I've seen a little hatred for this movie come up from what people think the story is trying to say. Child sexual harassment is not something to be handled lightly of course, but I don't think it's fair to say that The Hunt is asking us to all believe people at their word. From my observation, there doesn't seem to be any concrete point that's being made here. The story seems to just exist to get us thinking about the issue and how fragile it is. You can't take Lucas at his word as they all know, but you can't trust Klara either. In some ways, you might call the issue a modern manifestation of To Kill a Mockingbird. There's no courtroom scenes but the prejudice is not that different in nature; it's just directed at a different presumption. Is it really that much different to trust someone based on age rather than race?The pacing was a bit of a problem because the scenes didn't always seem to contribute to a distinct thru line. I think the main purpose of many scenes was to show Lucas' isolation and innocence, but it wasn't always that easy to see that right away. It gave the illusion that nothing was happening, which is true to life in some ways. The dramatic confrontations at the supermarket and the church were both important, but showing Lucas' relationships with his girlfriend and son were equally necessary in their own way. They show that Lucas is a good person that cares about people. If the people of the town were thinking really intently about it, they would have made most of their judgements based on what they observed of Lucas between when Klara made her accusation and when they told Lucas about it.I don't think it's fair to say that the town was cruel to Lucas. If he were guilty of his crime, I don't think most people in the audience would think twice about how he was treated. In a perfect world, all crimes are forgivable, but I can't recall any parents in the news ever forgiving someone who raped their kid. Drunk driving accidents for sure, but something as sick as raping a kid is beyond hard to forgive. We see the villagers as the villains and with good reason, but at least they care about their kids, even if they do it to a fault. Yes, they abuse him more than he deserves even if he were guilty, but it's worth noting that they are showing a universal intolerance for pedophiles.Despite that, we take Lucas side. It's sad how the tiniest lie ruins his life in every way. No matter how innocent he might be, there is no way he can prove it. As with the witchcraft accusations in The Crucible, all the courts and people really have for evidence is Lucas' word against Klara's. And based on Klara's youth and Lucas position as the accused, neither one's testimony can be taken as truth.The technical aspects of the movie were a little bit of a problem for me. I didn't like that the lack of background music. Some of the shots were a little static, probably due to the modest budget. Not that anything was done poorly, but it just could have been shot in a more engaging style if the materials had been available.I would watch this either on your own or with people that you can have a good discussion with afterward. There's a lot to talk and think about. It's not that entertaining, so just be aware of that. It's on the lighter side of the R-rating, but is still a movie for mature audiences just because of the serious atmosphere. Overall Rating: 7.6/10.


                
Slow development, this film hasn't got any interesting plot twist and any intrigue at all. It is artistically excellent, with a very remarkable camera work. But in my opinion it doesn't get to create a strong empathy with the protagonist and his situation, and that makes it a boring, empty film to the viewer. The most interesting point in the script is that it shows how you can end in a bad situation by totally haphazard without having done bad to no one. It is impossible to make any spoil of this film because its plot is completely predictable. This film could be classified...I don't know, maybe like ''pure realist cinema''. It's the first Danish film I watch and, truth be told, Mads Mikkelsen (maybe the best known Danish actor out of his country) plays his role magnificently.8. Far away from the masterpiece I was told about.


                
'The Hunt' takes its name from a fraternity of men in Denmark who bond over hunting. Except in the case of this film, the hunted is one of their own. Lucas is a kindergarten teacher who is having a hard time with his estranged ex-wife obtaining visitation rights in regards to their teenage son, Marcus. Things get a whole lot more difficult for Lucas when he's accused of molesting one of his nursery school pupils, little Klara, who also happens to be the daughter of his best friend and neighbor, Theo. It's all a misunderstanding as little Klara sees some picture of naked men on her brother's iPad at home. But when she arrives at school and gives Lucas a kiss on the cheek, he tells her that the kiss should be for her own parents. Klara also can't understand why Lucas won't accept a heart shaped piece of embroidery she gives him. Before you know it Klara implies that she saw Lucas' erect penis. The school director calls in a male staff member who asks Klara leading questions. Lucas is then accused of additional sexual misconduct and the accusations spread like wildfire around the town, even before the police become involved.The story becomes a cautionary tale of modern day witch hunts. Things like this have happened in the U.S., especially in cases where psychologists 'uncover' past abuse through alleged exploration of so-called repressed memories. The mere suggestion of misdeeds causes the purported victims to become convinced that criminal behavior may have occurred, when it actually did not.The nightmare escalates for Lucas when almost all his friends desert him, including Theo, who is egged on by his wife, who's now in panic mode. Lucas bitterly throws his new girlfriend, Nadja, out of his house, as she expresses doubts as to his innocence. One of the weaknesses of the story is that we never get to see Lucas interact with an attorney, nor are any of the courtroom scenes shown. Instead, another one of Lucas' best friends, Bruun, described as Marcus' 'godfather', helps with his defense. We learn that legal case against Lucas falls apart, after scores of children (after being coached by either their parents or school personnel) all accuse Lucas of sexual abuse, in the basement of his house. Police investigators, however, discover that Lucas has no basement!Despite the legal victory, Lucas remains ostracized and in two powerful scenes, he's beaten up while attempting to buy food at a supermarket and then has his beloved dog, Fanny, killed by a faceless tormentor. Lucas still has two things going for him: the love of his son, Marcus and his determination to prove his innocence.Lucas finally is able to bring most of the community back on his side when he confronts his former best friend, Theo, in church on Christmas eve. Theo was much affected beforehand, when he saw Lucas being beaten up at the supermarket. As a result of the confrontation, Theo talks with Klara, who again denies Lucas did anything wrong and he finally comes to believe Lucas' claims of innocence.I'm not completely sure if I believe that Theo would have come to accept Lucas at the end, given the community pressure as well as the fears of his own wife. After all, he could have been ostracized by the community himself. But the way it turns out, after a year has passed, somehow many (not all) have forgiven Lucas, when we see that Marcus is being accepted as an adult into the local hunting society (animal rights people beware—this is NOT a touchy-feely movie toward animals, especially deer!). Director Thomas Vinterberg throws in a twist at the end, when an anonymous hunter takes a shot at Lucas, just to remind him that not all in the community believe in his innocence.'The Hunt' plays out highlighting the savagery lurking beneath a staid bourgeoisie society. Leaving out the legal battle on screen seems intentional, as the focus is on the errant community members, who decidedly refuse to give Lucas not one iota of a benefit of a doubt. Perhaps Vinterberg reasoned that this potboiler of a story might have ended up diluted, if he showed us a few more rational members of this community, pleading Lucas' case before the bar of justice.Nonetheless, 'The Hunt' accomplishes what it sets out to do—a gripping tale of an innocent man falsely accused, fighting for himself and his way of life. Not all of it is necessarily completely believable, especially how Lucas ends up being restored to the community, through the efforts of his old friend, who finally sees the light. But that final gunshot is a tragic reminder, that not everyone is so forgiving, as Lucas' old pal, Theo.
