Ever since I have seen Infernal Affairs (IA), I said to myself that Hollywood would not pass up on a story like this. And true enough, I heard Brad Pitt bought the rights to the show and that he and Tom Cruise are slated to act in it. When I heard that the whole ensemble changed, I still was looking forward to the film. IA, with a much smaller budget, looks more expensive than The Departed (TD).Character development -IA, is all about heart. It is about how the mole in the police, Ming, is torn between his identity as a mole, and his conscience, and the mole in the mafia/gangland, Yan, is torn between doing right for the police and his own dilemma about his identity. Ming is not bad, nor is Yan good. TD, like all other Hollywood cop movies, is about black and white. Costigan is wholesomely good, and Sullivan is utterly bad. Their characters are so one-dimensional, it's almost like the screenwriter doesn't trust his audience to be intelligent enough to know that good and evil are degrees of grey.Timeframe - The time frame is just ridiculous in TD. Are we expected to believe that in the short span of 4 months, Costigan is able to infiltrate the mafia and become Costello's left hand man, given that everyone (so 'cleverly' explained by Queenan) knows that he was a cop and that Costello doesn't trust people easily? Are we also to believe that Sullivan can rise through the ranks of the police force so fast, considering that (also 'cleverly' explained by Ellerby) they don't trust people with perfect records? In IA, it is a convincing many years. Both characters are allowed to grow into their environment enough to be torn. TD just throws it in our face.Acting - How can people say that the acting is superb? Matt Damon doesn't emote at all. Leo Dicarprio is so whiny, if he isn't whining to Queenan, he is whining to the shrink, or Costello and Mr. French. Martin Sheen is like a vase, so weak and wimpy, he doesn't have the air befitting of a Captain. Mark Wahlberg's character, sarcastic as hell, for what? It's a wonder that he is even there, he has no role to play at all. An omission of his character wouldn't have made the movie any less. The shrink sleeps with both Costigan and Sullivan, and we are expected to feel sorry for her? And Jack Nicholson, so painful to watch. Even the extras are so miscast-ed. The Mainland Chinese characters are so obviously 3rd generation Cantonese speakers, with the American accents, I am not a native Cantonese speaker and even I know it's all wrong.Screenplay - This has to be one of the worst screenplays ever.a. Costello, if he is a big time gangland boss, and that he is dealing with international crime lords, why is he and his right hand man still going round the hood to collect protection money? The writers cannot decide if he is a big-time crime lord or a smalltime mafia boss.b. the time-line.c. Costigan sends the tape to Madolyn, gets Sullivan to meet him at the building Queenan died, and expects to do what? It is just a cheap shot at trying to mirror IA's intelligent rooftop scene.d. The fact that the cast says F*** every other second makes the movie cheap and crude instead of realistic.e. the subplots are so unnecessary and so poorly intertwined. The double crossing of the mainland Chinese, the FBI informer subplot, the letter that was never heard of again, the love triangle between moles & shrink, the time in cadet school. All these subplots should be omitted, then maybe the director can concentrate on the real story.f. What's up with the ending? First Costigan is shot (Which is a ripped off from the original), and then everyone else gets shot in the head except Sullivan. Is there a need for all that gore? Or is it just cheap thrill? And then Dignam kills Sullivan. Does Dignam have a great enough agenda to do what he did? g. Did I mention that a lot of scenes of the movie are ripped off from the original? Even the dialog of some of the scenes is directly translated from the original. I read that the writer claims that he didn't see the original. Is he trying to claim the great parts of the movies as his own? Isn't that plagiarism? Which brings me to Production value - Scorsese bombed, big time. He has ran out of tricks, the movie started out good, but the ending seemed so rushed, like he has ran out of time, or interest. I love GoodFellas, and his style and techniques at that time seem fresh and ingenious. But the second time he used the pinhole effect in TD, I realize that Scorsese has ran out of ideas. There are even scenes that he took from the original shot by shot, making it seem like he cannot make his own out of the material.Over all I am very MAD. MAD at the people who say this movie is brilliant. It is brilliant only because the original is brilliant and they had taken almost every element of it. I am MAD because of the disregard of respect on the part of Scorsese's team, not giving the credits when credits are due. Is he going to get an academy award for something that is not his? Something that he so blatantly took from someone else and did not even bother to credit? That would say a lot about Hollywood and their disregard for anyone else. I am MAD at the way the movie ended and I am just disappointed that the audiences are treated like idiots and they don't know it.
Make it long, add top star billing, and spend a zillion dollars, and I guess anything can receive an award. Silly me, I thought original, provocative, and at the very least, plausible story telling was needed for good drama.Let me start by adding, that "great" actors are useless when miss-cast. I'm sorry, but Damon and DiCaprio's persona's and looks are both too soft to play hard edge characters. Wahlberg and Sheen were so absent of realism, they compromised important plot dialog. Baldwin's attempt to add some comic flare came across as more buffoonery then wit. Even Nicholson's part was more cartoon then character. (Quintisential Jack)! Costello should have been cast by a hungry unknown, (from Boston).What makes this very pretentious movie really bad, are the "holes". This movie leaked like a sieve. Allow me to address a few:1) The premise alone. You have a large police department investigating a large crime family, yet only three members, (one of which is not even out of the academy), will alone without the resources of the department infiltrate an organized mob presumably using a mole. 2) If costigan is suppose to have been dismissed from the force, then why is he being seen by a civil service police psychiatrist. 3) If costigan was pulled out of the academy specifically for the benefit of his anonymity, then why does everyone he meets, know him and his family. 4) Does the department acknowledge the existence of costigan or not? His entire identity can not be conveniently eliminated from all record and then later resurface for a meritorious award. 5) If Costello was an F.B.I. informant, were the hell were the F.B.I., and better yet, what bigger fish would the F.B.I. want, then Costello himself. 6) Speakng of other agencies, were the hell were the Boston police during all these inner city homicides going on inside their jurisdiction.The ending alone was most pathetic due to the fact there was no feasible conclusion possible based on the story's lack of continuity. I don't mind the enigmatic challenge of a smart and sophisticated screenplay, but please don't mollify me with vapid subplots.Too much budget, and not enough substance. Unfortunately, I seem to find the latter in only foreign or independent films. Hollywood needs to to produce more movies that don't just rely on its marquee. Next time the director calls, "That's a wrap", there should be no loose ends..
They sure know how to make their version real 'American' with all the F words. That seriously was annoying, how every actor in the movie always needed to curse, I should have counted them.The original (Infernal Affairs/Mou gaan dou) is way better.Why? Cause the most important key was missing! In the original movie; the mole (Chan Wing Yan (as Tony Leung)) in the mafia gang had a great bond with the head guy of the entire case. He gave him a watch for his birthday. At that moment you could see how those two has a bond with each other. That would explain the grief that he showed in the movie when the head guy got killed.The American re-film: Billy and Queenan totally had NO connection in my eyes. All Dignam could do was bash him with the f words. Why the hell would Billy give a crap that Queenan died? They had no bond. I think supposedly in both movies the death of the head guy was the twist in the cases. The both moles (mafia side aswel the police side) realized this cannot continue anymore. Afterwards they had to take strong measurements to the case. That all cause of the death of that head guy.So yeah, I advice everybody to watch the original one first. I think this movie is too overrated. I sure hope they won't re-film part II and III of Infernal Affairs (it is possible you know...).
The title clearly refers to Scorsese's talent, which vanished in a squirt of stage blood about 15 years back. He wasn't talented, he was brilliant -- but that was then. Today he should be making intelligent independent movies, elder statesmanly flourishes of wit and humanity, inspiring a younger generation. Instead, he's humiliating himself with overblown junk. His love affair with hoodlums is tiresome, his critique of Catholicism is ignorant and stupid -- I mean, I dislike Catholicism as an institution, and God knows it doesn't need me to defend it -- but any sociological or spiritual phenomenon with the history and complexity of Catholicism deserves better treatment than the head-kickings Scorsese metes out. And ironically, Scorsese has made his own Faustian pact with the Devil -- he had his years in the Hollywood wilderness and feels he won't get anything thoughtful financed -- so it's better to team up with a bankable but untalented actor and produce these lumbering, brainless sub-epics.Many people in their comments here have struggled to express quite how deeply bad this film is. I too am at a loss. It's intriguing for a while, then downhill races into one of the worst supposedly classy films EVER MADE. Jack does his Jack Show, because he is vain and because no one has the guts to tell him that it was already self-parody 20 years ago. Supposed hard man Leonardo looks as enraged as a poodle when the canine beautician has gone a bit to close to his ear with the electric clippers. Matt is actually OK in the light comedy bits, which makes one wonder why he has become Hollywood's current Brooding One. Wahlburg -- rubbish. Sheen looks like he's focusing all his energies on trying to deliver his lines without spitting out his dentures. By the way, I reckon the script originally developed the sexual thing a bit more -- as it implies that Damon is not as groovy between the sheets as Leo, and his homophobia and other things seem to hint at his being a gay in denial -- but they decided that audiences wouldn't buy a gay hero, or it scared Damon, or God knows what -- just another loose end in this spaghetti-plate of a movie.Overall, hardly anyone in this movie (Winstone is an exception) act-ually ACTS. They are all oh so boringly themselves. Consider Olivier in Marathon Man, how his characterisation of an ageing Nazi suggested all sorts of undercurrents of twisted psychotic nastiness -- and then look at Nicholson's leering, over-the-top gurning. Chortling as you pull the trigger on someone is not really quite enough to convince us we are witnessing evil, Jackie baby.By the way, the film shows cutting-edge developments in cinematic blood-squirting technology. Instead of the wounds exploding using charges that produce a small cloud of smoke, they sort of vaporize -- it looks like it's done with compressed air. A great advance Scorsese can be proud of. This film has been larded with praise -- by gaga members of the Hollywood money machine. Every year people say Scorsese deserves an Oscar, and it's usually because we remember his early films. Well, they have Lifetime Achievement Oscars if we want to reward a body of work. Now he has to go to his grave knowing he got the Oscar for a Turkey. Only he probably doesn't know. And do any of the egos involved in this mess care? Hollywood cynicism, parodied in Scorsese's last film, The Aviator! What a joke.Right -- my last word, if you're still reading. We are currently being told by our masters to hate Iran. It has one of the few cinemas in the world that sometimes try to show something true about the human condition. Whereas our civilization produces, as one of the top-billing cultural manifestations of the year, expensive to make, heaped with praise and awards, exported around the world and seen by multiple millions--something about as edifying as watching lions tortured or Christians having limbs lopped off at the Roman Colisseum two millennia ago. What does this say about us?
Well, due to all the hype I went to see this one with great expectations, although I must admit without having seen the parent film Infernal Affairs. What a let down ! Setting the scene is great, and time taken to achieve this is well spent, but for me the film started to drag, with expectation and patience well run out by the time the plot strands began coming together. Yes, Jack Nicholson is a great actor, but no he didn't convince me in the role, even though most of the good lines and deliveries were his. But Boston Irish ? Everyone, including the deliverer of the line "I'm Irish & can live with something wrong the rest of my life...." failed to convince me of Irish lineage. The accents, the faces, the attitudes were all wrong for souls in torment over doing what they believe they have to do, a basic for Irish/Catholic guilt and angst. The film would have been much stronger with unknowns in several key positions, and for me once the disparate strands were established the rest of the film was very predictable and I wasn't kept guessing - crucial if we are to suspend disbelief and have pressure and tension build in the viewer.DeCaprio fails to convince as a tough guy, despite the convincing scars. He stills comes across as an adolescent fuming after his pocket money's been withheld. Matt Damon looks like an awkward schoolboy, and was even less convincing than DeCaprio about being a cop. Mark Wahlberg sounded like he'd been taught to swear the week before, Martin Sheen was as hard bitten as a kitten and there were so many operational goofs the film became a comedy. A Federal agent running a State operation against his own informer? What a waste of time and budget monies. Only two people knowing about an undercover operation? BULL! Keep sending an undercover back after his nerve's gone ? Garbage ! Permanently deleting a full record (on a State Police computer no less!) without possibility of recovery ? Unbelievable - even children know data can be restored, and the system will keep a record of who deleted the information. For me, the film became a joke and I couldn't wait for the end to arrive so I could leave. By the time the end plays arrived and new players were falling like flies, the audience was laughing out loud at the inanity. Once again, Hollywood takes a good story and ruins it with poor crafting, no matter how well filmed. Very bad casting, a rushed and unfulfilling ending, far too much gore, not enough character substance, one dimensional players and an insult to the viewers intelligence.
Although I loathe a lot of what Hollywood does in films these days, I am willing to put up with much of it as long as the film pays off in the end. While there is much to admire in The Departed, the ending is one of the worst I have ever seen, below the standards even of Training Day and John Q. I was quite mesmerized up to the point where Costigan discovers the truth about Sullivan. In spite of Scorsese's compulsion/obsession with every filthy aspect of human nature, I was very much enjoying the performances and the story. Then, it seems he or the screenwriter had a brainfart. In light of that fact, all of the excess of the film caused it to implode. In the ensuing vacuum, I could find no redeeming quality of the film at all. What does the story tell us? It wasn't true to itself at all. No one gained a thing. No redemption. No resolution.I am not an expert on films in any way. But it seems to me that when a story is developed on the strength of a collection of main characters, the story had better wind up focusing on the relationship between them. One by one, the supporting cast is eliminated. Then one of the three main characters is killed off. That leaves the two lead roles, and as far as I'm concerned, at this point it has to come down to the two of them. Whether it's a showdown or a meltdown, this film had to close with Costigan and Sullivan forcing the outcome. Instead, they are both eliminated with as little drama as if they were innocent bystanders. The fact that these events left as many questions as answers tells me that the director really didn't know what he wanted the story to say.The acting was superb, the story captivating, the suspense almost unbearable - what more could you want from a good movie? Well, as far as I'm concerned, without a good ending, all of the above amounts to little more than the hype that usually precedes a film, but in this case makes up the bulk of the film. Enough with the blood and guts, Mr. Scorsese, enough with the profanity and vulgarity - lets see if you can make a film that succeeds on its own merits.And in the meanwhile, I would appreciate it if you could convince the studio to refund my money.
I thought the original movie of it "The Infernal Affairs" was more entertaining than "The Departed". The Infernal Affairs had more actions and more emotional than The Departed. It was total copy cat of the Infernal Affairs. When Leonardo DiCaprio was trying to beat Matt Damon on the top of the building was lame. With the Infernal Affairs was awesome. Tony Leung(Leonardo) pointed his gun at Andy(Matt) and said, "Sorry, I'm a police officer." Later Andy killed Tony in the elevator that was great action. Unlike The Departed was really retarded. For the Infernal Affairs it's a 10/10! There is one thing that was good about The Departed was that there was Leonardo DiCaprio. He acted extremely well. Matt Damon doesn't know how to act. They should of had Brad Pitt instead. The performance would be more outstanding. They got lots of cheap actors for The Departed. For the Infernal Affairs, they got a lot of expensive actors. GO INFERNAL AFFAIRS!!!
Why does Hollywood continue to believe that people in this day and time need to hear cursing in movies that goes way out of line. The entire script was centered around who could use the F word the most in one sentence. I believe that the writer must believe that in order to be a "real" man that you have to curse. The truth is that a person who has to curse to try and prove himself lacks the character and integrity to be a "real" man. Don't try and say that the characters in the movie are talking like cops in the real world do. I am a police officer and have been for over 35 years and have never heard anyone use the f word like it was used in this movie. The Massachusetts State Police hopefully are in a uproar over the way they are portrayed in this movie. It makes them look like a bunch of uneducated dunces that can only prove themselves to each other by cursing. Stay away from this movie.
Before starting I must confess to watching this film never having seen the original and without realizing there was one. After reading some of the comments here I will pick up internal affairs and watch it. Having discovered the film is a remake of a superior foreign film this explains a lot (though probably not all) of what makes this such a bad film.But I am happy to take the film stand alone on its own merits, of which there are few. For Scorsese to stoop to this debacle after masterpieces like Mean Streets and Goodfellas is shocking. The fact that this won so many awards is beyond me.Let's review the completely unbelievable plot points: - Gangster Nicholson allows former cop (who he knows is a former cop) DiCaprio become his right hand man seemingly moments after joining his gang.Nicholson discovers there is a mole in the organization. And can't work out that it's DiCaprio, his latest recruit. Ludicrous. This appears to be a gang of less than ten people. Give me a break.The whole film falls apart right there - if you can't believe the main premise then it's failed. But let's go on.DiCaprio is the only gangster not to give his ID number to his boss, but he is still above suspicion.Rotten Cop Damon gets away with blasting his boss Nicholson - and there is no investigation? Nobody ever subpoenas cell phone records (a very easy thing to do) Damon and DiCaprio just happen to be dating the same girl.Said girl is given incriminating tape of Damon by DiCaprio. Nothing is ever done with this tape though. Was this cut out to trim the film under three hours? Said girl agrees to go for a coffee with her patient DiCaprio. This doesn't happen in real life. Psychiatrists do not date their patients. Not even Frasier did that and that was supposed to be comedy.Police records are completely erasable by one person with no backup and no trace remaining. Nonsense.The final scenes at the building are ludicrous. Characters only briefly touched upon at the beginning of the film are suddenly players in the big game to the point where they will commit cop murders. I'm not sure I understood why it needed to be on the roof anyway. From what I understand this was in the original film but there was a reason for it. Poorly executed.Jack Nicholson is Boston Irish. Maybe he is of Irish descent in reality - but he sure can't play it well.Err, the State Police in central Boston? No - that's BPD's turf. They at least have to work with BPD.Gangsters throw a captain of the State Police off a building and there are no fingerprints or other evidence available later.And now for the pointless time wasters: Obviously Scorsese is big enough and powerful enough that he can dictate cuts (or lack thereof) to the studio at this point. Unfortunately this leads to a self indulgent two and a half hour (felt like four hours) film and convoluted story telling The whole plot with the girl psychiatrist. What is this for? It serves absolutely *no* purpose in the film other than to make it longer and less believable. Even her pregnancy is left hanging. I really get the feeling they filmed a lot more but had to quickly cut to get the length down. This is why studios have editors. Let them do their jobs and cut the drivel from films and make them entertaining.The whole setup in police academy. That's half an hour right there that should have been cut out of the film.The stupid porno/hooker stuff with Nicholson. Pointless, plot irrelevant and simply unnecessary. Goodfellas managed to be a great film without that. Although there was one light moment when Jack implied he can't raise the titanic any more. Art imitates life I guess.The OTT language. I'll believe it from gangsters but special investigators tend to be a bit more pro.The sex scene was just sillyNow let's throw in some bad casting/bad directing decisions: - Having Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio play the leading roles, both cops with crew cuts. They are both good actors but something should have been done to differentiate between the two in terms of physical appearance. These guys look too much alike in the opening sequences - waaay to confusing. This is solved later when DiCaprio starts to look more ragged.Whatever happened to the FBI angle? Why bother with it if it is unused? Too many stars. They all demand face time which makes the film drag. It would have been better with some unknowns.The whole secret cell phone deal was used how many times? Repetition plagued this film all the way through.OK - so you get it. The film has a plot full of holes and drags on for hours. It promises so much and delivers so little, which is why it deserves so few marks from me.The one star, if I must give one, is for Alec Baldwin who is hilarious as one of the senior cops and steals every scene he is in. In a cast of stars that's a pretty neat trick.
I love Scorcese, but, eh, this is the guy who also shot Gangs of New York of ridiculous fame. And this... piece of work is worst. Don't get me wrong, I liked a lot the first half hour of the movie. Even Nicholson is "good" and doesn't overplay his part in the beginning. Quite a miracle in itself for this decade! But then... where goes the plot? By the ending you get some unlikely situations that should have been "preserved" for the Da Vinci Code Crap: "So, he is the traitor? Well, I'm not going to tell anyone, I will send him a CD with a recording I don't have yet and I will bring him on the top of a building to... huh... to use the lift with to get to floor level and I... huh... will call my old academy friend... huh... to... huh... ask him to come so the 3 of us can use the lift! Yeah! Good idea! And we will shoot everybody, and I won't tell the police, and I won't tell the only officer who knows who I really am. Genius!" NONSENSE! The last 45 minutes are full of pretentious unbelievable "so called smart ideas". Try the original "Infernal Affairs". Even if it's not much glamorous, it definitely has "something". PS: and, BTW, don't you Damon is bland in this film?
Lets start with a very slow intro to an amazing story. Then lets compile a dream cast of characters to act out this amazing story. So amazing in fact that it very well could be the best movie of the year. Then once this character had given up everything and risked his life in nearly every scene, lets FINALLY give him the opportunity to hand over the dirty cop and set things straight. Well, we don't have time to finish the story with a great ending, so lets just kill him. Then at the end, lets kill the dirty cop so he can be decorated as a hero instead of turning over evidence so he can be convicted. This could have been the best movie of the year, and the story could have been told in well under 2 hours. They should have just opened and closed with a firing squad and I could have been in and out in 10 minutes with the same results.
This film is overrated. I enjoyed watching it and expect it will sell well, but being quickly included in the top 250 is more a factor of American ignorance than film genius.This film is mainstream. I don't remember any long shots or groundbreaking lines. Instead, the Departed feeds the lack of attention and mainstream spit talk of a cookie cutter sellout.This film is unoriginal. Do you seriously feel that this film develops characters properly? Do you think that the twists were unexpected because you were raised on Disney entertainment. Did you forget the unbuilt grey area regarding the CIA informer?
I wasn't surprised when it won. The "oh, he/she has never won, so we've got to give it to he/she" has been VERY busy the last few years. Plus, I hadn't seen it. I was really looking forward to it. WOW!! This was bad in a number of ways, but mainly because this has to be the worst screenplay EVER to win any Oscar, never mind a best pic. How else was it bad? Casting Nicholson as a tough guy that would scare everyone else has always been a laugh. Nicholson is a little pisant. He wouldn't last a year in South Boston, never mind decades. Nicholson's games with hookers were pointless and just distracting. The woman shrink, whatever her name was, sleeping with both Damon and DiCaprio was ridiculous. Wahlberg (was that him? I hadn't known he was in the pic, and for a few minutes I thought Damon was playing two characters.), looked and sounded like a local village idiot in Charlestown. Truly, the entire police force, local, state and FBI couldn't have lit a 100 watt bulb. The idea that Nicholson's character wouldn't have fingered and killed DiCaprio's character quickly is also ridiculous. Let's see. Nicholson has, oh, a half-dozen henchmen, all of whom have been with him for YEARS, all of whom have KILLED for him. Then DiCaprio shows up. He is an EX-COP! Hicholson takes him in. About a year later, it becomes clear there is a rat in the group. Gee, who do we suspect? Now here is one that gets a little tricky. I noticed the guy told DiCaprio to go to #314 instead of #344. The guy noticed that DiCaprio still showed up at #344. Now, we aren't sure if that guy was an undercover cop or not. The TV said he was. Nicholson doubted it. If the guy wasn't a rat, why didn't he tell his cohorts that DiCaprio was, ahem, suspicious. Gee you think?Another reason it is so ridiculous he hadn't killed DiCaprio by then. When the TV fingers one of his guys as a rat, Nicholson won't believe it, though he knows there is one. This is like a "which one doesn't belong in this group" game for a 2 year old, but Nicholson failed it!There were a few more crazy plot holes and foolish setups. It was hard to keep up with them. As for the almost everybody-gets-shot-in-the-head ending, don't get me started. There are too many inanities there to begin. At least Wahlberg's village idiot knows how to put on foot covers. Was that to hide the fact that he didn't know how to tie his shoes?All in all, I understand why MS got the Oscar. The direction and acting was pretty good. But, giving this a Best Pic or voting it anything over a 6 is ridiculous.
Trust me! Once you see the Hong Kong original, you would find out that Scorsese ruined this terrific play!The original title in Chinese was "Wu-chien-dao", which in Buhdism it means the bottom level of the hell. In this hell, people are doomed for eternity and suffer forever. And in the original, Costigan killed the other guy Costello sent into the force and the movie ends. Costigan has to bear the quilt and live on! This is what the script wants to show! Living but with the quilt is THE true hell after all! The new ending totally ruined the essence of the script underneath. What a waste!
what a let down, after all the fuss and rave reviews, the film is not a patch on the honk kong original. scorcese takes two and half hours to tell a very simple story that in the original had you tensed up all the way. here what we get is banal dialogue,(goodfellas again) implausible plot turns, (i'm trying to remember if infernal affairs plot was as ludicrous, take the fact that di caprio goes to see the police shrink, in the police building, what no ones sees him. the basic premise and point of the movie is when and how they are going to discover,each, it takes ages to get to this point, by which time i was bored silly with nicholsons way over the top performance, di caprio looked and sounded like he was about to cry any moment, but worst of all was that the film had no energy, it just sagged, this is now the third film from sorcese that looks tired, it started with gangs of new york, then aviator and now this, by this going, his next film will positively crawl to the end. overrated, overblown and forgetfull
this movie is completely inferior to Infernal Affairs on just about every level possibleIA anticipated an audience with a brain cell or two, and so explains during the title sequence what it takes this remake around 30 minutes or more to explain. repeat, during the *title sequence* we are given all of the information we need to know about the informant plants (which btw were realistically placed some considerable time in the past, rather than several months ago) and are then straight into the moviescorsese takes this fabulous material and then dumbs it down to spoon feed it to a western audience. all of the sharp and intelligent dialogue of the original is gone in favour of your usual Hollywood 4 word expletives. every other word in this film is an F word, and they are mostly totally unnecessary. all of the stylish camera work of the original is lost, for example the ultra cool roof top meets. and to top it the casting and performances are dry and badnicholson gives us a performance which is no more than good old bottled vintage jack. here's jack doing an impression of a rat etc etc, yawn.di caprio is good as usual but still doesn't nail the performance mostly because he doesn't physically suit the part. he just doesn't look tough enough for the challenge (as presented in the departed)wahlberg on the other hand tough's it up to the Nth degree, and is just absolutely atrocious. this man is working in a high level intelligence department and he plays it like a street cop. it's a totally inappropriate display and really reveals his limitations as an actormatt damon is just too plain, he is just totally unmemorable in this moviefor a director who used to be at the cutting edge of cinema, this is a fat and lazy remake of a lean and mean original movie/trilogy which i urge you strongly to see. time for scorsese to hit the gym and go back to basicsfor people unaware of the original i'm sure they'll be blown away by the incredibly intricate plot in scorsese's departed. unfortunately what they probably won't know is that this is a dumb rehash of Infernal Affairs


                
This film should have just been called "Infernal Affairs - Slightly different ending".All the ranters and ravers of how glorious a film this is are those obviously oblivious to the existence of the far superior Hong Kong original.I'll admit I'm a huge fan of most of Scorsese's other work & was highly anticipating this release but upon watching this I was hugely disappointed, so much so that I almost fell asleep, & the only other times that has happened was during the remake of The Wicker Man - enough said there.Advice for anyone who has not seen this would be see the original & pray Hollywood doesn't make a sequel.


                
Jack Nicholson does his impersonation of Rip Torn, Dicaprio and Damon are distinguished only because one of them (but which?) has some facial hair, and all of them and everyone else puts on a lousy "Southie" Boston accent so even the actors natively from there come across as fake. Except a few actors put on a fine Irish Brogue so you know they're Irish. Such entertainments are needed in this remarkably plot-free orgy of camp, grumbling, meaningless shootouts and poignant cell phone usage. I haven't counted to see if cell phones are used as often as guns, but no doubt a future thesis on the theme is lurking.Jack Nicholson at one point refers to the John Hancock building. That's a building in Boston. Wow, Nicholson was so in character he might have just winged that.Everyone calls everyone else a rat, or an undercover, and sometimes they say things like "He's undercover!," What undercover?" "No, he's my undercover." Abbott and Costello more humorously expressed it: Who's rat's on first?There's also authentic Hollywood crime lingo, like "were you tailed" (a play on rats perhaps).Everyone informs on everyone else and in the end, everyone shoots everyone else, except one person who's character is so vague you can look him or her in the eye and not know who. "I want my identity back," says one character, mysteriously. All of this highlights the key themes of the film, that everyone is everyone else, and in the end, only cell phones survive.There's also a lot of looking in cell phones, presumably because to Hollywood types, even more than the rest of us, looking at cell phones is done often and always is a thrill. This movie is a really good argument for having movies directed instead of run by mugging improvisers; alternatively a future film can dispense with actors entirely, and focus entirely on cell phones and computer screens.However the City of Boston, played largely by itself, is convincing.T


                
I'm never going to be in a position to win an Oscar, so maybe I just don't understand how goshdarn fab it is to get one. Still, were I Martin Scorsese, I can't imagine not being too ashamed to show my face in public after receiving an Oscar for this claptrap. This isn't a Martin Scorsese film; this is a Saturday Night Live sendup of a Martin Scorsese film. This is the Academy saying, "Well, we didn't give him one for Gangs of New York or for Good Fellas, and he's getting a little long in the tooth, after all. We'd better give him an Oscar for this before he croaks." Is there anyone -- ANYONE??? -- in this film, with the possible exception of DiCaprio, who isn't acting following a major dose of Xanax? (Matt Damon evidently took his Xanax after a lobotomy that was so botched that he could no longer even change his facial expression.) And what's with Mark Wahlberg's HAIR??? Is there any redeeming social value in scene after scene (after scene) of heads exploding in a red cloud? Even Scorsese is bored with depicting violence; he does it because it's expected of him, not because he really gives a damn anymore. You're stupid enough to want it; he's jaded enough to give it to you. A plot line with more holes in it than the hull of The Titanic. Characters about as appealing as Jeffrey Dahmer. You can't care what happens to a single person in this film, and you can't even care that the moral center collapses about an hour in. This film isn't even sickening; it's just dull, dull-witted, and trashy. Scorsese got his Oscar out of sympathy; too bad the film doesn't have any for the viewer.


                
Seriously, what's the big fuss about this movie? Too long, too pointless, too slow. After an hour and a half I just couldn't keep watching it. I like suspense movies. This isn't one. Is it supposed to be about the characters? The info about them was so eschew that I didn't know them very well after 90 minutes. What was supposed to be great about it?I absolutely despised that this won best movie in 2007. Seriously. Far better ones in the category. It's outrageous that this is ranked better than movies like Aliens, 2001 Space Oddysey and Forest Gump. Skip it, or just rent it and see for yourself.


                
Do you know the story about the king who left his palace naked and everyone in the crowd watching him were commenting on his splendid clothes? This is how I feel after reading reviews from well-known and "respected" critics on Scorcese's "The departed". Because that is what Scorcese's film is-it is naked, devoid of any rhyme or reason, of any reason why things happen, of any values. To me it is just the ranting of an older man, it is Scorcese fantasizing about violence, sex, corruption ; it is Scorsese thinking "wow it is so clever to show all this blood and to have my actors swear all the time, yeah this is art" . Well, I am sorry, but this isn't art. This is about Scorsese repeating himself and indulging in his obsessions and us congratulating him. I am not a conservative person- I just feel like the little boy in the story who cried out that the king was naked; like the little boy who wasn't a hypocrite and just showed things as they were.


                
First of all, I must say this is THE worst Martin Scorsese movie I have ever seen. I usually like Scorsese's movie, but this one is the first one I have encounter that totally blow me away in its awfulness.My first problem with The Departed is the casting. They got a bunch of baby-face fruitcakes like Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Anthony Anderson and Mark Wahlberg which totally throws the suspension of disbelief out of the window. It is like watching a bunch of boy scouts playing cops and robbers - None of them look like cops - more like boy scouts.Secondly, the acting, is just wooden. There is no subtlety in the acting, and they try to cover that up by over-acting, and constant swearing. (Perhaps it is to make them look more "mature" for their part.) Now, about the plot, it is pretty thin, and confusing at times, lacks clarity or resolve. The several scenes made me cringe, particularly when Jack Nicholson tries to torture Leonardo DiCaprio, it just seems totally unbelievable after Jack Nicholson violently tortured DiCaprio and he trusted him AGAIN!! Now, about Matt Damon's acting in this movie, it is pretty god damn bad. In fact, what acting!!?? Matt Damon just doesn't emote at all!! He is as souless and as wooden as a robot. It is extremely wooden as if he is the living proof that Pinocchio exist!Leonardo's acting is more of his usual self, pretty boy in distress with endless whinings to anyone who would lend his ears to him - but in this movie, he seems particularly out of place. The character development lacks subtle internal conflicts presented in the original character so involving and multi-dimensional.Jack Nicholson is just his usual sly scoundrel self. Totally uninspiring acting. Same goes with Martin Sheen's super stiff acting. Anthony Anderson is totally mis-casted in this movie as if he is a comic relief (and yet there is nothing comic about it)The character development and inter-character dynamics are almost non-existent between the two rivaling characters (Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon) it is as if they are in two separate movies. The movie not only lacks any subtlety but blatantly plays up the caricatures of what we perceived as "mafia" - loud mouth constantly swearing goons - it is both extremely cliché and uninteresting.The plot is also pretty confusing due to extremely bad direction, it lacks focus, and the camera work is also chaotic and uninteresting.


                
The director practically gutted the original story. This is classic Hollywood doings. I've never seen a worse adaptation from an original movie. They basically added more sex scenes and cut out all the meaningful parts of the original stories, made the story choppy and hard to follow, then stick a couple of big names to draw the audience. The original Hong Kong movie Infernal Affairs has a solid character development. Infernal Affairs also used more intelligent ways of communication between the undercover and the source, making you sit at the edge of your seat. Aside from much stronger story lines, it also portrayed mental health workers in a much more professional manner...the psychiatrist in the Departed would've had her license taken away in a snap as there are strict laws prohibiting dual relationships. Just like all meaningless mainstream movies, as if putting in a sex scene and showing some flesh would make up for the horrid chopped up story. The original made the psychiatrist-patient relationship more real and tapped into the inner workings of the psychiatrist working with an undercover. If you are looking for a truly well written screenplay with deep emotional plots, go watch the original Infernal Affairs instead!


                
This movie sucked big time. I agree with all of those who complained about the abusive and unrealistic cursing, specially when coming from the cops. It makes no sense that educated people whose job it is to run investigations would keep talking like that all the time. But even if you choose to suspend disbelief on that matter, there are just too many inconsistencies to be able to let yourself taken in for the ride. Other viewers have described them very well, so I thank them for saving me the time. I also felt a great disappointment since I used to think that Martin Scorsese was a great director. Well no more I guess. Just another big commercial production which just doesn't fly... Too many heavy weights and too much pandering to the lowest common denominators, this recipe usually favored by Hollywood only succeeded in giving me an indigestion... buuurrrp!!!


                
Sorry, thought this was very bad.Terrible story, have not seen Infernal Affairs but State of Grace and even the pilot of The Shield were far superior and credible.Wahlberg too weak for the role, his scenes with Baldwin and Damon were comical.Alec Baldwin, enough said...Nicholson overacting wildly the rat impression made me cringe.DiCaprio's performance was going OK until the line "I can't believe you are so vulnerable right now" - Vulnerability! couldn't see that emotion anywhere but it seemed I was supposed to, which made me question the whole performance.Matt Damon was actually quite good.Direction - the film looked good, sounded good but all to no avail when tied to such a poor story.Not trying to pick a fight just my opinion. Nearly every review has been positive surely someone else hated it?


                
