Before seeing this, I knew I was in for a treat, given that it's a Scorsese movie, but The Departed was even better than I expected.The acting is outstanding. Leonardo DiCaprio gives what is quite possibly the best performance of his career. Even the people who hate him admit he did a good job. It's turned some haters into fans and my brother who despises him even says he was great. Matt Damon and Jack Nicholson give their best performances since The Talented Mr. Ripley and As Good As It Gets. Mark Wahlberg almost steals the show with the best lines. Ray Winstone, Alec Baldwin, and Martin Sheen are good, too.Definitely one of the best films of the 00's. And easily one of the best remakes of all time. It's intense, funny, exciting, suspenseful, superbly acted, violent, has great characters, and has one of the most shocking scenes I've ever seen. And there's not a boring moment in it's two and a half hour running time. The film will most likely be nominated for picture, director and adapted screenplay, and in my opinion, it deserves all three of them. DiCaprio and Wahlberg also deserve nominations.See this as soon as you can.


                
The DepartedThe screenplay: Top NotchThe performances: all-star cast delivering all-star performancesThe music: perfectThe Directing: Martin Scorsese at his finest and that is saying something.Once again Scorsese delivers a film that meets or exceeds the expectations of its audience in nearly every way. There are moments of incredible tension, violence, and drama, moments where characters reveal their vulnerabilities and weakness. Comedic moments and moments of sadness and through it all a multi layered and brilliant story is told by an American film maker who once again proves Harvey Keitel correct when he said, "Maybe he (Scorsese) got what he deserves--exclusion from the mediocre." This film is Scorsese's finest work since Raging Bull, but it is not simply about Martin Scorsese or the amazing screen play by William Monahan, it is more than an amazing score, and great cinematography. While many of the accolades for this film belong to those behind the scenes people who envisioned and directed this film. One would be remiss to not point out the great performances of an all-star cast, many of whom deliver the finest performances of long and storied careers. Martin Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Jack Nicholson, Leonardo DiCaprio and Matt Damon deliver incredible performances. However the performance that stood out for me was Wahlberg, Mark Wahlberg's Sgt. Dignam stole every scene he was in, and he shared screen time with each of the afore mentioned actors. He gets to deliver some of the best lines, and with every scene he leaves the audience wanting more, and anticipating his next scene.Since The Academy has had its collective heads stuck <U+0085> for so long, mentioning a Scorsese picture and Oscar in the same sentence seems to be a waste of time. That being said I can not say if he will finally win the Oscar that he has deserved for so long, as his major competition (Flags of our Fathers) has yet to be released, I will say that I expect to see Wahlberg nominated for best supporting, and Leo and Damon will be pitted against one another once more, this time for best actor, Monahan will be nominated for writing, and of course Scorsese will be nominated for director. Also, it goes without saying a best picture nomination will be in order for The Departed.That was the long version; the short version is if you like a movie with incredible performances, direction, music and visuals. If you like a layered story that is not formulaic, in short if you appreciate film making and story telling at its finest then see this film. Even with the glowing reviews of myself and others, and the high expectations they will undoubtedly bring I assure you that you will not be disappointed.


                
Dare I? Dare I say it? This movie is better than Goodfellas. There, I said it.I saw this latest Scorsese film at an advance screening. Needless to say I was expecting a lot <U+0096> more than I thought this director (of classics like Taxi Driver but lately of Gangs of New York) would deliver. I was very wrong.Though the exact plot is unimportant, The Departed is about the blurred lines that distinguish good guy from bad guy, and cop from robber, in present-day Boston. With a packed cast (which I need not mention) that includes great supporting roles by Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin, the acting in the departed is stellar. Living-legend Jack Nicholson flawlessly delivers one of his best performances in years as the execrable mob boss Frank Costello. Nicholson's nuanced acting was so on-point that at times I felt like I was actually about to be shot by the slimy capo.The Departed is nothing short of spectacular. Funnier that most comedies, Scorsese is still able to amplify the bloodshed and meticulously deliver a stunning cinematic achievement.Bravo, Mr. Scorsese; you have outdone yourself.


                
I'm very glad to say that this is his best achievement since "Goodfellas" and the best of his career. "The Departed" is a remake of the Hong-Kong film "Infernal Affairs" which tells the story of two men, Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) whom are on two opposites sides of the law and seem to have their lives revolving around one of the most notorious gangsters, Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Billy comes from a family of mafia lords and crime smugglers however, seems to find his way into the honorable profession of law enforcement and wanting to make a difference. After his graduation from the academy, he is made an offer that involves getting entangled with the roots of his family and becoming the one thing he swore to fight against. He is discharged from the police and serves a one-year prison sentence and upon his departure, join the crowd of Costello made up of scandalous thugs and convicts, in order to gain information and evidence to convict the felon. But Costello has some tricks up his sleeve and his infamous nature is guarded by the inside of the commandment. Many years prior to Billy's infiltration, Costello befriends a young boy and makes him his own personal messenger and protégé, Colin Sullivan. Colin is well trained and Frank convinces him to join the Boston State Police as his source of crime and information. He tips Frank off for police operations while quickly moving his way up the ladder of success in the department. The two men accept their tasks and we are thrown into the ultimate story of corruption, deceit and loyalty. Billy Costigan is the most complex character thanks to the powerful performance by Leonardo DiCaprio. Billy has his own personal demons and is in constant battle within himself from his crimes with Costello to his loss of humanization. Billy seems to lose himself in the film and is in long search of redemption of his misdemeanors. DiCaprio is truly a gifted and talented actor and continues to show us that he isn't the same boy/heartthrob from "Titanic," his "Billy" is perplexing and utterly haunting. DiCaprio's performance is the best of the cast but I'm afraid the role doesn't garner the much "Oscar scene" to gather true awards attention. He does have some powerful clips although, they're a part of an action flick that few actors can seem to find their way out of and onto a short list called the Best Actor race. The film would need to be a unanimous hit for him to pull off nomination #3. His Boston accent is great and the fury that he finds in his character is remarkable. I just don't feel his character can be appreciated and admired the way it should be. Matt Damon has been trying to show us a different part of him each time. Colin is the most hated man of the film, hands down. From his manipulation of the law to his constant deceit and betrayal of his peers, Damon truly finds his character's axis. Colin Sullivan is greedy in power, arrogant in thoughts, and degrading in aura. The powerful and well put together screenplay elevates what could have been a very typical story and turns it into an action genre with slices of drama sequences that some films could only dream to be. The pace of the film is just right with all the right decisions being made. Scorsese builds scenes with so much suspense that it's terribly hard not to become knotted in the film and be at the edge of your seat. Jack, I believe is on his way to another nomination. Frank Costello is one of the most malevolent, immoral, sinful men of recent film history. Jack is the man and while he deserves the acclaim that he hopefully will receive for the role, he is in no way walking to the podium to accept a fourth Oscar. Even though he does many wicked things in the film, you start to admire the spirit and reputation of Frank Costello. He is the best put together player, head to toe, from his monologues about his past to his devilish humor; he chews scenery so well that he bleeds out the screen. There is no real reason to reiterate how great Jack is but it is great to see those sunglasses at the Kodak Theater from time to time. While the film is jammed packed with suspense and thrills, there is a huge flaw that befalls the film and it's its extremely weak ending. The film builds you up to a climax you cannot wait to see and experience but unfortunately, the end result is rather dull, flat and bland. While it didn't destroy the film entirely, it did enough damage to not make it a cinematic gem. Also, the entrance of Vera Farmiga's character as Madeleine, the police authority psychiatrist who starts to date Colin and ends up webbed in a love triangle with Billy is rather forced and unneeded. It's a bit too cheesy to suffice and the dramatic elements were enough without bringing in a tedious romance. What are "The Departed" chances for the upcoming awards season? I'll say Jack Nicholson for supporting, the three-person writing team in the adapted screenplay category and a few technical nominations including sound, sound editing, editing and Howard Shore's potent score. Scorsese could find a spot in the Director's five but the film is too "something" and I can't think of what it is yet but whatever it is there's an overabundance. The Globes will probably snap at the film because it's very reminiscent of Scorsese's previous works like "Goodfellas" and "Gangs of New York" but there's no Weinstein's to truly get it out there and appreciated. The film rips at you from inside and leaves a lucid impingement for all areas to be felt.
A really good old fashioned film, with an excellent story and an unbelievable cast. This film really keeps you interested all the way though as you want to know what will happen to the protagonists, and how they will or won't get caught.We have all seen All-Star cast films where they just did not gel, but Marty seems to have got a good performance out of everybody. You can tell that Jack Nicholson has been given huge leeway in how he wanted to take his character through the story, and as always seems larger than life, but do not mistake that for a recycled performance. Without giving nothing away, his meeting with Matt Damon in the cinema is certainly worth watching for novelty and imagination in introducing yourself to someone you know!!! This is the sort of film you come out of the theatre with a big smile on your face, and surrounded by good spirited chattering. There are twists but you do not lose track of events, and just lap up the quality that laces the film from beginning to end.Sure it is not Goodfellas, but then they say that genius only touches you once....but this is head and shoulders above the best that most other directors can make.


                
Whether he knows it or not, Scorcese, has a God-given talent for bringing out stories, with an 'intellectual' twist (Not Last Temptation however). THE DEPARTED, showed the hard-boiled side of Boston that is in need of repair. The whole 'Grit' of the officers and the jobs intermixed, from the criminal element right over to the 'Staties'. There seems to be quite a bit of sludge, in the Law there, as many places, (just about everywhere else in the world) unfortunately. But these investigators, with a real 'leak' Handy-capped department, were everything I would have thought this would be, and I am happy to report even more so. First off the Captin Queenan's office, the interview with one, oh-so-nice conversation with Statie 'Collin Sullivan', to the interview/interrogation of DiCaprio's character, showed the uneven operator's working on the inside. All the while, just doing their job of course. Breaking in the newbie's, getting into their heads, to see what they are made of, especially under pressure. Right off-the-bat, you got the higher up's in your face, when you pass the class and that's just to get things started. It starts to get more interesting, just after that. The good man got beat down from the beginning, then that man took action and in that course of, he started to make real waves. Almost invisibly. Enter (first) Jack Nicholson's 'Frank Costello' who Billy Costigan has nicely "Siddled" up on, and fills a needed position in Frank's business operations his 'Irish' Mafia. This put's Frank's son, who is feeding a criminal from a federal building into a place a crook should never be...'informed'. I was drawn deep into the storyline, from the first few scenes on screen. I was in shock, first when the Captain (Martin Sheen) was standing in for Leo's character and was unable to make it out alive, thus was cast head-long off the meeting place (building) to his,(bloody) end. But as it went on, the story and the shifting of information, back and forth from criminal (Nicholson) to cop (Matt Damon) it became, with the help of Costigan, a lot more complicated, even as it was sifting downward ultimately time would run out and someone from one of the sides would find out, just who the hidden identity was in fact. You know, that Frank's losing his cool and ability to think as he smashes a fly on the table then proceeds to eat it in a bout of anger! Costigan, went on to drop the hammer on Collin, (Matt Damon) he was almost there. The biggest shock was the elevator, after opening and losing the star player. This was a great film, in that some of the players like, Damon and Wahlberg, would use a differing formatted character, than what they usually play. I truly enjoy, Matt Damon's work and yet I perfectly could not stand his character, in this. Superbly done. And as in the end, as the elevator door opens and Collin walks out to head to his door with groceries in arms, as he opens his own front door, he receives the very shock, of his life!! I was blown away at this point, because he (Damon)utters, 'Okay.' Dignam (Mark Walhberg) would be the dispenser of 'ultimate justice' here in this equation. Yet, Sullivan still requested the metal of honor for William Costigan, that was a perfect treat for the ending shot, in this story. This for me was beside 'TITANIC' the most memorable Leo, deep, hungry, passionate, fierce. He was raw and yet refined in his 'mode of operation' investigating, i.e.,cousin Sean, smartly deceptive on the job. Calculated. I enjoyed Stephen Balwin's older Bro in this as well. (****) I recommend, but bring some ear plugs we got some scurrilous verbiage in this one!


                
I'm not sure about you, but there is something I find comforting upon hearing the words a Martin Scorsese picture. Like a good home cooked meal, you are in for a treat with all the trimmings. With a Scorsese picture you can bet your 'Color of money' that you will be edutained with his amazing cinema technique, references to classical Hollywood and international filmmakers, and a soundtrack that has you anxiously trying to free up space on your MP3 player.Not including the bloated but interesting 'Gangs of New York', The Departed sees Mr Scorsese return to the gangster genre since his 1995 masterpiece 'Casino.' More than just a remake of the well received Hong Kong film 'Infernal Affairs' The Departed sees Leonardo Dicaprio as Billy Costigan, a middle class Boston Irish police cadet officer, brought in to become a mole and work undercover in an effort to bring down a local mob and their boss Frank Costello played by the devil incarnate (Jack Nicholson) The engaging plot has a complexity added to it in the form of Colin Sullivan, played by an in form Matt Damon. Looked after as a child by the Costello character and with a life almost the exact flip side to Dicapro's Costigan, Sullivan has also become a cop, only he has been recruited by Nicholson to be his eyes and ears in the department enabling him to see around the longest corners.A web made from the finest lies, wiretaps, frantic mobile phone whispers, sex, violence and deceit is spun, as both Costigan and Sullivan are caught up in it, trying to snuff one another out. The Departed is filled with wonderful moments that highlight the mastery of director Scorsese.A scene in which Costigan tails a paranoid Sullivan through a seedy China town is fantastic, cut with switchblade precision from regular collaborator and genius editor Thelma Schoonmaker. Another is a shootout in a standard gangster genre warehouse, Scorsese stages the action with an assured eye and the sound is brilliant as you hear shots and screams echo out like an orchestra of death.Signature pans, swishes, wipes and zooms are all here, with broody and sombre photography from Michael Ballhaus. Learn to direct watching Scorsese and his amazing crew, even when people are talking the camera moves with purpose and style keeping it interesting and within the needs of the story.William Monahan must take a lot of credit for this film. His script has taken the structure of the original but flavours it all on his own with quotable for years to come and an underlying pathos and humour amongst the swearing and shouting. The film is so full of menace and testosterone the woman next to me in the cinema sprouted hair on her tongue.With wonderful support from Alec Baldwin, Mark Wahlberg, Vera Farmiga and Martin Sheen The Departed is the best Hollywood film of the year.See you at the Oscars.
Scorsese at his best. The 150 minutes seems like 90. Stella cast. Jack Nicholson - got to be an Oscar Nominated performance. Leonardo DiCaprio as you have never seen him before. Brilliantly written. Magnificently Directed. Fabulous Photography. And Matt Damon - no more Mr Nice Guy..... A must see movie - A+. Let no one tell you about the film, see it and enjoy it. The film is well paced - it does not have the usually present it most films of 150 minutes plus duration that sagging spot - no way could you cut a frame of this film. Well placed for the awards season and I think this is going to pull a bunch of them, and deservedly so. At last an intelligent movie to grace the cinema screens this year.


                
Has there ever been a film with a better cast than this? I can't think of one. Comment if you can. The acting in this is amazing and every actor did their job. I think this is Leonardo's best performance. He did it so well and it was actually like he was the character and not actually performing. The music is awesome. Especially Shipping Up to Boston which is done by one of my all-time favourite bands @dropkickmurphys. The song was the perfect choice for the film and they played it at just the right times. The plot is ingenious and Scorsese directed it superbly. This film even managed to be better than Infernal Affairs, which is what this film was based upon. I love the opening scene with Jack Nicholson's monologue and it really set the film for what was to come. The film also had it funny moments (thanks to Mark Walberg). This film is extremely entertaining and I love the characters. There is nothing to complain about in this film and I could and probably will watch this over and over again. One of the best this century. I was actually sad when this film was finishing because I didn't want it to end. Acting: 10/10 Dialogue: 10/10 Plot: 10/10 Characters: 10/10 Entertainment Value: 10/10


                
I was not sure of how this movie would play out after seeing the previews for it. But I must say it is a fantastic movie in many ways.Great cinematic vision, filming, and all of that stuff. Excellent story, even if it does start slow and slow down in a few places. This is the kind of thing that you would expect from Scorcesse. Some moments in the movie make you think that you are missing something, because it doesn't make sense right at that moment, but have no fear, it will.Not a big DiCaprio fan, but I think he actually did a fantastic job. I like Damon in the Bourne movies, and pretty much everything else he is in, so this was no disappointment either. And of course Nicholson is a whack-job, so he fit right in with the character.A few of the scenes where people get killed came out of nowhere ... and when it happened to DiCaprio ... I jumped ... just a little. Mostly because I thought he would be OK by the end of the movie. But I was wrong.Great movie all around, anyone that says different has some sort of hatred of why movies are made in the first place.
This has everything a movie lover could want. Great plot, brilliant storyline and acting that you could die for. This is the golden goose of Martin Scorsese and of 2006. This is what Infernal Affairs U.S is. Guns, Action and a nasty Jack Nicholson which movie buffs have been wanting since his brilliant performance many years ago in 'Batman' as The Joker. If you want a film that shocks, surprises you and leaves you hungry for more, 'The Departed' IS this film.The plot is pretty basic and understandable and the blurb tells you a lot. But you can follow through without becoming all confused (ala Matrix) and the story becomes more and more interesting. You start rooting for the good guys during this one even though the bad characters are really excellent. Especially Ray Winstone. He has a scene with Leonardo DiCaprio that just leaves you breathless (the scene in the bar for those who've seen it).This is Scorse's Golden Goose, all right. :)


                
An exciting, complicated plot that keeps you glued to your seat. Wonderful acting, especially Leonardo, Mark Wahlberg and Jack. Loved his mysterious girlfriend, Gwen, aka Kristen Dalton. Although, not a big part, but many stars played smaller roles and were outstanding. Scorcese should win the big one at last. Jack is not only an evil psychopath, but has a prankster, little boy quality as well. Leo shows every emotion there is, Alex Baldwin is hilarious as is Mark Wahlberg. A lot of violence, but aren't all Scorcese movies fairly violent? He knows the mob and how to show their personalities. A big film! Jack is a legend. He brings so much to everything he has ever done, and this film is no exception.


                
The answer is yes. This is a very good movie. Scorsese is back to his former form. Not that the Aviator and gangs of new york were bad movies, they're actually quit good movies, but not Scorsese good. The Departed is Scorsese good though.The story takes place in Boston which is a new field for Marty. It's actually quite refreshing. But when it all comes down the city doesn't really matter.In terms of acting there isn't much to say. Everybody does their job, and well. EVEN Mark Wahlberg and Matt Damon. Dicaprio has really become a talented actor. But Matt is probably the actor that surprised me the most in this movie. I'm not a big fan of his, but he really does a good job here. I expected nothing less from the legend Jack Nicholsen which is one of my favorite actors. And Alec Baldwin probably shows his best performance so far. All in all a GREAT cast.A great movie, Probably better than infernal affairs, but it is Scorsese after all. 9/10


                
Let's face it, Martin Scorsese has made some good movies the past few years but nothing too brilliant or remarkable, at least not compared to his more early work from the '70's, '80's and early '90's. The last real brilliant Scorsese was in my opinion the remake "Cape Fear", which dates back from 1991. But "The Departed" is really again a movie that deserves to be on the long list of brilliant Martin Scorsese movies.From the opening sequence on it's obvious; this is a typical Scorsese movie. For this movie he went back to the genre were he already was successful with in the past; the gangster-movies. It's a nice touch for a change that the movie is set in present time. After all, why should the best gangster-movies always take place in the past?"The Departed" is a greatly told and constructed modern crime movie about an infiltrator in the state police and an infiltrator in a crime syndicate who have to hunt each other down. It's a movie that provides the movie with some thrills, unexpected twists (especially toward the ending) and some great confrontations between different characters. The story on its self is already quite good (Just loose the love-story next times. It adds nothing to the characters or story.) and interesting but it's made all the more great by the way it is told. Not only kudos to Scorsese's directing for that but also most definitely for the editing by Thelma Schoonmaker, with lots of good quick flash-forwards and other tricks. All I can say is that she really deserved her Oscar for this movie. It really helps to tell the story and give the movie a look and identity of its own.The movie its cast doesn't seem like the most likely won but it works out perfect in the movie. I think a lot of people were screaming for Robert De Niro but also Jack Nicholson is perfectly believable and just great as a gangster-boss. Mark Wahlberg was great as a bastard-cop and Alec Baldwin as a nice cop. The other way around would seem more logical but they work out surprisingly well in their roles. It was good to see Matt Damon in a more villainous and tougher role for a change, mostly because it shows how great as an actor he actually is. Leonardo DiCaprio also shows once more that he is more than just another pretty face.It's not a movie that relies on its action but more on its characters and story. The movie is exciting, tense and spectacular regardless of that it hasn't a lot of action in it.Of course this isn't Scorsese's best (which really says something about the extremely high qualities of this man), so is it fair that he finally won his Oscar for this movie? I mean after all, if this movie won, then should had movies such as "Heat", "Training Day" and so on. As a matter of fact it is of course true that if this movie was completely the same but had another director's name attached to it this movie would probably not had been nominated at all. It's just not the Oscar-type of movie but alas, I'm glad that Scorsese finally has an Oscar now, only just 3 decades too late. 9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
In "The Departed" (2006) directed by Martin Scorcese, Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio) is young police officer who has been sent undercover to work for a vicious and powerful Boston mafia boss, Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) was handpicked by Costello as a young boy and placed to the Police Academy with the intention to infiltrate later the Boston Police Department. One day, two young men will inevitably meet..."The Departed" is a very good film but sadly, it slows down in the final 20 or so minutes and leaves a viewer (yours truly) with several questions and slightly disappointed. Seems that Jack Nicholson's Frank Costello kept all parts of the movie together and after his departure, it became literally empty. As for directing, Martin Scorsese is in the top his form <U+0096>the movie is well paced, suspenseful, and has a great soundtrack (as usual in Scorsese movies). The cast is the closest to perfect it could be. As much as I like Jack Nicholson, it was nothing he has not done before (his Frank Costello is a combination of Daryl Van Horne and Col. Nathan R. Jessep) but Leonardo DiCaprio as Billy Costigan played the best role of his career. About a year ago, I wrote about his acting in Scorcese's previous movie, "The Aviator", "Leonardo DiCaprio earns my respect and admiration for his acting - he is one of the most talented young actors now and I will be waiting for his following films impatiently. I trusted him in every scene and he made me feel strongly for and sympathize with Howard Hughes's affliction." I am very glad to admit that in "The Departed" he is even better - the hell Billy Costigan has lived in working undercover for the devilishly evil Frank Costello was absolutely real, suffocating and palpable. DiCaprio had many scenes with Nicholson and he never got lost next to his celebrated partner.Not as perfect as "Goodfellas" which comes to mind while watching "The Departed", the newest Scorcese's work is a lot of fun to watch - it is an inspiring film-making, and I believe that finally Scorsese will be recognized by the Academy for his directing.
The Departed was a movie that I had wanted to see for quite a long time due to the hype. I've heard it being described as better than Goodfellas. I've heard it being described as Scorcese's best. It is neither.Don't get me wrong, the film is good. But it's not without it's flaws. The film's strong suit is the characters and the dialog. You feel for the characters, and the banter between them is wonderful.The film does an excellent job of blurring the lines of cop and crook, but herein lies a problem. The lines are blurred so much that the film is unbelievably hard to follow, and the plot certainly has holes. There is a lot to catch, even in two hours and thirty-one minutes.And of course the shocking ending. The last 5 minutes of the movie confused the hell out of me, and I can't help but think that if they gave the movie more time and tweaked the plot and the ending, it could have been what people were hyping it to be. It's got great action, great dialog, great characters, and great acting. What it is lacking is continuity.Overall, it's good enough for an 8/10, but it is certainly not the best film of the year, IMO.
Great film! The film is very funny and you can hear the laughter in the theater with the numerous raunchy jokes made by Nicholson, Baldwin, Walberg and even Dicaprio. This was an all star cast and the film was beautifully acted. Martin Scorse shows why he is a great director because he kept me surprised throughout the film. What you expect to happen does not happen. This is a film that kept me entertained throughout and I don't regret going. the best gangster movie I've seen in years. Leonardo Dicaprio deserves some type of nominations for best actor for this film because the emotions he brought to this role was better than great. Seeing the transformation in his character due to the circumstances that he is forced to partake in makes him a hell of an actor that is deserving of a golden globe or Oscar nomination.


                
Martin Scorsese hits the mean streets again in his triumphant return to the crime genre that has justified his position as arguably the world's greatest living filmmaker. The Departed, a remake of the well-acclaimed Hong Kong grit-fest Infernal Affairs, follows the complicated lives of Billy Costigan (former criminal turned undercover cop), Colin Sullivan (current criminal who's weeded his way into the police force) and Frank Costello (the seemingly infallible Don who's array of memorable quotes have made The Departed the most naturally quotable film since Mean Girls).This film is always contained in the mind and hands of Scorsese; we never forget that this is his project, and his influence is constantly felt throughout the film. The cinematography employed reminds us of some of the director's earliest projects, and that he certainly hasn't lost his touch. The trademark quick cuts, flashbacks and general detail offered to every aspect of every scene are all on display. The integration of dated yet actual footage of the Boston race riots with the commanding, satisfied voice of Jack Nicholson's Costello creates one of the most engaging opening scenes in recent film history.Frank Costello reminisces about 'years ago<U+0085>when we had the church' and that, even today, 'no-one gives it to you, you have to take it' all to the tune of Gimme Shelter, a song that has largely defined all Scorcesean works post-Goodfellas.But don't be fooled, this is not the stereotypical Don who can't believe business is no longer conducted the way it was in the old country. Flunking out of the Corleone School of Business, it appears that Frank controls every aspect of his universe with an iron fist and a silver tongue, until his own flaws come to the forefront in a denouement scene that could be seen as uncharacteristically cliché, if it weren't so masterfully acted out in front of us.For all intents, the acting, in its purest form, is the strongest suit of The Departed. Essentially an ensemble film, Dicaprio and Damon exceed expectations while Crazy Jack adopts his most blatantly villainous role since The Shining. Marky Mark is delightfully hateable and the rest of his Funky Bunch (Sheen, Baldwin and Farmiga) make themselves known as well. One of my film-osophies is that one can distinguish a good director from a great one on how they apply a comic-relief character within the plot of their film. Baldwin's portrayal of Ellerby is witty, used sparingly (a crucial quality) and has a genuine respect and passion for his work within the force, giving him a somewhat larger scope for character development than just being the laugh generator in what is otherwise a very serious film.While The Departed goes against the mould of earlier Scorsese dramas (which typically focused on the goings-on around a single crucial protagonist), it does retain the fact that each primary character has very obvious flaws that will be inevitably extracted and exploited as the film progresses. I find this to be not only a treat to watch unravel from a creative perspective, but also the central message of the film: humans, by their very condition, are morally flawed, and that the consequences of their actions upon society have greater reaches than the effect of those consequences on any one person. If there was to be any criticism imposed upon this film, it is that the intended plot controls the characters, rather than the character(s) dictating where the story is going. This might need to be made a little clearer. In films such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull, the story does not go anywhere unless Travis or Jake respectively choose to steer it in that direction. With The Departed, the characters merely serve as a vehicle for getting parts of the story from A to B, or to connect the plot in a plausible manner, and several scenes towards the conclusion seem somewhat too convenient for a film that has a lot to say about the implications humans have on the world around them. That said, this remains a highly enjoyable film, but one that benefits infinitely from multiple viewings. After eventually deciphering who dies, where they die, and why they died in your first sitting, it is advisable that you re-watch the film. This allows you to delve very deeply into the persona of each major character and gain a subsequent understanding and appreciation of one of the best examples of ensemble cast filmmaking in the history of dramatic cinema.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review.*


                
Raiders of the Lost Ark is the only movie I'll ever give a 10 to, but this movie is as close as you can get to that. I love this movie. This is one of the most engrossing films I have ever seen. The writing, cinematography, direction, and acting are all awesome. It is an intense movie that kept me on the edge of my seat. And the ending is of this movie is beyond words. Blew me away. Damon is in my favorite role of his next to Jason Bourne. Jack is great. And even Dicaprio, who I am not a fan of, is pretty good. Marky-Mark of course is funny and great in his part. Martin Scorsese is a fenominal director and made this movie amazing. I love this flick. Kudos to Scorsese. He can make mob stories like no one else.


                
Well, Martin Scorsese finally got his Oscar. Long overdue. Some may quibble and say the film for which he was rewarded was not his best. Those who say that may have a point. But that's really not important. The questions which must be asked are whether this film is worthy of being an Oscar winner and worthy of being forever remembered as the film which broke the infamous Scorsese Oscar curse. The answers to those questions? Resoundingly yes. The Departed stands in its own right as a remarkable film, one of the best to come along in quite some time and clearly worthy of any and all awards it has received. Maybe not Scorsese's best but if not it's pretty darned close.Where to begin? So many different things come together to make The Departed the standout film that it is. There's a great story, a terrific cast full of big-name performers clearly on top of their games, wonderful visuals, a perfect soundtrack...all capped by that unique Scorsese touch. In this film Scorsese goes back to the familiar world of organized crime. This time the mobsters are Irish rather than Italian and the story unfolds in Boston rather than New York but it will all seem rather familiar to the Scorsese devotee. But this is not just another Scorsese mob movie. It's as intense and gritty and violent as you would expect but The Departed is quite unique, thanks mostly to the wonderfully involved and intricate story which unfolds in the film. For everything else the film has going for it in the end, as it usually does, it comes down to the story.The plot really revolves around two figures, Leonardo DiCaprio's Billy Costigan and Matt Damon's Colin Sullivan. The two both come from Boston's rather proud but rather rough Irish community. After very different experiences in their youth, both end up in the same place, becoming Massachusetts state troopers. But soon their paths will diverge again and the story really begins to pick up steam. Sullivan has become a cop for one reason, to provide inside information to Frank Costello, the gangster whose presence is always looming over Boston's Irish neighborhood. Sullivan's a mole. Soon Costigan will be too, assigned to go undercover and infiltrate Costello's gang. Quite a tangled web. Soon both the police and Costello are well aware they each have a rat inside their organization and Costigan and Sullivan will be racing to unmask each other before being discovered themselves. A very high-stakes drama this is as the potential consequences of being discovered are painfully obvious for our respective rats.While the story is thoroughly engrossing, great actors are required to bring that story to life. And one thing The Departed surely has no shortage of is great actors. DiCaprio and Damon are both terrific, each bringing just the right personality to their respective characters who are quite a bit alike but also so different in many important ways. Damon seems more calm and collected, DiCaprio more edgy and intense and those emotions work perfectly for the two characters. Playing Frank Costello is Jack Nicholson who is typically brilliant. Authoritative, menacing, diabolical and always dangerous...that's Frank Costello and who better for such a role than Nicholson? DiCaprio, Damon and Nicholson have the three meatiest roles but there are plenty of opportunities for other actors to shine as well. Mark Wahlberg breathes great life into the character of Sgt. Dignam, one of Costigan's handlers within the police force. Dignam is a man of great conviction and passion and whenever Wahlberg is on the screen you get the sense there is always something fierce simmering just beneath the surface. Well played. There are other big names in the cast like Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin who fall perfectly into their smaller roles. And there are countless less-familiar faces who also do fine work. It seems Martin Scorsese has brought the best out of each and every member of his cast. And in doing so he has been able to wring as much drama as possible out of the terrific story with which he had to work. A great story, performed wonderfully by a terrific cast, all touched by the hand of a master director. Add it all up and you have something truly special, a wonderful film worthy of all the accolades it has received.


                
The debates will probably rage on for years: Has Scorsese done his best work here?Like many in this forum, I've seen all of his movies. From the aspect of thrills-a-minute, edge of your seat action, I think I'd say this is his best movie. However, as gangster movies go, I still prefer Gangs of New York (2002). For suspense, Scorsese's remake of Cape Fear (1991) beats them all, I think. And, for characterization, Raging Bull (1980) <U+0096> the movie that should have got him an Oscar <U+0096> is still without equal, for me. Having said all that, however, The Departed is still the overall winner, mainly because the story is so well constructed and delivers the best double twist <U+0096> or is it triple? <U+0096> I've seen for many a year. In fact, I'd be hard pressed to think of a better one...So, I won't be saying too much about the actual plot (the sequence of events), but the story is basically this: two young graduates of the police both act as undercover agents, one as a mole inside the Boston Irish mafia, the other as a mole for the same Irish mafia inside the Boston police force. The story centers around the two moles trying to unmask the other and it's a race to see who gets in first, so to speak. Aaaah, such irony...With a stellar cast of just super actors, this film just had to turn out right: too many careers were on the line, I think. And, it did turn out right. There's not a false note by any of them, with one exception: I wasn't convinced that Madolyn (Vera Farmiga) as the police psychiatrist could be so stupid to become the lover of both moles. I can suspend my disbelief about a lot of things to carry on with a narrative, but that just doesn't ring true. However, it serves a purpose, as you will find out; and that suggests to me that such artificiality was injected for that very reason. But, I could be wrong...Generally, it's fast paced, as I implied, but there are a few slow spots for me, mostly to do with Madolyn with the moles. To keep pace with the action, the editing is quite the best I've seen; the sequence when a body lands, from a great distance, on a city street in front of one of the moles in unbelievably precise, timed to the millisecond, but believably gruesome.Jack Nicholson is just superb as the gangster boss, affable yet entirely menacing; Ray Winston <U+0096> always my favorite gangster <U+0096> is an excellent sidekick and trusted friend for the boss; Alec Baldwin again shows his implacable nature as one of the police heads, Ellerby <U+0096> just as affable as the gangster boss, and almost as menacing when needs be; Martin Sheen, as Queenan, the head of the undercover section, brings perhaps the only honest face into the story; and Mark Wahlberg, an actor I've ignored for a long time, gives a very good impression of a terrier that just won't let go <U+0096> he's actually terrific in the role of Dignam.As to Di Caprio and Damon, the two young cops: both very accomplished actors and both acquit themselves with very believable portrayals <U+0096> apart from sharing Madolyn.The only sour note for me was the closing scene, and I mean the very last shot, as the camera pans across the balcony of an empty apartment to show... Well, I'll let you find out. Tsk, tsk <U+0096> how banal... and how unnecessary.


                
Martin Scorcese once said about this movie >>it's the first movie I've made with an actual plot<< (not the actual quote but you get the point) and compared to most other crime films of the 2000s, that's very true. It's complex and every aspect of the plot is displayed in a manner where yes, you understand it, but you're also often enough busy figuring out who knows what (because you the viewer know everything).What really makes the movie outstanding though is the cast and production. Matt Damon and Mark Wahlberg play amazing and the performances of Leo DiCaprio and especially Jack Nicholson are truly impeccable. Not a false note anywhere; I might have given Nicholson the Oscar if I could. 
The last (and greatest) aspect of the movie is Martin Scorcese's directing. Just by watching the movie and not even paying attention to what's going on in the story, you see how much of a directing veteran he is. Every shot has a purpose, every line fits perfectly into the scenes. There are so many details that even other great directors don't remotely think about. I've found this kind of attention to an immersive world only with one other man in a similar way: Steven Spielberg.
Don't get me wrong; other directors create immersive worlds and have a wonderful directing style (Fincher, Nolan, you name them) but few do it as seamless and effortless as Scorcese and Spielberg.


                
In South Boston, one man reigns, Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). As he himself explains, he rose from poverty, little by little, to become the leader of the leading gang in SB. Naturally, he is a thorn in the side of the Boston Police and they live to bring this man down. A secret task force is formed and Billy Costigan (Leonardo Di Caprio), a cleancut boy from South Boston who has graduated from the police academy, is given the special task of infiltrating Frank's mob, pretending to be a sworn follower. This is dangerous work indeed. However, Frank has the same brilliant idea. If the gang had a plant in the police department, above reproach, then he would know when the police are coming to mess up his plans. A disciple from his teens, Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) is the perfect choice; he is bright, good-looking and seemingly genial. He fools most everyone, including the brass (Martin Sheen and Mark Wahlberg) and a psychologist (Verma Farmiga). In fact, Colin and the shrink begin a relationship while, at the same time, Cop Sullivan is relaying crucial information to Frank. As such, eventually, Billy and Colin cross paths and get suspicious of one another. Billy even goes after Colin's lady. So, whose "traitor" in the midst will be the most successful? How many lives will be sacrificed? This brutal but splendid film is not really for the most faint of heart. Nevertheless, is ultra-fascinating plot has to be seen to be appreciated. The story even eclipses the GREAT work of Nicholson, Di Caprio, Damon, Farmiga and the entire crew. What a breathtaking twist and turn tale of betrayal and goodness. As many critics have found, this may be the ultimate Scorsese film as his hands are behind every scene. Thrillers come and go but The Departed will stay around for the ages.


                
Sound: Dramatic use of pop music and orchestral score. Sound effects were good. The sound was well mixed. 
80/100 Technical: Well shot, nice framing, excellent sets and costumes. 
90/100 Narrative: Prologue sets up the protagonist and the antagonist. Excellent flow, constantly progressing, peaking, and climbing. We know everything but the ending that gives us the twists. We view this film from both the antagonists' and protagonists' view. 
100/100 Acting/Character: Good villain in Costello. You hate Sullivan for the slime ball he is. You feel for the hero. Great supporting cast too. Excellent acting and dialog. 
100/100 Did I like it: Yes, well paced and lots of emotion for the characters. I enjoyed Matt Damon getting his ass beat by Wahlberg. 
90/100 Artistic merit: the tension and the plot structure are the keys here. Along with the very credible acting; nothing is out of place. 
95/100 Total score 92.5/100


                
IMDb Top 250: 58The Departed is like Goodfellas for the next decade. It has crime, music, and Scorcese at the reigns. While it cannot replicate the magic of Goodfellas, which will never happen, The Departed tells a different kind of crime story with great success.If you didn't know, The Departed is about the Irish mafia in Boston shown from both sides of the law. The tale is quickly paced, with lots of angry looking men. There's several twists and unexpected moments that will affect you in various ways. Gritty and violent, The Departed gets in your face.The film centers on men who are on both sides of the law, or so it appears. DiCaprio is excellent as Bill, a rookie cop in a family with a history of crime, who is sent undercover. His anger is very well conveyed. Leo does a great job. He is backed by Queenan (Martin Sheen) and Dignam (Mark Wahlberg). Sheen may be the only reasonable person in the entire film, and he's a good foil for the vulgar Digham, played well by Wahlberg, who acted from experience. They're all going after Costello, in another superb performance, this one by Jack Nicholson. He's a little crazy, and a great villain. His informant in the police is Sullivan, played by a mostly straight Matt Damon. He does the role justice, but doesn't stand out.This is very evidently a Scorcese picture. Great shots, including a cool intro with Costello where his face is just out of the light until the reveal. The pace is fast, and the film is well edited. Music accompanies, but ends abruptly, or is nearly silenced. It doesn't work as well as Goodfellas or Casino. For some reason, Gimme Shelter is played- twice, as is the most- fitting Shipping Up to Boston.Crime fans and fans of Scorcese need to see this, and those who can stomach the brutal violence and copious amounts of swearing should see why this won Best Picture. Serious men indeed. 8.6/10


                
