There is a analysis about Naruto Manga ending. I'll be honest here...i seriously hate the ending of manga. First of all i never thought that there would be a shoujo ending then secondly i always knew that there were so many shippers such as Naruhina, Narusaku and even SasuNaru(huge amount of them). In this situation i was kinda sure that kishimoto will give an open end because if he ended Naruto with either one of them the other party will hate the end so my safe guess was a non shoujo ending but when i read the last chapter, i was so much disappointed because of it. I never thought the ending of a great manga will be like Harry Potter but seriously Harry potter made sense but these pairings specially Sasuke and Sakura does not even make sense at all. Lets be honest, Kishi gave so many Narusasku hints then at the end showed sakura as a same 12 year old retarded girl who is really damn annoying, where is her character development??? She is the same fangirl of Sasuke as she was years before and on the top of that she does not even understand a man feelings at all and she does not have a slightest self respect. I wonder why she is in love with Sasuke!!! When she does not even know him properly. It was always Naruto who knew the real Sasuke so what Sakura loved about Sasuke was his face and his cool attitude. Come on!!! Why such a stupid crush is made official when Naruto's crush was not made official despite of hinting. Then comes the Naruto, who was head over heels for Sakura, all his life, and lets not forget his ninja way was to "Never give up" so eventually he gave up huh!!! OK at least here i can understand the logic of Naruto giving up because Sakura is an annoying retarded female who does not love Naruto but note that she has shown care about Naruto but not love so Naruto gave up and Hinata shows real love for Naruto but when did Naruto start liking Hinata??? For God sake Naruto hardly had a conversation with Hinata. Then the MOST IMPORTANT thing...YES SASUKE, Sasuke is an aloof guy who never shows his feeling and emotions and the only 1 who ever could understand Sasuke was Naruto, and Sasuke never ever showed a slightest interest in sakura in the whole series, he never even care for her in Shippuden and tried to kill her twice, even in the fight with Madara, he didn't care if she dies and clearly told that he is not interested in her then after the last fight with Naruto, Sasuke became a good guy but OK till 698 the story was AWESOME AND I WAS LOVING IT BUT NOT ONLY ME BUT EVERY SINGLE PERSON WAS LOVING NARUTO TILL 699 and 700 came and those chapters looked like its not Naruto anymore like its a fan service. Sasuke said sorry to Sakura, OK that's fine he said sorry to Karin as well but what the hell was that....Sasuke poking Sakura's forehead???? When did Sasuke became such a loving guy?? Its not the Sasuke that was in Naruto from chapter 1 till 698, its some other character or some one that fans wanted so where is Kishi's Sasuke??? And then to add salt to injury Sasuke is shown having a girl with Sakura???????????? This was the point where i wanted to bang my head really hard and i was regretting ever reading Naruto manga. I was so disappointed and here my first and greatest love with anime ended and now i am not going to watch Naruto ever again. Just one last thing i want to say to Kishimoto is that instead of making any pairing it would have been so much better if there was none at all because every one know its not a shoujo manga. If the ending was open then surely there would have been a little fuss like why there was no pairing but i do believe that no body would have ever hated it that much. Giving it a blasted shoujo ending broke the hearts of many people.


                
I thought it would be best to review this after the series has finished. But then I checked how long the franchise has been going. The whole fanchise has been going nearly over 10 years. Whilst shippuden is in its third. It has occurred to me that something that has gone on for so long is not above being reviewed. Who knows how long shippuden will continues when the franchise has proved such a cash cow.I dare say that this has to be put under the Darwinian philosophy of evolve or die. But such is the current problem with anime in general that a lot of anime are ridiculous long runners.Naruto shippuden follows up on the ninja as Naruto struts back in. During the time-skip the kids have decided to have a change of clothes after growing a few inches whilst the adults can expect to wear the same do-rags to emphasise how mundane they all are compared to the new hip generation.In fact Shippuden is all about the next generation and how awesome they are. Too bad that only ever means few of the main character get the chance to train for the next tournament in between the long fillers where the peripheral characters are drawn in, to emphasise how stock theyreally are. In fact showing that the new generation has only gained so little in their techniques it is laughable with the exception of the few.Team 7 has been reformed with two replacement characters out of nowhere who belong nowhere. We have Sai, the vague slightly off putting character who uses drawn to life attacks. As well as yamato who is low and behold another eerie character this time to make the plants rise up and attack without the green talk. Both these characters only serve to push naruto and sakura together which in turn forces naruto to go it alone after seeing how useless they all are as a team and himself sometimes.The villains are even more genderly confused and have perfected the art of deux ex machina. Expect much gloating from these freaks as they explain their detailed plans and abilities if you so much as challenge them. They all are really good at dodging so a lot of crappy ninja tag. Battles ensues with even more dust clouds to obscure the action.The plot has thickened by having the villains appear vaguely threatening then disappear opportunely to plan even more enigmatically. Whilst the good guys amnesiacaly go back to their villages whilst strings play in the background.Naruto himself has become less trickster like and much less likable. He feels more emotional then most the women and their disappearing periods. Kishimoto even has the nerve to say that naruto is the all cliché chosen one destined to bring peace to the ninja world. Almost as funny as the Pokémon movie when the character mentioned that getting monsters to fight was (lex Luthor moment) WRONG! So once again naruto is the tumble mix of a show where nothing happens and status quo ahoy. Villains are less enjoyable than even the stereotypical twirly moustache variety but even more ridiculously clandestine and obscure. This show has no ending planned and such a series can never be called good.If you like shippuden then your just a soft anime user. The regularity of naruto only substantiates that it is meant to be like a routine fix. Once you miss one you go etching back for another. But aren't you tired of the same thing. There are good alternatives out there, but you must admit you have a problem first. Of course naruto shippuden has more problems than any of us ever will.
"Naruto: Shippuden" could very well be the worst case in the history of pathetic attempts at anime productions. To comprehend its failure one must surely watch a few episodes, otherwise the depths it sinks into are utterly unimaginable. I'm not even gonna go to the 'inferior to original Naruto' argument. Yes, Naruto was corny at times, sappy, silly and yet touching and entertaining, that is, its missteps were balanced out by its graces and one could even claim they were not missteps at all, but rather flavor inducing key points for plot and atmosphere development. However, Shippuden's failure does not lie in too high expectations. It simply and bluntly cannot compare to any feature of the original anime since it lacks soul, essence, it shouldn't even be called an anime. To be specific, the show gives the impression that it was made by fans who have watched the original series, memorized some elements and names and decided to imitate it without knowing how the pieces fit and what glue holds them together. The manga part is not all-bad, that is if you have been reading it for years (among other manga) you won't necessarily have the sudden impulse to quit under pain of accidentally putting your head through the television or eating your hat. You might as well keep spending a few minutes every week, if only to satisfy your curiosity. So what I'm saying is that the material the anime is based in, in no way accounts for the mess they did, it was purely a matter of presentation.For example, one quickly notices that while watching even the most suspenseful(supposedly) battles, one can skip 10-30 seconds every half a minute and lose absolutely nothing of the plot, because there is no action, no dialogue, no development whatsoever. Rather the camera, slowly, very slowly, with no reason whatsoever, suddenly and randomly zooms in on naruto, then slowly, very slowly, zooms in on Kakashi, then again shows Naruto but this time is zooms out, then it shows the clouds and zooms in, then...well you get the picture. This technique in competent anime serves to press a point home, to show a character's reaction to a specific event either in case you missed its significance or nature, or to reinforce your feelings for it. It is one of many rules that as I said make the pieces fit together, the subtleties of which are wasted on the incompetent creators of this show.Another example is the splitting of scenes, another technique, serving to emphasize an event or presenting it in a different light, by superimposing another, seemingly unrelated event. In this show apparently they employ it to destroy the atmosphere and tension of a scene by superimposing it to really unrelated other scene.I could go on and on, sadly the fatal flaws are there, the whole structure screams with disharmony. If there is one thing it reminds me of, it is Joey in 'Friends', using the quotation marks out of context in ignorance. Ignorance. (As Ebisu would say, how shameful..)


                
The original series was nothing spectacular but it had it's moments, but this...OK here we go: 1. The characters all act really stupid in spite of things they've been told, seen, or even personally experienced 2. The villains are always built up as being these monstrously powerful ninja, but then we found out they aren't anymore threatening than a chunin or a low level jonin. 3. Sasuke, my god I f***ing hate this character and is the number one reason I hate shippuden overall. 4. Various plot points and revelations that we find out about various characters either make no sense or completely contradictory to things we've understood about them before (there is a difference) 5. I've never seen an action anime where females were so useless and gawk over one scrawny, flabby, pale-skinned f***er.I'd go into further detail but unfortunately IMDb has a limit on how much I can write.
I am a huge fan of manga, and it pains me to know that things like this are being produced weekly. Naruto is probably one of the worst things ever made in the history of art. It is a violent cliché storm written only to make American teenagers happy. The "storyline" lacks depth, and always stop telling itself to make room for some more fights - and be forewarned that the fights are nothing like a ninja fight. They look more like a magic competition from Harry Potter -, and when the story moves on, it is hardly surprising how it advances. Everything is predictable and generic. Although the story is incredibly bad, the characters are even worse: Masashi Kishimoto couldn't write a single interesting woman: most of them are just healers or weaklings, if not both. The males are also very common: the dumb protagonist with a (stupid)dream who always keep promises; the ambiguously evil bishonen; the long-haired overpowered villain. Everything lacks so much originality that you could easily watch an episode of an anime like Fairy Tail or Rave Master and not noticing that you wasn't watching Naruto. Finally, the fight scenes. When you read about something with a terrible storyline, you think "it is successful so it has to be exciting". It is not. The fight scenes are slow (even in the manga), non-strategic and predictable. Actually, the word "predictable" fits all of the show. My suggestion is: don't watch it if you are looking for art. If you want blind entertainment, fine.


                
Naruto has the best story you will ever find in an anime. I has the best action too. But the amount of filler episodes has left all the fans in a state of ambivalence. If you are about to watch this anime, please don't. The amount of filler episodes and the idiocy in each one of them will leave you befuddled. Even if you try to escape filler episodes, you "CAN'T". Last manga was released on 10th Nov 2014. And since then 70% of the episodes are filler and the list is growing exponentially. One of the few stupid fans like me who started watching this anime instead of simply reading manga are now questioning their sanity. So don't fall in the chicanery of this anime and read manga instead. You will have a good time :)


                
