Naruto Shippuden is an amazing Japanese anime. The more you watch it the more you will love it.Started watching from episode 1 and it's been more than 350 episodes but still I've not lost interest in it or don't want to give up on this anime anytime.This anime has everything so seems too perfect. Comedy, Romance, Action, Emotion etc you name it and you will get it.If you've not watched any Japanese anime or you think that these are for kids then start watching this one and you will surely change your mind.Great Show


                
Naruto and Naruto Shippuuden is very inconsistent. They put so many 'fillers'; episodes that are not in the manga, episodes that they put just to make the series longer. The 'suckiest' thing about these fillers is that they always put unnecessary, stupid, and similar looking characters to be inspired by Naruto to make Naruto look like a hero.Naruto, despite starting a long time ago whose original audience are already adults and adolescents, never seemed to evolve into something more mature. It was still an anime targeted on young audiences who cares for nothing but brain-less action, acts of heroism, inspirational blah, blah, blah.Cut the fairy-tale style please. Start becoming an episode that is more-for-everyone.


                
I give it a 7/10 if you remove all the filler and flashbacks, which is probably 70% of the show. The same thing can be said for Naruto (2002-2007).


                
Naruto Shippuden is the follow-up of the original Naruto anime. There are many people who have enjoyed the series thoroughly, but who have now stopped watching. Ever since the 'Pain' Arc, Naruto Shippuden has gone entirely to waste. Story lines and motives are used very repetitively. In my opinion, before episode ~180 Naruto Shippuden was an easy 9/10. However, after that, the story has become a true 1/10 for me. The filler to actual cannon ratio is 10:1 and the story line is repeated with different characters to make filler.One thing is even worse. In Dragon Ball Z movies and Dragon Ball GT the old enemies are reused, hence why nobody really likes it. This is exactly what happens in Naruto Shippuden. All the old enemies come back to life because the creator does not have any imagination left to create new, bad-ass enemies. Instead, let's use the old enemies. Naruto Shippudo post 180: 1/10.
I have watched up to episode 250 until I stopped, and I tried watching it again recently but was unable to. The art style (especially in the first few episodes) is lackluster, almost like the artists forgot how to draw the characters. Everyone looks very fat-faced in the start, though it becomes corrected slowly as the show progresses. The fight parts of the fight scenes are awesome, but there are too many flashbacks to previous episodes in the middle of fighting, making them very drawn out at points. When the characters do get to fighting, though, the show contains some of the best fight scenes I've seen in an anime. The plot is good but very drawn out, the show is up to episode ~350 now in subs and around 100 of those episodes are filler. The entire show could have been resolved and done for long ago. Other than the aforementioned deficits, the show is not "bad." Wouldn't strongly recommend it, as there are much better shows out there, but it's decent.


                
