I'm now in 2014 and still watching! I grew up on it and it really does teach great values in it's story and the character development. Naruto single handedly brought me into all the other anime, such as Bleach, Death Note, InuYasha, etc. The story is truly original and so in depth it'll surprise you how far it goes. Naruto turns from punk to protector of his village throughout the years this show has been going on. This anime has it all: Romance, Action (OF COURSE), Great fighting scenes too, music is top notch and so are the voice overs. It's truly been an amazing ride and I will definitely miss it when it's gone, but it's gotta end sometime. To anyone new to this series: Get into it ASAP, you won't regret it!


                
Let me start with saying that the manga "Naruto" is phenomenal. Especially the last few chapters - they just keep getting better.Now, about the anime. I shall be focusing mostly on the few, but very important faults of "Naruto" and "Naruto Shippuuden", so first I'll quickly point out what I like: 1)Story and characters. Like I said, the manga is really great and the anime successfully retells the story. 2)Music. Some of the best anime soundtracks I've ever heard. 3)animation. Not much to say here, other than that the animation is top notch.So, with so many pros, what can be so wrong with the show that I gave it 8/10? 1)Fillers.Both the original "Naruto" and "Naruto shippuuden" are full of those. While I admit, some of them are pretty good, most are worthless waste of time, only produced to keep the show from catching up with the manga and to hold broadcasting time in Japan at the same time. How much fillers are there? A LOT.I believe, episodes ~150-220 (of the original series) are ALL fillers. Personally, I skipped those and that's what I recommend to anyone. "Naruto shippuuden" also suffers from tons of fillers, not as much as the original, but still a lot. 2)Overstretching the non-filler episodes. Recently, I watched 5 last episodes back to back. Several phrases were repeated multiple times. I'm sure one was repeated at least once in every single one of those episodes. The thing is, out of 20 minutes of running time, opening takes 3, flashbacks of the previous episode - at least 5 and the ending credits take some 2. Thus, only half the episode is used to move the story ahead, again not to catch up with manga. This makes virtually all the dialogue sound unnecessarily dragged and stretched.In fact, it makes the whole story feel dragged and stretched.That is why I'm mad. Really great content is butchered, only because they have to keep their time on Tokyo TV. That's why you have seasons, you morons! You take a story arc from manga, make some 30 episodes about it and polish it for several months, let's say, from January to May, then broadcast it, say, from July to December and repeat it next year. That way you don't have to use fillers or overstretch your content.Sadly, that's not how the Japanese system works.Overall though, Naruto is and will always be my favorite anime, especially with most parts done properly (very first arc of the original anime, that was awesome, as well as episode 322 of the shippuuden, now that episode proves that the studio CAN do justice to manga).


                
I did watch almost all Naruto Anime, so I can say the show will make you feel sad and happy ma many ways. It has lot of fantastic characters that have interesting story. The principal character (Naruto) is a ninja boy who lost its parents when he was a little baby. Apart of that he have to carry with a monster inside all his childhood, because of that, his life turns too sad and lonely. With the pass of the time Naruto involves into a more mature and strong kid. Its nakamas help him in all the adventures. The context is developed in a ninja age. Naruto is the kind of show that you have to watch if you like Anime, that's it, go watch it and enjoy it how I know you will do.


                
Naruto Shippuden is better than the first series in every way. The characters are all older, the fighting is faster and does not drag out horribly long in the same way the first show did. The show's action is faster, yet still suffers from dragging out a battle by showing endless flashbacks and characters struggling for sanity... all the characters in Naruto are insane.The show's characters are likable and the show starts out good at first, but as it drags on you start to realize that it starts to repeat some past mistakes from the original Naruto. As I have mentioned before this show has so many flashbacks that there are more flashbacks than there is modern time. I come back to this show every once in a while and think "Wow what was I thinking! This show is good!" but that after three episodes I realize that "no" the show hasn't changed its formula. I guess what makes the show enjoyable is seeing the freaking large cast of characters improve on their skills. The huge cast is good and bad. It is good because it enables diversity, but it is bad because if every character has a three episode long flashback then the show will never end. It also means you lose interest in characters.A good show that knows how to make the action look cooler, but may not necessarily move any faster. Good to watch, but not excellent.


                
I love this anime the only thing wrong with it is the constant flash backs and the amount of filler. Filler isn't that much of a problem though as it's easy to skip them.


                
This is in continuation with Naruto which ended in 2007. It is about a child who has born with a demon sealed in his belly along with special energy as a legacy of fourth hokage. As a result Naruto faced hardship as because of the demon in his belly people consider him as demon who anytime may run amok.But his will to become a hokage (their village leader) remain as a rock wall so that the village people cease to treate him like pest and acknowledge him. Here in this series he has grown into a teen and is faced with problems like akatsuki( who want to harness that demon to use it as energy weapon).Watch it to find out will he be able to defeat these villains? Will he be able to become hokage? Will he become more strong to save his own life? Will he be able to control the demon powers?Awesome plot and quietly well woven. Recommend to watch it from starting and refrain from reading the storyline from wiki to enhance your watching experience.


                
I've watched the original Naruto, almost all episodes and my big problem with it was that is was sometimes too stupid and childish, but still, the fight-scenes were awesome and these made the original Naruto worth watching. The beginning of Shippuuden was great. It looked as though the writers had learned from they're past mistakes. There was less s***, less meaningless things, more fight, training, etc. scenes. But as it went on, it got worse. Maybe the writers realised that this way they will be able to make much less money out of a shorter story, so they started absolutely meaningless story lines(like the kid with the demon-fox hand) and it was all downhill from there. I stopped watching the series knowing that it has fallen in the grave of they're old mistakes. So a 9/10 for the first aproximetly 60 episodes, but a 1 for the later ones.
I was extremely excited for the new series premiere. I've read all the current chapters online (at the moment, I'm on 371 - released 2 or so days ago) and I'm a huge Narutard. Though, I was disappointed. For me, the animation is what bugs me the most. They look... weird? It's too different from the old series. The Shippuuden is good, simply because come on. It's Naruto. But however, I don't watch it. I only read now. Though don't get me wrong, I still love Naruto. (Yay Naruto!) I'm somewhat sad, though, on how far behind they are. I want to hear some characters voices so badly - I won't name 'em.All in all, it's still 'good'. I just don't think it has the Naruto touch like it used to.


                
Well, what should I start with<U+0085> 15 years. For FIFTEEN years this anime brought me joy and unspeakable emotions. For FIFTEEN years it taught me right from wrong. For FIFTEEN years it <U+0085> it's been a guide of light for me. Jeez, I was raised on this anime, I became older with its characters, I just LOVE IT!!! The Naruto series started when I was in a preschool age, and for 15 years it never stopped to surprise me. Though the journey was long (some might say too long) it was always exciting and brilliant. And I am really sorry if I get carried away by emotions, but true Naruto fans will understand – this is a tale, a unique and flawless tale, of nearly all of my life and now that I look back and see that little Naruto who used to be always alone, without parents, without friends, and I turn my look to who he became through these years – the Hero, who saved the world, Best Friend that was always there to help and to understand, and now – a husband<U+0085> ah, I might cry. Seriously. Perfect ending. Naruto and Hinata deserve their piece of happiness. And though we did not see this in original manga series, I was really glad to be able to see that kind of and end in anime adaptation.Now let's get back to the show and analyze everything peace by peace. I'll start with the story. Indeed the plot, the fantastic world, all the jutsu techniques, all the creatures and characters, everything that we saw in Naruto and Naruto Shippuuden world is a creation of a mastermind – Kishimoto Masashi, and for that I bow to him to the ground. Just imagine how impossible it was to create such a wide universe with all of its own structure (villages, clans, fractions), its own history (all the clans and villages wars), its own beasts, beings and heroes etc; and how unimaginable was it to make this huge machine work. There is everything I love about the story and about how it is served to the viewer revealing its genius from all sides. It is groundbreaking in every way possible.Now let us head to art style. Generally it is satisfying. Well, it is hard to make every episode look like Kimi no Na Wa (you can consider this a recommendation), especially when you have more than 700 episodes (Naruto + Shippuuden). But I can praise creators for really good special effects and the way they've made all ninjutsu types look like. And though I must admit that Naruto movies absolutely compensate lack of original shows' drawing it does not make the original run look worse.Unlike art styling – music really is the VERY strong side of the series. From top to bottom it is impeccable. Every opening, every ending, every song from the series is something breathtaking and mind blowing. I truly enjoy every track and I can sincerely call the Narutos' OST one of the best of all time in anime industry. The openings like Hero's Come Back (OP 1), Sign (OP 6), Toumei Datta Sekai (OP 7), Diver (OP 8), Shilhouette (OP 16) will fire you up and make your spirit riot; the endings like Shooting Star (ED 1), U can do it (ED 15), Dame Dame ga (ED 31), Spinning World (ED 32), Zetsu Zetsu (ED 40) will make you believe that you just witnessed a dream that you never want to end. I am not even mentioning stunning Hisou, Kikyou, Sengunbanba, Utsusemi tracks that appear at very exact lyrical moments and touch your soul in its deepest corners. The chorus tracks like Akatsuki and Pains' theme songs make you feel goosebumps and your hair stand as you stare through the eyes of our heroes at fearless overwhelming enemy hordes. An incredible work by the composer – Yasuharu Takanashi.The characters. Oh, there is so much to say. This is something galaxy lvl. Nearly 100 characters, each with their own temper, beliefs and credo, each of them is trying to make an impact at the world they live in. I will always remember characters like Madara, Itachi, Nagato, because their own vision of the world and the steel will they've shown to everyone is something worth of admiration and respect. All the heroes are versatile, unique and incomparable to each other. I am not mentioning the number of skills and techniques each character possesses and how multiform and complex they are. Worth mentioning are beasts like Tailed once. They are that destructive force everyone is trying to lay their hands on, but the author shows that they are something more than that – they have souls and feelings, and no one can see their good hearts under the scary masks. The enjoyment that I personally got from this show is something outstanding. I enjoyed it to the core and absolutely adore it. Maybe that's because I felt much the same as the main hero and 've been a witness of many injustice things in this life, and the anime shows it very good. The human's greed, the way we only think about our own sake, even the way kids treat someone who is not similar to them – it is a part of the masterpiece that Naruto is.Colossal work by Date Hayato and everyone who worked to make this show to be this titanic and go on nonstop for 15 years. I personally bow to all of you and say: "Thank you for the best childhood memories, I will always carry them!" And again I want to congratulate Naruto and Hinata with wedding, and thus my beautiful dream is over, meaning that I grew up and it is time for me to let my childhood go.
It is an end of an era, more or less. Bravo, they did a great job ending it, even though they still haven't really ended it. Well, I stopped watching so it ended for me. Seriously, the guys behind Naruto should just end it. Baruto looks promising but give us a break already, stop milking beloved franchises into the ground. Dragonball Super made a joke out of the DBZ universe and Baruto could do just the same thing to Naruto. Anyway, if you are planning on watching this series or watching it again then I recommend doing what I did, skipping all of the filler episodes. Seriously, a fillerless viewing of this show is literally animated art as far as I am concerned.


                
I watched most of this show. I tried to skip the fillers and may have accidentally skipped some of the canon during the third shinobi world war. Oops. But this anime has really meant a lot to me and I'm emotionally/sentimentally attached to it because of the plot, characters, and because I grew up watching it. I already caught up and finished the manga and I'm going to be sad when this show ends, which it very well may never do thanks to seemingly endless fillers. *sigh.Compared to the other series in the "Shonen Trinity," Naruto has to be my favorite just because it has a surreal connection with my heart. Wow that sounded really...what's the phrase-emotionally pretentious? I don't know. Anyway, the show's art style and animation- at least during the canon episodes- and somewhat relatable characters and plot are entertaining as well. It also has some of the best music I've ever heard-hits me right in the feels when I hear most songs from the OST.


                
Many people associate Naruto as a kid's show. They have good reason to believe so. The OG/prequel series was a lot more lighthearted and juvenile in its themes, and the English dub did air on Cartoon Network, but Shippuden matures with its protagonist and its audience. A lot of the kids who watched Naruto are older, and much like Naruto himself, are beginning to understand the outside world and its perils. The themes, language, and even the violence is taken to a more mature level. Things that were left unexplained to Naruto in the prequel series because of his age, are now explained since he (and the audience) are more capable of tolerating and understanding the truth.Most audience members can relate with one or more of the main characters in the show, and you grow with them. Underlined by subtle dialogue hints, comedic relief, romantic relief and a good score, Naruto Shippuden tugs at the heartstrings of its viewers and consistently teaches us something.One of the things about Kishimoto and especially Naruto is that no antagonist is purely evil. Each antagonist has a reason and a story for why they've turned out the way they have. In a sense, it makes the audience sympathize for them and reveal that there is a vicious chain/cycle/web of hate and violence that will only continue if we approach our problems with more hate and violence--no matter how much we may justify it in our heads.The main issue is the fillers. Shippuden has 500 episodes, out of which 40 percent are fillers. The good news is, if you're getting into the series, you don't have to watch all 500 episodes to immerse yourself. There are solid filler arcs that explain a lot of the backstory and characters, but there are some which you can skip.At the end of the day, it's not a perfect show by any means. There are some plot holes, and plot armor is also a thing in the show as well. But aside from that Shippuden is a coming of age story that slowly unveils the reality of life and the world to our main protagonist--and through him the audience.


                
There is not much I can add to what has been said about this anime. I personally liked the story progression a lot, I was shook by some of the plot twists - I think Itachi's story is one of the most brilliant plot lines I have ever seen in not just any anime but any genre of motion picture whatsoever. I love how there is such a diverse world depicted in this show that almost anybody can find something very relatable in it. The fights are stunning and exciting, there is a lot of character development going on and the animation is very high quality, too. The music is also very fitting, I especially love how some characters have their own themes. This show is both entertaining, interesting and deep. It makes you laugh, cry, and think. I tried some other animes but this was the only one I have loved since I was 10 and I still go back to it now that I'm 22.BUT!! The ending in my opinion was just terrible. It was rushed, and it destroyed a lot of what had been built up. By the end, I found it hard to follow that certain characters were just so impossibly strong and impeccable that some other very good characters just lost significance. There were also some very bad plot holes, I had the feeling that Kishimoto wanted to add too much to the background stories sometimes that they interferes with each other. I will be honest, after I read the ending of the manga I could not bring myself to watch the anime and I still don't know if I ever want to do that. I feel like the ending and the last few episodes were too much and a lot under developed. It just doesn't make sense. 
However, I think the plot got so complex it probably would have been impossible to avoid some inconsistencies (but we're talking about quite a lot hereOverall, other than the ending and some plot issues, I think Naruto and the Shippuuden especially is worthy of all the attention it gets and will always be one of my favorite things ever.


                
I think this movie is good for me I like to this watch this movie every day. And my favorite character is Naruto because he is the hero of the Hidden Leaf village. I like this movie because it has lots of fighting and some part is made me cry and some part made me laugh and some part about the true love. I think it maybe the number one movie in Japan too. And favorite part is when Naruto are fighting with pain. This movie made me went to watch again and again, but it not be real to me because it like cartoon. I think every like to watch this movie also. This movie have lots people that I like. Like naruto, saruka, jiraya and other shinobi. And there is lots of the village is good place for me to see and I went to live there and the the shinobi if it have the real one. The village I'm going to choose is the hidden leaf village because naruto and other shinobi that I like live there that why I choose the hidden leaf village. Thank You!!!!!


                
