This is one of the best anime I have seen so far. The plot is brilliant like the previous one. The animation is much better than the previous one and the dialogues are simply amazing. The battle scenes and the way Naruto and the rest come up with tactics are marvellous. The new characters are 'awesome'(can't think of a better word). There are loads of emotional moments in this series, some that make you laugh, some that make you angry and some that make you cry.I'll warn you, you'll get angry on some of the characters so much that you'll bite your nails till it starts bleeding and you wont realise it(or you might)! The thing that bothers me the most(which will bother you too) is there is only one new episode that releases every week and I just can't wait for the next episode! I am up-to date with both the manga and the episodes, and it seems like a million years from now that they'll finish the episodes(at this rate). I wish I could get a time machine!(you'll wish too!(very soon))Just watch it if you have watched Naruto because you will miss the best and exiting parts of this anime.There are loads of surprises and loads of excitement waiting for you.On the whole I'd say Naruto: 8.5/10 Naruto Shippuden: 9.5/10


                
I wrote this review because there was no updated review on IMDb.The first of Naruo Shippuden three seasons were alright they weren't bad but also they weren't that good They dragged the story too much the pacing was slow and by slow I mean really slow ,the battle scenes took several episodes where they can be done with one or two and that almost killed the show ,it's too bad because the story and the characters and very interesting. But after season 3 the anime improve in every aspect the no more slow paced story, spaced battles everything gets better animation, action scenes, sound track and especially the story , I mean it's like it's a totally different anime from what it's started(in a good way of curse) and up till now it keeps getting better and better.Story: The story have humor, action ,tragedy , romance and twists in it and the anime present it so well it makes it worth your while to bear with the first three seasons and some fillers here and there(which are not that bad).In case of characters: most of characters are well designed and easy to relate to ,even some of the Villains ,every characters is unique in his/her own way and have depth.The animations are good...not the best out there but pretty decent for a TV series.Sound track is amazing and fits well in the scenes especially the fighting scenes.So eventually if you are a Naruto fan, you can't miss this anime, it started not that good but it became one of the best anime I've watched. I gave it 9/10 despite the disappointing slow paced first three seasons (~70 episodes)because afterward it gets so good that it covers it up the mess in the first 3 seasons.


                
An absolute masterpiece for the very first episode of the initial series Shippuden and its later setting is one of the ways the "brand" has had such a period of success giving compelling characters and arcs as well as showing perfectly the growth of many of the individuals that create the cast. For all it's flaws (particularly related to pacing and filler) there's a thousand reasons which solidify the shows status as a deserving modern classic amongst the greatest of all time


                
Not just an ordinary Anime, I really can get the message behind it, all messages of life, suffering, happiness, dedication and victoryThe series was made by not the ordinary person, Masashi Kishimoto, an unintelligent person in his school life, he is one of the lowest ranked students, making many manga to finally arrive at a message of life through Naruto, through his work he proves his dedication and Hard work that makes you successfulThe message of how life is lived, how to deal with, and how it endsWar, Love, Friendship, Parents' Love, Great Master, Politics and Peace, all blend perfectly into Naruto Shippudhen, this is a reflection of our current, always warring world, always hate each other, the world should know how Naruto sees this world (Our world),Never have you seen naruto just from the outside, you must know how Masashi's ink streaks are the real form of all popular anime nowadays, it is he who is able to make a deep message in his series


                
If one were to list the top 5 anime of all time, there's no way they wouldn't include Naruto Shipudden. I'm a huge Naruto fan though I do admit that the series have been dragged way too much. The story is strong and emotional. The theme is moralistic. There are some really heart-touching moments and the music is absolutely beautiful! But the amount of fillers is too damn high! I WOULD recommend it to people who have good taste in such stuff and to those who have a lot of free time. Better than Naruto: Shonen Jump. And personally, I liked Uchiha clan's story more than Naruto's. 8.5/10 would be the most appropriate rating but since we can't rate like that, 9/10.
Apart from the bromance between Naruto and Sasuke, every piece of this anime is dope. Go for it.


                
Everything about this anime was great. And the Story and the meaning and notions behind it more than anything else were outstanding.
Just only one problem. There was a lot of flash backs that repeated over and over through the whole series. 
Beside that it was great. Thank You.
I recommend this for everyone, especially those who understand pain..


                
There is a lot of fillers for the anime but the story is excellent! Lots of different characters with different abilities and personalities. There are a lot of episodes to watch and sometimes they will bring in "Naruto" (child Naruto)'s story into the fillers, therefore if you want to save time, you can just watch Shippuden. I am quite immersed in the anime and it somehow felt like Deja Vu.I would recommend people to watch it or you can get to know some of the story through Naruto's games. They had quite a lot of games because this Anime is quite famous worldwide.


                
