Boy, is this a good movie. In its bare bones it is a crime drama but the Coen brothers constantly undercut the seriousness with a quirky irony. The acting, the script, and the direction lift the movie light years above most of the movies of its decade.The performances, for instance, everyone speaks with what passes for an upper Midwestern accent, a very pronounced accent, let's say. So when characters are doing wicked things on screen, it's rather like watching people dressed in clown suits do nasty things. It's utterly impossible to take it very seriously -- only just seriously enough for us to feel sorry for the victims and to disapprove of the bad guys, but no more than that.Everyone except the two killers are forced by their culture to speak and act cheerfully. They never swear either. "You're darn tootin'," they say. The casting couldn't be better, with Frances McDormand, Steve Buscemi, and Bill Macy outstanding.The script is likewise splendidly done. It's full of scenes that seem peripheral except that they add to our understanding of the characters and often lead to later payoffs. Without taking the space to describe them, I will simply mention the scene in the restaurant between MacDormand and her Japanese friend from high school. Why is it in there at all? (My God, those hotel restaurants are depressingly ugly.) Well -- among other things, such as establishing the kind of milieu these folks consider Ritzy, it tells us quite a bit about how MacDormand handles attempts to violate her inherent good nature. When the Japanese guy tries to sit next to her she tells him firmly that she'd prefer it if he sat across the table so that she can see him more easily. When he breaks down in tears she whispers that it's all okay. She is polite, a little distant without being unfriendly, completely practical, and absolutely iron bound in her values. Nobody is going to take advantage of or discompose this hyper pregnant babe. Further, this scene is a set up for a later one. After MacDormand learns that the Japanese guy has told her a gaggle of lies, she wakes up to the fact that, yes, people can tell untruths -- and she returns to interview Macy a second time. In another scene, when she's pressing one of the criminals during an interview, he excuses himself for a moment and she spots him taking off in his car. She exclaims, "Oh, for Pete's sake, he's FLEEIN' THE INTERVIEW." It's impossible to improve on a line like that, or on MacDormand's delivery of it.The third element of the film that makes it superior is the direction. The pauses come at the right times. A woman is sitting on her couch watching a soap opera on TV. Through the glass door of her apartment she sees a man approach. He's wearing a black ski mask and carrying a crowbar. He walks up to her door and shades his eyes while trying to peer inside. Now in an ordinary action movie, by this time the woman would be screeching and speeding down the hallway. Not here. The victim sits there staring at the intruder as he fiddles at the door, half horrified and half curious. "Who is this guy? He's not the meter reader, is he?" Coen the director has an eye for the suggestive picturesque too. Bill Macy has asked his father-in-law for a large loan for some sure-fire business proposition, but Dad offers him only a finder's fee. We see Macy's deflated face as his disappointment sets in. Cut. Now we're looking at a white screen punctuated by four or five bare trees equidistant from one another, and there is a tiny car in the middle of the whiteness. Then Macy's tiny figure trudges into the bottom of the shot and we realize we're looking at a snow-filled parking lot with only one ordinary-sized car in the center of it.Wintery weather plays an important part in the movie. People die in it, drive off the road because of it, stand shivering in it. Two freezing people are conversing on the street while one shovels snow. The shoveler stops, gazes up at the sky, and remarks that it "ought to be really cold tomorrow." Cars and ambulances tend to drive in and out of white outs during blizzards and blowing snow. MacDormand is driving her murdering prisoner through a niveous white landscape in which nothing much is visible and she is mildly remonstrating with him, saying something like, "Why did you do it, for a little bit of money? It's a perfect day, and here you are." (A perfect day!) There are seven murders in this movie. Only three take place on screen. The others either take place off screen or else the director has the good sense to cut at the moment the gun fires or the ax blade lands."Fargo" is one of perhaps half a dozen movies from the 1990s that I would consider buying on DVD. It's an original and refreshingly adult picture. Don't miss it.
I didn't see this in the theater but saw it the first week it was out for rental, and have enjoyed it ever since. In fact, I probably enjoy this more each time I view it. It's a sick movie, though, make no mistake about that. However, it holds a strange fascination, probably because of the odd characters.About the story: first, it is NOT a true story as indicated in the movie. That's a lie. It's a fictional kidnapping-turned into murder story with a few bloody scenes, lots of profanity (most of it by Steve Buscemi) and a comedy. Yup, this is pure "black comedy." It's dark humor mixed in with a parody about the way the Scandanavian people in the upper Midwest supposedly speak.Both William H. Macy and Frances McDormand have some wonderful facial expressions along with their accents. Those two and Buscemi are the lead characters and all three "are a trip." Macy is hilarious; the best character in here, in my opinion. The more I watch this film, the funnier he gets. It's also the best role, I assume, ever for McDormand who was never a star before - or since - this movie. Her character in here, "Marge Gunderson," elevates this movie from just another modern-day sick crime movie, to an original. It's nice to see a wonderful husband-wife relationship, too, as is shown here with her and husband "Norm" (John Lynch).You have this clean, old-fashioned lady cop (McDormand), a middle-of-the-road bungling car salesman (Macy) and two extreme low-life killers in "Carl Showalter" (Buscemi) and "Gaear Grimsrud" (Peter Stormare) all combining to make this story a mixture not only of people but genres. Other minor characters are strange, too, led by one of Marge's old high school acquaintances "Mike Yanagita" (Steve Park). Add to that some equally-bizarre music (slow violins) and you have this unusual story that brings out the morbid fascination in us viewers.So, I guess what I am saying is this movie truly is an original, the best film the Coen Brothers have ever made and maybe the rest roles ever for the three main actors, McDormand, Macy and Buscemi.


                
I've always thought Fargo would make a great Shakesperean play; you could alter the modern elements and still have created a buzz 400 years ago in suburban England. Indeed, the plot is similar to Hamlet's, in that they both have characters we root for who create zany plans than end up spinning wildly out of control into bloodshed. Many people seem to like Fargo for its humorous qualities, its characterization of the Minnesotan culture and Frances McDormand- not me. I love Fargo for its brilliant writing, its tragic musical score, its tragic plot, William H Macy, Harve Presnell and Steve Buscemi, its ignorance of political correctness (how many movies can you remember when the only two minority characters were both revealed to be creeps).I want to draw attention to an overlooked reason why the film works so well - how well the music suits the visuals in this movie. Each murder scene is scored superbly, and other audio clues really add to the effect (for instance, notice how when the police officer asks Carl Showalter "What's this?" in reference to the abductee, a disquieting guitar sound is immediately played that has an instantaneous psychological effect on how you interpret the scene). I have seen this film over, well, an embarrassing number of times and have committed its screenplay, from start to finish, by memory. Fargo is the ultimate Coen Brothers movie, a brilliant tragedy, and restores my faith in Roger Ebert as he places this movie in as his fourth favorite movie of the '90s.


                
If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favour and see it. It is very well put together and the plot is constantly evolving into a deeper shade of creepiness. At times scary (not in the horror movie sense) and quite rich in dark humour, this is one of those movies that gives you a weird felling inside even an hour after its over. The music is quite appropriate and unlike Scarface, is timeless. The camera work is usually quite basic but whoever directed the photography had the enjoyable habit of giving us interestingly artistic segways between scenes. This is the first film so far that I've given a 10 out of 10. I was going to give it a 9, but I couldn't think of a reason to take any points from perfect.


                
Joel Coen the director of "Fargo", proves he is one of our best directors with this tale of deception and murder told in a style that takes humorous turns in the action. "Fargo" is one of the best American films of the nineties. Joel Coen working together with his brother, Ethan, have made pictures that will be viewed as classics, as time will tell. Their movies are always an excellent way to spend some time because they always manage to deliver, even in films that aren't popular with the public.A lot of what makes this film work is the amazing casting feat the Coen brothers achieved in giving Frances McDormand and William H. Macy, two of our best film actors, prominent presence in it. The Marge Gunderson of Ms. McDormand is one of the best creations the Coen brothers have produced. The same can be said of William H. Macy's take on the pathetic Jerry Lundergaard, the idiotic man who sets things in motion in the film. Ms. McDormand and Mr. Macy have only one scene together, yet one wouldn't even think about other actors playing these roles.The supporting cast of "Fargo" is a joy to watch. Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare make two of the most enjoyable bad guys in memory. These two scum bags are a joke. Anyone in his right mind wouldn't entrust either Carl or Gaer for a hit job. John Carroll Lynch plays Norm, the stoic man who is married to Marge. Harve Presnell is good as Wade Gustafson.The atmosphere created by the Coens work well. We are constantly reminded of the deep winter seasons of the area where the action takes place. They have given their characters a local flavor and even to hear them talk would take us to that region of the country."Fargo" is a joy to watch thanks to Joel and Ethan Coen.


                
Nobody seems to know that Fargo is first and foremost a beautiful and very simple love story about two ordinary rural small town American people and secondly a superbly acted crime murder mayhem movie, probably the best that has ever been filmed. Every character is genuine, believable, and Home, not Hollywood, spun. The suspense rolls in and out like a San Francisco fog. The side shows that are built in are amazing (sheriff's conversation at a bar with old acquaintance - stamp conversations - breakfast makings). The whole film is an American Shakesphere. I actually know frequent moviegoers who have not seen Fargo (and Sling Blade and Shine). I feel a special sorrow for them. Back to Fargo, every time I watch it I don't want it to ever end. I even sometimes find myself wishfully thinking I could move up there, it's a Lake Wobegone, and then the movie would never end. Fargo is as close to capturing and portraying real life as a director and bunch of actors can get. I wish IMDb had a just one time eleven so I could crown it emperor above all.


                
Even people I know who can't stand the Coen Brothers' style *love* this slyly low-key comedy-thriller. Unlike so many "offbeat" movies, the quirkiness of FARGO's Oscar-winning screenplay never cancels out its warmth or suspense as the Coens deftly balance clever plotting (*not* really based on a true story, as a poor disturbed Japanese woman found out when she came to the U.S. to dig up the hidden ransom money only to freeze to death trying), engaging characters, scares, poignancy, and the brothers' trademark loopy humor. Darkly hilarious as the kidnappers' bungling is, it renders the violence all the more chilling; one minute you're laughing, the next minute you're cringing over the shock of sympathetic characters meeting swift, bloody deaths. I found myself feeling terribly sorry for poor, sweet, unsuspecting Jean Lundegaard (Kristin Rudrud), her vulnerable adolescent son Scotty (Tony Denman), her wealthy father Wade (a delightfully bombastic Harve Presnell), and the other poor slobs unwittingly caught up in car salesman Jerry Lundegaard's plot to get money out of Wade by hiring two thugs to kidnap wife Jean and hold her for ransom, not factoring in the kidnappers' lack of both patience and anger management skills. Nobody plays losers like William H. Macy, and he sure deserved his Best Supporting Actor nomination for playing Jerry, who ought to have his picture in the dictionary next to the word "inept." Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare are letter-perfect as the loose-cannon wife-snatchers; if Buscemi isn't our generation's Peter Lorre, I don't know who is. But the heart and soul of FARGO is Frances McDormand, who truly earned her Best Actress Oscar here. Looking a bit like a young brunette Carol Burnett, McDormand is beyond superb as Marge Gunderson, the pregnant sheriff (my husband always liked the fact that FARGO doesn't include the nigh-obligatory scene of The Pregnant Heroine Suddenly Going Into Labor At The Worst Possible Time) who runs circles around the bad guys *and* her own well-meaning police force. Courteous and smart, down-to-earth yet slick, her luminous blue-green eyes never missing a thing, McDormand's Marge comes off as a warm Minnesota (is that an oxymoron? :-) female hybrid of Joe Friday and Lt. Columbo (I mean Columbo's stealth smarts, not his sloppiness :-). If you love FARGO, you owe it to yourself to own the deluxe DVD, chock full of way-cool extras too nifty and numerous to go into here -- oh, yah! :-)


                
another winner by the Coen Brothers. not my favourite but still a very good film. the acting is brilliant by Frances Mcdormand, William H.Macy and Steve Buscemi. i love the voice lingo they use in this, its really odd. if thats how they talk in Minnesota then i better go there for a holiday ha ha ha joking. this film got nominated for 7 Oscars which is more than your average Oscar film, i think it only won 2 if i remember correctly. I'm glad Frances Mcdormand (a Coen Brother regular) won an Oscar for her performance in this. she deserved it. William H.Macy should of won something too i think.this film is very good, a little overrated i think though. it shouldn't be at around 120 in the top 250 but i guess this film rocked a lot of peoples minds.... good job again Coen Brothers...... 8/10........j.d Seaton
Going into a Coen brothers movie expecting something traditional is ridiculous by any stretch of the imagination. Any movie directed by the Coens is going to be severely warped in one way or another, either by approach ("No Country for Old Men") or by their sense of humor (everything else).By all accounts, "Fargo" is a murder mystery, though it is anything but straightforward. This is not "Law & Order." It's about a simple crime that spiraled way out of control for all the principal characters. That's understandable, since everyone populating this story is either hopelessly inept or hopelessly stupid.Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) is a car salesman who needs money to open a new car lot. But since he thinks that the only person who could give the money to him, his father-in-law (Harve Presnell), won't put down the money, he hires two thugs (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife (Kristen Rudrud) and split the ransom that his father-in-law will pay. Unfortunately for Jerry, the two thugs he hired don't have any brain cells between them, and Jerry is probably the most incompetent criminal the world has ever seen. Things get out of hand very quickly and the bodies start piling up. This draws the attention of the very pregnant Police Chief Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand).It may seem like I've given a lot away, but really, I haven't. That's just the set-up for a series of unexpected (not to mention bizarre) twist and turns that the Coens throw at us. Many thrillers, even the best ones, have easily projected paths. "Fargo" is anything but.Despite IMDb listing it as such, merely calling "Fargo" a crime/thriller is an insufficient description. The film is as much a comedy as anything else. From the character's stupidity or complete ineptitude, to the funny accents and way of speaking that everyone has, the Coens never take "Fargo" too seriously.The acting is the best part of the film. Frances McDormand is a real scene-stealer, and in many ways the best part of the movie. Marge is relentlessly chirpy and optimistic, and she's easily the smartest character in the film (although that's not exactly saying much). "Fargo" really takes off whenever she's on screen. William H. Macy gives his best performance as Jerry. As reprehensible as his plan is, you can't help but feel sorry for the guy. He's so bad at being a criminal, it's really pathetic. But seeing him try to get out of the jams he gets himself into are nothing short of hilarious. Steve Buscemi and Harve Presnell are good as the brainless kidnappers, and even though they think they're smart, they're really, REALLY dumb.Joel Coen has a knack for twisting the story just enough so that it's funny without lampooning the genre. This isn't a satire, but the jabs it takes almost make it so. It has its share of violence, including a scene that in any other movie would be completely sick and disturbing, but as told by the Coens, it's so shocking and absurd that it's laugh-out-loud hilarious.Roger Ebert heaped tons of praise on "Fargo," saying that "Movies like 'Fargo' are the reasons why I love movies." While I greatly enjoyed "Fargo," I can't heap that much praise on it. Some of the cuts in the film are too long, and I half-expected a commercial break. Additionally, there's one scene where Marge reunites with a guy from high school that, while funny and irreverent, really doesn't add anything to the story. Still, it's enjoyable enough that it's hardly worth complaining about.While it may not be perfect, "Fargo" is still a very good film, especially if you have a warped sense of humor.


                
This is my first review about a movie which is not in my mother language and I chose this movie specifically because although I like many Coen brothers' movies, this film will be in my heart in its special place, kind of forever.This is a black comedy crime movie but even in its gory scenes, the humanitarian perspective intelligently mixed with unnerving humor has never lost on you. This movie is an excellent example of what we should know and learn further about crime world and what individual ethics mean in every way we could comprehend. In all the characters, we can observe what is right and wrong and why they choose the paths they choose and what makes a human being a good person or evil. It is kind of a moral teaching session.The excellent acting and the script carry you from the first moment to the final moment of this film. The whole movie, even in its dark moments flows like a river and you forget the minutes pass. You can also see that the actors disappear in their performances and you cannot even say they are acting even though you know because they seem to you as if they were the real people and you were watching a horribly dark story in actual life from the first row alive. I especially fell in love with Frances McDormand's superb acting skills in this masterpiece, as I should call it since Coen Brothers' directing is peerless as well.The plot seems quite ordinary yet it reveals itself in no time with unexpected twists and turns throughout until you start to predict the next moves and fail each and every time. It is difficult not to empathize with each and every character and ask "what would I do if I were in their shoes?". The answers are always undetermined as they depend on your own character, even your mood and that's the beauty and the sincerity of this art work.The scenes, especially the ones with the plain snow are fascinating and resonating for sure and also those are sort of etched in one's mind.Also special kudos to William Macy, as a master in acting as he will always be. I am always a huge fan of him but in Fargo, he is excellent. And of course, Buscemi is fantastic as usual.All in all, this movie is a timeless classic and a never to miss. It is such a movie that you can enjoy any time you watch and as if the first time no matter how many times you have already watched it. In my opinion, every real film lover should be thankful to Coen Brothers and all of the cast and crew for making such an unforgettable treat for us and I am definitely lucky to know this film.


                
Fargo is probably the last American Film masterpiece of the Twentieth Century and the last 25 years. Highly original and imaginative it is a depressing tale told in a dark comic style with flesh and blood characters intricately and smoothly connected with dialog and plot twists all brilliantly conceived by the brothers Coen.Sleazy car dealer Jerry Lundergaard hatches a plan to have his wife kidnapped so he can pocket some of the ransom his emasculating father in-law will have to fork over. Through one of his mechanics he gets the name of a low life who might be interested and travels to Fargo to work out the plan. Things go awry from the outset though and soon the cold snowy landscape is littered with dead bodies. Solving the case is left up to a last trimester pregnant Sheriff from Brainerd, Minnesota who initially comes across as a little slow on the draw.Fargo is flawlessly constructed with subplots girding the storyline, enriching characterization and sharply calibrating the suspenseful pace. The frozen north setting is a refreshing change from big city and vacation land locales that dominate feature films and the Coens expertly put it to use to create mood, evoke humor and accent imagery. It is the best use of snow since Altman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller.William Macy as Jerry takes the car salesman stereotypes to new lows with one of the most memorable cloyingly unctuous characters in film history as he dismantles his family in pursuit of wealth. Whether trying to tack on extras to customers or keeping police at bay while surrounded in a motel room he remains steadfast in deceptive practice until the end. As the Sheriff Frances McDormand evolves from small town cop to Colombo subtlety and successfully without fanfare while Coen economically brings more depth and mystery to her with dry comic snapshots of her married life and a meeting with an old school chum. As one of the blundering kidnappers Steve Buscemi is a motormouth of comic complaint while his taciturn, hypochondrial partner played by Peter Stomare (a lot more grounded in reality than the Frankenstein creation running amok in the Coen's No Country for Old Men) is icily terrifying.Fargo is the Coens' best film to date. They fell into a malaise after The Big Lebowski with heavy handed comedies (The Lady Killers, Intolerable Cruelty), dependence on charming movie star George Clooney as well as a flaccid and forgettable foray into black and white (The Man Who Wasn't There) before going Oscar with the slow moving overrated Old Country, followed by the praise worthy acerbic screwball comedy Burn After Reading. Even with their failures they had more to offer than quality work of tamer directors by offering razzle dazzle camera work and original off-beat characters. Taking chances they sometimes pushed the envelope beyond credulity but with Fargo they give us a perfect measure of style and realism with a dark comic soul that is rich in detail and perception of this thing known as the human comedy.


                
There are a great many reasons for the extraordinary success of "Fargo." One of the reasons is the uproar it caused upon release when nosy little reporters found out it was not really based on true events like the disclaimer says at the beginning of the film. Then there was the tragedy of the Japanese woman who went looking for the buried stash of money and froze to death. The press had, what movie characters always call, a "field day" with this story. They overlooked the fact that she had left behind a suicide note and was informed by police the story was false upon arrival in Minnesota, where she was picked up by a worried police officer. She had a death wish.And the other reason for success is, of course, because the movie is one of the best of all films--a true "story" if ever there was one. It's more than a scathing social satire, more than a dark comedy, more than a great drama with a fabulous story filled with irony and coincedences and morals and so on and so forth. It's more than a great movie. It's superb.Marge Gunderson has become a sort of cultural character. People quote her like the Terminator or Charles Foster Kane or George Bailey or Darth Vader. She's so famous that I do not think many people realize Marge essentially comes in around forty minutes into the 98-minute movie. Yet that's what people think of when they hear the word "Fargo"--Marge Gunderson--and so it just shows what an impact a film like "Fargo" made. And not only impact, but the remembrance of characters we love to remember.Marge provides a sort of balance between the wild and the crazy. She is the moral character of the story who juggles the two and tries to keep them from falling. When the film starts to get violent or ironic Marge steps in to sort out the mess. The Coen Brothers, Ethan and Joel, obviously have a firm grasp on the actuality of storytelling as opposed to filmmakers who can simply put a story on screen--ignoring whether it provides any sort of actual storytelling at all.I think we all remember the first moment Marge wakes up in bed and receives the phone call. She drives out to the barren, frosty highway with a view of Minnesota that stretches for miles, and investigates the crime scene of a most brutal murder. Three people haev been murdered: A cop, and two passersby. The villain(s)? Unknown. (Regarding the killer: "And by the size of his feet he looks like a big fella'!")The murders were, of course, all coincedental, having to do with a simple yet oddly complex plot: Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) has debts he is unable to pay, so he hires two crooks, Carl (Steve Buscemi) and Gaeur (Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife,  Jean (Kristin Rudrud). Unfortunately, their plan did not go to...er...plan, and they had to kill three people along the way.The point where Gauer shoots the police officer who has pulled the men over for not displaying the proper tags on their vehicle is funny. And yet when you really think about it, that scene shouldn't be funny at all. But it is. The Coen Brothers know how to make it funny. They are like experts of the dark humor--when Carl says, "Whoa, Daddy!" and has that speckle of blood on his face, I always burst out in laughter. It sounds sick, but strangely, it isn't.The dialogue in "Fargo" is just as excellent as the film's twisty little plot. Frances McDormand rightfully won an Oscar for her portrayal of Marge Gunderson. She speaks with the perfect accent of, what the Coen Brothers call, the language "Minnesota Nice"--where people are always cheery, even when they're being mean. It's just something inbred into citizens of Minnesota. And even when the worst things are happening to characters, you're smiling, because who doesn't love to hear, "Gee, golly, gee whiz," throughout a movie, and who doesn't think it's funny?"Fargo" is the type of film you can watch over and over. Sometimes I think to myself that I'm just going to watch a scene or two, but as soon as the credits start the film has my interest and never lets go. It's the odd sort of delightful little film that keeps the viewer's interest for the first time up through the fiftieth time and beyond.The film's plot takes twist after twist and we can identify ever so much with the character of Jerry as all his well-thought-out plans go to waste, causing his debt to become even worse and his life even more ruined than it already is. Steve Buscemi, as Carl, is just as much a scene-stealer as Marge Gunderson (I love to type that name), and Jerry is just as much a lovable character as someone who hasn't hired two crooks to kidnap his wife. That's the secret to "Fargo"--or at least part of the secret. We like the characters, simply because we know they don't really mean any harm. Harm just happens to find them.5/5 stars.John Ulmer


                
I had watched "Fargo" several years ago, and just last night re-watched it on DVD. I intended to see half of it, go to bed at my normal time, and see the last half this morning. But it isn't that kind of movie. It draws you in, the dialog and editing are so good, you want to keep watching. And so I did. It deserves its high rating.some SPOILERS follow, don't read further if you haven't seen "Fargo" yet.
Bill Macy is perfect, absolutely, as "Jerry" the car sales manager who can't quite get his life in order. You see, Jerry basically cares only about himself. He has some unspecified debt, his father in law (Harve Presnell) is rich but has a very low, deservedly, opinion of Jerry. So Jerry does the only thing he can figure, through a paroled  American Native car mechanic that works in his dealership gets hooked up with two thugs (Buscemi and Stormare) who will kidnap Jerry's wife, hold her safe, until Jerry convinces pop-in-law to pay a ransom, which he uses to pay off the thugs and erase his own debt. Ever the schemer, Jerry tells the thugs he will split $80,000 with them, but really plans to extort $1Million and just give them $40,000. In an early scene to establish character, we see Jerry scamming a customer by charging him for a "topcoat" treatment that he said a day earlier he would throw in free. Jerry was simply a very flawed person.Things go terribly wrong, thugs get stopped at night in the snow, Stormare shoots the cop, plus two passers by who are tracked down after witnessing the crime scene. Margie (Frances McDormand, oscar winner) is the town sheriff and gets on the trail. She calmly travels to the Twin Cities, interviews people, pieces together clues, finds the hideout near the lake, comes upon Stormare grinding up Buscemi's body, the dead hostage in the cabin. In the interim the father in law gets gunned down, as well as a parking lot attendant. This film is best classified as a very dark comedy. Margie and her fisherman husband are two of the very few normal people in this film, The others - Jerry, his family, the mechanic, the thugs, the prostitutes - are all way off center, and some of the situations and dialog are very funny, within the context of a film where a number of murders are committed. The funniest scene is during the shooting of Presnell, who wounds Buscemi on the right cheek, and he spends the rest of the film with rather large strips of paper stuck to his face to stop the bleeding, his hands and coat collar red and blood-soaked. I mean, there's really nothing funny about murder, but the Buscemi character is very funny.
Perfectly written, perfectly cast, perfectly acted, this is one of the best works of cinematic art of all time. Each scene is artfully composed, the actors' performances are subtle, powerful and evoke far more than than their words alone convey. The tongue-in-cheek but so-serious performances are dead-on. I have seen this film at least a dozen times and never tire of it; in fact, I appreciate it more each time I see it. Its economy of dialog, composition, and plot is the soul of this wonderful piece. A fresh plot, the artful placement of the spare and haunting musical score, the stark cinematography, masterful directing and first-rate performances make this one a real winner!


                
"Films like "Fargo" are why I love the movies", said Roger Ebert. The film-makers Joel and Ethan Coen, the writing/directing team also known as Two Headed Director, are the reason why I believe in the modern movie-making. To take the story like the one Fargo is based on which has been told so many times before and, I am sure, will be told over and over again, to turn and twist it in the most in-anticipated ways, to create the characters so alive and three dimensional that you believe every word they say and every step they take, to provide them with some of the best quotes and dialogs I've ever had pleasure to hear, to mix dry humor and humanity, to make the film recognizable but uniquely beautiful, dark, dramatic, and funny - that's what Coens achieved in Fargo which has been supposedly the Best film they ever made. All of Coens' fans have their own favorite film but it is hard to disagree that with Fargo, Coens sealed the place in Cinema Hall of Fame. Fargo is a movie of many dimensions. As many of Coens' films, it centers on a botched crime that includes kidnapping gone terribly wrong. Many viewers see it as a dark comical crime/mystery thriller which it is but it is much more. It rises to the high tragedy, and it is one of the most beautiful gentle love stories committed to screen which is very unusual for Coens. What I especially love in Fargo - the perfect balance between the scenes of building suspense, graphic violence, humor, and the real drama from the lives of the real people.The visual palette of the film with color white dominating the screen is stunning, and the snow that covers American Midwest for what seems the eternal winter, is as important character for the film as the rest of them. The sorrowful music score deserves a special mention for creating the mood. It has been told a lot about dream cast that Coens gathered for the film. Of all stars, Frances McDormand and William H. Macy got the most recognition, and very deservingly so. Macy is amazing and a spot- on, and in the final scene of the film, genuinely heartbreaking. It is impossible to imagine anybody else in the role of Jerry Lundegaard, the desperate man who came up with the perfect scheme to become rich without hurting anyone and whose good intentions paved the road directly to hell of Shakespearean proportions. Macy was determined from the beginning that it was HIS role in spite Coens' doubts even after the second reading. He did not hesitate to beg them, and the result proved absolutely terrific. Any way we look at Fargo, it is a great work of Cinema that would make it difficult for its creators to overpass its perfection. As a true masterpiece, it only gets better as time passes and it turns with new facets with every new viewing.


                
The Coen brothers can always be guaranteed to deliver a quirky, diverting, off-key movie experience, and FARGO remains their most successful movie to date; a story of small-town life, dead cold temperatures, and a bloody crime wave. As with the majority – if not all – of their films, it's a densely-plotted, intelligently-scripted story, with a cold grasp on reality throughout but nevertheless some absurd situations to enjoy.Things begin small and gradually build up to a blood-spattered climax, propelled by tons of originality and irregularity which propels this past most similar genre fare. Frances McDormand deservedly got an Oscar for her excellent performance as the pregnant cop, but William H. Macy is equally good as the nervous car salesman whose life spirals out of control. Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare are also brilliant as the two psychotic criminals who begin by kidnapping and end in <U+0085> well I'll leave it for you to find out. In parts touching, warm, funny, frightening and shocking, FARGO is an example of the crime thriller at its best.


                
To all the Fargo fans, I re-watched it recently after a very long time.I read Ebert and Siskel were watching the movie in a theater and Siskel turned to Ebert and said it is for films like Fargo that he watches movies.Food has so much prominence in the film. Everyone's always consuming food. It made me hungry. Or they are watching TV. But it does not seem to satisfy them.The film is so damn entertaining. Most scenes don't last for too long. It made me wish the director would show me some more about the characters. Especially Steve Buscemi's character. His date with the prostitute was really sad. No wonder, people got together and made a whole TV series based on this film. That's how much this film captured their imagination. I mean, every character in the film could have a separate film about their life.A lot of indoor scenes would be followed by an outdoor one. Each character has some kind of notable mannerism or eccentricity. This is foregrounded. The film has two of the best character actors in William.H.Macy and Steve Buscemi. The acting is exceptional.The film is a great achievement.Best Regards, Pimpin.(10/10)
Evil as depicted in films such as "Fargo" and "Badlands" is much more disturbing than in films in which evil geniuses or devilish fiends systematically carry out their plans. In "Fargo" unintelligent evil is matched against seemingly ordinary good people as embodied by Frances McDormand and good wins hands down. And it's not just a case of good defeats evil by catching and punishing it. That's the genius of this film. Enjoying the ordinary life shines through in Margie's relationship with her husband and the film does not patronize their homespun but genuine affection. Margie's comment to the dimwitted murderer about it being a beautiful day and ruining it over "a little bit of money" rings true because of the regrettably ridiculous tangle of folly caused by greed and insensitivity that has preceded it. Margie's final comment to her husband that they are "doing pretty good" is perfectly in keeping with the tale and its tone. Brutality has been beaten by simple human decency but with no overt sentimentality or grandly moral speechifying.This is a depiction of humankind at their worst and their best. It is a roller-coaster ride and possibly the best film ever made. And the score is just brilliant.


                
Great film. Coen brothers did a fine job with this one. I really dig the fact that despite it's very serious nature the script has some very humorous moments which blend in very nicely and don't stick out at all. McDormand, Macy, and Buscemi were fantastic in their respective roles. McDormand's portrayal was very charming and I enjoyed watching her in this very much.The setting of the film really added atmosphere to the film and it wouldn't be the same without it, along with the musical score. Cinematography was top notch.I recommend this to everyone!


                
If you are annoyed by the word, "yeah" then this is not the movie for you. With that said, this movie is freakin awesome. It's great plot and storyline along with amazing performances by Steve Buscemi and Frances McDormand and it's a great thriller. William H. Macy is also really good. It shows how a small, petty crime turns into six people dying and two people being arrested. Some of it maybe be confusing, but it's still a great thriller. To add on to that, I thought it was pretty funny too. To wrap it up, I wouldn't suggest this to anyone younger than fourteen or fifteen, because you see people having sex and it drops the "F" bomb a lot. Also some mild violence, but still a great movie. 9.5/10. For Fans Of: THE USUAL SUSPECTS OR ANY COEN BROTHERS MOVIES


                
Fargo is a breath of fresh air. It is inspiring for movie-goers, because the majority of films lack inspiration or originality. Joel and Ethan Coen's masterpiece is funny, sadistic, dark, violent, intense, and true. The setting is cold and harsh, which is perfect for the events that unfold in the storyline. It deserves its place in the top 100 films of all time. The acting is top-of-the-line, as well. Frances McDormand deserved her Academy Award. Due to these facts, you simply must watch this film. The thing that impresses me the most with this film, as with other films by the Coen brothers, is that it portrays what can result from a lie, which eventually explodes and ultimately leads to death and madness. Thou shalt not lie.
Brothers Coens decided filming true story. Outstanding work came out. One of best cast used by brothers...only big stars. It was such big risk. We are known star cast went out the flop. But not that time. All actors were on height. And one of strong parts of picture is the cinematography. Roger Deakins used all his beautiful talent to improve Coens ideas. Great artwork was made. Decorations were very nice-offbeat. Acting: Frances McDormand was very natural. She is very good analyzed character of policewoman Marge Gunderson. The mark for acting is 10/10. William H. Macy played clamp and sly man. Went out very truthful but in some episodes were noticeable make up on his face. The mark for acting is 9/10. Evil men by Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare are very comic. And performance by Steve Buscemi was very outstanding. He played 9/10. Character of his work-mate is very difficult for performing, but Peter Stormare didn't strike to mud by face. The mark for acting is 8/10. Picture "Fargo" came in to golden part of movies.
This is without a doubt the most brilliant, creative, and stylish film I have ever seen. The coen's really out did themselves with this piece of work. It is by far they're greatest achievement as directors and writers. How this film did not win best picture of 1996 is beyond me, and it astonishes me that the Joel coen did not win best director for this. At least the academy recognized the great acting by Francis Mcdormand and the creative brilliance of the screenplay. William H. Macy also did a wonderful job although I believe they overlooked Steve Buscemi, who in my mind is the most underrated actor in Hollywood. But perhaps I am most impressed with the acting of Peter Stormare who portrayed an excellent cold-blooded character. Everything about this film is great. The acting, the locations, the story, and the accents. I give this film a 10/10 and its well-deserved. Thank you Coen brothers for adding a masterpiece to my collection.


                
How do I even begin to review a film that has been in my personal Top Three of all time since the second I left the theater back in 1996? I guess that has always been one reason that I've avoided watching this film in the past year and a half that I have been reviewing every film that I see. The best thing to do, as I did with my other two favorites in my personal cinematic trinity, is describe why this movie is, in my opinion, incredible.'Fargo' is, like many Coen brothers films, the story of a stupid crime gone horribly wrong. In this case, Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) is in deep debt after committing some major fraud at his father-in-law's car dealership, so he comes up with a scheme to have his wife kidnapped in order for his wealthy father-in-law to pay the ransom. Unfortunately, the men he hires (Peter Stormare and Steve Buscemi) are not only completely unstable, scary and share a half a brain among them, and what was supposed to be a simple kidnapping culminates in the murder of three innocent bystanders. Enter Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) a small-town sheriff, who also happens to be seven months pregnant, who steps in to try to solve the case.'Fargo' has so many things going for it: Phenomenal acting (McDormand won a well-deserved Oscar for her role) by all players, supporting and lead and a brilliant script that is part mystery, part thriller and part drama, and all layered in a thin veneer of some of the darkest comedy seen in recent years, are just two of the outstanding elements. The cinematography of 'Fargo' however is absolutely beautiful. The snow-white landscape is so stark and vast; yet suddenly you realize that you are watching a tiny figure in the distance, trudging through the snow; and it's one of the main characters. One shot in particular is so unbelievably framed, that for a good ten seconds, the viewer isn't entirely sure what they are looking at, until it becomes obvious that it is a deserted parking lot with one car parked in the middle of it. Scenes like these are literally breath-taking, and harkens back to some of the beautiful cinematography in one of their earlier films, 'Millers Crossing'. One of the funniest things I remember about this film was actually an unfavorable review my parents, who are both movie lovers themselves, gave it before I saw it for myself. It was, verbatim, 'We saw 'Fargo' and it was REALLY dark. We hated it. You will LOVE it.' And indeed I did. I walked out of the theater eight years ago on a cold, snowy night and literally thought to myself, 'THAT is how films should be made.'That really sums it all up in simple, non-flashy terms. And because of my very true adoration for their work, I have described how choosing my favorite Coen Brothers film is like a mother choosing her favorite child. It takes a film that is a step above 'phenomenal' in order for it to shine above all of the other fantastic films they have made. In my opinion, 'Fargo' is and always will be that caliber of film for me. Every other film of theirs have varying degrees of 'great-ness', because I truly love and admire all of their work, but because of its standout performances, intelligent and compelling script, and it's beautiful presentation, 'Fargo' is a four star film, and will always remain on my personal 'favorites' list.--Shelly


                
Fargo is a modern classic film that I implore many film fans to see.Fargo is one of the best written stories ever to be put on film. The story maintains a certain style throughout and this style is effective. The dialogue is plain, mundane, real, but maintains a certain ridiculousness. Of course, this is a trait that the Coen Brothers are known for. But in Fargo, it is shown in full form. The contrast between the characters accents, mannerisms, sensibilities, and their current situations is hilarious. This is how one does dark comedy. Take a story that still works if put in Los Angeles or New York and place it somewhere a bit outlandish yet relatable.Most of the other technical aspects are solid. Most aren't too impressive, but are obviously a step above most films. The score is great as well, keeps the audience tense and is fitting to the story. Of course one can't talk about this film without mentioning the acting. Everyone plays the part well, even down to Scotty Lundegaard. Especially Frances McDormand, who had an absolutely phenomenal performance. She's strong, funny, and brings a lot of life to the film. But like I've stated before, the writing and style is what makes this movie classic. It will forever be one of my personal favorite films, and hopefully it will for you too.


                
