Okay, so I've heard of the litany of accolades this movie has received. I've heard how this film is a "black comedy" by the Coen Brothers, who supposedly are geniuses in the film industry.  And I've listened to friends discuss how creative and wonderful the film is.  But none of this, I repeat, NONE OF THIS, is apparent in this movie.  What I watched was a film confused at whether to be serious or comedic.  And in making up its mind, both elements are fused together in a twisted fashion with an out-of-place Canadian humor.  Basically the story is about a car salesman who needs cash...fast, so he pays a couple of guys to kidnap his wife so that her rich father will pay the ransom, thereby getting him the cash he needs.  Well, all goes to hell as the kidnappers end up on a killing spree with a cop questioning all possible leads, including the car salesman himself.If in fact this film was based on a true story (as indicated at the beginning), I would be horrified if I were close to one of the victims.  The Coen brothers make a strange mockery out of the deaths of the victims portrayed and deter the audience from taking the film seriously, instead giving them a quasi-mental hypothermia with the serious/humorous dichotomy. And even if this film is not based on a true story, it is so poorly directed that I just felt like I had wasted my time going around in circles.  But yet I'll walk out my front door and everyone will still be applauding this satirical trash.  Sigh.  What did I miss here?!


                
"Heh heh, they talk funny."That's the only real reason I could even IMAGINE anybody thinking this movie is funny.  This movie is really not that interesting.  The one critical thing that I noticed about this movie is that you don't care about the characters.  The apathy is AMAZING.  I really could not care less if a friggin' nuclear missile hit Fargo and all the characters died.  Normally, for a movie to be good and have suspense, you need to feel for the characters (ie Memento, American Beauty, Pulp Fiction), but I just didn't feel that in this movie.


                
"Fargo:" has to be one of the most overrated films in history. Academy Award nominations and wins? Breathless praise for Frances McDormand? Talk of it as a classic? One of the best 100 movies of all time?Give me a break! I'm sorry, but the plot was as flat as the landscape, the violence was off-putting and there wasn't enough humor to make this movie a black comedy. I don't have anything against the Coen brothers; "Raising Arizona" was great. But this effort failed miserably, in my opinion.Why was McDormand honored so highly? All she did was walk around a little, drink coffee and talk in an exaggerated Midwest accent. Macy, I'll admit, was good. But overall, the film was a miserable waste of time. I guess I'll never understand some people's idea of "classic."


                
When I first saw this movie, it had been advertised as a "black comedy." As a result, numerous people in the audience giggled and laughed at various scenes, some of which, were not intended to be funny at all. I enjoyed the film alright, largely due to the wonderful performances of Steve Buscemi and Kenneth Macy. I have to admit, that I did snicker at some scenes. HOWEVER, after recently viewing this film, I have done a complete 180. This is an ugly film and very mean spirited. Oh yeah, I know that the Coens issue a disclaimer about how they were not changing the story, out of respect to the dead, BULL! Excuse me if I am wrong, but the real events having to do with this case involved numerous people being killed? So, why so much emphasis on making fun of the way people in Minnesota talk? In the story, a boy is told his mother has been kidnapped by unknown assailants. So why does the scene close with a close up shot of the "Accordion King" poster, which is completely ridiculous? Did the Coens actually see that poster in the boy's house? Or did they just want to keep cracking little jokes? While the police chief is supposed to be investigating the killings, she goes off to have this lunch with a comedic Asian character. Funny scene? You bet. But you know what, that whole scene was completely made up, did not happen. So why, are we getting more comedy thrown into this story? Did the Coens not say that the events in this movie were all true? And this is what bothers me. None of the humor in this film actually involves the specifics of this case. The humor is all added to mock a very real and tragic series of events. Hey, if you want to produce fiction, fine. But don't claim your story is non-fiction and then tack on fictitious comedic scenes. Great performances or not, this is an ugly and insensitive film.
I must say that I cannot for the life of me figure out why people think that the movies made by the Coen brothers are so great. I have seen numerous comments that another of their films is "the best movie ever," and that movie, which I will not name, is even worse than this incredibly mediocre movie! I think that the Coen brothers put out in-your-face, insipid garbage. I have no problems with silly movies, in fact I like to suspend my disbelief for any movie that is done in any kind of clever way, but their movies really demonstrate how movies can fail to challenge the viewer even to suspend disbelief! Well, my disbelief is the praise their movies get."Fargo" is about a kidnapping scheme that is badly bungled from beginning to end, but the real bungling is again the total artlessness of the way the story is put together and acted out. And as I wrote above, the biggest "entertainment" are scenes of murder and violence that are totally in-your-face. The day is saved by a pregnant police officer, who is so sweet and kind, we just know that she will get her man. Yet neither her portrayal nor any of the other portrayals of people from the Great Lake states are very effective. It's not that they aren't accurate, because they are, and this adds to the boredom of the movie - they almost never express emotion, they never get out of their ordinariness, neither when people are brutally murdered nor when one of the officer's former male friends has personal problems. No, life goes on for these people regardless, and what is entertaining about that banal sameness? Finally, the portrayals in the movie are just too cute, at least for me.What makes a lot of movies work is that their characters have transformations, they learn something from their experiences, they go from bad to good or vice-versa, or undergo some kind of change. And that is yet another reason why this movie fails in my opinion, after all the murders and other actions, no one learns anything at all! The man who arranged the kidnapping learns nothing, the murderers learn nothing, and life just goes on as it was!


                
Attempts at humour alternating with gratuitous, nauseating violence -- that pretty much defines the self-indulgent style of the Coen Brothers, the wannabe Leopold and Loeb of their generation. It's a wonder they're not more popular.


                
Oh boy, utter weirdness and strange accents!  What a wonderful movie what will make, eh?  But wait, I've sat through it all and been amazed for not one bit of it interested me!  You have zany characters, but no real characterization, evil crimes with oafish silly villains, and a plot which is just about nothing.  Oh, and some gruesomeness with a wood chipper.The only thing that saves this from getting a straight one is that I feel those behind it were trying to be original.  Sadly, that doesn't mean they did a good job.


                
The DVD box and the IMDb refer to this movie as a thriller. During the meeting with Macy's character and the two thugs, it was apparent that all three characters were so sleazy and dumb that the plot was bound to fail. Watching it unfold was not exactly a riveting experience.I also heard this often referred to as a comedy. Well, some of the characters had those funny Swedish-derived Minnesota accents. Nothing in the writing, however, provided for genuine laughs (at least not to me). Compare this to other black comedies such as One Flew Over the Cuckoos's Nest or Dr. Strangelove, in which there are many funny lines and episodes amid the backdrop of dire and/or disturbing circumstances. This movie will not stand the test of time as those have. For that matter, it won't even stand up favorably compared to other (far superior) Coen Brothers efforts.
"Fargo" is probably the most overrated movie made this half-century. The plot and dialogue are weak, the accents are phony, and the characters, including the kidnapping victim, are unsympathetic. The Mike Yamagita subplot has no connection whatever with the main storyline.  If this film represents our society's sense of humor or our understanding of realism, we are in deep trouble.


                
"Fargo" was not 1996's best film, it was one of the worst (not as bad as "Independence Day" though). One of the film's problems, I think, is that the quality of of the characters is very poor. "A Simple Plan" has been called another "Fargo" but there is no comparison. In the excellent "A Simple Plan" the characters think about consequences and what they think about how to handle things. There is none of this in "Fargo". The characters just do things without thought. The kidnappers seemed to be having more sex than doing their "job".


                
The movie had a great concept and it was actually written very well, but... I don't know if it was good acting or bad acting, but every character in this movie sickened me. Their behaviorisms, their speech, their rationale just drove me insane. Mr. Lundegard (William H. Macy) was a train wreck, the criminals he was dealing with were inept, his father-in-law was a boorish old bastard, his wife was just annoying, and the sheriff was a pregnant Columbo.It's ideal to do a movie about a crime that goes horribly wrong due to lousy criminals, but make it a comedy or something. This was supposed to be the real deal crime drama type, but these people were so pathetic that I couldn't bear to watch them. And besides that, what possesses a sheepish, meek man like Lundegard to try to pull off such an extravagant crime like have his wife kidnapped? Though I couldn't stand it, somehow I stomached the movie. I forced myself to watch it like a child forcing down lima beans just so I could be fair in my critique. But what was worse than anything... what topped it all off... what was just the splinter under the fingernail, the nails on the chalk board, the reason for shoving screwdrivers in both ears...THEIR ACCENTS!!! AAAAAH. I ABSOLUTELY HATED, ABHORED, DREADED, & LOATHED THEIR ACCENTS. Especially the wife. How can anyone who talks like that be taken seriously??? If I talked like that I would choose to be a mute, or I would rip out my vocal chords so that no one would have to be tortured by my voice.
For some reason people seem to think this movie is a comedy.  It is a feel bad tragedy with a mean ending.  The whole movie is like going to a funeral. Like the pregnant cop lady says at the end about the senslessness of it all, "I just don't understand", how anyone could call this a comedy.


                
I bought this movie in a boxed set of Cohen Brothers movies and because I liked their early approach and style of filmmaking I scooped it right up. Blood Simple (1984) being my favorite. So I finally get around to watching Fargo. Maybe my expectations were high. Hey, the film won two Oscars. I mean, it just had to be good, right? Really good.... Nope. The dominant feeling I got was boredom. I kept expecting it to get better. Patiently waiting. All the way up to the final scene. And it just never happened. Sad really. I'm trying hard to think of a memorable scene or quote. (For example: Do you remember how quotable "Tombstone" or "The Godfather Part II" was?) Or, maybe a scene where I was lost in the terrific acting. Or that place where the story reached its climax and was gripping and unforgettable. Never happened.The plot was flat and disjointed. The acting was at its best mediocre. The really sophomoric attempts at what I think was supposed to be viewed as humor made the movie only more puzzling. Is it a.... comedy?! Not by a long, long shot. If the genre is " Meandering Blandness" then it was a home run. OK, OK. I get it that there are some things I just don't get. Andy Kaufman comes to mind. Everyone raved at his genius, right? I drew a blank. And, to be fair, some movies are much better in the theater. Way better. Also the context in which a movie was released. Got it. But I still don't get Fargo. Two Oscars?! (Wow)Watch it. Please. I'm really not trying to poison the well here. At least you will have formed your own opinion. If someone asks you "What did you think of Fargo?" you should have an answer. So far no one has asked me.


                
I used to have a high opinion of critically acclaimed Oscar- nominated movies...key words USED TO!...A long time ago in a movie-watching galaxy far, far away. Of course this back when I was too young to know any better. Much as I despise most acclaimed films that come out now and think that better ones came out when I was growing up, I can still pick out overrated tripe from the "good old days" and FARGO (1996) is definitely overrated tripe! FARGO is actually a film that I like to reference when a movie like THE DARK KNIGHT (another overrated piece of trash) comes out because FARGO is one of the first examples of a film where I realized that EVERYONE that praised it so highly back in the day could NOT for the life of them truly justify WHY it was so great! With THE DARK KNIGHT, at the very least fans of that flick can point to the one good thing about it and that is Heath Ledger's performance (but nothing else).Pretty much every review I recall hearing about FARGO used sweeping generalizations to describe it and simply seem to use the excuse that just because of the fact that it was novel for the lead character in a big (directed by Coen Bros.) crime drama film was (A) female and (B) pregnant, and (C) a cop, that automatically makes it groundbreaking and a modern masterpiece.But the simple fact is...there is nothing to Frances McDormand's character, nor William H. Macy's, for that matter. How in the heck McDormand won the Oscar for making barf jokes, sounding stupid, and literally doing nothing for her short screen time (Macy had more than her, seemed like the real central character, and somehow he got tagged for a SUPPORTING nom to her LEADING nom and win) is beyond me. Macy is a tad better, but in the end came across just as emotionless and empty. And the Midwestern accents? EVERY character sounded the same! Every character is treated and acted like a caricature of real people (based on a true story), but none of them (well, save perhaps one in the end) left any kind of impression with me. The Coen's 3 previous big films BLOOD SIMPLE, RAISING ARIZONA, and MILLER'S CROSSING (their true best film) all had their character quirks and strangeness, but the characters in those films all had real personality, depth, and at the end of all 3 of those films, I actually drew something important from them.The ONE authentic scene in FARGO is actually the opening one when Macy meets with prospective kidnappers Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare to map out the plan to kidnap his wife so he could use the ransom money to solve his financial problems, but from there on, it's all downhill! Then after that, it's just a bunch of quirky, go-nowhere, slow- moving vignettes, some of which have nothing to do with the story, and even the ones that supposedly do are dominated by the annoyances of the characters (overdone) Midwestern accents and just making boring idle conversation, with the actual plot points coming across as distractions...Yeah, we get it, Coens...solving crimes in real life is boring...you proved it!
It seems like the Coen brothers have some uncle up in the Oscar "distributing" jury who always comes up to them and says "Listen, we have a couple of Oscars lying around to give up in next week's ceremony so why don't the two of you make a movie & we'll give them to you"Come to think of it Al Pacino didn't get an Oscar for his role in The Godfather, Morgan Freeman didn't get it for Shawshank Redemption, Robert De Niro for Taxi Driver, Jack Nicholson for A Few Good Men & Frances McDormand got on Oscar for this movie for saying "Yah" a zillion times(in a very irritating & intolerable way). I honestly don't get what all the hype is about.Coming back to the topic, this movie very much like Coen Brother's other "masterpieces"** Burn After Reading & No Country For Old Men, is pointless, boring and extremely overrated. It is an average movie with a week story line, irritating acting with an annoying & excessive use of the word "Yah".** I would like to make an appeal to other reviewers to stop calling every other movie a "masterpiece".If you are about to watch this movie i would seriously suggest that you do yourself a big favor & for a change not go with what the majority views say & watch something else. And if you have already watched the movie well then "Yah" welcome to the club...Peace !!!


                
Worst acting I've ever seen, first of all that foolish accent something similar to Deutsch JA JA... crazy stuff, poor charisma of the actors... I really disappointed Frances McDormand's acting performance very weak... Although Peter Stormare did his job very fine, i don't know why the rating of this movie is so high, i've seen tons of movies better than this one, it's something from the category "For TV" Poor scenario, poor acting, cheap budget, some stupid accent which made me mad... Some kidnapping story with poor performance and cheap budget... This movie doesn't deserve to be in IMDb top movies 250, i'm very sorry for you people, that you are voting really bad...


                
I suggest you should just check out the comments-board of the over-rated movies in IMDb's top 250 movies. Almost all the people who give a top ten vote for such over-rated movies are viewers from America and Canada(mostly). Here's another over-rated movie. When I read the disclaimer in the beginning of the movie "a true story" that "took place in Minnesota in 1987," I thought it would be a real good movie about life itself. And the gad served its purpose yes the disclaimer really set my mood up for the movie. But the more I saw what was inside this real story the better I got the picture "this is just a gag this is not a real story". It could have been a real story but still it would be an American type of thing actually.A car salesman with financial troubles who hires two men to kidnap his wife and try to obtain money, a psychologically unbalanced man who lies that he lost of his wife(leukiema9 then tries to reconnect himself with his high-school crush, a robotic killer who slashes his victims in a dead-pan face" I am not saying it can't be real I am not saying the story is too bad either but it is just an American type of thing and it would be superficial to give a top ten vote for the movie. Plus I couldn2t see a bit of great performance by Frances McDormand, who got the Academy Award for Best Actress. Even if it is a good performance not an Oscar-rated one.Oscars really suck then!


                
I don't care for this movie only because it makes a grossly false claim. As a film it has very good qualities, but the introduction states that this movie depicts a true story, which is an outright lie perpetrated by the Coen brothers to mislead the public and boost ticket sales. The false statement should be removed, and the Academy should not have allowed this film into competition until it is removed. The film also depicts the people of Minnesota and North Dakota in a derogatory stereotype, which is also false. For decades conservatives and right wingers have denounced the movie industry as immoral, which I've always found to be totally untrue. But when idiots like this start lying and presenting false or inaccurate information as fact, it starts to makes me wonder. TELL THE TRUTH for crap sake!


                
says the main character of the film. Well, the same for me.Is this a comedy, a black comedy? People being shot, grounded, murdered? Is it funny? Do people laugh at thing like those?I always thought a comedy was about light entertainment, smiles and an occasional laughter. But, in Fargo from the very beginning till the very end there is no funny moments or situations... It is ugly, Fargo is a dark story with no happy ending.It is extremely overrated. If you fall for the mindless hype, and follow those raving movie critics Fargo is the movie for you. If you are a sensible person may be you should watch and try and understand what is happening to the world.


                
Reading the reviews you would think this was a good film. I may be the only person in the whole world that thinks its not judging by the ratings. Its boring, labored and just not that humorous.How on earth it gets an 8 I don't know. I watched this and literally thought I have wasted the last couple hours of my life.


                
There is absolutely no reason for this film to be noteworthy in any way.Some movies aren't good, but at least they are bad. This one doesn't even have the courtesy to be even bad.The story is mundane and replaceable. The scenery is as boring as a literal blank piece of paper. There is nothing that can even be said about the acting. No character one could connect to. Barely anything happens.And I'm no action junkie. I prefer calmer but smarter films. This one is just calm. But with nothing going on behind it. Which misses the whole point. Like a piece of music that as so obsessed with the silent parts, that too little notes are left for the silence to stand out and mean anything anymore.I can only attribute its high score to a severe case of film snobbery.So if you are the type who lives in a very very rural area, yet believe there is such a thing as a wine/cigar/<U+0085> "expert" and that you are one<U+0085> If you "like" caviar. Or engage in other kinds of silly snobbery<U+0085> then this one's for you.You can act like you like it to elevate your ego all day, and for no reason everyone will believe you. Congratulations.


                
