You probably are not reading this--as my review will be one of 160,000 on IMDb for this film. And, because of that, my unusually negative review will remain unnoticed. I understand and I usually do NOT review movies that have many reviews because of this. However, this is another example of an Academy Award Winning (and nominated) film in recent years that disappointed me so much. Other such films would be The Last Emperor and The English Patient (yuck!).So why did I dislike Fargo so much?! Well, first it is a one-note movie. Yup, all the actors do nice Dakota accents. That's cute,...for about 5 minutes--then it gets a little thin to base a movie on this! Plus, I found the movie way too conventional (despite the hype). I really preferred the much stranger and funnier Hudsucker Proxy from these same producer/director team.You know the movie isn't THAT great when one of the funniest(?) scenes involves Steve Buscemi being thrown into a chipper shredder.
I rented this movie because it was highly rated on the imdb.  I think somebody stuffed the ballot box on this one. Several parts of the movie seem dumb and unneeded, like a scene with the police officer meeting an old friend who wants to start a romance.All the people seem to have similar personalities and the dialog is annoying -- everyone is always ending sentences with "ya, ya". (slang for "yes, yes")Plot drags on... I decided to watch the whole thing to see how it resolved but it didn't have much of a resolution. If you don't like the movie after the first 10 minutes you might as well stop watching it.  Movie drags on, has little plot, all the characters are the same. In the end, a lot of people you don't care about get killed for little reason.Boring, dumb movie. I gave it 3 stars out of 10. Waste of time.


                
I don't understand what's so special or unique about this film?! Is it because people believe it's based on real life events (which in actuality it's not. (see trivia section)), or is it because people in small-town America relate to it? I didn't come across any amazing prize winning performances by any of the characters. The plot is basic, the outcome when things start getting out of hand where the criminals make one mistake which leads to another is inevitable, the sheriff's work isn't amazing!, there were no shocking twists - all in all, a very simple film - I'm at pains to identify why people have rated it so highly.In summation, I didn't hate the film, or dislike it that badly, it's an OK film - but it's nothing special. I'd give it a 3-4/10. Don't come in expecting something amazing - as I did - else you'll set yourself up for a disappointment. It's very mediocre - but watchable - if a bit mundane. And what was going on with that old school friend of hers? Why did they write that in!?!


                
I've always known that the Oscars suck, but the fan popularity of this movie absolutely staggers me. I'm beginning to wonder if half of the movie goers base their opinions of a movie strictly on the Oscars and the thousands of burnt out, dull critics out there. Fargo is an 8.1 with over 12000 votes on the IMDb for crying out loud! This is without a doubt the most over-rated movie I have ever seen, with zombie-like acting(on purpose? why?? is this a satire??), and terrible writing. It's one of those movies that I laughed at, not with, and I have no idea if it was a comedy on purpose or by accident. If I lived in Fargo I'd be plenty p***ed off because this film makes the people there look like cardboard figures pretending to be goofy moroninc humans. The Brothers Coen geniuses? I think not. And if anyone is thinking "he just didn't get it", well, if true, at least that's one good thing about Fargo, because whether it was supposed to be serious, or supposed to have some deep comical meaning, I don't WANT to get it!Jeremy Barger


                
I'll get this out of the way first by saying I usually like/love Coen brothers movies but I can't for the life of me figure out the appeal of this one. They've had a couple misfires with me before, Miller's Crossing and Oh Brother Where Art Thou, but at least those films had hints of humanity. This gore fest drips with condescension at the locals they purport to embrace, turning them into hockey loving pancake eating you betcha caricatures while supposedly telling a true story -though that's debatable- of a botched kidnapping in wintry Minnesota/North Dakota. A great cast is wasted, reduced to running around barfing, bleeding, screwing, shooting, hacking and wood chipping bodies for what? Cheap laughs? You betcha!


                
maybe people enjoy this movie because they have never seen a crime or dark comedy film but this movie does justice to neither genre.  it pales in comparison to the other two coen brothers films ive seen, the big lebowski and o brother where art thou.  At first you think it is a drama, then a comedy but whatever it is it isnt a very good one of either.  i guess what im trying to say is that this movie is nothing special, something that i or one of my friends could write and i am completely baffled as to why it was so critically acclaimed.  the only thing i can guess is that everyone jumped on the bandwagon with this one..  frances mcdormand is good and the jokes about minnesotans are funny at first but they wear out fast.  i would pass on this one if i were youalso, after surfing rottentomatoes i noticed that many of the same critics who panned fight club for having gratuitous violence raved the hell out of this one which in my opinion has lots of unnecessary scenes with sex and violence.  go figure...


                
I have to say I watched the Coens' Raising Arizona and enjoyed it.  When Fargo came out and it was on almost every critics' ten best list, I knew that I had to watch it.  I have to say I was disappointed and the movie did not live up to the hype.  I think that Fargo is one of the most overrated films of all time.  Call me crazy, but just what was so great about this movie?


                
Fargo is a movie with little merit as drama and little other reason to watch it save one - raw random violence. If that turns you on, and it must have turned on a lot of people to get the rating it did from so many people, then its for you. Otherwise don't waste your time. While Fargo is the true story of what happens when some sick minds get together and do the wrong thing, there is nothing particularly new about this theme in true life or fiction.  And while Alfred Hichcock might have made a masterpiece of this story, Mr. Cohen, in his flat pan "cinema vérité " style makes it one hell of a bore. Jerry Lungard (William Macy) plays an emotionless jerk that is in trouble and dreams up a dumb plot to try to get himself out of it. He convinces me that the real life Jerry Lungard was as boring an idiot as the movie character. He plays the part so well he is absolutely dull. (But then - it is vérité !). Pregnant police chief investigator Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) plays a like character but with more style. Flat pan and in a plain Minnesota folk type Luddite brogue (`ja - dats the way is' - except sometimes I think I hear a Brooklyn / Illinois accent sneak tru), she stumbles around and finally comes upon the murderer(s). I use the tenuous plural since one of them (I can tell you this 'cause its right on the video jacket) - is mainly (very red) mulch because he's mostly been fed through a wood chopper! 
This is a stupid movie about a stupid caper in which there are no redeeming qualities (in the movie, that is).Siskel - Ebert - what in the world did were those guys thinking giving it two thumbs up? So go for it if you love watching cold people commit a lot of cold blooded murder. (Was this movie made for TV?) Ugh. As Garrison Keillor might say, "and that's the news from the lake this week." Now if Garrison had written this movie it might be interesting (Cinema vérité noir á la Keillor).


                
My lack of enjoyment for this much-beloved murder-comedy story may have something to do with the complete disconnect I get reading positive reviews posted here. They talk about its great humor, its strong sense of place, and the tough way it deals with bad things people really do.I watch this movie and just feel miserable. Not so much with the story on screen, but with "Fargo's" enormous popularity.Minnesota car salesman Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) needs a lot of money. He decides on a plan to have his wife kidnapped so that her wealthy father will pay a million-dollar ransom. He offers the kidnappers, a pair of lowlife goons, $40,000 by pretending its half of a much lower ransom demand. All this comes apart when one of the goons gets trigger-happy on their way back from the wife-snatching, and Chief Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) gets the call.People liken the humor in "Fargo" to that of "Goodfellas", except in "Goodfellas" the people getting hurt and killed are guys who chose their "kill-or-be-killed" line of work. Here, the kidnapping and later deaths are treated as a kind of goof, to be larked over by Marge and the other cops. Tragedy becomes a kind of cynical shorthand for audience merriment. For example, the kidnapped mother's poor son is only glimpsed teary-eyed in one scene after the crime so the directors can make the point of his lame musical interests - Whitesnake and accordions.The comedies of Joel and Ethan Coen often deal in broad caricature with a regional slant. "Raising Arizona" used the Southwest United States, "O Brother Where Art Thou" the Deep South; both to great effect. Yet here the depictions of the Northwestern people (Minnesota, not North Dakota, is the central setting; Dakotans may be grateful the Coens are not from there) border on the bovine. Big cow-faced people chew disgusting amounts of starches and red meat while talking in monosyllables about the weather and little else. "Yah", "Yah betcha", "Doncha know" and so on permeate their dialogue until the point of their basic moronity is hammered home.One wonders if this is what makes the film comedic to so many: How could you care about people like this being murdered? They're barely alive now! I actually have less of a problem watching the murders - which to be fair to the Coens are not shot in an exploitative manner - than some of the casual dialogue scenes. The Coens as writers seem to enjoy creating one miserably painful conversation after another, using Larry David-style morbid embarrassment as its ultimate purpose, such as Marge's pointless meeting with an old high-school flame or Lundegaard getting the shaft from his too-nasty-to-be-true father-in-law."This could work out real well for me and Jean and Scottie", Lundegaard tells the old man at one point, trying to sell him on a loan."Jean and Scottie never have to worry," the father-in-law growls.To say this film is morally repulsive and insulting to Minnesotans is not to deny its funny or interesting in places, once you make an effort to accept where its coming from. Watching the lowlife crooks (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare) argue about pancakes is kind of fun, and certain scenes work in a low-key way. The camera-work by Roger Deakins captures the grimness early American settlers talked so despondently about, where horizon lines are lost between whited-out land and sky.But this 98-minute film with seven murders feels more to me like the Donner Party running on real time. I know people enjoy this film, but man I don't know if I'd feel worse knowing why.


                
I'm from Fargo, & have lived in Minneapolis. I don't talk like that, most Minneapolitans don't talk like that, either. The Coen brothers seem to think that the majority of folks from North Dakota, South Dakota, & Minnesota come from Lake Wobegon. At first, I did think the whole accent thing was overdone, but that's not what irritated me the most. I thought that this film was going to be MUCH better than what it was. Normally, I like their movies (Big Lebowski, Raising Arizona, Miller's Crossing, The Man Who Wasn't There). This one left me flat &, well, irritated. Frances McDormand did not deserve an Oscar for her performance. The writing was bland & the characters wooden. The Coens have done much, much better.


                
I can't recall having seen a much worse movie than this one. Thank god for the Coen brothers they were able to get a great actress like Frances McDormand to play in it or this would've been, in my opinion, a disgrace to Hollywood and the movie industry.  The story is ridiculous and doesn't lead to anything besides an extremely gory ending.


                
Who writes these reviews and rates this movie so high? Its not for me - i was expecting something a lot different from this film. It was slow paced, hard to relate to and seemed like it was set in a parallel world that was 40 years prior.The film context has been used before. The acting was possibly perfect for a slow town American film (not ever venturing to one, i couldn't be accurate on that one!)I found the characters slow, unreal and boring. I do wish I'd stayed clear and not listened to the 8.3 votes! (COME ON PEOPLE!) Above all, if you want a film that is set in a slow paced environment and with characters that you will struggle to relate to on an old genre, watch this but rate it correctly!


                
Why is America's Funniest Videos so popular? It is people more clumsy than ourselves. People falling and things breaking. Makes us feel great about our own life. So we like it.Which brings us to Fargo. A movie about goof offs. There isn't a bright bulb in the package. Doesn't that make us all so special then.No. It makes Fargo a "good" movie, when it really isn't. We are told it is good, it gets a 4 star rating according to the cable guide, so we all do as we are told and go along with it.In reality it is a tale of pathetic souls. It is rarely funny, dramatic or insightful. We never end up caring for any of the characters, and none of them go through an ark of progression.It is, in short, pointless.There are a number of Coen movies I like, but this certainly is not one of them.To each their own and mine is elsewhere.


                
The premise of this screenplay begins with a lie to the audience; at the beginning of the film, a somber title comes on saying that "due to respect for the survivors, names have been changed in this film". This implies that the events of the film are true, and that the writers are showing respect. Neither of these two things are true. The Cohen Brothers, after winning the Oscar for Best Writers (not before), eventually came out and admitted the story was entirely fictional. So much praise had been heaped on them, that no-one seemed to care at that point. It would be great of newspapers worked the same way. Bush would never have been criticized when no WMD's were found. Why does this matter, and who cares at this point? When I first saw this movie, I was disturbed by the way the kidnap victim, the mother, was portrayed: as comic relief. Her running from her kidnappers was comical, the way she was shown running around in the snow with a bag over her head was comical, and even her death (her skewed legs upside down) was shown as comical. The son, however, who was terrified for his mother, was not shown comically. So here we have a screenplay where the writers showed a terrified victim as comedy, and the son's terror for his mother dismissed. If this screenplay had been based on true events, to say this was disrespectful both to the mother and the son is an understatement. Imagine being the son who survived your mother's kidnapping and murder, and seeing her portrayed in this way.But that's OK, because we find out later the whole thing was fictional. Except for the fact that I wasn't the only one upset by the way the victims were presented; other people, in particular victims rights groups, were too. Then we find out that we had been jerked around, that it was all a fiction.Does that make it any more acceptable? Imagine your favorite movie that moved you because it was based on true events; then you find out years later it was all done so you would buy a ticket, and you had been deceived. This is what the Cohen Brothers did to their audience. Good writers? Sure. Ethical people? You decide.But respectful of their audience and to murdered people?Apparently, not very.


                
God, I hated this film. It was dull, dull, dull! It should be #73 in the BOTTOM 100, not the Top 250. The fact that this won Best Screenplay at the 1996 Academy Awards makes me want to vomit! I know elementary school kids who could write a better plot. And let me tell you something. My parents hated the film. My aunts and uncles hated the film. My friends hated the film. So how the heck does this receive such a high rating?


                
I don't see what the big attraction is...  I found Fargo to be boring, gruesome and tedious.  The film making as an art for was pretty good.  I felt "cold" the whole movie from the sweeping tundra scenery, but I never once felt entertained.


                
I put off seeing this one because my dad went to Fargo High and I knew it would be weird to see this movie. Then i decided it was time--gee, what a good rep the movie has had to this day. However, my early doubts were sound. Hokey accents and "character bits"---beginning with the waggy headed blonde cashier. So, that dates this movie. Cuz now we know that the Upper Midwest is populated with regular people, who are not painfully cute in their snowsuits. In fact, audiences moved to penguins, who don't even have to wear snowsuits. As time has gone by we have also grasped the range of William (Pleasantville) Macy. He's gone on to better things. But the caricatures and gruesome psychosis juxtaposed with inept human greed and self-centered myopia---ah! it is a diversion. And it is very agreeable to watch Frances McDormand work. The Coens seem to have gone in, done their job and pulled out. A directorial road movie in which the repetitive snowy road goes through mood changes--same road, but the story has altered its meaning. At the end, it's comfortingly familiar. I feel the skeleton of a better movie here. Like Peter Jackson's animated bugs in "King Kong", the smiling heads of quickly daubed "local color" wouldn't be missed. There's good stuff, and it's just off the road a bit, that beautiful straight, snowy road.


                
Not worth watching. Too much violence to be a comedy (unless you are a masochist). Maybe some of the humour was over our antipodean heads, but what was with the the heavily overplayed "Yaah" for yes? Is it some kind of in joke about a local US dialect?The best thing in the movie were two of the actors, the switched on female police chief and the poker faced American Indian mechanic.The movie plays on the old theme of some loser who fails at everything, but it is too nasty to be funny, too slow to be an action movie and too depressing to be entertaining.Spend your time and money elsewhere!


                
OK, I admit it. I like action movies. I like it when things blow up, but of course nobody is getting hurt -- they're all highly paid actors.But this story is true, and it's gruesome and violent. I can't enjoy that, and the attempt to throw in a little dark comedy doesn't make it fun. As a documentary, well, why should I want to learn the details of a sordid little multiple murder in the midwest? Unlike the topic of Schindler's List (the Holocaust), the true story itself has no overall importance or meaning. It's just sad and painful to watch.Who should see this film: -- people who like true TV such as COPS or Survivor -- people who love to hate serial killers so much that they watch everything they can about them. -- people who live near the Twin Cities or near Fargo, North DakotaCan't fault the directing, acting, nice execution overall... wrong topic though, I'll give it a 3 out of 10.


                
I surfed this database and found 'Fargo' rated better than 'The Big Lebowski'. Since The Big Lebowski is my all time favorite I thought "Hell! This movie has to kick ass!!".Well, I watched the movie and waited for about 98 minutes for some genius tricks that make the plot interesting. Without luck. My girlfriend even fell asleep several times.I don't think this is a bad movie though. It is always nice to see Steve Buscemi performing and nearly all dialogues have some deep strange sarkasm in them but such a superb rating as in this database isn't based on facts I can agree to.--> 3 / 10


                
This movie......word's do not describe. The only good thing I have to say about it is, "it keeps me entertained every time I watch it because it's so bad."I think the only reason people like it, is because it makes them all look like brain surgeons. I live in Fargo,I have lived here the majority of my life, and I hate how stupid it makes us all look. The Killings are pointless, sure he does it to get rid of witnesses. But the plot is horrible. Horrendus. A treasure hunt in the middle of North Dakota/Minnesota? In the winter, yeah, good luck with that. They're surprised when they find nothing. Oh and a kidnapping of your wife to gain money, of course it's going to backfire.This lovely piece of work ends with the infamous "wood chipper scene"I give this 3*out of 10* Watch this if you're bored, and looking for another excuse to make fun of North Dakotans
I just watched this movie for the first time... someone recommended it. I am very disappointed. I caught the word "Yeah/ yah" the first 5 minutes of the movie.... As every other word they said was "yeah/ Yah" in the weirdest accent. When I noticed it.. I couldn't stop hearing it!!!! They must've said the word "Yeh/ Yah" every 45 seconds. If someone is bored... I can't be bothered.. please count the number of times you hear the word "yeah/ yah". It ruined the movie for me. every time I tried to pay attention all I could hear was "Yeah/ yah" Not a 8.2!!!! More like a 2.8 Post back if you count.. I will say at least 2,000 times. WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
As a huge Big Lebowski fan, I searched all and everyone involved with the movie in order to find more insight-full movies and ideas. When the subject of my search was Joel Coen, I quickly went to see "Burn Before Reading", great cast but very disappointing in the end. Some time after, I decided to give another chance to the writer, then I found Fargo. A very well rated movie, quoted on many other productions, soon I was dying to watch it. When I finally did, I struggled to keep myself awake just to be sure I wasn't being unfair. The narrative is slow and boring, the story is just dull. Not even the good actors could save this piece from total disaster. In conclusion, Joel try the same formula every time, he stroke big time on Lebowski but felt not even close on every other try, Fargo being the worst one.


                
I've heard some good stuff about this film recently so I decided to watch it and see what is was about. Unfortunately I just don't get why this movie is so praised.my main problem with this film is how long it takes to figure out the plot. The movie starts off well but falls apart because the majority of the film is spent saying "what the hell is going on" and not in a good suspense movie way but in a way that drags questions out for the hell of it. Not only that but in between all the dragging out it introduces scenes that have absolutely no relevance to the movie what so ever.Another complaint is everybody's accent. I know its mean but i really hate everybody's accent to the point that I really just wanted to turn the movie off. And why the hell is everybody so happy in this movie? It deals with murder and conspiracies but everyone has a damn smile on there face, even the people getting crapped on the entire film. Even the ending isn't satisfying.After all this though I cannot give the movie a perfectly bad score because Peter Stormare's performance, while subtle, is amazing as well as the concept of the film being original.
This is black comedy done wrong. Very wrong. I don't know what part of it is supposed to be funny. Is chopping up a body and grinding it in wood chipper supposed to be funny or gross? Is hiring murderers to kidnap your wife for money supposed to be funny? Or blowing a hole in the head of police funny? Conversations are one dimensional and uninteresting nor funny. I guess just cursing is funny?This is Pulp Fiction wannabe that failed miserably in difficult genre of black comedy.


                
