Okay, I know I have just made more enemies than I can count.  But, I ask, what is so funny about Fargo?  Really, I never laughed through the whole movie, ever.  I have a really twisted sense of humor, but anything can make me laugh.  I loved O' Brother Where Art Thou.  I loved Happy Gilmore.  I loved Clerks.  I loved Dr. Strangelove.  I loved Blazing Saddles.  So there, I love a very diverse amount of comedies.  But I did not love Fargo.First off, the accents.  People say that these Wisconsin accents are hilarious.  Well, they're not.  I grew up in the South, okay.  I have never met a person with a Wisconsin accent in my life.  But I do see them in movies and on TV a lot.  These are just normal accents.  There is nothing satirical about them.  They aren't that funny.  Get over it.Okay, the plot.  Is it just me or is the plot to this movie mediocre and boring?  It's an average crime movie.  I know crime movies.  That's my forte, you could say.  My favorite movie genre is crime (Pulp fiction, Leon, Reservoir Dogs, The Usual Suspects, Heat, etc...).  But this movie is just an average movie.  The plot is pretty predictable too.  I could have guessed the entire movie from the word go.Now, I will give credit where credit is due.  The movie isn't all bad.  The acting is good.  The dialog is quick and edgy.  The writing is intelligent. And the direction is sharp and nice.  But there is nothing funny, groundbreaking, or remotely interesting about this movie.Okay, one last gripe.  If you haven't seen the movie, avert thy eyes, because the ending is about to be told.  Okay, you still here?  Good, I warned you.The wood chipper scene is one of the most famous scenes in the history of movies, or so it has become.  Honestly, I see nothing funny about it.  It's not that I'm against throwing people into wood chippers.  I liked Evil Dead 2.  Gore doesn't bother me.  But what is so damn funny about throwing a human corpse into a wood chipper?  It makes sense to me.  If you wanted to dispose of a body and a wood chipper is near by, well hey! IDEA!  THROW IT IN!  But is it funny?  Not really.  Is it gory? No.  Is it bad?  No.  But is it deserving of being called one of the greatest scenes ever?  HELL NO!I am really trying to understand people's love of this movie.  I wasn't the biggest fan of The Blues Brothers, but I understand why people love it. Fargo isn't funny, nor is it very interesting.  The acting is the only thing that kept me interested.  I love W.H. Macy.  All the actors and actresses are good in this movie.  But is this movie the work of genus that people make it out to be?  No, ohhhhhhhhhh God no. In conclusion: This movie is an "okay" movie.  There's nothing bad about it, but it isn't great.  I hate it when people make movies out to be better than they really are.  I found The Untouchables, The Blues Brothers, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Being John Malkovic, and Fargo to all be overrated movies.  They're not bad, they're just not great, or even that good either. (ESPECIALLY CROUCHING TIGER!)  People, please join me in the crusade to bring the truth out and bring down the overrated movies!My rating: 5/10PS:  Go ahead, send the hate mail.  I welcome it.


                
I really don't understand what everyone loves about this film. To me, it wasn't the film itself that was the problem, but the way in which it was told that was the major problem.OK, so the basic plot is Jerry Lundegaard (William H Macy) is up to his eyeballs in debt and comes up with a plan to stage the kidnapping of his wife with 2 criminals Carl Showalter (Buscemi) and Gaear Grimsrud (Peter Stormare). He arranges for them to kidnap his wife and then he intends to extort money from her wealthy father Wade Gustafson (Harve Presnell) and split the extortion money with his criminal counterparts, but things don't quite go according to plan;********************SPOILERS*****************************************For me, one of the biggest problems lay with the character of Jerry Lundegaard. One of the basic rules of film making is Character Development and this was the biggest failing of the film. We get pretty much zero character development from Jerry - we learn that he has money problems, but we never know why or how this has come about? As its based on a true story, we could probably find this out through Wikipedia or Google, but that's not the point. The Coen brothers should have explained this so that we could at the very least 'connect to the protagonist'.Then there is the ridiculous kidnapping scene; Jean Lundegaard (Kristin Rudrud) is in the living room watching TV and sees a man with a balaclava approach her house - she sees him for a good 10 seconds but just sits there and doesn't do anything and one of the kidnappers peers through clear glass and looks all across her lounge, but fails to see her stood up in the living room (is he blind??) and then he smashes the door with a baton. I suppose her not doing anything could perhaps be put down to shock. But then it gets worse.......The second kidnapper kicks the front door through (with ease) and then both men chase her up to the bathroom and the 2 men struggle to get through a standard internal wooden door (logically an internal door would be weaker than a front door) yet it took 2 of them and a crowbar to get through the bathroom door, yet one kick from 1 kidnapper sees the front door go flying to the floor....... come on!!!) Then whilst the kidnappers are 'struggling' to get through the bathroom door. I use the term 'struggling' loosely as that would not happen in the real world. Jean opens the bathroom window and hides behind the shower curtain - to make it look as though she had escaped through the bathroom window - (good idea), but just when you are about to think that an ounce of plausibility is kicking into play what happens? She jumps out from behind the shower curtain (for no reason) with the shower curtain attached to her face, falls down the stairs and gets rendered unconscious and the kidnappers take her away. WTF? Why not just stay behind the curtain and wait till they leave? With Jean's initial cunning double bluff they never would have known.Anyway, swiftly moving on to good parts of Fargo and one of the plus points for me was the pregnant police officer Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand). Her and her dopey sidekick did provide some comic relief and some tension to proceedings, but if I'm honest even Gunderson's character and her relevant investigations were a little under utilised.I think the main problem with this film is the way that the Coen brothers have told the story; no motivation for his character's behaviour (expect for money - surely there must have been more to it than that). The way the kidnapping scene was depicted was also preposterous as far as I was concerned.In summary, this had its good moments (mainly McDormand and Buscemi), but it's let down by numerous absurdities and a lack of sympathy for Jerry Lundegaard. The Coens admit themselves that 'many of the events' were based on what actually happened rather than 'all of the events' (which helps to explain the numerous absurdities in the plot - I never did feel that this entirely rang true whilst watching it). This had the potential to be great, but the lack of a decent back story for Jerry Lundegaard meant that I could never connect to his character meaning ultimately that I couldn't connect to the film. This had the potential to be great, but ultimately it was just a waste of 100 minutes.
I absolutely hated this movie. It couldn't seem to figure out whether it was trying to take itself seriously or not. It kept throwing itself curveballs and never seemed to know where to go next. Here's my problem with this movie.1. It seems to try very hard to be a dark comedy, but it simply isn't funny. I cracked a smile two or three times throughout the movie, and one of them was that part where Steve Buscemi got cut up in the wood chipper.2. The "This is Based on a True Story" thing at the beginning seemed to be trying to prepare the viewer for a hard-hitting drama, but instead we got a bunch of weirdos with goofy accents.The problem with this movie is it doesn't make me laugh, and I can't take it seriously as a drama when every single character is a white bread goof with a stupid accent (by the way, NOBODY in Minnesota talks like that). I'll give it a four, but only Frances McDormand's acting job keeps it from being a one.
I was smitten by several of the brothers' other work (Big Limbouski, Miller's Crossing,O Brother, Where Art Thou? Raising Arizona), and was primed to enjoy this much hyped film. The idea of the film is a simple joke: what if you set a grim tail of desperation in the banal setting of Minnesota. Characters would be wonderful because of their grit and pedestrian nature in extraordinary circumstances.Done well, such characterizations would do away with a need for a compelling plot. Sadly, despite fine acting, the characters aren't compelling, leaving the plot to plod on to its inevitable conclusion -boredom. Joel Coen has left me wondering why he bothered to make this film, with all the charm of a drunk-driving accident.Fargo's only saving grace is that it is ever so slightly more tolerable than Intolerable Cruelty.


                
After viewing this film, I was truly amazed that it received such critical acclaim.  Yes, the performances were exceptional.  But I can't recommend a film that tries to draw humor from horrible people engaged in horrible actions.  Just not my kind of movie, I guess.


                
i just don't get what people see in this. call me crazy but this didn't entertain me.. it was neither funny nor gripping ..William H. Macy's face looks like fresh excreta and you just wanna punch it .and deform it with a metal rod,,, so many people saying yeah YEAH YEAH OH YEAH HYE YEAH OH YEAH.. god d.. this is stupidity why am i watching. this ..having seen so many movies. i must say this is one of the most stupid and boring movie ever made. and it wants me to break my laptop.with a sledgehammer. crack heads who made this..... crap holesstupid stupid stupid worthless and not funny and waste of time . why would would you like this.. writer needs to get another job.


                
First of all, it is very difficult to insert comedy into a movie as violent as this one was. The makers of this movie tried and failed to do that. Forget bad language, this movie deserves an X rating for criminal cold blooded violence. When the man in the car coldly blasted a state trooper in the face with a 9mm semi-automatic pistol, I almost quit watching right there. Then, the man pursued, and killed two witnesses by shooting one in the head at close range, the other in the back.Kidnapping a woman, letting her fall down a flight of stairs, then laughing at her while she hopped around in the snow blinded with a hood over her head, scared for her life,crying in panic as she tried to get away, is in no way comedy. IMO, this movie served no purpose except to give criminals ideas how to be more violent.This movie should have been rated X, with no redeeming social value.


                
After the movie is over we still don't know if the wife survived or not and we still don't know what the husband spent his money on to get in so much debt. Two missing facts ruined the movie. Nothing more to say than that but no reviews are allowed under ten lines of text so the rest of this review is pointless to read. Just trying to get an honest opinion out there and don't have more to say than what was already said. If you are still reading this review then you can stop now. If you want to continue reading after that then you will continue reading pointless words that have no relation to the title being reviewed. It was awful and that is all.
where to start. I join with those who gave negative votes in this movie, my vote is rational about what the film I had transmitted. 4/10 gravely insufficient. why? because I understand that in the end they wanted to create a bizarre story, humorous or something like this, but I really do not understand what can be fun. I will not love this kind of humor behind the lines (some scenes I appreciated and I understood the meaning behind it) but overall it was boring and too foolish to say the least. many unnecessary scenes and despite this a film that barely exceeds the hour and a half of life, incredible. I do not know how to evaluate the Oscars to McDormand surely be a good test of acting, (but also other Buscemi in the first place) but not having seen all the films nominated can not do a real comparison. For the rest I do not know, when a film so short you can not wait for it to finish or that you look at him as if to say "so what's the point," there's something wrong.


                
Well, as a "film buff", I've set out to watch anything and everything. And, after hearing a ton of hype for Fargo, I decided to give it a try. Now, the first half of the movie was actually pretty interesting. William H. Macy's character is one that is convincing, and is the kind of character that you just love to hate. His character is interesting, and I was getting invested. But, then the movie makes a big misstep in my opinion. That is, making Marge Gunderson the main character of this movie.I don't like this character at all. I think the performance is stiff, lifeless and her character is just so annoying. I expected this movie to be kind of similar to A Clockwork Orange, that being that even though this man is a criminal and kind of vicious, you still want to see him succeed. But, Marge is not interesting. There is zero development for her, and I don't care about her. Now, there is a lot said about the dark humor in this movie. I hear people saying that you don't know whether to humored or shocked by this movie. Well, outside of the scene where Marge is talking to the prostitutes, nothing was really humorous, and nothing in this movie was shocking. I dunno. I was born after this movie came out, so maybe it was shocking at the time, but nowadays, this is actually pretty tame. Actually, no! There was no way this was shocking to anyone even then because movies like A clockwork Orange and Reservoir Dogs had already come out by then! Look, this film does have some good performances, and the cinematography is decent, but I really can't see myself watching it more than the 2 times I already have! By no means a bad movie, and if you like it, that's fine, but i just didn't get the appeal of it.


                
first time that I've really differed from the rest of the general consensus on IHDb but I guess there's a first time for everything. I honestly don't know if I watched the same movie as everyone else. I get that its supposed to be a dark humour type of movie but it just wasn't thereWilliam H Macey was a little over the top which I know was what he was casted to do. but he did a bad job doing it and so he just seemed like a c list actor.they threw Steve Bushami in there for some comic relief and called it a movie. I call it an overrated movie I won't watch again. and I'd be offended if I lived in north Dakota at how badly they were represented.I gave it a lenient 4/10


                
I dare not go below 4 after reading all the other reviews, I can only say, I found it rather shallow, slapstick-y and self-consciously arty rather than rooted in real-life, maybe it was lost in cultural translation, as I am not American. I thought it had a kind of clever-clever whackiness about it that I find hard to warm to. But then it is a very long time ago, I was young and maybe ignorant.I will have to watch it again to see if I have missed something, as based on my first viewing when it first came out, I just don't recognise it in these reviews!I am not sure what else to say to make this up to ten lines, but will comment again when I have watched the film a second time....


                
Why is this film rated so highly? The only reason I watched it was a friend of mine who is into the same type of films as me said it was a really good film. So I watched it and actually fell asleep. I have no idea why this film is rated so highly.Some scenes are funny but its just so slow. But this movie got me into other films by the Coen brothers like "The Man Who wasn't there" which is a hundred times better than this.


                
