Fargo is a great piece of movie. It has a strong story and a strong cast. It's down to earth and believable.Jerry Lundegaard is in some trouble. He hires two small time crocks from Fargo to kidnap his wife. The plan is for her father to pay off and for Jerry to take the money. Things don't exactly goes as planned as they kill three people and get a pregnant Chief on their tail.The Coen brothers have does a terrific job on this movie. It's a well written, original story with an original setting and it doesn't try to be anything it isn't. Just a few characters, a simple plot and small scale. They stay away of clichés and don't even remotely try to mix in anything of that regular Hollywood crap. They manage to capture the mood, the people and the action pretty good. The characters are great, they're reasonable and believable. They manage to keep it serious, but not too serious and put inn a joke here and there.The actors are great. They way they manage to put on a happy smile and make it seem polite and a little, but not all too false in a great way. William H. Macy is great as Jerry Lundegaard. He gives a little nervous, kind of boy scout performance and it fits perfect. Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare makes two great small time losers. Buscemi is great as a small, funny looking, constant talking bad guy and Stormare fits the big silent, violent, psychopath type really good and they act these characters all the way out. Kristin Rudrüd does a good job as Jean Lundegaard and Harve Presnell as the rich dad is always a winner.The cinematography is good. All of the shots are good looking and some of them are original, cool and extra good looking. All of the shots are well composed, the lightning is good, but not much out of the ordinary. There are a nice play with the colors in some shots involving the snow.The score is really nice. The theme is a little sad and so is the movie. It's moody and supports the action and fits the settings very well. It's used in a classical way between the action and that works very well, it makes the action seem more real and more close.Fargo is a original movie out of the ordinary. The story is good, well written and it's well brought to life and captured. The Coen brothers has made a timeless and very enjoyable movie. See it!


                
The Coens are masters of the tease. By that I mean they'll find a closely embroidered dress and then goof with its perfection. They'll pull this and that element of the colored threads out so that its frayed, disturbing the scene so carefully constructed by the original craftswoman. Superficially it looks more homemade, more genuine this way. But if you look closely you'll see that what they've done is a matter of orchestrated destruction. Things defined by their distance from other things.Past that point it is merely a matter of whether the teasing engages or not.Their previous movie was not well received. The original garment was a combination of a mild Capra screwball and a 30's newspaper fold of a sassy woman detective. The noir mechanics were made explicit, as were the cinematic components.The audience <U+0097> by this I mean the general paying audience <U+0097> stayed away. They just weren't in the mood for clever deconstruction, no matter how polished.This is a reaction. Its a wonderful project, just wonderful in its way, but also sad in the implied tightness behind the decisions you see.What they've done is frayed the garment on the inside. Everything is sparse, bleak. All the camera setups are overly simplified, all the emotional mechanics understated. Most of it is buried in the snow.If this movie were made by anyone else, it would just be amusing, a calm sketch of a deliberately uncaffeinated selling itself as if it were a chain of simple products.But it isn't. Its a suppressed visit by extremists pretending to not be extreme. Its Lynch doing "Straight Story" and not asking us to know that over every dusk hued horizon is one of his ragged unreal movies.Because of this, we see small gateways into the world of the Dude, or the Sirens. The unborn child will enter a different world. The postage stamp will fly to a different world (when the rates change).Watch it for the simple garment, a dress covered by a coat. Watch it for the fraying and teasing on the inside, and imagine the colorful embroidery disturbed on the out.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
This slow-paced movie is really surprising in the way that it put an effort to show how things can go wrong when stupid, unexperienced people are tumbling in crime world. I loved how Cohen brothers unraveled a very well written plot that lead to an unsurprising end but close to how it ends in real life when these misdeeds are committed.
One of the other feeling that transmit this movie is that everything that is happening looks so normal that it creates a strange atmosphere, burlesque, 
 almost stupid, that makes the movie really funny to watch. 
So if you add all those things together plus a really good casting and filmmaking you've got a must see movie !!


                
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon.)Fargo is the kind of movie that appeals to people who have seen a lot of movies because everything is surprising and unexpected. The cop's a woman (Frances McDormand). Pregnant. The perps are psychos of course, but there are three of them and each is a different breed of psycho. William H. Macy is a car salesman who dreams up a scheme to cheat his rich father in law out of a million dollars by getting some degenerates to kidnap his wife. He's a white collar sociopath who always lies whenever his lips are moving unless there is some very good reason to tell the truth. One of the degenerates is a big silent guy (Peter Stormare) who kills people as one squishes bugs. The other (Steve Buscemi) is an ugly little bantam who lies and cheats and kills and steals and whines until finally somebody puts him out of his misery.This is Fargo, North Dakota, where people are country and it's cold and not very sophisticated. The movie makes gentle fun of the locals while guiding us to identify with them. McDormand eats a whole lot of Hardee's and Arby's and greasy dishes from the cafeteria piled high on her plate. She's eating for two. She loves her husband and he loves her. They lie in bed at night and watch TV. She's the police chief. She meets an old admirer in the big city. He's Asian. She is just curious. He is desperate. She has a self-effacing, aw-sucks, I'm not too bright (but I really am) style reminiscent of Tyne Daly in TV's "Cagey and Lacy" from some years back. Her husband Norm is a big guy who cooks for her and is an artist who paints wildlife. One of his duck paintings becomes a postage stamp. They all say "Yaw" a lot.The forlorn cold and desolate landscape of North Dakota is a Americana locale not used cinematically since I don't know when-Clint Eastwood's High Plains Drifter (1973), I guess. The script and direction are tidy without being too flashy. Everything is designed to surprise or bemuse the audience. Even the accents. There is the requisite quota of bright red blood; plenty of bullets puncture flesh and split bone. There's some gutter sex and a few shocking sights (one of the perps stuffs the other into a wood chip machine). All in all it's a slick, carefully crafted thriller with an artistic veneer, nicely photographed. It's clear that Coen and Coen have watched the movies of Atom Egoyan, Gus Van Sant, David Lynch, Oliver Stone, etc., and here pay them the sincere compliment of imitation with variation-or is it the other way around?


                
I really don't know why i liked this movie. It's a good movie, for sure. Gret characters and story telling... And Roger Deakins... But why i liked this movie so much?! I'm little confused.


                
To describe this film as complex would be redundant in its conception, when really it is a simple story. Although engaging in its depiction, Fargo gives this idea that there is a deeper meaning in it. The opening title sequence claims that this film is based on a true story, when really it's the culmination of many stories the Coen brothers have investigated. When promoting the film, in a 1996 interview with Charlie Rose, Charlie himself made a comment regarding the nature of the title sequence, and how it demonstrates how far the Coen brothers will go. It was a joke, and although it was jolly in spirit, the Coen's own take on the title was that it was battle between choosing Brainerd or Fargo. Obviously Fargo won that bout. But overall the tone of the film in its initial portrayal, is that it is a simple film, and the motives of the characters are simple to the extent that they can create a complexity within Fargo that we as an audience strive to understand them behind their own simplicity. As with any Coen Brother's film, there is an inevitable sense of tragedy within the story, and because it is shown in such a casual and forward manner, all we can do is laugh.Taking place in the winter of 1987 at Fargo North Dakota, a pair of buffoons, Carl (Buscemi), a funny looking fella who can't shut up, and Gaear (Stomare) a mute who only speaks when he's hungry, are recruited by an even bigger schmuck. Jerry Lundergard (Macy), although both polite and simple, is two faced enough that he'll orchestrate a scheme to kidnap his own wife in order to extort his father in law, played dog heartedly by Harve Presnell, just to solve some of his financial troubles. Back home in Minneapolis, Jerry works as an executive sales manager for his Father in law, and even after a deal he proposed kicks in, his wife Jean (Rudred) is kidnapped. The sequence although portrayed with some humor, also carries with it an intensity in the moments of terror and panic Rudred shows in her erratic movements of fear.Not too long after the kidnapping, a shooting takes place with three people being killed at Brainerd. By that time, half hour has passed, and then are we only introduced to the protagonist, Officer Marge Gunderson (McDormand). Being seven months pregnant, and carrying a truck load, Margi as her quaint husband Norm (Lynch) calls her, begins her investigation into the Brainerd murders. Marge is both calm and polite in her interactions with others, and even to the extent that she'll simply keep saying "Yah" and "Oh you betcha" when really she's bearing some forms of hostility and disappointment.Although there is some disappointment to her search for justice, there is none within the overall portrayal of the character's the Coen Brother's have sketched in this combination of true stories. Each brings forth a unique level of oddness to the story that they transcends the simplicity of the film. A lot of the exterior scenes show a blank abyss of nothingness in the snow covered roads of North Dakota and Minneapolis, as the camera focus shots merely envelop the white snow during daylight, and even more illuminating during the night scenes, ushering a darker and more depriving tone within the film's more tragic elements. The interior scenes capture a much smaller and closed sense of existence within the simplicity of the characters, and their own understanding of the circumstances they encounter in their lives. One particular close-up of Marge as she contemplates the point of the Brainerd murders, never fully conceiving of why anyone would commit such an atrocity, and for money no less. She then comments on life and on the beautiful day in front of her. The detail of her introspection into human morality gives her greater depth and complexity, as normal as she may appear to be back home with her husband Norm. She questions the motives people have, and this merely represents her innocence, and at some tragic level her own ignorance.As hard as it may be to understand why bad things happen, thinking it is simple merely drenches the curiosity with ignorance and reduces it to a more dismissible manner of existential contemplation. Fargo is brilliant and captivating in its odd sense of normality, capturing a peculiar and equally entertaining depiction of "Minnesota Nice" and the "Sing Song" regional accents. Every moment a character utters a "You betcha", or "Yah", its repetitiveness does not grow to be tiring ,but merely all the more entertaining in its ironic and often cynically delicious theme of Coen Brothers comedy. Over the course of the Coen Brother's careers, from films such as Blood Simple, or Barton Fink, which exemplify much darker tones, they managed to elaborate on the type of comedy they depict in each of their films. In the previously mentioned Charlie Rose interview, they couldn't really explain the comedy they conceive, only that they simply break from the more conventional standards. It's this break that stands out enough for anyone, fan or no fan to recognize within its perplexity. Fargo, as both a comedy and a thriller captures a humorous but brutal murder story that triggers a self-awareness within its protagonist Marge Gunderson, that although she questions the purpose of a such a transgression, she immediately returns to the normalcy of her life, showing very little change from experience. Some would label that as not a poor form of character development, when really it's more of accurate representation of a common folk the Coen's grew up around in the white abyss they lived in throughout their childhood.
Good Black Comedy movies are a rarity and black comedies on supposedly real life incidents are extremely scarce. Fargo's creative team including the multi-faceted Coen brothers made it a point to illustrate in the beginning of the movie that all events are based on real life incidents with their unique 'touch' of-course. Fargo is a story about a car salesman who is in desperate need of money and thus he hires two crooks to kidnap his wife so that he can get a hefty ransom from his father-in-law (Who is a wealthy man and not much fond of his (son-in-law). Things go wrong when the crooks had to kill 3 people to hide their identity and thus a cycle is started of blood-shed which is investigated and eventually solved by a pregnant female cop who is actually the protagonist or the lead of this movie. Bollywood fans may find this story very similar to the Saif, Fardeen starrer 'Love Ke Liye Kucch Bhi Karega'. Actually Love Ke Liye is an average rip-off of Fargo.The performances are noteworthy especially the female cop played by Mcdormand (Favorite actress of the Coen Bros.) Her expressions are hilarious and her accent funny. I have doubts though if she deserved an Oscar she won that year for this movie, but surely it was a good performance. The car salesman played by Macy leaves a mark on the viewers mind. Steve Buscemi as the 'funny face', loud mouth crook utilities all the screen time he has been given perfectly. Overall, a cult classic not to be missed.Rating : 8/10
The ordinariness of the characters in this film are so carefully crafted, and if the scenes are carefully analysed in the light of all the information, the characters are really not simple and black/white as they seem. The Coen Brothers, being brought up in Minnesota, critique the Minnesota Nice nature - people with their plain and warm exterior with folksy speaking style, but not so empathetic or well-wishing from within; the characters are as cold and distant as the letters of the film title because the characters are as emotionally isolated as story's vast empty landscape. The accent and snow, the white and distant environment, all these things accentuate the feel of the living conditions and community of northern US. I can't testify to the accuracy of the time and place, but the Coens surely give us an intriguing character study.The film takes quite a few witty jabs at capitalism and consumerism; it explores people's (here, especially Americans') obsession with fast food, television and cars. The realistic dialogues and quirkiness do make the characters stand out, like all Coen Brothers films. Many might say Marge Gunderson is the only character with good morals, but she isn't as pure as she seems. Marge, though an interesting character who defies prescribed gender roles and becomes our lead protagonist (though she enters only after one-third the film), she is as emotionally distant as the rest, as evidenced from her murder-scene inspection and ending ride with one of the kidnappers. Her routine life and by-the-book procedure, combined with her husband's not-so- sophisticated paintings about ducks and the decor of their house, exemplify the fact how they are a regular couple in a consumerist web so blissfully content in their simplicity and mediocrity.Expectation vs what's given to us. From the opening title where it says that this is based on a true story and events are shown as it occurred, a certain expectation is set. The Coens take advantage of this liberty and tell the story in the most unusual but interesting way. But they subvert these expectations by slowly inserting scenes that people couldn't have known (if the events are being shown as they occurred). But this helps us understand the characters much better. (We now know that almost the entire thing is fictional, other than, maybe, the murder that inspired them.) The Coens do this throughout the film. Two other good examples come from the scene where Marge meets her Asian friend from college. Compared to the ways Asians are traditionally portrayed in films, Mike really stood out - not at all a clichéd, accented Asian guy, but an emotionally unstable lonely guy who still stays with his parents in his 30s. And the story he tells Marge about his life, we immediately lap it all up, just like Marge does, not realising that the story had the exact plot details from 'Love Story'. The Coens surely take other such jabs at American pop culture. It's not what you expect from a true-story-based crime thriller. It's not what you expect from a comedy. Coen Brother films never usually fit into a single genre, and the unusual blend of crime and humour makes the film stand out.And without Roger Deakins, the film wouldn't look the way it does. That parking lot scene has been praised and analysed to death by now. And yes, it's a spectacular shot and has so much to say. The acting from everyone in the cast is terrific, especially Steve Buscemi, Frances McDormand and William H. Macy. Macy gives us such a unique and memorably loathsome character - an apathetic, selfish and cowardly hypocrite, always maintaining such a cheery facade. But he represents the frustrations felt by the pawns in the capitalist system, rarely able to earn or save much to be financially or emotionally satisfied. Hence, his various schemes to collect enough money, run away and start a new comfortable life.Though just a little less than 100 minutes, the film has been assembled with such attention to detail and innovation that it can be analysed and understood in so many different ways. It's not something that seems so great in the first view itself, but the more you see it or think about it, the more it lingers in your mind. Clever to end the film with the words "Two more months", since we know it might be a reference to the end of winter when the snow might melt and reveal the suitcase to a passerby.


                
its really hard to combine thrilling-crime with comedy. but coen brothers successfully did it. he really have a unique character as a director. most of his movies, intellect-funny, thrilling-crime, and also creative-comedic script. and now in Fargo, he did it again, the way he turn a genre into somekind funny is completely hard thing to do.Fargo, how should i say this. It's simple i think, when you watched it, then you will like it. Every character in this movie take their best part. No characters give a mediocre performances, all of them were just splendid. Steve buscemi is a main star. Every scene when he appeared, always giving a totality and funny-looking acting. He was completely adaptive, giving a villain and comedic act in one piece. Yeah, buscemi is the coen brother's main weapon.Not only the performances, when you see the cinematography, then it will amaze you also. Always takes place at snowy set, this movie was thrilling yet beautiful, what a talented set-decorator.The script was creative, funny, original, and unique. So many word "Yeah" that makes you laugh really hard. It appears that this movie also intellect to serve us a joke.Fargo, definitely one of the best of it's genre (crime-thriller). There are no director that can turn a true-story of fargo into something as enjoyable as coen brother's did. You watch it alone, you will laugh and amazed. you watch it with friends, you will laugh and amazed. You watch it a decade years later, you will laugh and amazed. No doubt !


                
I enjoyed this movie, for the same reasons as previous commenters did. I also liked the absence of hackneyed plot devices, such as the McDormand character being taken off the case but solving it anyway, or a turf war between the local police and the FBI.However, I notice that the opening credits say that the story is true, while the closing credits say that it is entirely fictional. For a while I thought that it was a true story, then I realized that the murder of three people, including a police officer, would be taken very seriously. Instead of the case being given to one uniformed officer, a team of homicide detectives would descend on the scene.It would have been better if the makers of the movie had been straightforward about whether the movie is true.


                
One of my all time favourites and one of the Coen brothers masterpieces. So good that it led to two subsequent tv series which are both outstanding. 
Funny, intricate and with wonderful acting by Frances McDormand, Bill Macy and Steve Buscemi in particular. The more times you watch it the more you'll see how good it is. And who'd be without a wood chipper after seeing that scene ?!


                
Maybe this is because Fargo was more revolutionary at its time of release but I don't see it as a masterpiece judging it by today's standards. It's a crime story with no real shocks or twists (although the wood chipper scene comes close). That said, it's an entertaining film with its unique humour and great characters.It's funny and slapstick enough that you can't take it too seriously, yet not so much so that you don't care about the characters at all. The irony is woven in very well, with what was intended as a way for its protagonist to get more money ending up being a complete disaster. The criminals are bad no doubt, but they're so inept at what they do (even the silent one who at first seems to actually know what he's doing) that I can't feel a deep hatred for them, despite their evil crimes. They're too pitiful for that.In Fargo, nobody wins. Jerry's plan fails, only leading to the death of his innocent wife and his own arrest. Carl and Gaear's plan to make the money fails as well, with one of them dead and the other in prison. The money is still buried in the snow. The bad guys are caught, but that's no consolation for all the damage that has been done. Marge can only shake her head at the tragedy of it. The funniest part of all this is that the reason the plan failed was because none of the criminals trusted each other to stick to their agreement. And because the law wasn't on the side of any of them, it's not like they could go to the police about a broken agreement!The final scene, where Marge and Norm reveal they're going to have a child, is perfect. The message is clear. People will tear their families apart and destroy their lives for a bit of cash, ignoring that true happiness was right under their nose all along.
Fargo is an intelligently comedic, violent, emotional, and dark composite that's certainly one of the quirkiest pictures I can ever recall seeing. Prior to writing up this review, I read the comment that Fargo can never decide what genre it seeks to be. Despite my grievances with this comment, I do believe that at times Fargo's various elements could've been integrated more effectively. However, these elements are all accomplished and the overall picture is a commendably smooth venture. In regard to Fargo's black humour, to some extent at times I struggled to conclude which material was intended to be humorous, and that which was intended to be serious and impactful, as the borderline between the two felt slightly blurred. Much like the picture itself, Fargo hosts a plethora of quirky and unique personas, made even more credible by the distinguished efforts of Macy and McDormand.Fargo's intelligence is reflected in it's subtle lines of dialogue, events or shots that mimic or reference similar material featured earlier in the film is consistently used to phenomenal effect. It should be noted that the ending sequence is a commendable and reflective accomplishment that demonstrates how self aware the Coen's were of their creation.


                
In the 1990s the younger generation of independent filmmakers gained their prestige with some odd movies, movies that were both grim and noir-ish but with an almost nonchalant twist of comedy running through all the nastiness. This was the kind of picture in which the Brothers Coen specialised. Fargo is among their purest expressions of that type, a grisly thriller set in a snowbound Minnesota that, despite its inherent darkness, comes across as humane and affectionate.While the New Wave-influenced directors showed off an abundance of technique, the Coens and their generation have tended more towards minimalism. There's an elegant simplicity to their approach, with few camera moves or obvious artifice. That's not to say the Coens were directing on autopilot. The camera may not move but there's a lot of thought gone into those static shots. We see a beleaguered William H. Macy at his desk while cars rushing by on the freeway behind him seem to mirror his nervous jitters. In the opposing shot of the indignant couple, the array of statuettes makes it look as if the whole room's ganging up on him. It's a kind of meaningful shot composition that is actually rather witty. This triumph of the image over technicality allows the Coens to really bring out some detail. Many filmmakers may attach a camera to the front of a car for a bit of high-speed action, but in Fargo we have such a shot pointing down at the road surface in the headlights, picking out every little crack and grain. The Coens have really painted a world with palpable texture.But just as character seems to live in the very landscape of Fargo, it also lives in the actual characters, brought to vividness by a cast that's at just the right level of quirky. What's neat about Frances McDormand is that she is comical without actually doing a comedy performance. Other than a slightly strained accent, its all done in very genuine timings and expressions, which stops it slipping into farce and weaves it well with the movie's more unpleasant moments. William H. Macy is full of twitches and mannerisms, but he just manages to pull it inside the realms of believability. And Steve Buscemi too is straddling that delicate line on the edge of reality. In short, the people that inhabit the world of Fargo give us this impression of normality stretched to its limits, but normality all the same.Unlike your average thriller, Fargo is not exactly a tightly-constructed ride of suspense and excitement, but this doesn't mean it's not enjoyable and engrossing. Rather than seeming to have some grand theme or focused structure, it's as if the screenplay just grew organically out of a number of elements. Like many works by the Brothers Coen, Fargo is rich with the weirdness of America, with ominous statues of local heroes and checkout girls grinning vacantly like a taxi driver from Total Recall. Brilliantly offset by a doom-laden and very Nordic score from Carter Burwell as well as a sprinkling of familiar American hits, it scampers smoothly from one mood to the next. This isn't a big movie by any stretch, but it in its constant, delightful diversity, it seems to be part of some large and tangible world.


                
While the premise is simple and something we've seen countless times both before and since Fargo's release, very few have managed to tell the story in the same charming way the Coen's did. Of course, the casting also has a lot to do with the success, with Buscemi in particular giving one of his greatest performances.


                
My Rating : 8/10So I read the screenplay (well, most of it anyway) before watching the movie as I wanted to STUDY the movie. And then while watching the movie, I kept going back and forth with the screenplay and the movie playing.It is an absolute delight to see what the Coen Brothers have conjured up. The characters, the actors chosen, the setting in Minnesota/Minneapolis, the dialogues, the attention to detail all work cohesively. It's a brilliant work of creative filmmaking.I was spellbound from beginning to end. I think you really feel like you're there with them in the year 1996. Filmmaking has come a long way since then however a classic piece of filmmaking simply cannot be overlooked.I give this 8/10 for the amount of madness the Coen brothers have been able to squeeze in 1 hour and 38 minutes. Real good then.


                
I love Coen brothers' movies. This story is based on a true story and the story is just a story. Because the way of describing it is great,this movie is great. It could be a serious movie but,certainly,it is serious but not so serious . There are some comedy scenes so I felt the 98 minuets passed very quickly like a moment. It's fascinating.


                
Independent film makers, the Coen brothers have achieved critical and box-office success with their two-time Oscar award winning film, Fargo. ¬The "homespun murder mystery" is an amalgamation of genres: crime drama, violent thriller, neo-noir, and, satirical comedy. The offbeat narrative juxtaposes small town pleasantries and lightheartedness with macabre violence, in an absurdly humorous tale of debauchery. Critical distance is a key element of ¬Fargo, which is a result of the frequent use of farce in their depictions of "everyday violence in US culture" (Lewis 2002). Through this, an "original social commentary" emerges, amongst the crazy, sardonic, approaches to style and narrative. The cult and spectacle of violence in American society is epitomized in the film, depicted through the thoughtless killings, and most, notably, in the infamous wood chipper scene. The frequent shots of the characters devouring fast food underscores the theme of cheap mass production and the bland consumerist society whilst simultaneously striking a balance between the comfortable, mundane lifestyle of the townsfolk and the bizarre, sinister kidnapping situation. Place functions as a key element in Fargo. The blindingly white winter of North Dakota's Fargo is used "evocatively and satirically", and the folksy dialect of the mid-westerners is exaggerated and distinct. The immaculate, whitewashed setting, and the carefully constructed cinematography acts as a prime vehicle for fostering the outrageous story as it unfolds in perfect chaos. The stylistic device of the 'true story' claim, manipulates audiences into suspending their belief and accepting the film as it is.
Coen Brothers have always fascinated me and most recently, their Inside Llewyn Davis was amazing. To be honest, I watched a Bollywood spin-off of this movie first, so the effect was milder at start. But as the plot advanced, I was taken aback by the sheer narrative style & gradual drama.William Macy's character triggers the whole plot which goes awry when a pair of psychopaths fail to remain discrete at the job at hand. The crime involved is ultimate and it doesn't stop till the end of the flick. But the whole show is stolen by Frances McDormand, with an amazing accent & air. Even her psychology comes into the picture. It captures the old country & down-town lifestyle in a perfect capacity, telling a story of a gruesome happening.Great performances, marvelous music and score, fine cinematography & good direction are the main factors why Fargo excels. It employs a mild narration to tell a grave chapter; that life can be so maddeningly terrible at times, in general of course.BOTTOM LINE: A fantastic film. No wonder it is considered best in its genre.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOViolence/Gore: Very Critical | Sex: Strong | Smoking: Mediocre


                
What did he need that money for? I am sure who ever watched this film wondered this question many times over. What in the Earth did he need that money for? Could he not just ask his father in law to borrow him some? Probably he used it on prostitutes, so he could not ask his father in law. If his father in law just gave him that money we would probably not have the film. I think it was crucial part of the plot.We are witnessing resurgence of this film into 10 hours series. I really think this film deserves to be developed further after all the success he achieved.Since I spent some time in West Michigan, I know the mentality of those northern states of the USA. I was actually amazed that they made something exciting about that area of the USA since it so boring there.Characters are so well developed and plot is very interesting. But plot writers, please, please reveal the secret in the series why in the world did he need that money for?


                
What's cool about "Fargo" (and there's plenty here to like) is that the crime-solving police officer is a woman -pregnant, no less- and on one treats her any differently. Marge Gunderson's a great character, and kudos to Frances McDormand for bringing her so vividly to life. But in and of itself, "Fargo is a great crime movie, full of quirk and memorable characters (gotta love the Minnesotan accents), and darkly hilarious from beginning to end. The blinding white snow lends a great atmosphere to the whole thing. And no one involved in the crime is altogether bright, so you know this thing's going to go South in every possible way. Buscemi and Macy both play terrific losers (you just want to wring Macy's neck, he's such a sad sack), and the movie is full of Cieras! A loser car to go with the movie's pack of loser criminals. It all makes for one terrifically entertaining movie. And that image of the socked foot sticking out of the woodchipper is one for the ages. 8/10
This is basically Coen brothers classic breakthrough film. And the story is superbly put together and crafted so well. To the point it makes it one of the top crime films that is a must watch. It's a serious crime story shown in a subtle and yet engaging manner, with slight awkward humor in it. But still stays consistent as a cold story about greed and the distances some people would go for their ambitions. Like the incompetence of the criminals and how it leads them from one mistake to another, one trouble to another. And innocent people gets involved one after another, because of dumb ideas. However, although this story takes place in a dry and boring snowy town. It's kinda amazing how the Coen brothers could pull off naive and dense characters that are actually still believable, while also entertaining to watch. And when it comes down to it, the mannerisms and the demeanor of the characters is what really drives this movie. And the Coen brothers just nails and makes these awkward characters to be intriguing, because of the random and yet believable decisions they make. This is one of those movies that could have fell flat, but thanks to Coen brothers trademark directions. Thus it's amusing and even intriguing at times, because of the random and yet witty and clever storytelling. Overall this is a film with a dry and boring setting, with awkward and yet dull characters that is really worth seeing.8.6/10


                
This is probably one of the most bittersweet pictures I've seen. Bitter, because I always felt it's a rather bleak and disturbing affair, but rendered sweet thanks to the colorful group of characters and their amusing banter (which is nicely emphasized with all those accents they have there, don'tcha know?). Parts of this film are pretty amusing, but parts of it are pretty sad. The whole affair is a funny-but-sad case.This story is pieced together from a couple of real-life cases, but populated with fictional characters. It's a pretty simple set-up: a man arranges to have his own wife kidnapped, hoping to weasel money from her father in the form of a ransom. What should be a simple and painless situation becomes a total disaster, because nearly every character thinks they know what they're doing and they think they're so hot, but they're all really inept. A series of mishaps and bad decisions causes a cascade of murders and a rather tragic outcome. Well, heck, the final scene is one of the bloodiest and messed-up things conceivable. As crazy and funny as it is to see things deteriorate over stupid mistakes, it is a sobering reflection on crime, greed, and humanity overall. I think the cop sums it up well at the end, for after running through the situation, she asks, "and for what? For a little bit of money. There's more to life than a little money, ya know. Dontcha know that?" All that being said, I feel the story does take one too many random tangents. A lot of screen time is spent on the cop's personal life, which never really has much relevance to the case. I suppose it's perfect for showing a little more humanity on screen, and to contrast directly with the other guy's family. However, I do believe these extraneous scenes slow down the pacing a lot, and sidetracks from the main story.This film has good, straightforward photography and editing. Acting is effectively perfect from the whole cast, and the writing is good. This production uses very real-looking sets, props, costumes, and locales. Carter Burwell's music score is haunting, dramatic, and beautiful all at once.This film has garnered its share of acclaim for darn good reasons. I always believed it could be a tighter film, but it is still well worth seeing for its great cast, its distinctive dialogue (complete with accents), and its ability to instill feelings of amusement and sorrow.Recommended.4/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Good | Film: Very Good)


                
The Coen Brothers are extremely good at what they do, and it shows. I've been meaning to watch this all year and finally did, but no matter. I didn't expect the accents to be so strong, the story to be so intricate and the mercy to be so absent. Well, they aren't known for being reluctant when it comes to violence, but geez. Anyways, I can compare this to "Identity" in terms of uniqueness and appeal, and since I don't think either of those movies could be duplicated. William H. Macy is good as a desperate dolt, Steve Buscemi is kind of too crazy for me, but the real star is Frances McDormand. She wore her belly with pride and spoke with such confidence and style that you couldn't help but love her. The shock ending wasn't as much of a shock as I was hoping, but it didn't hurt the movie at all.
Fargo is good entertainer if you watch seriously. It plot a believable ,could happen story. A Crime story telling in a bit of comic manner.This movie telling a crime story like Coen team's other movie no country for old man. Fargo movie loss its pace some places that could have been avoid. Anyway this is a good movie with descent screen play and the "yea" factor. William H Macy plays cunning man's with humorous way of act some of the scenes we will get nice laughing. he hires two men for kidnapping his wife for sharing ransom money buts things have flipped away as they planned and they were running before police..... where the police officer played by Frances McDormand she was serious or comedy but delivered well i don't know though she won Oscar. If you are interested to watch high action and pace you will be disappointed. This movie draws a calmly and different style (No speedy and close action sequences)Watch it peaceful mind you will enjoy very well.


                
