This should stand as the Coen brothers' tour de force, although I found  "The Big Lebowski" to be an even more satisfying film. I look at  "Fargo", "The Big Lebowski", and "Brother, Where Art Thou?" as being  the Coen's three best movies. I hope there is more from them in the  future that can rival these three; though recent offerings such as  "Intolerable Cruelty" and "The Ladykillers", could be proving their  peak creativity is behind them.  "Fargo" is beyond a doubt, their masterpiece. IMDb's ratings bear this  out - 8.2 for "Fargo", 8.0 for "Lebowski", and 7.8 for "Brother". For  sheer entertainment, "Lebowski" or should I call it, "The Dude" wins  handsdown, but "Fargo" has all the elements of a true classic. Beyond a  doubt, I have never seen such a dramatically-obvious portrayal of good  vs. evil, and never, never, have I seen such gut-wrenching violence.  Oh, the violence, beautifully believable, in it's grotesque way. This  movie is proof that artistic freedom to portray such violence should  never be denied. Steve Buscemi's bullet-grazed face becomes almost as  painful for the watcher as it is for his character; Steve Buscemi's leg  in the wood chipper is as horrific a scene as you are ever going to  see. Enough to give Marge Gunderson morning sickness all over again.  And the good vs evil thing: so obvious in the contrasts between Marge  (the good), Buscemi and Stormare (the evil), and poor Jerry Lundegaard  (William H. Macy) squeamishly caught in a trap in-between. I could only  handle the violence because of Marge. She is the rock of normality, who  continues trumpeting the virtuous life, when all hell is breaking loose  around her. She knows all-to-well that "you know what" happens, but  always knows "you know what" can be flushed down the toilet. Frances  McDormand, as Marge, deserves every acting award she ever got for this  role. Marge, to me, is the most perfect cop I've ever encountered. She  is polite, non-judgemental, yet able to ask the tough questions that  gets her the information she needs. You can see how thoroughly she  sizes up those she interviews: watching every nuance of their body  language, and hearing ever inflection of their speech. Now here's a  woman who can spot a lie when others can't. Unlike so many cops in  movies, she doesn't have to beat information out of someone; she can  charm it out of them, all the while appealing to their moral  responsibility, no matter how immoral they may be.This is so well-shown  in scenes such as talking to the two young hookers in the bar, and  putting Jerry on the hotseat in the car dealership interrogations.  I elected not to watch some of the scenes on my second viewing.  Somewhat oddly, I skipped almost all the scenes involving Jean  Lundegaard (the kidnapped one) - I couldn't bear to watch what was  happening to this woman, knowing full well her fate. I felt so sorry  for her; she was the true victim in this - the most innocent, yet the  one who suffered the most. I guess a case could also be made that her  son, Scotty, suffered equally, but most of what he went through was not  presented on camera. Maybe he would suffer the most, for he had to live  afterward. Even Marge would suffer from this catastrophe, but you know  her suffering will be tempered by an unwavering belief that good  triumphs over evil. As the last scene shows (Marge getting into bed  with her husband): despite the horrors that might go on around us, we  must seek solace in the everyday beauty of the things that are nearest  and dearest to us all. And this message is conveyed to us all by the  Coen brothers without any allusions to religion whatsoever. But I'm  getting into a personal bias of my own here - if you take solace in  religion playing a part in morality, so be it.
With no major stars or well-known names, the actors outshine many more familiar personages.  The story is well thought out.  The criminals don't try to ingratiate themselves with the audience which adds to its reality.  The acting is most convincing and the writing is excellent.  Even the cold of a North Dakota winter comes across.  Every film course should make use of this movie to demonstrate how to make a very good film without relying on a bottomless budget.


                
Fargo is one of my favorite films of all time and in my opinion deserves to be in the top 10 films of the 90's. From the onset of the movie, with views of the snow covered North Dakota landscape and the beautiful and haunting music of composer Carter Burwell playing in the background until the very last scene, Fargo never lets up. This film is Joel and Ethan Cohen's masterpiece, a truly original and one of a kind work. Every aspect of the film is handled with the utmost precision and care. The screenplay, written by Joel and Ethan, is in my opinion flawless. The dialog is at times serious and at other times hilarious, but most importantly always real and believable. The screenplay would be worth nothing, however, without the superb cast of the film that truly makes the characters come to life. Frances McDormand is perfect as the pregnant sheriff who is assigned to the murder case involving Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare. Steve Buscemi is excellent as always, playing a sleazy kidnapper who is perfectly described in one of the best lines of the film as simply "funny looking - in a general kind of way". The best performance, however, comes from William H. Macy who is absolutely brilliant as a desperate man who has everything to lose. Macy completely envelops himself in the role and captures perfectly the essence of a broken man whose world is crumbling all around him. The final scene in the motel when he is caught is incredibly powerful because Macy makes you feel the pain and sorrow that a man must feel when he knows that he's going to prison for the rest of his life.One of the things that I loved about this film is the colorful characters that are a trademark of every Cohen brothers film. In Fargo, these characters include dim witted hookers, psychopath kidnappers, a very pregnant sheriff, and a lot of snow. No matter how long or brief these characters are on the screen, however, they are all incredibly entertaining and fun to watch. That is one of the reasons that I enjoy films by the Cohen brothers. They have a great style and sense of humor that is all their own. They aren't afraid to be different from the Hollywood norm, and they make films on their own terms. Also, as evidenced by this film, they do a great job of getting the best out of every actor. I personally feel that William Macy and Frances McDormand have never been better before or since Fargo. I urge everyone to see this film and compare it to other great works of the last decade. I think you'll find that its place is right near the likes of Pulp Fiction, L.A. Confidential, The Usual Suspects and other great 90's films.
Fargo: ***.5*Fargo is a strange little movie. It is, in my opinion, the Cohen Brothers best film. It deals with a very serious subject, yet somehow it does so without taking itself overly serious. There is a very realistic quality to be found here- The subject matter is dark, yet there is a crack of light shining through always. The conversations are spot on with how they would probably be spoken in real life. McDormands character, the pregnant Marge, is the persistent pursuer but she is not obsessive like so many other movie clichéd 'good guys' are when it comes to catching their adversary. She is involved, but remains detached, just as 95% of real cops will be. You see it clearest in the conversations she has with her fellow officers; husband, and just about everyone else she speaks to. You really feel that she is, as her character says during an interview, just doing her job. This realism is not just present in Marge, but in every character. None are over the top, though the accents are probably slightly exaggerated.Jerry and his cronies are stupid. We never really find out Jerry's original troubles, but we are front row center for the idiocy that follows. There are no super intelligent characters which you find in many other crime dramas. There is only those who have some wits and common sense, and those who are helplessly daft.Personally, I loved this movie. It's quirky; it's real; it's charming; and its just plain fun (though bordering on the edge of painful) to watch this freezing fable of stupidity unfold. I did however feel that the ending was a little rushed, but this is not really a bad thing. I felt that the scene of Marge with her friend Mike in the city could have been removed, and that time could have gone to filling out the ending a little more. All in all, this nitpick is rather insignificant, and does little, if nothing at all to distract from the quality of the movie. I wanted to give this movie a 10, but it is lacking something, i don't know what, which is preventing me from giving it so. I also feel that it deserves more than a nine: 9.5/10


                
When it was released in 1996, "Fargo" met public and especially critical acclaim and collected several rewards. But I think that if the Prize for the Best Directing at the Cannes festival was absolutely justified, on the other hand, Frances McDormand didn't deserve her Oscar in 1997. William H.Macy should have won it. His performance as an hypocritical and dishonest car seller is powerful and unforgettable.What is amazing in "Fargo" are the landscapes, the sceneries and above all the characters. The Coen brothers said about the movie: " the landscapes, the sceneries are an integral part of the movie. They are typical of the Midwest as well as the characters with their sensitivity and their mentality". They know what they are talking about since they come from the Midwest, more precisely from the Minnesota. As a consequence, they must have been at ease by making this thrilling movie.Concerning the characters, they are the subject of a realistic and down-to-earth description. Each of them has a different but not very status-enhancing characteristic: William H.Macy's cues are almost always hesitating, unfinished or unsure, the two gangsters are just silly guys (one of them nearly never talks) and most of the inhabitants including Frances McDormand are narrow-minded. By this way, the Coen brothers wanted to underline their meanness of mind and the fact that they are firmly rooted in their land of the Minnesota.Apart from the characters and although the movie is based on a true story, I am obliged to recognize that the script and the way the movie is designed have nothing new. But nonetheless, the tone is daring, there's black humor cleverly used (notably in bloody moments) that contrasts with a quiet even neutral directing. As for the snowy landscapes, they will later inspire Sam Raimi for "a simple plan" (1998), a movie as successful as "Fargo"."Fargo" is eventually the finest movie made by the Coen brothers and its place in the top 250 is thoroughly justified.


                
Fargo isn't a thriller or mystery in the traditional sense, but it is still a truly remarkable piece of film-making and screeenwriting.Few characters in American film epitomize the banality of evil as thoroughly as Jerry Lundegaard. Jerry's greed causes him to seek opportunities that he is incapable of handling, commit pointless and easily-detectable frauds, and commission one of the most ill-conceived crimes possible. More significantly, he is only capable of thinking of himself, even as the world around him explodes into bloody chaos due to his own actions. The most telling scene is the one where he tries to reassure his son that everything will be all right -- but like everything else he tells people, it's a lie, and a transparent one at that. In his hands, cluelessness becomes a truly monstrous thing that destroys everyone and everything he should care about.It is the contrast with these qualities that makes Marge such a compelling heroine. A woman who cares about those around her and those she works with, she gives and receives a thousand little kindnesses that repay her tenfold. The murders she must deal with may be a challenge she doesn't want, but she is more than up to it, and displays the determination and savvy, if not the flash and flair, of a great movie sleuth.It is the contrast in these characters, and the others around them, that makes Fargo such a special film.
Fargo is about how far Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) will go to get some money and how out of control the situation becomes. The film follows pregnant chief police Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) as she tries to piece it all together. Frances McDormand gives a wonderful, Oscar winning performance as the multi-layered police chief. On the outside she has a comical personality, but she is also deeply caring. The movie is rounded together with fantastic performances from Steve Buscemi, Peter Stormare, and William H. Macy.
 
The movie is beautifully shot by Roger Deakins, earning him his second Oscar nomination. The greatest aspect of the film is how the Coen brother's combated the barren landscape with dark comedy. The mixture of irony, awkward moments, and laughing at inappropriate times really make this film enjoyable to watch and a great film over all.


                
Fargo is a 1996 black comedy/crime drama film directed by Ethan and Joel Coen (The Coen Brothers) and stars William H. Macy, Frances McDormand and Steve Buscemi. Often seen as the film that launched the Coen Brothers successful career, Fargo without a doubt deserves all the credit it receives. The story focuses around a spineless, nervous car salesman who arranges for his wife to be kidnapped and held for a ransom of $80,000 to extort from his wealthy father-in-law and boss, in his desperation for money to repay an outstanding loan. Which ends up going horrifically wrong resulting in a series of grizzly murders. Fargo fantastically blends its sharp wit of dry humour and black comedy with its gruesome, thrilling and intriguing narrative, the two seem to go hand-in-hand perfectly with Fargo having scenes that will have you bursting out laughing and others on the edge of your seat. Fargo also features beautiful cinematography with wide, expansive shots of snow covered landscapes as well as a fitting dark and unsettling soundtrack. Each actor/actress completely owns their character making their motivations and actions clear, as well as relatable. Fargo has but a few nit-picking flaws, such as a particular scene which seems unnecessary to the advancement of the plot and feels out of place, in which Frances McDormand's character meets an old friend. Another is a plot-line which focused around Peter Stormare's character Gaear Grimsrud- not enough of the story was focused around his role as it should or could have been, also another flaw being the slight overuse of the word 'ya'. Overall, Fargo is a phenomenal film, both winning 2 well deserved Oscar's and launching the Coen Brothers career onto a new level, proving they are two of the greatest filmmakers of the modern film era. Not forgetting notifying the world of the traditional (and comedic) Minnesotan accent. Fargo is hilarious, violent, tense and intriguing. 9/10


                
So, why is the movie called "Fargo"? Maybe it's because that's where chaos starts. For the next 98 minutes, we watch a hapless, smiley, terminally nervous Minneapolis car salesman, Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy), try to settle some debts by engineering the kidnapping of his docile wife and wangling a ransom from his millionaire father-in-law. This scheme blows up in his face after he hires the wrong thugs in Fargo: Steve Buscemi as motormouth Carl Showalter and Peter Stormare as taciturn Gaear Grimsrud. The error soon results in a triple murder, with more deaths to come. And we also watch local super-sleuth Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand), the very pregnant police chief of the Minnesota town of Brainerd, as she relentlessly tracks them down.The characters in Fargo are what keep the film going. Steve Buscemi plays Carl to perfection, talking too much and described as "funny looking". His colleague, Gaear is that shady silent type who likes to do things his own way and Peter Stormare delivers his threatening stares in a chilling way. For me, these two were the highlight of the film but William H. Macy pulls of Jerry brilliantly, displaying simultaneously a liar, a thief, a loving father and husband as well as ultimately a good guy whose life has taken a turn for the worse. Frances McDormand comically plays the traditional Minnesota local - good hearted and innocent and is a joy to watch. Fargo is deep, chilling and clever as well as very witty in places and is definitely worth seeing.Overall rating: 9 out of 10.


                
This is arguably the first film that really put the Coen brothers on the map and for good reason. Everything about Fargo is unique and original, from the beautiful setting to the incredible dialogue mixing together humour, drama and beauty so seamlessly the film is nothing short of a masterpiece.Fargo's story revolves around how several characters lives begin to collide with one another after a simple kidnapping scheme begins to go wrong and body counts begin to rise. But where the film really succeeds is because of the interesting range of characters ranging from McDormand's kind speaking Marge to Buscemi's rude and talkative Carl. All the leads of the film have original and interesting personalities that make them so interesting to watch. Part of the brilliance of this and every Coens Brothers film is that even the small characters feel very well developed. Someone like Norm (McDormand's husband) probably has somewhere around 5 minutes screen time, but in that short time it gives him a unique personality and demonstrates the close bond between him and Marge. It feels that everyone in the film matters or has some role to play, with every character having some impact on the chain of events. A single conversation can change a character's entire outlook of a situation which the Coens make believable through the great writing where we can see why they would be changed by the confrontation. On top of this the film has many moments of both natural and memorable dialogue. Some of it even packs great meaning such as "There's more to life than a little money, you know. Don'tcha know that? And here ya are, and it's a beautiful day." Lines like this demonstrate the Coen brothers skill in creating great meaning in their work whilst maintaining realism within the dialogue. Beyond this the film contains many beautiful and meaningful shots mixing a feeling of suspense into the endless roads and blank landscapes that fill the screen. Even the simplest shots of a car driving down the road feel all the more impressive as we see the sight of the headlights shine through the falling slow.The Coens constantly do what all filmmakers should, which is to take risks and try different things. Everything from the setting to the characters personalities is unique within the film. From start to end Fargo is a joy to watch and a true cinematic classic.


                
When you think of Fargo, you can simply think of a lot of things, but one thing that can be absolutely and undeniably true, it's the utter beauty of this picture. The Coen Brothers seem to be the catalysts of five of the greatest film directors in history : Ingmar Bergman, Andrei Tarkovsky, John Huston, Brian De Palma, and last but not definitely not least, Nicholas Ray. Fargo breathes in the work of these great directors, simultaneously ! It is so much of a level of talent, that it's simply insane, and I couldn't even afford to kid.The screenplay and the story, written by the Coens, seem to breathe three great writers of the 20th century : Fyodor Dostoyesky, Anton Tchekov and finally James M. Cain.God, you cannot even begin to describe the brilliance of structure and style that the film is dealt with. It is as obscure as it is breathtakingly shocking. The acting of William H. Macy is completely at it's peak in this picture, and even today the man is a considerable and magnificent acting genius. Macy is absolutely divine, in portraying the most bleak and opportunistic of cowardice, in the role of this car salesman. He is perfect in this role, as he might not have in the lapse of six years, since 96 at the eve of release of Fargo. But on the downside of things, he has suffered immense type-casting, if you can take the example of another movie The Cooler, in which he plays another meek character. (He should probably hire a better agent, but very good agents are hard to find) He comes off as a second Bob De Niro, in this picture.The greatest scene and probably the most gruesome scene is the wife's kidnapping. But for now, let's explain the whole universe, which is Fargo. The film opens in the eerie beauty of winter, in harsh snow-falling of Minnesota, located in a small town. Jerry Lundergaard played by Macy, is a car salesman who wants to plan his wife's kidnapping and ransom with two stone-to-death pathetic and amateurish career burglars. He does this in the goal of getting is father-in-law's life insurance of 40 M, as a scam and sharing fifty-fifty with the kidnappers, played by Steve Buscemi, and Peter Storre (or something) That's all you get from me, and I don't care what you do on any given week-end, just watch this brilliant movie. Go every where, find this dang movie, own this dang movie. Me, I've probably seen it 20 times already. Move your butt for this movie, just run to get this movie. I don't care if you're drunk, stoned or something, find this movie, you shall not regret it.Well that's enough out of me, and that was a film expert's advise.
What can be said of Fargo that has not been said before? Fargo is a film that cannot be cornered with any easy definition. The Coen brothers have defined themselves with a style that is unique and refreshing and Fargo stands as one of their masterworks. Equal parts crime-caper, drama and comedy, Fargo takes its audience on a journey where every turn is a breathe of fresh air and every line of dialog is something that you could never translate to another film.Frances McDormand shines in her lead role as the pregnant cop who has a small-town, matter-of-fact way about her that is both endearing and unpredictable, a performance easily earning her Oscar win. William H Macy is as memorable as ever as the car dealer whose ransom master-plan and life spins further and further out of control. And while Steve Buscemi is known for his quirky performances, in Fargo his quirkiness almost seems to make his character appear the most "normal" of the bunch.While certainly not a film for everybody (many in my family still don't know what to make of it) it is an easy recommendation for anybody who wants to experience a truly unique, original film. The barren landscape of mid-winter Fargo certainly hides a spectrum of colorful scenarios that amount to a wholly entertaining film.


                
What more can be said after 487 viewer comments? For #488, all I will say is that, after watching this three times, Fargo is a fine piece of cinema, with an emphasis on a minimalist approach to story-telling and without much in the way of theatrics. The setting is bleak, the dialog is mostly direct and to-the-point, and the characters are well-drawn, what few main characters there are. I thought Steve Buscemi was wonderful as the villain in a humorously sick way. The one negative comment I have is that I feel the movie ends much too abruptly: too many loose threads left hanging. I thought the viewer was entitled to know a little bit more about why Jerry (William H. Macy) would go to such outlandish lengths to raise money as to stage his own wife's kidnapping. The fact that he "owed money" or "got in over his head" wasn't quite enough for me as an explanation since I had kept asking myself during the course of this escapade, "Why? Exactly why is he doing this?" We never really find out except in the most vague terms. All in all, probably my favorite Coen Brothers film.


                
Fargo (1996) is a Cohen Brothers film, starring Frances McDormand and William H. Macy. I watched this film because of McDormand mainly, she's just such a great actress and I knew anything with her in a starring role would surely be great. And I was 100% right, Francs McDormand does not disappoint one bit as the lead, Margie, who's a Minnesota police officer. She is investigating a case of three homicides, and it turns out to be attached to something much bigger. William H. Macy plays a man who is trying to come into some money, he hires two men to kidnap his wife and arranges for his very wealthy father in law to pay the ransom. The performances in this film are top notch, Macy and McDormand give it their all. The writing is great too, the dialogue for each character suits them perfectly. It's so great to see a film with both great acting and smart writing. The ending is especially well done. The Cohen Brothers hardly ever make a bad film, and this one is just of the examples of that being true. Fargo gets a 9/10. Definitely on my must watch list.


                
Fargo is agreat movie on so many levels. First of all: The story is awesome. Not the type of crime story you find often, really original and especially well-written. I love how in the beginning you feel sorry for Mr. Lundegaard and you want to keep that feeling so bad, but by the end it becomes so clear that there's really no reason for feeling sorry. 
All the characters are protrayed spot-on, I enjoyed Frances McDormand's performance in particular (like everybody probably). Also, the dialogues and humor are just classic by now.
Another very nice thing is the very original cinematography, often not using typical thriller elements and adding a taste of drama to the flick. Visuals and sound are executed meticulously, you see and hear so many little details that not everybody would have thought of.
The last thing I want to add that I liked was the runtime. At 98 minutes, it's anything but a long movie and squeezing a complex, yet understandable and entertaining plot in there is quite achievement.I loved Fargo, there's really nothing bad that comes to mind.


                
'FARGO' - 1996Directed by Ethan and Joel CoenStarring William H Macey, Frances McDormand and Steve BuscemiPlot Overview: <U+200B>In an attempt to fund an unknown project, Jerry Lundergaard(William H Macy) hired two criminals, Carl(Steve Buscemi) and Gaear(Peter Stromrare) to kidnap his wife and hold her for a million dollar random, against her incredibly wealthy father. But in the meantime, pregnant police chief Marge(Frances McDormand) is hunting the criminals for a crime they committed amidst the job.My first taste of the Coen Brother's work was with a little movie called 'The Big Lebowski'. I thoroughly enjoyed it and thought it was a brilliant 'joke' of a movie. Not in terms of quality but of content. After seeing 'The Big Lebowski', I began to hunger for seeing the remainder of their work. And thus I came onto this little gem of a movie. Fargo is, in my opinion, much better than The Big Lebowski and is a comedic crime story of epic proportions. If you haven't already seen it, I recommend you check it out!But what is actually GOOD about the movie? Well, the story certainly springs to mind. From second one until the first name on the credits, Fargo gripped me and held me hostage on the edge of my seat. I was captivated by the events on screen and drawn deep into the mysterious and ingenious world, devised by the Coens. And while the statement about this being based on true events is a false one, it may as well have been true because the Coens do their absolute best to convince you that it is all the way through.So what else was excellent? The performances? Yeah, I will agree with that. William H Macey delivers a truly amazing performance as Jerry Lundergaard and kept me entwined in his conniving scheme all the way until the end of the movie. Frances McDormand also does a sensational job as Marge and provides much of the backbone for which the movie rests on. McDormand is a relatively unknown actress in the film world(she was to me anyhow) but she proves that she deserves more recognition with her Oscar Worthy(and winning) performance. And then there is there is Stevie 'Slimeball' Buscemi. Whenever I see this guy speak or move in any of his roles, I get goosebumps. Whether that is a testament to his marvellous acting capabilities or his perverted face, I don't know. All I do know is that the man is an awesome actor and that is certainly no different here. Harve Presnell was also very good as Wade Gustafson.Despite not saying much and having a minimal role, Peter Stromrae delivers a truly amazing performance and steals a lot of the scenes he is in. It was truly and incredible performance. I mean, I've admired the man in other roles, both in TV and film, but this is the first time he has genuinely amazed me and made me see his enormous potential as an actor. You probably think I am overselling him but I don't care.Thirdly, the cinematography and editing are exceptional. Fargo is a fantastic looking movie and it is a visual treat. Even the costume and set designs look fantastic and well thought out. It is a very, very technically proficient movie.If I was to say one flaw, it'd be that the ending wraps up a little too quickly. I think it was overly abrupt and maybe an extra 5 minutes would have done to let it settle and flourish. Maybe that is just me but that is honestly my main flaw with the movie.In conclusion, I can wholeheartedly say that I recommend Fargo. The comedic moments intertwine with the dramatic moments perfectly. They fit like a glove and do nothing to take away from the movie. The story is great, the acting is exceptional, the visuals are gorgeous; what is NOT to like in such a well rounded and thought out movie? Well I've already told you one thing but I challenge thee to find another. I highly recommend this movie; I'll rate it 9 'YARS' out of 10!


                
The Coen brothers flash the based on true story disclaimer for a real 1987 Minnesota incident. It's one of the misdirections. Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) hires two bumbling criminals Carl Showalter (Steve Buscemi) and Gaear Grimsrud (Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife and force his hard father-in-law Wade Gustafson to pay the ransom. Jerry is miserable working for Wade in his car dealership and he's in desperate need for cash. The kidnapping goes horribly wrong when more people get killed including a police officer. Pregnant sheriff Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) goes to investigate.This is a great movie. It has its funny moments. It has great visual touches, the quirky characters, and the off-kilter style that is the hallmark of the Coen brothers. Macy is incredible as the sniffling little weasel. It walks the absurd line between dark and comedy. It has plenty of both. It is simply wonderful.


                
If your looking for a good time watch this brilliant piece of movie magic concocted by those masters of majesty the Coens. Every time they step out they rock and this is no exception. Mrs Joel Coen (Fran Mcdormand) is lovely as Marge, Steve Buscemi (a personal fav) is Steve Buscemi, a foul mouthed crim with a silent deadly partner. They set out to kidnap William H Macy's wife so her rich dad will pay ransom and Will (Money Troubled Chump) can split it with the criminals. Like usual it ends up in betrayal and murder featuring guns axes and a woodchipper! Poor Steve killed and shoved in a woodchipper. Nasty Stuff! Great way to spend 90 minutes.9/10
Fargo is a film wherein the expertise of the Coen brothers creates gold!ALL their films are excellent, especially The Great Lebowski and O, Brother Where Art Thou.The Coens are adept at assembling excellent casts: ensembles if you will. But Fargo, of all their movies, has a magic element: if one ignores those amazingly white settings, the dialogue and characters would sing upon a stage. There is a constant flow, even through the 'car salesman' scenes which carries us into the home: to the seemingly neurotic wife and the (always) oppressive father-in-law. Dare one indicate that the script owes much to European theatre? Well, yes.Part of the charm (and one should accept that this is an EXTREMELY black comedy) revolves around the (almost) patois spoken. Oh, ja? OK. MOST of the charm, however, is based around Marge (Frances McDormand), a very pregnant Police Chief who has a mind like a steel-trap! Given that (at least for the males not within her immediate sphere of influence) her femininity and pregnancy would seem to detract from her investigation, she carries all before her. Marge Gunderson is a wonderful role model. What an irony that McDormand won 'best actress', in as much as her character was up against such powerful opposition. Still, I think the best irony was that her husband appeared to be a non-entity (although amazingly supportive - breakfasts, putting up with her snoring, and always a comforting arm) who, at the end of the film, proved to be a success in his own right.OK. I waxed lyrical. Macey, Buscemi and Stormare complete what is, essentially, a working ensemble. Is this good? You betcha!


                
Fargo is rightly named one of the best movies of the 90's. Featuring some outstanding performances, a great script and some beautiful cinematography. Frances McDormand rightly earned herself the Oscar for Best Actress portraying Marge Gunderson, chief of Brainerd police.Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) is facing financial troubles. He concocts a scheme to get more money to support a new project he is undertaking. Jerry hires two men (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife so he can get his rich father in law (Harve Presnell) to pay the ransom of $1,000,000. Unfortunately things get way out of hand.Fargo is a movie everyone needs to see. It is a mixture of many things. Crime, comedy, thriller, drama and romance. The screenplay is witty and packs many delights along the way. All the performances are perfect in this movie. The movies also is extremely true to life. The characters are not overdone or inhuman. Nothing seems unrealistic. If I were to name anything wrong with this movie it would be that it was too short. I really wanted it to continue on.4½/5.


                
This is a very good, darkly comic film. Its maybe a bit too short and rushed at the end, but then most Cohen films are that way. It has two great performances, by Steve Buscemi and Frances McDormand. The rest of the cast are good, but not quite as up to the standard. Follwing a vagurly sinister beginning, the plot gets way and it is a crazy one, crazy like Raising Arizona and the Big Lebowski. What follows is violence (one scene involving a woodchipper), the odd moment of humour, and a whole lot of whacky scenes, making for an entertaining film.


                
In wintery Minnesota, Jerry (William H. Macy) has big problems of his own making. Secretly deep in debt, he has few options, although he is married to the daughter of a very rich man, Wade (Harve Pressnell) and works as the manager of his father in law's car dealership. Wade dislikes Jerry, you see. Desperate, he turns to two seedy characters in Fargo, recommended by an auto mechanic, to kidnap his wife, forcing Wade to pay up. The trio will split the proceeds. One of the would-be nappers, Carl (Steve Buscemi) is a non-stop talker with a loose cannon. The other (Peter Stormare) is a blonde menacing giant who says hardly anything. A car from Wade's lot will be the operation vehicle. Almost immediately, there are problems. Huge ones. A highway patrolman pulls the vehicle over, as it still have dealership plates. As Carl starts to reason with the officer, the giant shoots the cop. They drag his body to a ditch. Not only this, a young couple sees the crime from their car and a high speed pursuit ends in their deaths, also. Now, a small city police officer, Marge (Frances McDormand), six months pregnant, must find the perps for these deaths while Wade, frantic, tries to negotiate for the life of his beloved daughter. Meanwhile, Jerry sinks deeper and deeper into lies and deceit. Despite Marge's pregnancy and small town roots, can she solve these crimes? This tantalizing film has a superb plot, careful direction, and an eye and ear for snowy venues and upper Midwest conversation. In addition, the cast is fabulous, with Macy, Mcdormand, Buscemi, Stormare, and all others pulling off performances of great power. Don't forgo Fargo, even though it has some rough violence. The film's magnitude is richly deserved.


                
This is a true story. No kiddin. It really is. It seems so bizarre and comical, but it is truly based on real events, only the names of the characters are changed. Fargo is about a financially struggling loser played by William H. Macey. His car business is going downhill and he is desperate for extra money. This dude comes up with the idea to fake a kidnapping of his own wife and collect the ransom monye which will be paid by the extremely wealthy father of his wife. Things go sour of course. And how terribly bad things get is the brilliance of this true story. The reason you must be reading this review is because you probably dont know the Coen Brothers (very well). Any fan of their work will watch everything they make, because these 2 brothers are the pinacle of absolute genius in american independent cinema. I just count the months every year waiting to see the next creation of these brothers who are both director, producer and writer of all their movies. With "Fargo" they made one of their best works. It became one their most popular ones too, even a series was made after this story.For those who have never seen a Coen Brothers film before, a little warning: the humor in "Fargo" is very subtle. The Coen Brothers are magnificent in portraying their characters in a way that can be interpreted in different ways. You can look at it as a drama, but simultaneously you can also laugh about it. These brothers walk this tightrope between comedy and drama as a brilliant circus trapeze act. It makes for an unforgettable watching experience. But some people just dont understand these black comedies. The Coen Brothers style is NOT straight comedy. It is twisted and dark, but true to life and endearing simultaneously.Acting performances are always great in all of the Coen Brothers movies. Just like in Quentin Tarantino's movies, these twin brother directors truly love and appreciate their actors. Excellent casting choices!Huge praise for the beautiful soundtrack by Carter Burwell and for the beautifully shot desolate winter spaces of Dakota by oscar nominated photographer Roger Deakins.Fargo has become a Coen Brother's favorite of mine. Not their best work, so if you like this one, please check out their earliest work and the classic "No Country for Old Men", those are all ultimate masterpieces of modern american cinema!


                
This dark comedy based on real-life events is the movie that defined the Coen brothers as the influential filmmakers they are today. With their incredible writings and their wittiness of genre-mixing, these two have made one of the most recognizable names in Hollywood. set in the snowy town of Fargo, North Dakota, this film stars William H. Macy as Jerry Lundegaard, a car dealer obsessed with being wealthy who hires a duo of ruthless criminals Carl Showalter (played by Steve Buscemi) and Gaear Grismud (played by Peter Stormare) to kidnap his wife Jean and exchange her for a large amount of money by her father. Before too long when the plan goes terribly wrong and turns into a bloodbath, this heinous crime gains the attention of a pregnant police officer Margo Gunderson (played by Frances McDormand) who comes into investigation. What comes from this crime story is some amazing performances by a talent cast, a polished screenplay, and some of the most elegantly written characters ever put to screen.As this is a Coen brothers film, instead of conveying a straight dark tone, this film illustrates a dark and gritty story with a touch of humor sprinkled throughout its story. And with no little surprise, the Coen brothers achieve this quite well. From the opening scene, we are introduced to William H. Macy's character who is quickly learn is up to no good, and does compelling job at hiding his mischievousness from his wife and son. Nearly every scene of his presence is unpredictable and leaves you attention glued to him. Macy really stands out in this role and makes himself a good name for playing such a despicable husband and father his character is. The real fun however, occurs during the scenes of the two criminals played by Steve Buscemi and Peter Stomare, from the scene of kidnapping the main character's wife to the astonishing climax at the end. The story grows increasingly engaging and dark in the amidst of it's satirical tone, and every scene these two are in hits the right notes, whether they make you laugh or have you shocked to the edge of your seat. These two give such dazzling performances, especially Steve Buscemi who fits just right in his character considering his role he portrayed in Quentin Tarantino's 'Reservoir Dogs'. While these actors nail their roles, the biggest icing on the cake comes from Frances McDormand who gives a strong performance as the pregnant officer who goes on investigation of the crime. Standing as the most charismatic character, McDormand embraces her role diligently and never disappoints. It is no surprise her performance landed her an Academy Award.Fargo is a fun and entertaining experience, and the Coen brothers do a tremendous job. This a film with amazing performances, a spectacular screenplay, and well developed characters that stand strong. It is definitely one of the best works by the Coen brothers, and something every movie fanatic shouldn't miss. I am so ready to see their next film 'Hail Caeser!' as it now out in theaters this week.


                
Fargo,North Dakota isn't high on many's bucket list. But if you want to see this city turn into the setting for one of the most original and creative crime stories ever told, then sign up for this adventure from Joel and Ethan Coen. This original tale delivers plenty of laughs and lots of shocks. In an act of financial desperation, car salesman Jerry Lundegaard (William H.Macy) hires two boozy criminals to kidnap his wife so that he may split his wealthy father-in-law's ransom with them. However, everything falls apart due to the work of very pregnant cop Marge Gunderson (Frances McDormand) and poorly covered tracks. The characters laced with heavy Midwest accents all bring smiles to our faces no matter how evil or stupid they appear. Steve Buscemi, Frances McDorman and Willia H.Macy deliver one of a kind performances that are all memorable from the start. The Coens have crafted a story here with superb dialogue and wonderful wit that only the bright-minded and creative will appreciate, and this will go down as a classic fro generations to come.


                
