Neither the prison, nor Luke's decision to try to escape from it, makes much sense and, for me, that spoils the rest of the movie.NOW, I don't think it's any fun to be on a prison road gang, nor to spend any time in prison, no matter what the conditions. But up until the first time Luke tries to escape, it seems that, as a prison goes, this one is pretty mellow -- all the prisoners seem to get along, the guards (while clearly not nice guys) don't seem to bother anyone who follows the rules and, while you spend your days doing awful road work, everyone still seems to have lots of free time to play cards, strum the guitar, sing, have silly egg-eating bets (apparently it's no big deal to have the cook prepare 50 eggs to settle a bet) and chat. In many respects the place comes across as a really really strict summer camp. Even when Luke is put "in the box" after his mother dies, it seems unpleasant but not horrific.So all-in-all the prison feels a little too much like Stalag 17 on Hogan's Heroes -- where the camp seemed like a pretty mellow place to pass the war.Therefore, given that Luke seems to fit in well with his fellow prisoners and that he ONLY HAS A TWO YEAR SENTENCE, it seems a complete surprise when he makes a run for it. Part of the surprise is that Luke doesn't seem like an idiot (why run when you haven't got a lot of time left), nor are we shown or told of any frustration to get out that he's feeling.Now, of course, I don't believe that prisons were or are anywhere near resembling the relatively tolerable world we're shown here. And once Luke does start bucking the system, I believe what happens. But I find it hard to believe the central character's initial motives when there doesn't seem to be much to be running from and, from what we know of his backstory, he's got nothing in particular that he's running to.
Maybe I missed the point of two hours of shirtless, sweaty men doing the same things over and over again.  Perhaps the 23-minute (I wasn't exactly counting) egg eating scene had some sort of life-altering resonance.  But I'm wagering the filmmakers had a bet as to how long they could show a grown man eating a particular foodstuff before people started trying to slit their wrists with the thin edge of their movie tickets.  Watch the movie in fast-forward and you'll get the gist, and miss none of the nuance. (Alternate title: "Rebel Without a Competent Editor.")


                
Do you know (and do you care?) that this highly-praised, much-beloved, "Rebel-Without-A-Cause" prison picture is actually a bit of a Bible story in disguise? It's true! With deliberate intent, director Stuart Rosenberg saw to it that Newman's Lucas Jackson character was viewed as being something of a Christ figure. That's right. Throughout the story Lucas was portrayed as being an anti-hero saint who first wins over his fellow man and then is ultimately crucified.After Lucas wins the egg-eating bet this Christ-like persona is made even more apparent when he is left lying out on the table in the position of Christ at crucifixion. As well, Luke sings the little ditty "Plastic Jesus" after learning of his mother's death. And near the end of the film Luke "talks" to God. This moment was meant to evoke the conversation that supposedly took place between Christ & God at the Garden of Gethsemane.All-in-all - I found this whole religious angle to the story to be very unwelcome. To me, Lucas was nothing but an apathetic loser who deserved to go to prison for foolishly cutting the heads off of dozens of parking meters. And this religiousness just rendered this 1967, Florida, chain-gang picture as being even more of a dim-witted dud than it already was.As I understand it, Cool Hand Luke is considered by many to be a glowing, glittering gem of classic, American film-making. But, hey, that's certainly not how it struck me! Cool Hand Luke was, pretty much, just an over-long tale about an unlikable, smirking loser. Its underlying message was as pretentious as a frickin' plastic crucifix.Containing endless "filler" scenes that were clearly meant to showcase its big-name star, Paul Newman, this picture seemed to be more interested in giving the viewer endless opportunities to admire our star's baby-blue eyes, rather than anything else.Personally, I thought that, at 42, Newman was way too old for his part.It struck me as really peculiar that throughout the story it was repeatedly insinuated that Newman's character was a very complicated individual. But, time & again, I never learnt anything worthwhile about him, at all.I also found this film had a really annoying tendency to deliberately warp the rules of morality. This was particularly so when it came to the belligerent conduct of the prisoners and their clear defiance and disrespect of those in the position of authority.
A repetitive and uninteresting narrative about a pretty uninteresting guy who just seem to be stubbornly and stolidly provocative, without much interest for his own health, to the point of becoming hyperbolic and unrealistic in many places, or at least to lose all sympathy by the viewer.The way the movie starts is the right promise for the entire movie: random incidents that put to test his endurance and show off his hard head. The ending is in no way more telling, it actually just looks like a way to escape the storyline which by that time had pretty much nothing else to say. If you put the movie in the historical context of the years it came out, you can understand it might have had an appeal, but that appeal is pretty dumb to meA few nice touches are blues musical references here and there.Otherwise boring storyline and annoying Paul Newman


                
