Set in the rural south, a man serves time on a chain gang after vandalising parking meters. When inside, he stubbornly refuses to bow down to anybody, be it the prison authorities or his fellow inmates. Soon, though, he becomes a symbol of hope to the other prisoners and his rebellious nature teaches them that their integrity is the most important thing they have.This anti-authoritarian film is very much in a similar mould to Bonnie and Clyde which also came out in 1967. In both of these films the establishment are shown to be the bad guys and the criminals anti-heroes deserving of our sympathy. With this in mind it would only be fair to say that, like Bonnie and Clyde, Cool Hand Luke could be regarded as one of the very first New Hollywood movies. It certainly is a film which indicates that the cinematic norms were changing. It's also one of the first of a new type of prison drama which tried to reach for more authenticity. In many ways it is a precursor to the classic incarcerated-man-against-the-system movie One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975). For me, it's not in the same league as that one but it's pretty obviously a very influential work. It benefits from a good ensemble cast, with Paul Newman leading the picture very well, with impressive support in particular from George Kennedy who would go on to win an Oscar for his efforts.


                
Interesting flick about the deprivations and subhuman conditions of a chain gang and a rebel prisoner to whom wardens will attempt to break his free spirit . Based on a real story by Donn Pearce who wrote the novel on which the movie is based , he spent 2 years on a chain gang for safe-breaking ; Pearce makes a cameo appearance in the movie as a convict named Sailor . It deals with Luke (Paul Newman ) who is sent to a prison camp , where he gets a reputation as a hard man . He becomes a prisoner on a Southern chain gang , there the head of the gang hates him , and attempts to break him by beating him up . It doesn't work, and he gains respect and not even the deprivations of these wrong conditions will break his spirit . Irrepressible Luke even manages to win the admiration of his rival (George Kennedy) in the chain gang . Luke is visited by his ill mother (Jo Van Fleet was only 11 years older than Paul Newman , Bette Davis was first offered the role of Luke's mother, but refused the bit part) ; after that , Luke refuses to conform to life in a rural prison and he getaways , but is caught, but escapes again .Modern slant on chain gang sub-genre with one of Paul Newman's greatest interpretations from his prestigious and long career , here as an obstinate , stubborn prisoner . George Kennedy's acting was equally excellent and deservedly won him a supporting Academy Award . Rosenberg's magnificent direction that underlines the strength of personalities involved , undercutting the less pleasant aspects and putting the focus squarely on Newman's tough performance and including the memorably unforgettable egg-eating contest . Top-notch secondary cast who gives splendid performances as Strother Martin , Lou Antonio , Wayne Rogers , J.D. Cannon , Dennis Hooper , Harry Dean Stanton , Morgan Woodward , Joe Don Baker , and Ralph Waite , Anthony Zerbe's film debuts , among others . Good sets and fine scenarios , as a Southern prison camp was built just north of Stockton, California , a dozen buildings were constructed, including a barracks, mess hall, warden's quarters, guard shack, and dog kennels . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Conrad L. Hall . Atmospheric musical score by Lalo Schifrin in his usual style .Stuart Rosenberg was one of the best TV directors of the 50s and 60s and subsequently realized segment of crime and mystery series . In 1967 directed his first film , ¨Mystery Inc¨ , and subsequently the successful ¨Cool Hand Luke¨ with Paul Newman . Rosenberg and Newman attempted in vain to repeat the formula in three further movies together as ¨WUSA movie¨, ¨Pocket money¨ and ¨The drowning pool¨ . However he achieved other two hit smashes , in the terror genre with ¨The Amityville horror¨ and again with a prison film titled ¨Brubaker¨. Since then Rosenberg's output has been unsatisfactory and sporadic as ¨The Pope of Greenwich village ¨ a Mickey Rourke vehicle . Rosenberg directed 5 actors in Oscar nominated performances: Peter Falk, Paul Newman, Lee Grant, Geraldine Page and of course George Kennedy with his top-drawer performance as Dragline . Rating : Above average , wholesome watching . Essential and indispensable seeing for the Paul Newman's fans .


                
Forty years ago. When I first saw this, I was completely captured by it. I was a simple soul who believed in simple situations. It was a bad time, a time of evil politicians and a bad war. This resonated, as a strong soul, casually defiant. It mattered in an affirmative way, to the emerging counterculture (what we thought was such, anyway).Twenty years ago, I saw it again and was struck by the genre nature of it. The 30's was the previous era where the powerful establishment was distrusted and people suffered as a result. In that time prison movies formed a strong genre that has all but disappeared now. But the then it was a subgenre to have an innocent, good man, often a war hero, sent to prison to suffer at the hands of the man. By simple dint of Biblical-quality goodness, he wins in some way. The viewers silently celebrate, and then left the theater to fight their own fights with the system.It struck me how similar this was to that template, and how similar the reasons. The only difference was that in the 30s the audience would be swept toward socialist ideals and in the sixties the war was against some disembodied notion of domino communism. And the genre had to be hidden by setting it in the south, then as now evoking a backward people.But I just saw it again. Since the last time I have heard Paul Newman speak of it. He is annoyed because he can see himself obviously acting. His character works when the character is acting a role <U+0097> and we see him do it. Its an unintentional fold, the sort of acting that Paul could pull off in later years, starting with "The Verdict." But because the job is bigger than his chops at the time, you can see how poorly he does when his character isn't creating a self: when he comes back to the barracks beaten. When he speaks to God. Even when he says that famous last line. He is inadequate, and the idea that a lessor self could be so attractive kept him drunk for decades.Its really not a very good movie: a collection of templates put together at the right time and striking a nerve.A pretty remarkable phenomenon. Now, I wonder, where is the modern equivalent of this film, one that seems to be about charm, but which depends on dishonest politicians who destroy us? Will it be a jail movie, or does that reference not carry the same weight today?As I write this, Paul is ill.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.
Cool Hand Luke (1967)A movie famous as an anti-establishment send-up and for the charming, smiling Paul Newman. Worth seeing for either reason. It does have comic moments to talk about--egg eating among them--and it has an especially low point for the treatment of women, even though it is justified internally by the characters. Most of the time it's a well paced, well acted chain gang movie, with one getaway (that's no spoiler--all prison movies have getaways) that is an homage or ripoff of the 1932 LeRoy chain gang movie to beat all chain gang movies.Because the movie is clearly set in the past, it doesn't indict the prison system directly, but does critique the problem of authority, and of what exactly is a punishment suitable for petty crime. I don't know if the title character (played by Newman) is an anti-hero exactly (he lacks any true badness) but there is no doubt by halfway through who the true good guy is. And by the end, the Christian symbolism is overwhelming. If Cool Hand Luke the man isn't quite what you think of as messianic, he still does at least show what it means to be good in very ungood circumstances. It's a complicated thing to be a hero, and to survive those who are threatened by those better than them, and in the end, that's what the movie is about. Compelling if never amazing, and most of all enjoyable.


                
Spoilers`Cool Hand Luke' is a film I have wanted to see for over a decade, and I was not disappointed when, this weekend, I finally did.  `Cool Hand Luke', the story of a fairly ordinary man named Luke (Paul Newman) who does one stupid (and pretty harmless) thing that ends up being his eventual downfall, is definitely a film that is a lot deeper than it may initially seem to be. Luke's evolution is like peeling away the layers of an onion; one mistake begets another, then another and so on.  `Cool Hand Luke' also challenges the viewer to possibly question their own moral fiber; `Is what he did that bad?' `Does he deserve what he is getting?' `Cool Hand Luke' sports some pretty interesting shots (I never thought I would see an extreme close-up of Harry Dean Stanton's singing mouth, nor do I ever think I want to again), pretty great acting, (George Kennedy won an Oscar for convincingly playing a real cracker) and a veritable `who's who' of virtually as-yet-undiscovered young male actors.  I managed to spot Joe Don Baker, Dennis Hopper, the aforementioned Harry Dean Stanton, and a couple of other actors that I was convinced I'd seen in subsequent films or television.  Probably the most obvious theme that I noticed in `Cool Hand Luke' is that it is definitely a `man's film'.  There are exactly two women in the film and they are each featured for less than five minutes each <U+0096> one being Luke's dying mother who comes to visit him in prison, and the other is the oft-imitated (and completely objectified) woman washing her car and taunting the road gang.  `Cool Hand Luke' is a film that on the onset is a fairly straightforward film, but upon reflection, even during the course of the film itself, is quite layered and thought provoking.  In addition to being hailed as a film classic, there are several films that have obviously used it as an inspiration, the most obvious being `The Shawshank Redemption' and `Oh Brother Where Art Thou'.  Nothing is black and white in this film, which I think is one of the factors that make `Cool Hand Luke' a classic.--Shelly
Rabble-rouser from the 1960s isn't as fresh (or as hard-hitting) today as it must have been in its time. Hell-raising ne'er-do-well with nothing to lose winds up on a prison chain-gang, setting a new pace for the guards and other inmates. Fairly straightforward crowd-pleaser, though with odd flickers of melodrama, heightened by Stuart Rosenberg's overeager direction and Lalo Schifrin's mercurial score. In its latter stages, the overlong film appears to aspire to loftier meanings, but for the most part it's Chain-Gang 101--though well-played by Paul Newman, Oscar winner George Kennedy, and a solid, sometimes funny and colorful supporting cast. The central character's sunny rebellion turns serious by the midway point, and director Rosenberg overdoses on inmate clichés, but one is so apt to be drawn to Newman's characterization that the sour residue the movie leaves behind is not likely to catch up to viewers until later. *** from ****


                
This film has been referenced many time through the years and I decided it was time I finally checked it out for myself. Some reviewers seem to think that being cool and being a loser are mutually exclusive, but to me Luke proves otherwise. Or perhaps that depends on what characterizes cool to the viewer. I can see why his fellow prisoners seeing Luke as cool and aspire to be like and admire him. Newman does give a solid, interesting and enjoyable performance. I think Kennedy creates an equally important and realistic character as Luke's lead admirer type and champion, equal in importance to the story as Luke's character. Is Luke really a wronged, non-conformist hero to be admired and someone others can learn from about how to go through life? Absolutely not. However, he and Kennedy do represent two of life's types, and even though this film is not the great film some espouse it is still worth checking out.


                
Cool Hand Luke may have been about a prisoner who played it fast and loose but I saw parallels between his treatment and the treatment of slaves. Yes, he was a convict which is what got him sentenced to a prison work camp but the real slave treatment came after he attempted to escape.They broke him. Through physical, mental, and psychological torture they broke him. Such that he was willing to do whatever they said just to end the torment. His options became: happily serve or die. But he was Cool Hand Luke so how could he be broken?Whether that was the intended conveyance of the movie or not, that's what screamed at me. There's no place in the south for a Cool Hand Luke.


                
This is a movie that was much more interesting than I thought it would be. It is, at its core, a Gospel-like story of a troublemaker in the South in the middle part of the 20th century. He faces various challenges, develops some apostles, and is ultimately betrayed and killed. Sound familiar?The Christ symbolism is, at times, a bit forced. After the sixth time that we see Paul Newman astride a crucifix or crucifix-like object, the whole thing felt a bit redundant to me. Some of the lines are wonderfully iconic, and the classic "What we've got here is failure to communicate," was brilliant to hear. Newman does do a great job, and the plotting is well done.
Powered by Paul Newman's charismatic performance & permeated with explicit religious imagery, Cool Hand Luke is a finely crafted, wonderfully layered & brilliantly performed character study that manages to be captivating for the most part and with its anti-establishment tone, it becomes much more than just another prison drama.Cool Hand Luke tells the story of a war veteran who's sentenced to 2 years in prison for destroying public property and refuses to be broken down by the harsh life behind the bars. As the days pass by, he earns the respect of all inmates but when a tragic incident compels him to escape from the facility, the next set of events put his seemingly unbreakable will to test.Directed by Stuart Rosenberg in what's his directorial debut, Cool Hand Luke keeps its eponymous character at the forefront at all times and keeps everything light & amusing during the first half, as we witness Luke's endeavours not only garnering him other inmates' respect & admiration but also providing them a sense of hope in what's usually a monotonous life in a confined environment.Rosenberg's direction is good but the screenplay is still better, for it packs a sufficiently fleshed & versatile set of characters while the plot itself follows an interesting trajectory, which the director is unable to make full use of. The story is quite engaging but few moments are either overdrawn or lack the desired emotional punch. It does, however, make good use of wit and religious elements are wisely applied.The sun-baked frames & bright colour palette beautifully reflect the scorching surrounding these prisoners are made to work in. Coming to the performances, Paul Newman delivers another stellar input in the leading role and he is excellently supported by George Kennedy who contributes with an impressive performance of his own, while Morgan Woodward steals his scenes without ever uttering a single word.On an overall scale, Cool Hand Luke is a fascinating study of a rebellious character who refuses to conform to the norm and, in his attempt to upset the established order, is idolised by his inmates and ultimately becomes a sort of messiah to them. It also has a thing or two to say about the brutal system that's much capable of breaking every spirit & crushing every hope to submit anyone who doesn't play by its rules. Cool, composed & compelling in more ways than one, Cool Hand Luke is definitely worth a shot.


                
At it's time in 1967 "Cool Hand Luke" was clearly a masterpiece a work of art in it's time frame with it's main theme being to learn to adapt to the rules of conformity. Set in the rural south classy Paul Newman plays Luke a southerner who's rebellious and a loner. So upon his arrest for another petty crime it's off to a camp that's rural just like a work style road prison. The work is harsh ranging from digging ditches, shoveling dirt, and cutting and chopping hay. Along the way for Luke learning to adapt is a struggle, yet help is provided from fellow prisoner Dragline(George Kennedy)I must say that George gives a fine and likable performance by showing his character could be such an anti establishment role model. Very memorable is the accent and performance of camp captain played by Strother Martin who chills Luke with one of the most memorable and famous lines in cinema history "What we've got here is... failure to communicate" Though the film is not a modern day prison film and seems outdated to some the film is with rich humor and clever in it's own way. Especially during the chase scene when Luke uses pepper to throw off the smell of the chasing dogs. And the storytelling is powerful with the scenes of the inmates communicating by folk music and hymns. Overall a powerful film about trying to adjust to conformity, and it shows at the same time it's so hard when a strong detached and indifferent character like Luke is just so prone to the crime of non conformity.


                
Death is the only possible way to end a story about a man who refuses to conform. Isn't it sad to see that any attempt to break the rules are predestined to be a failure. The rules are what bring us together and it's not an easy task to change them. In the short run the rebel is doomed to defeat. Change may come further on, but then the hero is dead. Just like Jesus died for our sins according to Christian mythology.This story has been told many times and one of the most beautifully filmed versions is "Cool Hand Luke" with Paul Newman as the non-conformist hero. Another story about rebels wanting to lead lives of their own is "Easy Rider" with Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper made two years later. Take the opportunity to see that one at the same time when you are in the mood for suffering with rebels facing defeat.
A drunken Luke Jackson (Paul Newman) is arrested for cutting parking meters. He is sentenced to two years in prison run by a sadistic dictatorial warden. He is confronted by the leader of the prisoners Dragline (George Kennedy). After a boxing match where Luke refuses to quit and winnig a poker hand by bluffing, he is given the name "Cool Hand Luke". He wins over the prisoners including Dragline but raises the ire of the warden.There are many things to praise about this movie. There are the great performances from Newman and George Kennedy. There is the iconic line "What we got here is .. failure to communicate." It's a great anti-establishment hero just in time for its volatile era. The only minor problem is the flow of the movie. The problems for Luke keeps coming. The tension doesn't really build. It feels a little bit repetitive. Neverthelees, it doesn't really detract from its iconic status.


                
Paul Newman & Strother Martins famous line is what people remember about this movie. The cast is a good one from the late 1960's, with no only Martin but fine second banana George Kennedy on board. Over-all the film is very good.The only thing that is lacking is the sequences With Newman being tortured sometimes seemed a little stretched- especially the hard boiled egg sequence. This film like many of Paul Newman's career tries to mix some light comedy and drama.Newman is one of the first top movie star actors to start out more on television rather than in live theater. It shows in the way he plays to the camera more effectively than some of the actors from the other back ground. What we got here is a good film that doesn't quite make the grade as a great film. We are a few eggs short of sealing the deal here.


                
I think that the characters of Newman and Nicholas (one Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest) are very similar in the way that they both have knowing smiles and beaming confidence. I think that Nurse Ratched is the Manager with the sun glasses in this film just like her hat showing power and both Newman and Nicholson don't like authority heads. I feel that they are both really just rebellious unlike what they are made out to be which are a whack job and a very bad criminal that have really done minimal damages apart from the under age sex ordeal with Nicholson. With the scene with the eating of the eggs the scene with the voting to watch the game is when they really are both accepted and both scenes are equal bringing all of the characters together.The main scene that stood out to me was the escape scenes as you really wanted him to get away and for the film to end for his safety. But my favourite scene was the egg scene. He ate 50 of them, I liked the scene as it was when he was accepted into the group, it also had some humour not only eating 50 eggs he was bloated with an over-sized stomach, this also made me feel sick just the thought of an eggs makes me feel sick, I literally start gagging, yuck. I think the ending was very when he was shot, although was killed but also escaped from the enclosure but not the way he wanted to. With his smirk on his face maybe also realising.There are stars and then there are actors like Paul Newman who is iconic for this role and many others like Butch Cassidy. The cocky motion of Cool Hand Luke may wobble from time to time but Newman's magnetic personality lends the film some weight. I love that is shot in widescreen. The story is quite straightforward with a anti-authoritarian story to a macho tall tale and winds up ultimately as somewhat of a curious and incomplete Christ tale. Luke represents man's journey from Genesis to Jesus' death. He was living in a perfect world, or eden, where everything was free and such, but Luke decides to leave by doing a very stupid act in retrospect. When Dragline questions Luke about this, Luke replies, 'Well you can't stay in Eden for too long.' Luke doesn't feel too bad about being sent to camp until he realises that it is unlivable once his mother dies; the only way out? to escape, but in the bible, the way for individuals to escape the restrained world was for Jesus to die, just like Luke. Also, Luke is able to motivate a great number of people to finish tarring the road quite easily. Dragline represents Judas, turning Luke in. But all the same stay very engaging. The film is filled with quotable lines such as 'What we've got here is a failure to communicate.' and memorable scenes. It is light in meaning but is full of cultural significance. A great deal of Cool Hand Lukes greatness is the supporting roles from Dennis Hopper and George Kennedy as Newmans Rival turned right hand man. But Luke doesn't clarify his motives, he seems as if he was put there for a challenge, inviting a conflict with the system to see if he can win. It isn't till the conclusion that the rebellion seems to be more free-spirited. The thing that makes one certain character quite dominant is the use of the sun glasses by the manager hiding his eyes; eyes are the doors to the soul.Unlike the other prisoners Luke rejects the prison conformity's that come with the enclosure and his unco-operative stand leads to tradegy. If Cool hand Luke is about how far one man can push the system, it's also about what happens when the system pushes back.


                
A well-made Stuart Rosenberg film with signature role for Newman as the offbeat loner Luke Jackson. A fine performance. Jo Van Fleet is wonderful as his mother (in one brief scene) and Strother Martin is incredible as always as the Warden. George Kennedy won an Oscar and plays his usual mule-headed, low IQ bully type (but he is effective\A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Strother Martin. Dennis Hopper interesting as Babaloogotts. Other great characters (Harry Dean Stanton, J.D. Cannon, Warren Finnerty, Morgan Woodward, Luke Askew, etc.). Joy Harmon has revealing presence washing a car. Everybody should enjoy this one.


                
Luke, Paul Newman (Nobody's Fool) gets drunk and cuts the heads off parking meters and is charged with disorderly conduct and destruction of government property. He goes to a road gang prison. The type of sentencing is done through work rehabilitation, he and all the inmates work on roads in a chain gang.  The warden tries to change Luke, but he has a hard will and he gets into several conflicts with the warden.  Luke is the favorite of  all the inmates because of his resilient spirit, but the warden and his chief guard with his mirror sun glasses remain determined to break him. Methods such as the warden ordering Luke to make a hole in the ground which Luke does, when he is done the warden asked him "What is this dirt doing here? Put it in the hole!";  then when the hole is filled the warden asks him why is there dirt in his hole and makes him dig the hole again. A really annoying warden. Luke ends up dead, because he would rather die than change. Famous quote: "What we have here is failure to communicate!" Men tend to like this movie more than women do.


                
The first half of 'Cool Hand Luke (1967)' almost purposefully lacks drive, instead taking its time to set up the everyday routine of prison life and establish its key characters. The the second half - marked by a brilliant, and nail-bitingly tense, egg eating contest - picks up the pace as the story really kicks into gear. The point of the picture really becomes clear once the central character starts trying to escape, which also leads to some really fun sequences. Newman's great performance is so emotive that you're incredibly invested in his iconic free-spirited character right up until the tragic and powerful ending. 7/10


                
Everyone knows the famous line: "What we have here is a failure to communicate." It's been quoted and spoofed so often that when you finally watch the original in Cool Hand Luke, you'll probably burst out laughing.But Cool Hand Luke is actually a drama, and a really great movie to come out of the 1960s. Unlike many films from the decade, it stands the test of time and earns its place as a true classic. Paul Newman plays Luke, a rebellious chain-gang prisoner determined to stand up to the prison guards and escape, if he can. It's an exciting, tension-filled ride, with Paul Newman in his bad-boy prime. Even if prison movies aren't your genre of choice, give this one a chance. It's full of iconic moments, and Paul Newman is extremely easy to root for.


                
27 years before The Shawshank Redemption, there was another movie about a person who didn't want to let the prison bend himself and make him give up on his ways. The thing Andy Dufresne and Luke have in common is that they both are gutsy and stubborn fellows. But, unlike Mr Dufresne, Luke doesn't seem to have much wits.Now, the whole fifty years after the film's been released, it's really hard to tell why it's become such a cult classic. I guess it was once a very relevant representation of the people's dream of a wayward hero. A person men would secretly envy and women would openly worship. But these fifty years had certainly changed our world, just like they have changed us. And if back in 1967 we'd probably have been captivated by the reckless stubbornness of a person put in constraining, albeit still very mild, conditions, and if in 1994 we'd be swept away by an everlasting will of a person who believes that no prison, however harsh, is worth giving up on remaining a human being, then today's hero would probably try to avoid the jail's heat at all.Having said that, I really don't think that Cool Hand Luke is still able to uphold its former status. It's by no means a bad film. On the contrary, it's a fine piece of cinema. But definitely not thanks to the rebel spirit it was once meant to convey. Just like a 20 year old hotshot people once admired for his daring and bravery, who in fifty years becomes a tiny and quiet white-haired old man kids like to play around, this film is appealing not because it's bold - but because it shows the precious naivety of the old ways, when prison was almost as liberal as the army, while twice as fun, and when people with guns were still soft on the people in chains. Back then, this story could have been about one person's victory over the cold system. But today, it's more like a showcase of one dumb idiot who couldn't simply enjoy the life he was given. Which, considering the modern day hardships, both inside and outside the prison walls, is not heroic but rather plain stupid.


                
Cool Hand Luke is a nice and entertaining motion picture with a new taste of prison life depiction. It would be better to look at the good and bad sides hand in hand.The movie shows the life of a decorated war veteran in prison where he finds and dislikes the lots of rules, regulation, bosses and captain. He meet other prisoners and soon win over them. He always wishes to escape but one brutal act by the authorities during his mothers death makes him to escape. The third and final escape turns out to be fatal for him.It starts with rather unclear reason of Luke getting in prison. Now when its Paul Newman as Luke, certainly his acting was enjoyable with feel good events. Even then the script didn't seem going together and fit with his acting, yet both script and acting were good. The plot is new, entertaining and enjoyable with few beautiful depiction of human behaviour in fine manner and tough circumstances. Dialogues, were just good and fun to hear. The escape sequences were special attractions. Supporting actors were weak and not to the match with Newman yet don't know why Oscar awards saw it differently. The film is certainly not the greatest or good movie, here no doubt it got no Oscar nomination except for acting performances, but nevertheless Cool Hand Luke can be liked.
Paul Newman gives a fine performance in director Stuart Rosenberg's tale of "born loser" Lucas 'Luke' Jackson, who is sentenced to a southern chain gang after he, in a drunken stupor, cut the tops off a row of parking meters. The captain of the chain gang(Strother Martin, superb) tries to tell the new men that he doesn't want any trouble, so he wont give any trouble. The overseer of the chain gang at work is called "Boss"(Morgan Woodward, memorable in his shaded sunglasses, and never says a word!) George Kennedy plays "Dragline", the veteran of the group who dislikes Luke at first, but later changes his mind when he sees how defiant Luke is, with his repeated escape attempts and eating 50 eggs. The captain is determined to break Luke, in order to make an example of him, and squash this "cool hand" talk.Fine character study with solid performances and an insightful script that deals with defiance of authority, and one's fate as a consequence, and whether such a thing is even wise in the circumstances. Luke is no saint, though sympathetic, and certainly no role model, which is the central point I think...


                
Another modern analogy of a Christ like martyr. He is a philosophical prisoner of the establishment sacrificing himself and showing "the way" to the downtrodden and the social rejects.Some of the symbolism is heavy handed, like the crucifying position on the supper table and the "disciples" living from the shedding of "His" blood. But generally it is portrayed as nothing more than a depression era depiction of the system corrupting the spirit and the soul of the less fortunate looking for light to brighten the darkness.He did shake up the world the "old man" put him in, but whether he made a difference beyond the boundaries of the box is left up to us. What is clear is the communication of consent was indeed a failure. Was he a messianic man or just a plastic Jesus?


                
By today's standards, this prison story is pretty tame. But for 1967, this is a pretty good drama. Seeing Paul Newman is always a treat, plus George Kennedy in a strong role is pretty good also. This contains one of the all time classic scenes. The egg eating contest.Early appearances by Dennis Hopper, Harry Dean Stanton, Wayne Rogers, and Joe Don Baker (his first movie) is a bonus.This also gave Guns 'N' Roses their opening line for "Civil War".This is a little overrated, but still a classic movie. 4 out of 5 stars.


                
