...and The Wonder Years doesn't even come close! The running commentary of the voices in these guys heads makes this series more dynamic and less banal than The Office, to which some comparison has been made due to the office job of the uptight, self-tormenting guy, Mark. His roommate is a layabout free spirit wannabe musician named Jez. Their relationship is not quite as stereotyped as an Oscar & Felix, but they are both still somewhat misfit outsiders hanging together.This show has a lot of energy and edginess -like a slightly less gutter-psychotic, more upscale Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! in a sort of Sex Pistols vs Oasis/Blur way. The character are also more sympathetic than those of the Office or Black Books for instance -due to a great deal to the way our Boys minute by minute hopes and fears are articulated.There is nearly always chaos, torment, madness or complete boredom around each corner -like the non sequiter appearances and conversation of Jez's putative bandmate and the local kids who harass Mark at inopportune times and call him a 'peedo' -a pedophile.There have been some great TV shows about silly people doing silly things -like AliG, Goodness Gracious Me!, The Amazing Boosh, Red Dwarf, Black Adder, Fawlty Towers, Reginald Perrin and the Trailer Park Boys, and I think that Peep Show will end up right up there among them as a fondly remembered comedy classic.Just as American TV has had a bit of a comedy revival of late with Arrested Development (RIP) and My Name is Earl, the same could be said of Britcoms thanks to clever shows like Peep Show with its unique POV and its sympathetic and (semi)realistic characters.


                
One of the best compliments that I can give a show or a film is that I'd certainly watch it whilst eating a meal. Sounds odd, but it's true. If I can't get into something when I'm eating, I'm not going to enjoy it at all. I must have watched every episode of Peep Show over a meal, whether it was lunch or dinner.The constant mayhem, awkwardness and exaggeration is present from episode one, right through to episode 54. The awkward, messy lives that both Mark and 'Jez' lead, alongside drug-addicted pal Super Hans means that there is always an opportunity for disaster around every single corner.I can't quite remember one bad episode of this show. Each one is funny for one reason or another.I would certainly recommend this show to anybody who is looking for something to watch (Whether over a meal or not), perfect for long journeys, evenings in, or a winter day filler.


                
I caught this in the States on DVD after hearing great things about it - it is brilliantly done - Season 3 had some of the most hilarious, cringe-inducing craziness I had ever seen - I loved the episodes where Jez thinks he can have a threesome with his old girlfriend and THEN dump her since Big Suze is back and then the one where the bathroom door is broken and poor Mark has the stomach flu while Jez has a tripping party - Mark is one of the best sad sack characters to come down the pike in a long time - like a British George Costanza meets Ralph Kramden meets a James Thurber long suffering office drone. Well done and Sophie Winkleman is sexy and alluring as the temptress Big Suze. Funny, sad dark writing at it's best!


                
I got into this show about two years ago after buying it on DVD upon hearing some positive views. Peep show is an extremely creative and humorous show, which is based upon two characters (Mark and Jeremy) who couldn't be further apart in terms of their interests and general views of society. Mark brings in most of the laughs and if you purchase the season one DVD that is where he is in best form as he lusts for a firm black manager of his credit firm called Alan Johnson and becomes obsessed with a fellow work college called Sophie which he messes up in typical fashion during the first two seasons. Jeremy is a lazy slob who lives with Mark in his flat, and if he isn't getting stoned or wanking he is there at Mark's aid with his funny down to earth viewpoint on how Mark is messing up with his love life and life in general (don't worry this is funnier and smarter than it sounds). Unfortunately seasons three and four are not quite as funny as the original two seasons which gathered such a positive reception due to its originality but that's not to say that the newer seasons are bad. I would recommend this show to fans of original alternative comedy as Peep Show takes a different view through of a couple of mates who are looking for (the stereotypical lads view) of women and sex. A must watch.


                
Epitome of British Comedy - A good series to binge on a long weekend.


                
