"Monty Python's Flying Circus" is a blast. Plain and simple. Seeing an episode will cause the following symptoms: Laughter, tears, jaw aches, voice-loss(all of above caused by laughter). Most will laugh, some will just sit there at its silliness. Well whoever you are, give it a try. You either love it or hate it. Me? I love it.10/10


                
Any episode of Monty Python will reduce one to fits of laughing that will produce bouts of tears that will render the viewer on the ground.  Great physical comedy on all parts, but especially John Cleese in the Ministry of Silly Walks sketch, which is his least favorite sketch.  Great writing that walks that fine line between genius and silly, and meshes the two.  These guys also knew when and how to start end a sketch.  Still funny thirty years later, wish the same could be said about Saturday Night Live.  Too bad there wasn't some knight who could hit Lorne Michaels with a chicken.


                
Dear Sir, I am writing to complain about the silliness known as Monty Python's Flying Circus which plagues my television. The "jokes" are silly and pointless, and the sketches never have proper endings. I demand that this programme be removed from telly at once and replaced with programmes that are truly representative of the glories of British humour, such as Keeping Up Appearances and the BBC World News.Sincerely, Col. Arthur von Gambolputty-Dinsdale of Ulm (deceased) (Warning: This letter does not reflect the true feelings of the reviewer, who is a huge fan of Python and thinks that the above-mentioned gripes are the very reason that the show is awesome. The comedy still holds up after over 35 years, though several of the costumes and haircuts do not, and the mixture of zany oddball non sequiters, intellectual references and satires, and ingenious physical comedy makes Python something very special and unique. Viva Python! And remember, !las llamas son mas grande que las ranas!)


                
A gentleman (John Cleese) enters a pet shop and wants to register a complaint that the parrot that he had bought from that very boutique just half an hour ago was in fact a 'dead parrot'. The owner (Michael Palin) tries to convince him that the Parrot, a Norwegian Blue, was not really dead and was just resting. The argument continues and gets sillier and sillier until an army colonel (Graham Chapman) pops out of nowhere and stops the sketch abruptly because it was getting very silly. If this kind of humor doesn't interest you, read no further and plan on watching something else. But if it does and if you have not seen Monty Pythons Flying Circus you haven't seen nothing yet.Monty pythons pretty much invented and perfected their unique brand of humor which can be categorized as 'surreal'. One can argue that 'the Goon Show' was the archetype for Monty pythons, which is true, but then Monty Pythons took it to territories that had never been explored before. They created a world where you can get a government grant for silly walks or buy an argument in an argument clinic. A world in which a father and son could have the age old "romantic vs. a simple coal miner" argument, just that in this world the son is a regular coal miner whereas it's the father whose head is full of useless novels and poems. Just like the Beatles they took something and created something completely new out of it. The comparison is valid because Monty Pythons at their peak enjoyed the status of any of the rock stars in those days (including groupies) and the Beatles, George Harrison in particular, were their biggest promoters.Terri Gillian's stream of consciousness art work is pretty bizarre and holds all the sketches together. John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Michael Palin, Eric Idle and Terry Jones play all the characters (including women's) themselves with dead seriousness. This is insane humor at it's brilliant best.


                
I still need to see more of Monty Python's Flying Circus to make my un-official official declamatory mandated professional amateurish stated opinion on this, but this is quite the nifty little show they put on back in merry old England. A lame joke I tried for at Python humor, but really, once you see the show, and see at least a few episodes, you'll know whether it's the right kind of intelligently un-hinged absurdity for you. I didn't warm up to it at first, I thought it was maybe too smart, in a way, through its silliness to be taken much seriously, as the jokes are not of the common kind. But after getting in through the films, and seeing many a varied skit with the guys, I'm looking forward to seeing (and being able to quote to other people) the best they got.It's partly a stream-of-consciousness style show thanks to Terry Gilliam's spectacularly crude animations (through cut-outs mostly, and spoofing either classical paintings, architecture, movies, and of course dancing teeth), part social satire through various skits of people going into shops (Parrot), jobs, arguments (want to argue about an argument), the police, criminals, movies, sports, old ladies, politics, and other sorts of good diddies on all things in life. There's also the most random bits of comedy ever to come out of the 20th century, and I can only think of the basic things that might have you wanting to check it out. I love short skits, like the classic fish-slapping bit (there comes the BIG fish, heh), and over-the-top voices (Michael Palin, I think, does some of the best ones, like an introduction he does to a skit that reminded me of one of the voices in the Holy Grail trailer), and deranged costumes, and the richness of the silly dialog. Sure a skit might not hit the mark, but then I could them come back to it days later and be laughing about things not laughed at the first time around. There aren't too many, if much at all, conventional punchlines- the brilliant stuff comes in the random barbs that shoot up in the lines and the deliver, in a look that Cleese or Chapman might give at one point or another, or the lack of something that ends up coming around later in the bit, or maybe not. There's absolutely no shame in how tasteless some of this can get, be it with topical issues or just the little things everyday we tend to take for granted, but a tasteless sensibility without any net to fall on that's appealing. And, of course, the Lumberjack song and ministry of silly walks and . Bottom line, if there could ever be one with Flying Circus, if you think it's just stupid little goofy gags and skits going on, watch out for how rich the words fly out (err, in Circus-like fashion) the mouths of the Pythons. It's the mightiest heap of the inspiration-turned-ludicrous comedy to be found on any TV show. Other favorite skits: 'Most Awful Family in Britain', 'Self-Defence Class', 'Word Problem', and 'Kilimanjaro Expedition' among others.


                
I loved 'Monty Python's Flying Circus' as a youngster, even though, strange as it may seem now, I used to be frightened by it. Unlike say 'The Frost Report', the show was not actually about anything. Each episode had the look and feel of a nightmare; we saw terrible sights such as heads lopped off with razors, people puking their guts out, ten-ton weights falling on people, and human brains consumed with spoons. It was a brave person who stayed up late to watch this show. Characters would often cross over into different sketches, such a knight who kept hitting people with a rubber chicken, and 'The Colonel' who demanded items be terminated if they were too silly.The Pythons, as if you did not know, were John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam, and Eric Idle. It was an inspired collection for a comedy team; Cleese and Chapman were good at sketches in which there was lots of verbal abuse, Palin and Jones excelled at items which sent up film genres, Gilliam provided some disturbing animations, while Idle contributed well-written skits involving word play.In the first season, each episode opened with a bedraggled Palin emerging either from the sea or jungle to issue the following warning: "Its...". Flowers would then climb the screen, their petals opening to reveal the name of the show, to the strains of 'Liberty Bell' by Souza. The very first show kicked off with a sketch in which a city gent ( Jones ) asks a Yokel farmer ( Chapman ) just what his sheep are doing up in the trees. The farmer says that they have realised that their lives consist of standing around and waiting to be eaten, so they have decided to do something about it. We then cut to two Frenchmen ( Palin and Cleese ) in berets who demonstrate the commercial possibilities of flying sheep. From the reaction of the audience, its clear they are baffled rather than amused. 'Python' took time to catch on, but when it did, the public could not get enough of it.Season 2 is generally thought of as the best. 'The Ministry Of Silly Walks', 'The Spanish Inquisition', 'The Piranha Brothers', and 'The Semaphore Version Of 'Wuthering Heights' originated here. Clips of the show were regularly requested on 'Ask Aspel', a children's show hosted by Michael Aspel.After two excellent seasons and a movie, plus a couple of fun German specials, 'Python' went into decline, and John Cleese's departure was the final nail in the coffin. Season 4 was the last. Fortunately, the team reunited to make movies which, if anything, were funnier than the show, particularly 'Life Of Brian' ( 1979 ). The last one - 'The Meaning Of Life' ( 1983 ) ended with a clip of the title sequence of the very first television show, taking 'Python' full circle. Chapman's death in 1989 closed the door on Python for good. A brief reunion in 1999 - 'Python Night' - was a disaster, with Eddie Izzard unwisely trying to stand-in for the deceased star.I must squeeze in a quick mention of lovely Carol Cleveland, with whom I was madly in love in the early '70's. Her bra coming off at the end of 'Scott Of The Sahara' had a profound impact on me!
Monty Python's Flying Circus is superb British humor at it's best!  All the Monty Python movies were excellent, too!  My favorite actors in this are John Cleese and Eric Idle.  I have my older brother to thank for getting me into this show!   I got into Monty Python at the ripe old age of 11.  My brother was watching it one day, and I asked him if I can watch too.  He gave me his okay, and after I saw the delirious humor of this, I quickly became a fan!  And watched it everytime it came on.  I also own some Monty Python cassette tapes and my brother has some on vinyl!   I have far too many favorite Monty Python bits to name,some of my faves are "The Lumberjack Song", "It's the Mind", and "The Bishop"!  And who can forget that caveman who can only say, 'its'?   Also, anyone remember that one about the self-defense class involving a 'Poi-ted stick'?  Pure timeless classic!  Monty Python cracks me up all the time!   Even if you're not in a good mood, watching this will put you in one!  I highly suggest this to anyone who is a stickler for British humor. Also, watch their movies: The Holy Grail, And Now for Something Completely Different, and The Life of Brian.  I give Monty Python's Flying Circus 5 out of 5 stars!   Watch it if you can!


                
Monty Python's Flying Circus is a show with great comedy. It's so weird anything could be done in it. Like selling an albatross, or having a knight hit you with a chicken... It's so hilarious, you'll drop right off. It's a very classic show for people with British taste. The movies were good... but it never made a benchmark like the TV series did. People... get off trashy Saturday Night Live and try "Something Completely Different"!


                
The original sketch comedy show that has a very deserved cult following.It's... hilarious. It's... absurd. It's... very hard to describe, because it is so freakin' random! Almost every little sketch takes such bizarre twists and turns into something completely else that you'll literally never see it coming. Terry Gilliam's innovative, and equally absurd, animations are no different in their appearances between sketches. Often serving as transitions, but really this is just one side-splittingly funny compilation of sheer absurdity.Poking fun at just about everything that you could possibly imagine - talk shows, courts, daily life, the Spanish Inquisistion, the military, etc... - and it is all put together in a way no less random. Skits end unexpectedly, some shots are used many times, random characters appear only to speak one line, and all that makes for what is quite possibly the best crafted presentation of absurdity and chaos ever made. 10/10Not Rated and suitable for most viewers, but very cautious parents will undoubtedly object to the crude humor.


                
The Python group has been written about to death and their show is either seen as totally ingenious or the stupidest thing to ever be aired. My personal view is the former although some of the skits can be tedious and stretched out too long. Long before the wholesome, politically correct American sitcoms flooded European television you could actually get away with broadcasting this show which had sex, blood and violence (not graphic but more suggestive). John Cleese has often commented that very little censorship was actually enforced during previews of the show.Like most fans I think the parrot sketch is hilarious but it is not really my favorite. I can't really think of a favorite sketch I have because there are so many I find hysterical. One of them is the interview of Arthur "Two Sheds" Jackson which is some kind of parody of those boring art shows, where the man in the chair is supposed to be really respected and everybody is supposed to praise him. The Pythons like to poke holes in those people's arrogant facade and they are especially vicious when it comes to chartered accountants and religious organizations. I could go on forever describing the "meaning of Flying Circus" but I think the answer is very subjective. The only way is to judge for yourself. I cannot say that all people will find the show funny and it is not really a show for people who only like toilet humor like the Farrelly Bros. films. I will close by saying that the show is such an institution that "pythonesque" has been included in Oxford's dictionary much to the dismay or joy to the Pythons. Who knows, with them you can never be sure.
It is hard to put into words how much I like the "Flying Circus". Born just some years after it was produced, I can still remember how my whole class at school watched a replay of it on German TV at the end of the 80s (it was fortunately not dubbed, just subtitled) and we were always re-enacting the jokes the day after... Fortunately we had teachers who were also into Monty Python, including our English teacher who let us watch their movies. Now, almost 25 years later, they continue to make me laugh. But having grown up and having become a little bit more educated now allows me to produce an even sillier interpretation of their work. The thought underlying everything they did was basically that 99,9% of the things we humans do is practically meaningless. May it be starting or following a religion (Brian), undergoing expert treatment (Confuse-a-Cat Ltd. - a brilliant sketch), politics (Silly Walks) etc. And what made them even better is that they also took on the past with WW2 (the deadly joke, Hilter in England) and their medium TV/cinema in itself. Brian kidnapped by aliens - an early parody of science-fiction, isn't it? All this combined with to-the-point acting, sharp observations and top-notch writing - they were decades ahead of their time. If this did not deserve a 10/10 rating, I would not know what else.


                
The series was a landmark in television history and broke a number of taboos and boundaries. And there are scenes which have been and continue to be laugh-inducing, such as "Ypres 1914", "The Ministry Of Silly Walks", and "The Spanish Inquisition".But what really made Monty Python work was mainly not the jokes but the performances. If the actors hadn't been able to play everything straight, the whole thing would have fallen apart. The series depended not just on wit but on silliness and absurdity, which in itself isn't automatically funny. And many of the scenes are dated or funny only to Britons...and some of them are genuinely not funny. But not everything Charlie Chaplin was good either (and I'm talking about his early silent films as well as his late talkies.)


                
Monty Python's flying circus is possibly the funniest comedy sketch of all time. Eric Idle is personally my favorite. Full of completely random sketches including 'full frontal nudity', people having 16 ton weights being dropped on their heads, and pantomime horses. Starting in the 1960's, I think I can safely say that their has not been a better comedy sketch before or since. I recommend the earlier episodes, especially Episode 12: Upper Class Twit of the Year. Now I must warn you: DO NOT WATCH IF YOU ARE NOT SILLY! I'm pretty sure I've never seen a sillier show. But nonetheless, it is funny. I'm supposed to have ten lines of text, and I need one more. So here it is.
I first saw this show in 1981 when I was 10 because my mom thought PBS was airing a circus(bless her ignorance). The episode was the one with Scott of the Antarctic, the one where the lady runs down the beach and loses articles of clothing to cacti. I was hooked. Wacky comedy and scantily clad lady, a boy just starting puberty couldn't ask for anything more. By the time I was 15 I had seen most of the episodes, all of the films countless times(plus Time Bandits and Yellowbeard, which I saw in the theater), and owned half the audio tapes. My sense of humor was permanently warped.I've never tired of their antics, and if anything they've become funnier as I've aged. I'm extra greatful to these fellas, because without their comic genius we surely wouldn't have the brilliance of The Kids in the Hall and Mr. Show.


                
Brilliant, innovative comedy. Possibly the greatest comedy series of all time. Certainly the most influential, iconic and quoted.Season 1 was great, but not their best. Still experimenting and finding their feet, it had some great sketches, but nothing as iconic as what was to come.Season 2 was where they really hit their straps. Most of their well-known sketches are from Season 2: Piranha Brothers, Ministry of Silly Walks, The Bruces, Spam, The Spanish Inquisition, Scott of the Antarctic.Season 3 was more of the same.Season 4 was where they tapered off. John Cleese had left and the creativity just wasn't anywhere near the levels of Seasons 2 and 3. No wonder it was only 6 episodes.Timeless comedy that has become embedded in culture. It's that big, brilliant and important.


                
The guys absolutely kept me rolling on the floor through the 1st season, then I got used to their humor,and there were just stable laughs afterwards. Some episodes are more weird or language-based,some are Chaplin-like ,some are very smart and political,but with each one of them extremely well done.Never seen anything like it,being 29 already. Each actor has a range of personalities but every now and then they put on quite a different role and shock again. For instance,Cleese actually tends to be more aggressive,Idle is very English-joking,but can keep silence during the whole sketch to the same effect. I love the Circus!


                
The Brits are a stuffy, haughty and quite socially conservative. Their taste in own a entertainment is strictly high brow. They are quite reserved in their socializing, and always maintain the most highly dignified behaviour. They never miss their afternoon Tea Time.WHAT?!?!?!?! Well, these qualifications seem to be rampant, far-flung and long lasting. It is very hard to dispel and correct any untruth (Lie!) after it has been spoken, printed, published, recorded or transmitted over any medium, be it Smoke Signals, Carrier Pigeon, Drums or even by casting "SEND HELP" bottled-notes into the Oceanic System.If there were any true believers out there, they surely haven't seen any of the ½ Hour episodes of MONTY PYTHON'S FLYING CIRCUS. All it would take would be one show to dispel and negate any of these ridiculous stereotypes. Two Shows would get a viewer sort of interested; Three and you're starting to get the general idea; Four qualifies you as a Fledgling Anglophile and Five Show, you're hooked.Seriously though, we would never attempt to tell you or anyone else that X is funny,Y is not and unless you agree with me, there must be something wrong with you. Judging comedy is a most subjective art and too much analyzing of a Comedy, can be harmful in rendering it no longer as being funny. Either it makes us laugh or it doesn't There's certainly not any special brain power to it; and certainly, Rocket Scientists would have no advantages in judging what is funny. Some have a great sense of humor, in others their sense of humor is greatly and there are those in every walk of life who are completely devoid of any funny bone at all.When the folks at the BBC, like Ian MacNaughton, made the overtures to bring 5 of their top writers together under the umbrella of a TV Series to be patterned along the lines of THAT WAS THE WEEK THAT WAS, or just TW3 for short. The roll call read like a true All-Star Dream Team of scribes. The list read as follows: The team of Graham Chapman & John Cleese, Writing Partners Terry Jones & Michael Palin and Solo Act, Eric Idle. The addition of the Popular Animator, the American, Terry Gilliam just acted as the final touch needed. It was like a butter cream frosting being put on a 5 layer German Chocolate Cake.With a all of the resources of the British Broadcasting Corporation at available and what certainly appears to have been a more than adequate budget at their disposal, the series was launched. Like any young undertaking, It took a little while to shake down the loose ends and see what adjustments would be needed.One difficulty that they had was in choosing the Title of their new enterprise. All sorts of ideas were kicked around; for they were dealing with the outputs from six very fertile, creative minds. "OWL STRETCHING TIME" was a finalist in the big sweepstakes and the title does indeed appear in the closing of at least one episode.As for describing MONTY PYTHON, it is really no easy task. The sketch humor is full of such off the wall material, the likes of which, have never seen the light of day before. Additionally, the Episodes are so tightly edited and quickly and without warning, they can end one bit abruptly, only to return to the first and eventually mix them both or even start another skit.Various occupations are often targets for their razzing, as well as any and every of the old established British Institutions. The Parliament, The Royal Family, The World Wars, The British Class system, Sports, Politicos,etc. You name it and they've kidded it.They also maintain a close relationship with British Drama of years gone by. That is accomplished with their often used recurring of the nonsensical idiot character of "Mr. Gumby".As for picking a "favourite" episode, we can only offer those which contain some particular routines and sketches. That being the case, let us consider the following, outrageous skits, such as: "The Ministery of Silly Walks.", "Dennis Moore (the Highwayman)", "Inspector Dimm in Court", "The Dead Parrot Sketch" and of course, last but not least "The Lumberjack Song." As for any disappointments, there have been very few and they were of little consequence. But there is one nasty fault that does make a big difference to the Series as a whole. In its last season, the line-up did not include John Cleese. Apparently his schedule at that time did not allow his presence. He was committed to some other project, like "FAWLTY TOWERS", for example. While there was probably much of his writing in that last season's product, THE PYTHONS greatly missed Mr. Cleese.The Pythons have been translated into other languages and they made a number of rather successful Theatrical Films. They continue to captivate those of new Generations, as well as the 30+Years viewer, just like yours truly. They even have that successful Broadway Show, SPAMELOT.God Bless Them for their successes in making us laugh and think at the same time; and obviously, he already has. But for all of the Films, The Broadway Show and other Live Appearances; it is on "the old Tube" that they are truly on their best.


                
We interrupt the Internet Movie Database because it's gotten too silly! I've noticed a tendency for the IMDb to get rather silly. Now I do my best to keep things moving along, but I'm not having things getting silly. So, we present to you this exposé on the greatest comedy sketch show of all time! In it you will see: mosquito and ant safari hunters, the funniest joke ever written in which people die laughing and later used to attack the Germans during WWII, mountain climbers that see double, "The Institute of Silly Walks", hospitals that treat their patients like soldiers in boot camp, a world in which everyone is dressed like Superman except for the greatest hero "Bicycle Repairman", and of course the Spanish Inquisition that shows up when least expected! And like the existence of God, Monty Python was, is and ever shall be the Messiah of television comedy. All must genuflect at the altar of John Cleese's desk when he finishes his phone conversation at the beach and says "And now for something completely different." Sketch comedy shows on television existed long before Monty Python. In the US, the early sketch comedy shows, like "The Milton Berle Show", "The Caesar Hour" and "Your Show of Shows" were essentially vaudeville acts that were broadcast nation-wide, and often upon a stage. However, Monty Python may have been the earliest of the sketch comedy shows to utilize the fact that it was being broadcast on television which pushed sketch comedy out of the constraints of the fading sensibility of Sid Caesar and Ed Sullivan.In addition to their sketches which were filmed like little movies rather than on stages (and probably were not improvised), Monty Python's Flying Circus is filled with fake news broadcasts, fake commercial interruptions, spliced sequences of stock footage, and of course, the outrageously irreverent cartoons that spoofed the great art of Europe and created a surrealist python world where portraits of distinguished old men eat up the Venus de Milo -- whole! Monty Python spoofed everything, from their own BBC News, World War II to Queen Victoria who is shown in one sketch walking into a poetry reading with the coffin containing the remains of her husband saying "My late husband and me..." Almost every zany aspect of modern society were taken prisoner and held in custody by the Pythons, including courtrooms, shopping malls, and even little old ladies who have decided to form violent street gangs! And of course the French and the Scots seem to get a little more airtime than other groups! And the final aspect I will relate is that most of these zany sketches were presented with absolutely straight faces as if the actors were seriously engaged in their ludicrous exploits. There is very little I can add about Monty Python that hasn't already been said, except, that if you have never seen it, it is almost impossible to describe. So, for God's sake, see it! We now return you to the Internet Movie Database with its regularly scheduled programming.


                
I own every episode of Monty Python and I wouldn't trade my A&E boxed set for anything. I never get tired of watching John, Graham, Eric, Michael, Terry and Terry. I've watched every sketch at least once, most of them at least three times and some of them, well I've lost count but it has to be around 20 maybe even 30. If you've never seen this show, then you are deprived. This show never gets old because their expressions are priceless, the story lines absurd, the dialog outrageous, and you can actually learn quite a bit. My favorite line has to be "No, it is not a Flemish merchant!" my favorite sketch is "There's Been a Murder," my favorite episode is "The All England Summarize Proust Competition," and my favorite python is a tie between Eric Idle and Michael Palin. I'm tired of people who say they love Monty Python but can't pronounce Raymond Luxury-Yacht, define "splunge," or tell Dennis Moore from Teddy Salad. So don't be one of them---- actually WATCH Monty Python.


                
It's ...Monty Python's Flyiing Circus: the BBC comic prelude to NBC's Saturday Night Live, and in many ways, better than them. Steve Martin once said, "... and above all, funny. Brilliantly funny. But enough about me. What about this Python crowd?" (pause) "Well, some people like them, I guess." And anyone could see why. Busloads of bizarre material, along with Gilliam's wacky animation, all of it confusing (which is a good thing), some of it ... very naughty. And it connects to the social commentary of modern society, from the trivial fuss over a dirty fork to the stereotypical seriousness of military personnel.One of the most laugh-out-loud skits is the Argument Clinic. It goes something along this line. A man walks into a room to see Mr. Bernard. The secretary looks up. "What do you want!" "Well, I was told outside that --" "Don't give me that, you sh***y heap of parrot droppings!" "But --" "Shut your festering gob, you t**! Your types makes me vomit!" "Now just a minute! I came in here for an argument!" "Oh, I'm sorry. This is abuse. Arguments are with Mr. Vibrating in Room 12." "Thank you." The man leaves the room, and the secretary says some foul-mouthed things about him. With that, the man finds Mr. Vibrating. "Excuse me, is this the right room for an argument?" "I've told you once." "No you didn't." "Yes I did." "No you didn't." "Yes I did." "You most certainly did not!" "Oh I'm sorry, is this the five-minute of the half-hour argument?" "Just the five-minute one, thnk you." "Good. Anyway, I most definitely told you." And an argument takes place. Until it abrupts when Mr. Vibrating rings his desk bell. "Good morning." "What?" "Good morning." "I was just getting interested!" "Sorry, but the five minutes is up. You'll have to pay for more arguing." The man pays, struggles to get Vibrating to argue more, and when he finally does, Vibrating denies arguing without pay by arguing more. "Then how come you're arguing, then?" "I could be arguing in my spare time."It's hilarious. And I love it."Stop this sketch, it's too silly."
Perhaps the best tv comedy series of all time, this barmy and surreal set of 45 episodes are a total delight, full of lines you can endlessly quote to annoy people ('a comfy chair?') and weird and wonderful sketches.  There are some duff moments but let's raise a cheer for Arthur Putey the timid accountant, Mr Praline, the Colonel, the Nudge Nudge Man, Lemming of the BDA, the Big Cheese, the Amazing Kargol/Mystico and Janet, David Unction, Mr Wensleydale, the Spanish Inquisition, the Vercottis, the Hell's Grannies, the Upper-Class Twits, Ken Clean-Air System, the Ministry of Silly Walks, Mrs Crump-Pinnet, Spiny Norman, Ron Obvious, the disgusting family, and Michael Ellis ...Nothing that the Pythons did individually came close to their work together between '69 and '74 for the Beeb.  (And please, BBC, get the whole series out on DVD in the UK - celebrate our heritage!).


                
Now that the show and Monty Python the group itself has been an icon for forty years and counting. The Flying Circus is what started it all. And that the five British comedians and one American illustrator would spawn off Saturday Night Live and Kids in the Hall, just to name a few of the sketch comedy shows. But Monty Python stands out and holds out as an original, THE ORIGINAL OF ALL SKETCH COMEDY! The show kind of fizzled out after John Cleese left after the third season, in order to do Fawlty Towers. But still, despite forty-five shows, they are the classic of the classics. Begin discovering Monty Python at 15 back in 1989. You can't get comedy better than that. Who can forget the Lumberjack sketch, Salad Days, Parrot Sketch, just to name a few! Monty Python rocks!


                
Even though the title has no contextual meaning, Monty Python's Flying Circus is one of the funniest shows of all time. The six Pythons play most of the roles, including a lot of the female parts in drag. The "Dead Parrot", "The Lumberjack Song", the Ministry of Silly Walks are some Python classics. Michael Palin's portrayal of the guy who opened every episode with "It's" looked like somebody from skid row.My favorite part was Terry Gilliam's animation. He utilized a lot of heads and cutouts. When the local PBS station ran his Personal Best episode, I just couldn't stop laughing. His animated scenes were showstoppers.When John Cleese left Monty Python after the third series, I felt it was a major loss in the fourth series of six episodes. They focused more on a single plot instead of the zany style that made the show a classic. Monty Python's Flying Circus was a very funny show that was "something completely different."


                
