I still need to see more of Monty Python's Flying Circus to make my un-official official declamatory mandated professional amateurish stated opinion on this, but this is quite the nifty little show they put on back in merry old England. A lame joke I tried for at Python humor, but really, once you see the show, and see at least a few episodes, you'll know whether it's the right kind of intelligently un-hinged absurdity for you. I didn't warm up to it at first, I thought it was maybe too smart, in a way, through its silliness to be taken much seriously, as the jokes are not of the common kind. But after getting in through the films, and seeing many a varied skit with the guys, I'm looking forward to seeing (and being able to quote to other people) the best they got.It's partly a stream-of-consciousness style show thanks to Terry Gilliam's spectacularly crude animations (through cut-outs mostly, and spoofing either classical paintings, architecture, movies, and of course dancing teeth), part social satire through various skits of people going into shops (Parrot), jobs, arguments (want to argue about an argument), the police, criminals, movies, sports, old ladies, politics, and other sorts of good diddies on all things in life. There's also the most random bits of comedy ever to come out of the 20th century, and I can only think of the basic things that might have you wanting to check it out. I love short skits, like the classic fish-slapping bit (there comes the BIG fish, heh), and over-the-top voices (Michael Palin, I think, does some of the best ones, like an introduction he does to a skit that reminded me of one of the voices in the Holy Grail trailer), and deranged costumes, and the richness of the silly dialog. Sure a skit might not hit the mark, but then I could them come back to it days later and be laughing about things not laughed at the first time around. There aren't too many, if much at all, conventional punchlines- the brilliant stuff comes in the random barbs that shoot up in the lines and the deliver, in a look that Cleese or Chapman might give at one point or another, or the lack of something that ends up coming around later in the bit, or maybe not. There's absolutely no shame in how tasteless some of this can get, be it with topical issues or just the little things everyday we tend to take for granted, but a tasteless sensibility without any net to fall on that's appealing. And, of course, the Lumberjack song and ministry of silly walks and . Bottom line, if there could ever be one with Flying Circus, if you think it's just stupid little goofy gags and skits going on, watch out for how rich the words fly out (err, in Circus-like fashion) the mouths of the Pythons. It's the mightiest heap of the inspiration-turned-ludicrous comedy to be found on any TV show. Other favorite skits: 'Most Awful Family in Britain', 'Self-Defence Class', 'Word Problem', and 'Kilimanjaro Expedition' among others.


                
I loved 'Monty Python's Flying Circus' as a youngster, even though, strange as it may seem now, I used to be frightened by it. Unlike say 'The Frost Report', the show was not actually about anything. Each episode had the look and feel of a nightmare; we saw terrible sights such as heads lopped off with razors, people puking their guts out, ten-ton weights falling on people, and human brains consumed with spoons. It was a brave person who stayed up late to watch this show. Characters would often cross over into different sketches, such a knight who kept hitting people with a rubber chicken, and 'The Colonel' who demanded items be terminated if they were too silly.The Pythons, as if you did not know, were John Cleese, Graham Chapman, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam, and Eric Idle. It was an inspired collection for a comedy team; Cleese and Chapman were good at sketches in which there was lots of verbal abuse, Palin and Jones excelled at items which sent up film genres, Gilliam provided some disturbing animations, while Idle contributed well-written skits involving word play.In the first season, each episode opened with a bedraggled Palin emerging either from the sea or jungle to issue the following warning: "Its...". Flowers would then climb the screen, their petals opening to reveal the name of the show, to the strains of 'Liberty Bell' by Souza. The very first show kicked off with a sketch in which a city gent ( Jones ) asks a Yokel farmer ( Chapman ) just what his sheep are doing up in the trees. The farmer says that they have realised that their lives consist of standing around and waiting to be eaten, so they have decided to do something about it. We then cut to two Frenchmen ( Palin and Cleese ) in berets who demonstrate the commercial possibilities of flying sheep. From the reaction of the audience, its clear they are baffled rather than amused. 'Python' took time to catch on, but when it did, the public could not get enough of it.Season 2 is generally thought of as the best. 'The Ministry Of Silly Walks', 'The Spanish Inquisition', 'The Piranha Brothers', and 'The Semaphore Version Of 'Wuthering Heights' originated here. Clips of the show were regularly requested on 'Ask Aspel', a children's show hosted by Michael Aspel.After two excellent seasons and a movie, plus a couple of fun German specials, 'Python' went into decline, and John Cleese's departure was the final nail in the coffin. Season 4 was the last. Fortunately, the team reunited to make movies which, if anything, were funnier than the show, particularly 'Life Of Brian' ( 1979 ). The last one - 'The Meaning Of Life' ( 1983 ) ended with a clip of the title sequence of the very first television show, taking 'Python' full circle. Chapman's death in 1989 closed the door on Python for good. A brief reunion in 1999 - 'Python Night' - was a disaster, with Eddie Izzard unwisely trying to stand-in for the deceased star.I must squeeze in a quick mention of lovely Carol Cleveland, with whom I was madly in love in the early '70's. Her bra coming off at the end of 'Scott Of The Sahara' had a profound impact on me!
The original sketch comedy show that has a very deserved cult following.It's... hilarious. It's... absurd. It's... very hard to describe, because it is so freakin' random! Almost every little sketch takes such bizarre twists and turns into something completely else that you'll literally never see it coming. Terry Gilliam's innovative, and equally absurd, animations are no different in their appearances between sketches. Often serving as transitions, but really this is just one side-splittingly funny compilation of sheer absurdity.Poking fun at just about everything that you could possibly imagine - talk shows, courts, daily life, the Spanish Inquisistion, the military, etc... - and it is all put together in a way no less random. Skits end unexpectedly, some shots are used many times, random characters appear only to speak one line, and all that makes for what is quite possibly the best crafted presentation of absurdity and chaos ever made. 10/10Not Rated and suitable for most viewers, but very cautious parents will undoubtedly object to the crude humor.


                
It is hard to put into words how much I like the "Flying Circus". Born just some years after it was produced, I can still remember how my whole class at school watched a replay of it on German TV at the end of the 80s (it was fortunately not dubbed, just subtitled) and we were always re-enacting the jokes the day after... Fortunately we had teachers who were also into Monty Python, including our English teacher who let us watch their movies. Now, almost 25 years later, they continue to make me laugh. But having grown up and having become a little bit more educated now allows me to produce an even sillier interpretation of their work. The thought underlying everything they did was basically that 99,9% of the things we humans do is practically meaningless. May it be starting or following a religion (Brian), undergoing expert treatment (Confuse-a-Cat Ltd. - a brilliant sketch), politics (Silly Walks) etc. And what made them even better is that they also took on the past with WW2 (the deadly joke, Hilter in England) and their medium TV/cinema in itself. Brian kidnapped by aliens - an early parody of science-fiction, isn't it? All this combined with to-the-point acting, sharp observations and top-notch writing - they were decades ahead of their time. If this did not deserve a 10/10 rating, I would not know what else.


                
Brilliant, innovative comedy. Possibly the greatest comedy series of all time. Certainly the most influential, iconic and quoted.Season 1 was great, but not their best. Still experimenting and finding their feet, it had some great sketches, but nothing as iconic as what was to come.Season 2 was where they really hit their straps. Most of their well-known sketches are from Season 2: Piranha Brothers, Ministry of Silly Walks, The Bruces, Spam, The Spanish Inquisition, Scott of the Antarctic.Season 3 was more of the same.Season 4 was where they tapered off. John Cleese had left and the creativity just wasn't anywhere near the levels of Seasons 2 and 3. No wonder it was only 6 episodes.Timeless comedy that has become embedded in culture. It's that big, brilliant and important.


                
The guys absolutely kept me rolling on the floor through the 1st season, then I got used to their humor,and there were just stable laughs afterwards. Some episodes are more weird or language-based,some are Chaplin-like ,some are very smart and political,but with each one of them extremely well done.Never seen anything like it,being 29 already. Each actor has a range of personalities but every now and then they put on quite a different role and shock again. For instance,Cleese actually tends to be more aggressive,Idle is very English-joking,but can keep silence during the whole sketch to the same effect. I love the Circus!


                
The Brits are a stuffy, haughty and quite socially conservative. Their taste in own a entertainment is strictly high brow. They are quite reserved in their socializing, and always maintain the most highly dignified behaviour. They never miss their afternoon Tea Time.WHAT?!?!?!?! Well, these qualifications seem to be rampant, far-flung and long lasting. It is very hard to dispel and correct any untruth (Lie!) after it has been spoken, printed, published, recorded or transmitted over any medium, be it Smoke Signals, Carrier Pigeon, Drums or even by casting "SEND HELP" bottled-notes into the Oceanic System.If there were any true believers out there, they surely haven't seen any of the ½ Hour episodes of MONTY PYTHON'S FLYING CIRCUS. All it would take would be one show to dispel and negate any of these ridiculous stereotypes. Two Shows would get a viewer sort of interested; Three and you're starting to get the general idea; Four qualifies you as a Fledgling Anglophile and Five Show, you're hooked.Seriously though, we would never attempt to tell you or anyone else that X is funny,Y is not and unless you agree with me, there must be something wrong with you. Judging comedy is a most subjective art and too much analyzing of a Comedy, can be harmful in rendering it no longer as being funny. Either it makes us laugh or it doesn't There's certainly not any special brain power to it; and certainly, Rocket Scientists would have no advantages in judging what is funny. Some have a great sense of humor, in others their sense of humor is greatly and there are those in every walk of life who are completely devoid of any funny bone at all.When the folks at the BBC, like Ian MacNaughton, made the overtures to bring 5 of their top writers together under the umbrella of a TV Series to be patterned along the lines of THAT WAS THE WEEK THAT WAS, or just TW3 for short. The roll call read like a true All-Star Dream Team of scribes. The list read as follows: The team of Graham Chapman & John Cleese, Writing Partners Terry Jones & Michael Palin and Solo Act, Eric Idle. The addition of the Popular Animator, the American, Terry Gilliam just acted as the final touch needed. It was like a butter cream frosting being put on a 5 layer German Chocolate Cake.With a all of the resources of the British Broadcasting Corporation at available and what certainly appears to have been a more than adequate budget at their disposal, the series was launched. Like any young undertaking, It took a little while to shake down the loose ends and see what adjustments would be needed.One difficulty that they had was in choosing the Title of their new enterprise. All sorts of ideas were kicked around; for they were dealing with the outputs from six very fertile, creative minds. "OWL STRETCHING TIME" was a finalist in the big sweepstakes and the title does indeed appear in the closing of at least one episode.As for describing MONTY PYTHON, it is really no easy task. The sketch humor is full of such off the wall material, the likes of which, have never seen the light of day before. Additionally, the Episodes are so tightly edited and quickly and without warning, they can end one bit abruptly, only to return to the first and eventually mix them both or even start another skit.Various occupations are often targets for their razzing, as well as any and every of the old established British Institutions. The Parliament, The Royal Family, The World Wars, The British Class system, Sports, Politicos,etc. You name it and they've kidded it.They also maintain a close relationship with British Drama of years gone by. That is accomplished with their often used recurring of the nonsensical idiot character of "Mr. Gumby".As for picking a "favourite" episode, we can only offer those which contain some particular routines and sketches. That being the case, let us consider the following, outrageous skits, such as: "The Ministery of Silly Walks.", "Dennis Moore (the Highwayman)", "Inspector Dimm in Court", "The Dead Parrot Sketch" and of course, last but not least "The Lumberjack Song." As for any disappointments, there have been very few and they were of little consequence. But there is one nasty fault that does make a big difference to the Series as a whole. In its last season, the line-up did not include John Cleese. Apparently his schedule at that time did not allow his presence. He was committed to some other project, like "FAWLTY TOWERS", for example. While there was probably much of his writing in that last season's product, THE PYTHONS greatly missed Mr. Cleese.The Pythons have been translated into other languages and they made a number of rather successful Theatrical Films. They continue to captivate those of new Generations, as well as the 30+Years viewer, just like yours truly. They even have that successful Broadway Show, SPAMELOT.God Bless Them for their successes in making us laugh and think at the same time; and obviously, he already has. But for all of the Films, The Broadway Show and other Live Appearances; it is on "the old Tube" that they are truly on their best.


                
We interrupt the Internet Movie Database because it's gotten too silly! I've noticed a tendency for the IMDb to get rather silly. Now I do my best to keep things moving along, but I'm not having things getting silly. So, we present to you this exposé on the greatest comedy sketch show of all time! In it you will see: mosquito and ant safari hunters, the funniest joke ever written in which people die laughing and later used to attack the Germans during WWII, mountain climbers that see double, "The Institute of Silly Walks", hospitals that treat their patients like soldiers in boot camp, a world in which everyone is dressed like Superman except for the greatest hero "Bicycle Repairman", and of course the Spanish Inquisition that shows up when least expected! And like the existence of God, Monty Python was, is and ever shall be the Messiah of television comedy. All must genuflect at the altar of John Cleese's desk when he finishes his phone conversation at the beach and says "And now for something completely different." Sketch comedy shows on television existed long before Monty Python. In the US, the early sketch comedy shows, like "The Milton Berle Show", "The Caesar Hour" and "Your Show of Shows" were essentially vaudeville acts that were broadcast nation-wide, and often upon a stage. However, Monty Python may have been the earliest of the sketch comedy shows to utilize the fact that it was being broadcast on television which pushed sketch comedy out of the constraints of the fading sensibility of Sid Caesar and Ed Sullivan.In addition to their sketches which were filmed like little movies rather than on stages (and probably were not improvised), Monty Python's Flying Circus is filled with fake news broadcasts, fake commercial interruptions, spliced sequences of stock footage, and of course, the outrageously irreverent cartoons that spoofed the great art of Europe and created a surrealist python world where portraits of distinguished old men eat up the Venus de Milo -- whole! Monty Python spoofed everything, from their own BBC News, World War II to Queen Victoria who is shown in one sketch walking into a poetry reading with the coffin containing the remains of her husband saying "My late husband and me..." Almost every zany aspect of modern society were taken prisoner and held in custody by the Pythons, including courtrooms, shopping malls, and even little old ladies who have decided to form violent street gangs! And of course the French and the Scots seem to get a little more airtime than other groups! And the final aspect I will relate is that most of these zany sketches were presented with absolutely straight faces as if the actors were seriously engaged in their ludicrous exploits. There is very little I can add about Monty Python that hasn't already been said, except, that if you have never seen it, it is almost impossible to describe. So, for God's sake, see it! We now return you to the Internet Movie Database with its regularly scheduled programming.


                
I own every episode of Monty Python and I wouldn't trade my A&E boxed set for anything. I never get tired of watching John, Graham, Eric, Michael, Terry and Terry. I've watched every sketch at least once, most of them at least three times and some of them, well I've lost count but it has to be around 20 maybe even 30. If you've never seen this show, then you are deprived. This show never gets old because their expressions are priceless, the story lines absurd, the dialog outrageous, and you can actually learn quite a bit. My favorite line has to be "No, it is not a Flemish merchant!" my favorite sketch is "There's Been a Murder," my favorite episode is "The All England Summarize Proust Competition," and my favorite python is a tie between Eric Idle and Michael Palin. I'm tired of people who say they love Monty Python but can't pronounce Raymond Luxury-Yacht, define "splunge," or tell Dennis Moore from Teddy Salad. So don't be one of them---- actually WATCH Monty Python.


                
Now that the show and Monty Python the group itself has been an icon for forty years and counting. The Flying Circus is what started it all. And that the five British comedians and one American illustrator would spawn off Saturday Night Live and Kids in the Hall, just to name a few of the sketch comedy shows. But Monty Python stands out and holds out as an original, THE ORIGINAL OF ALL SKETCH COMEDY! The show kind of fizzled out after John Cleese left after the third season, in order to do Fawlty Towers. But still, despite forty-five shows, they are the classic of the classics. Begin discovering Monty Python at 15 back in 1989. You can't get comedy better than that. Who can forget the Lumberjack sketch, Salad Days, Parrot Sketch, just to name a few! Monty Python rocks!


                
Even though the title has no contextual meaning, Monty Python's Flying Circus is one of the funniest shows of all time. The six Pythons play most of the roles, including a lot of the female parts in drag. The "Dead Parrot", "The Lumberjack Song", the Ministry of Silly Walks are some Python classics. Michael Palin's portrayal of the guy who opened every episode with "It's" looked like somebody from skid row.My favorite part was Terry Gilliam's animation. He utilized a lot of heads and cutouts. When the local PBS station ran his Personal Best episode, I just couldn't stop laughing. His animated scenes were showstoppers.When John Cleese left Monty Python after the third series, I felt it was a major loss in the fourth series of six episodes. They focused more on a single plot instead of the zany style that made the show a classic. Monty Python's Flying Circus was a very funny show that was "something completely different."


                
The mythical Monty Python and its crew of merry misfits were so far ahead of their time that Einstein would have dropped by for a visit had it not been for the absurdity of it all! What can we learn from their outrageous sketches and movies?...People are absolute cads, and no one celebrates the idiocy of mankind better than the masters of lunacy themselves. Their comedic indifference to the everyday foibles of humanity is an irreverent bitch slap to social conformity associated with mindless adherence to outdated moral clichés and profanely bland status quo.Whether engaged in post menopausal b*tch fest, Olympic silly walks, village idiot antics, incentive game shows for communists, plopping fetuses in tow for scientific research, or exploding at a restaurant table near you, no one has captured the essence of human folly better than John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, and Michael Palin. On behalf of the twisted Brits, if you didn't understand the punchline, well then p*ss off!P.S. - * indicates item originally censored by this site. In tribute to Python, host should refer most attentively to this commentary.


                
I've talked to a gentleman from the UK who witnessed the original TV broadcast of Monty Python's Flying Circus. It has been a mind blowing experience. Although i've discovered it a couple of decades after the gentleman above, i can only share his feelings.There is no need to underline the importance of Monty Python's Flying Circus for today's comedy. After all, it has spawned several movies and innumerable copycats. It followed in the footsteps of the Marx brothers and absurdist comedy, for example Hellzaappopin' (1941) and unleashed talent in the comedy world and opened new fields of entertainment.The only criticism i might have is that it created a safe haven for semi-talented individuals who make whatever they want a name it comedy, in the similar way that surrealism influenced mainstream art of the twentieth century.


                
Among the many things Monty Python has anchored in the collective consciousness of late 20th century TV viewers is the perfect formula on how to make a perfect transition from one thing to the other with no logical link whatsoever - and use considerably fewer words than in this introduction. Clearly the Pythons were ahead of their time with innovations like this. Or by beginning a show at its end, leading up to a breathtaking start. Or by glorifying canned meat into something ubiquitous and inescapable by writing a song about it - the product that would give the daily shocking content of our e-mail inboxes a proper unmistakable name. Or by aborting a sketch due to exceeding silliness, by continuing after the credits have rolled or by introducing artful, however out-and-out off-wall animation as just one of the many ingredients in order to go for something completely different. Monty Python swims against the tide of the typical punchline laughs. It stands for the perfect cross between surrealism for humor's sake, for encompassing absurd comedy somewhere between triviality and existentialism, with a tad of innuendo-laden references (wink, wink, nudge nudge, say no more), functioning also because it hit a nerve back then in 1968 and hasn't lost any of its cultural relevance almost 50 years later. Nowadays, when people are reading reviews for the lack of having anything better to do, they might not expect the Spanish Inquisition to show up (nobody does!). But they just did, and that's thanks to Monty Python - the guys who also wrote the killer joke where 13 people looked at two words and had to be sent to the hospital. Dangerous stuff!It's a sure bet that you'll still find people whistling Sousa's military march for no apparent reason for many years to come. Even when the members of this incomparable comedy troupe are gone to meet their maker, are pushing up the daisies, have rung down the curtain and joined the choir invisible. Whatever you do, the Pythons are a great reminder that the last laugh is on you. I'm sure that was what occurred to Graham Chapman as well when he participated in his own funeral and the rest of the gang just made a high caliber comedy show out of it, Python style. Can't kill them, I tell ya.


                
This is the groundbreaking BBC TV comedy series that introduced the world famous Monty Python. I first heard of the comedy team at a very early age, but wasn't too familiar with their work for a long time. I knew of a few sketches, but really started to get to know Python in 2005, when I was nineteen years old, which was when I first became familiar with all the members of the troupe, watching many episodes of this show and the movies which the comedians made afterwards, and laughing a lot! I have now seen every episode of "Monty Python's Flying Circus", originally aired from 1969 to 1974, and some comedy may wear thin on me through time, but that most certainly hasn't been the case with the humour of this particular group! This is a sketch comedy show featuring Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam, Michael Palin, and Terry Jones, the six official members of the Monty Python team. It also features many parodies and bizarre concepts! Five of the group's members regularly appear in sketches, each delivering lots of silliness and insanity, while Gilliam, the British troupe's sole American member, only appears sporadically on screen but is responsible for all the bizarre animated sequences, which are featured in every episode and really fit in with the live action sketches! The show sometimes features guests for smaller roles as well, not always just the Pythons appear, and when the female characters are not played by any of the Pythons in drag, there are real women who play them, most commonly Carol Cleveland, who appears at certain points in the majority of the show's episodes and can be referred to as the seventh Python.In my experience, I've found that no matter how good a sketch comedy show is, not ALL the sketches can be that great, including this show. For instance, I don't think I've ever found the tape recorder up the nose very funny. However, "Monty Python's Flying Circus" still features enough hilarious sketches to make it a masterpiece, with the man with three buttocks, the dead parrot, the homicidal barber sketch and very famous "Lumberjack Song" that follows it, the job interview, newlyweds trying to purchase a mattress, the Git family, the argument clinic, silly disturbances, and so many others, WAY too numerous to mention! Terry Gilliam's animated sequences can certainly be major highlights as well, and he could sure be creative with those cutouts he used for them, many of which he got from Victorian-era photographs! All official members of the Python troupe showed their amazing talent in this sketch comedy series, and I should also give credit to Carol Cleveland. Even though she wasn't an official member of the team, she kept getting roles in the show due to her comedic talent, which she certainly deserved, and is definitely worthy of the "7th Python" label! Sadly, one of the legendary Pythons, Graham Chapman, died of throat and spinal cancer in 1989, when he was only 48 years old. This tragic death occurred the day before the 20th anniversary of the day on which the first episode of "Monty Python's Flying Circus" was originally broadcast! I was only three years old at the time of Chapman's death, so I was obviously unaware of it at the time, but finally learned about it sixteen years later, as I had just discovered how funny Monty Python was. That was when I discovered what a great comedian Chapman was, like the other Pythons, and how understandably missed he is. He contributed a lot to Python's humour with his talent, in a comedy franchise which obviously can't please everyone, as some people have been put off by the troupe's extremely silly style, but the work that the Pythons did together was very influential and has clearly made so many people from different generations laugh, and will hopefully continue to do so for generations to come! Cheers to Monty Python and R.I.P. Graham Chapman!


                
Absolutely fascinating, this humour is peculiar and never gets old or boring. I watch it now when I'm 18 and my uncle who's 50 years old watched it too. Very innovative and creative


                
No more I can say. 
Should be studied and learnt by all actors in the world.


                
Skit comedies have always been my favorite kind of comedies because in them you just have unlimited creative freedom to not just be about anything but even to do anything you want.This show is one of my favorite TV shows of all time as well as favorite skit and comedy show of all time. It was revolutionary for it's time before skit comedy shows were even common, but what really revolutionized it was in it's execution of comedy where it dared to not play it safe and actually go the extra mile. To this day I'm still surprised they were able to get away with what they did; it's a little more common place now with the shows on the "Adult Swim" block on Cartoon Network but this was one of the first and still the best.The ensemble is great each of them are memorable comedic actors though my favorite one is John Clease he always had this infectious uptight manic mannerism to him. Each of them look as though their really into what their doing and having fun.I really like those brief animated segments which are beautiful but really odd art style, much like you would see in a surrealist painting as well as Mad Magazine. From the clouds, tiny men, giant feet, at times I wondered if the artists were on something. Even the pacing and editing is crisp, from how it quickly transitions and cuts to the next skit or the animated segment in between the skits, it really feels like a live action Mad Magazine as if were flipping between the pages.However what powers this show are the skits which are great and memorable. I'll just say a few that I really loved. Each of the skits are really colorful, creative, weird and may'be even a little risqué with the amount of absurdity and behavior they were really pulling all the stops out; for some of them I still wonder where the hell they came up with the ideas or what when through they heads when they made them. Their rich with both verbal and visual humor, there is just a lot of memorable quotes and dialog in the skits which I can't always say for all of them which is cool. The verbal humor is smart and clever but not to the point of being boring, they just go simply for doing one task and one only delivering the humor which most good skit shows should do.I won't say too much my words can't do them justice their the kind of things you have to see for yourself to laugh.The Deadly Joke: This just cracks me up because of how absurd an idea this is; instead of chem warfare it's punchline warfare.Race of the Twits: It's one of the most bizarre races I've seen in history. Each of the competitors are just idiots to the core and each of the obstacles they do are even more absurd and stupidly easy.The Spanish Inquisition: This is my favorite one of all where it is just absurdity at it's best; it's a Inquisition platoon that's not just out of place but out of time, as they are still operating on outdated laws. But most of all each of them are complete morons.Overall if your a fan of skit shows this classic is worth checking out, this circus flies high.Rating: 4 stars


                
I remember when I was 9 and my mom bought me "Life of Brian". I had no idea what it was and who the people in it were. But I have never laughed so hard at a movie before and even if I didn't understand all the jokes I loved it from the start.After that I started looking for more movies by Monty Python including "Meaning of Life" and "The Holy Grail". Then, my dad bought me the film "And Now For Something Completely Different" which is when I realized that they had made a TV-show. I didn't know where to get a hold of it since it wasn't for sale and was never aired on television(in Sweden).Then a few years ago they released it on DVD and I got it. What can I say, there are no words except for Brilliant! Fantastic! Hilarious! Spam! Unbelievable! and Awesome! The only complaint I have is for the fourth season in which John Cleese decided not to take part in. It's just not the same if someone's missing.It's a real shame that Graham Chapman died, otherwise I think they would have made some more films.R.I.P Graham Chapman and R.I.P. Monty Python.


                
Absolutely sublime work which must be the standard all other comedy is measured about. I just saw all 46 episodes. I was surprised when suddenly Cleese was not in the last couple of episodes but at least he made "Fawlty Towers" not so long after. It is funny because when I was younger and saw Python I thought that Terry Jones was a bit off, and that he was only good at playing old ladies, which he is really, really good at but when I saw it again I thought he was terrific in all the roles. He is also very funny in the Live at the Hollywood Bowl. An odd thing about the Python group is, by the way, that there are two people called Terry! Anyway, other great comedy groups such as the Danish "Drengene fra Angora" and the Norwegian "Brødrene Dahl" must be measured up to the standard of the absolute kings of satire and comedy: Monty Python.


                
You like 'Meaning of Life' or you think 'Life of Brian' is one of the best movies that ever has been made?Then you will like 'Monty Python's Flying Circus', a collection of 45 episodes (each 30 minutes) of British humour comedy. Each of them full of jokes and satire like the two movies mentioned above. There are many legendary sketches that you must have seen, like 'ministry of silly walks' or 'the spanish inquisition' or 'the dead parrot' and many more of them.


                
For me as well as for a great many other semi nerdy and amateur intellectual kids, Monty Python's Flying Circus was more than just another comedy show. It was a part of our academic and intellectual development, because mind you, Monty Python is by no means your everyday slap stick/fart/pie in the face humor (although they do feature an advanced and hilarious pie in the face sketch!) and is definitely not enjoyed by "the masses". They have served as an inspiration to many comedians and been copied by numerous others and will continue to be watched and enjoyed forever, in spite of the fact that the show is from 1969!


                
June 2004, I crashed an airplane in the stupidest manner. The resulting 3 months in ICU on morphine and 7 surgeries after that pretty much sealed my fate, at least girlfriends and aviation were fond memories from my prior life. The only way to cope.... acquire a 22 yr. old blond/blue-eyed 44-23-37 online hooker inside the nursing home (never gonna happen) OR rent the entire series of this faded memory from my childhood. Well intercourse the penguin, these Brits brought me back from the brink of drawing an Xacto blade across my wrists! My mom HATED this and locked the TV plug whenever it was scheduled to air. Skits about hookers, 2 guys in bed together or old ladies on motorcycles weren't gonna fly with my Scotch-swilling, chain-smoking mother! Which made it ALL the more appealing for every 10 yr. old boy in my neighborhood, you stupid git! This and George Carlin's "7 dirty words" were rites of passage for my generation, you senseless waste of human life! Especially favored are: Upper Class Twit of the Year; Ministry of Silly Walks; Village Idiots; SPAM; Wife swapping competition; England's Most Horrible Family contest; Dead Parrot sketch; the Gumbies; the Fish slapping dance; Fish License; Dirty vicar sketch.Too bad you "Millennial" brats staring at your iPhones all damn day will never get it, you bloody bowls of puss!!! Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries.... I fart in your general direction!


                
When I watched Fawlty Towers, I heard about John Cleese starring in a comedy sketch series called Monty Python's Flying Circus. What's my opinion on this TV Series? I think it's fantastic! While the humor is strange(in a comical way), this show never ceases to entertain me or have me laugh so hard, my stomach hurts. It also features hilarious animated shorts made by the great Terry Gilliam. John Cleese, along with other famous members of the Monty Python troupe, have filled me with laughter every step of the way. Two of my favorite skits that have me rolling on the floor laughing is the Lumberjack Song(Where a guy goes from singing about being a lumberjack to singing about wearing women's clothing) and the Minsitery of Silly Walks(I died laughing at that skit).Bottom Line: I am now a fan of Monty Python's Flying Circus with its strange yet witty humor, great shorts, and an excellent performance by John Cleese and friends.
England's most famous comedy team made its name on its eponymous TV show, spoofing anything that could get spoofed, and has maintained a cult following ever since. John Cleese, Terry Gilliam (the only American member of Monty Python), Graham Chapman, Terry Jones, Eric Idle and Michael Palin depicted every possible wacky thing during their five years on TV -- namely the dead parrot and the Ministry of Silly Walks -- and in several movies since then.During the 2008 presidential election, there was an Internet meme saying that the wrong Palin got chosen as John McCain's running mate: it should have been Michael Palin because he's tough on terrorism ("No one expects the Spanish Inquisition!") All in all, a great show! Aside from "A Fish Called Wanda" and "Fierce Creatures", another movie featuring multiple members of the team is "Splitting Heirs".


                
