It's ...Monty Python's Flyiing Circus: the BBC comic prelude to NBC's Saturday Night Live, and in many ways, better than them. Steve Martin once said, "... and above all, funny. Brilliantly funny. But enough about me. What about this Python crowd?" (pause) "Well, some people like them, I guess." And anyone could see why. Busloads of bizarre material, along with Gilliam's wacky animation, all of it confusing (which is a good thing), some of it ... very naughty. And it connects to the social commentary of modern society, from the trivial fuss over a dirty fork to the stereotypical seriousness of military personnel.One of the most laugh-out-loud skits is the Argument Clinic. It goes something along this line. A man walks into a room to see Mr. Bernard. The secretary looks up. "What do you want!" "Well, I was told outside that --" "Don't give me that, you sh***y heap of parrot droppings!" "But --" "Shut your festering gob, you t**! Your types makes me vomit!" "Now just a minute! I came in here for an argument!" "Oh, I'm sorry. This is abuse. Arguments are with Mr. Vibrating in Room 12." "Thank you." The man leaves the room, and the secretary says some foul-mouthed things about him. With that, the man finds Mr. Vibrating. "Excuse me, is this the right room for an argument?" "I've told you once." "No you didn't." "Yes I did." "No you didn't." "Yes I did." "You most certainly did not!" "Oh I'm sorry, is this the five-minute of the half-hour argument?" "Just the five-minute one, thnk you." "Good. Anyway, I most definitely told you." And an argument takes place. Until it abrupts when Mr. Vibrating rings his desk bell. "Good morning." "What?" "Good morning." "I was just getting interested!" "Sorry, but the five minutes is up. You'll have to pay for more arguing." The man pays, struggles to get Vibrating to argue more, and when he finally does, Vibrating denies arguing without pay by arguing more. "Then how come you're arguing, then?" "I could be arguing in my spare time."It's hilarious. And I love it."Stop this sketch, it's too silly."
Monty Python's Flying Circus is humorous delight with a charming cast and odd but delightful animations. This is a show that truly revolutionized comedy.


                
In 1969 a great thing happened, and I am not talking about man on the moon I am talking about the best sketch show in history; Monty Python's Flying Circus. The show had 6 successful series all being better then the last.The show was clever, random and extremely time worthy, age will not weary it. The show was new and original, unlike much before it. The show was so incredibly silly that people were not just fans but the fact they were also wondering what could possibly be next is a sign that the python gang is so clever and that the only thing predictable in the whole show is that there is nothing predictable.Overall, fans of comedy and shows in general will LOVE this show and if there is any doubt if you should watch one of the best shows ever made then just do it. The show is a guaranteed laugh fest. I rate this masterpiece 92%.


                
After only watching a couple of episodes which I find hard to believe, I grew very fond of this comedy troupe. I love John Cleese, Michael Palin, Eric Idle, Graham Chapman, and Terry Gilliam but I would have liked to have seen women play the female roles instead. It gets tiring of watching the men have all the fun. This group which we have not seen the likes of since they appeared on British television in the late sixties and swinging seventies are still with us on DVD, VHS, and television of course. The only problem with British television comedies is that they don't make enough episodes to satisfy the hunger we crave for. It's witty, smart, and always on the mark. You learn something new ever time or get something different. That's the mark of a brilliant comedy but it would have been better if there were some female cast members playing the female roles. Other than that problem with the show, I would still watch it again and again. I know it's the boys club but even this girl would like to join in because they look like they are having so much fun.


                
