A simple story you soon forget. I am surprised over the buzz around this movie, and can not really understand why it got so much credibility. The actors are good but that is not enough. For me this is a shallow film. Feel good? Not really. Anti intellectual movie, a really simple story about two men in Paris. Things like art, classical music & opera is boring. Drugs, tobacco and soul is good. I have read some of the other reviews published on IMDb and may have expected to much (and thats never good) but even so, the story was to easy. And what happened to the daughter? To many lose ends, to much fluff for my taste. So I am sorry, low remarks from me.
What is the difference between a film "based on a true story" and one "inspired by a true story"? This was inspired by a true story, and at the end gives an update on the real-life characters after which those in the story were patterned, but we really don't know how much of the storyline in the film really took place. I am assuming the writers of the screenplay took certain liberties, especially to evoke the sympathies which they thought (correctly) would lead to a hit.Most of the audience in the theater in which I saw the film (in Brazil) laughed uproariously, I cringed at what seemed to me obvious and unoriginal jokes, and a storyline with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. The rich white guy need an assistant and hires the brash young Senegalese man (Algerian, in real life), who, of course, knows about living life to the fullest, and listening to upbeat music (inexplicably, 30 year-old songs from Earth, Wind & Fire). The black man dances well, of course. Several times he is given a task he feels demeaning and onerous (e.g., wiping the older man's behind), and at first refuses, but inevitably quickly acquiesces.I have to admit I tuned out a few times, waiting for the film to end (I was there with my spouse so didn't walk out), so can't say for sure, but I don't believe the film touched on an obvious question: what if the poor African immigrant had been the disabled one, and the rich, white French businessman had been able-bodied? They probably would never have met, but if they had, what would have been the dynamics? All in all, the film seemed to have more elements of "Driving Miss Daisy" than of the also-true story of a disabled French man (and much better-written and acted), "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly."
Poor, pot smoking black guy from the projects takes a job -against his initial intentions- as live-in caretaker for a wealthy, paraplegic, highly educated white man. Under his rough street savvy skin, the black dude has a heart of gold. The white dude is uptight and shy, but also has a heart of gold. They teach each other to live a better life and part as friends.I didn't try to make it any sappier than it actually is. The whole movie is a long collection of clichés which would make it hideous if shot by an American. For some reason, some people think this one should be better because... it's French?For the record, the initial sequence is funny and promising. It all goes downhill from there. So watch the first 10 or 15 minutes, then throw it away.


                
Summary: Cheeky jobless black man (but not a racist cliché whatsoever, so don't even think it) gets a job working for a conveniently minted, posh, white quadriplegic. Hilarity ensues as black man teaches them to dance to crap 80s disco, posh cripple smirks with surprise to find out that black man isn't a total loser, as he first assumed. Hot ginger secretary falls in love with cheeky black man, despite her initial repulsion. Black man smokes weed and lives on a council estate (but not a racist cliché whatsoever etc).The heart warming message I took away from this film: Not all black men are bad. Thanks for showing me that, film.The more I think about this pile of tosh, the more I want to gently throw up.Other than, it's a masterpiece.Do yourself a favour and never, ever watch a film based on it's IMDb score. There's a severe danger you'll think it's good just because it got 8.5, despite all the nagging doubts in your mind.This got a high score because people like soppy films. And they're racists.
I have to admit, it didn't help that the movie was listed as a "comedy". This film took a true and touching story, and reduced it to a grotesque caricature. The characters are uni-dimensional, stereotypical and predictable. I suppose its caricaturesque qualities is what qualifies the movie for the comedy category - right next to Ferris Buellers Day Off. But I found the style of the movie incompatible with and irreverent to the human story that inspired it.By contrast, take "The Pursuit of Happiness" starring Will Smith. That movie tells a similar story of profound transformation of an individual, but it captures the humanity and the struggle in a way that it makes it a great movie; it doesn't attempt to cheapen the story for a few smiles.I was surprised by how many bleeding hearts were blindsided in their reviews by the human story behind the movie. Yes, it's a great story, there is no denying that. The movie itself however - the movie is weak.
Philippe (Francois Cluzet) is a millionaire, who's also a paraplegic, paralyzed from the neck down from a parasailing accident. He interviews many qualified individuals to be his new caretaker, but then interviews Driss (Omar Sy) who is an ex-con, who is only interested in having Philippe sign a paper so he can receive public assistance. Philippe challenges Driss to work for him for a month, and then he will sign his assistance papers. Driss has never seen such opulence, he lives in a slum with his mother and many brothers and sisters. Driss decides to take the job, and performs admirably, he finds out that Philippe has a pen pal and encourages him to call her. Philippe in turn introduces Driss to fine art and classical music, everything is going along fine until Philippe notices that one of his prized Faberge eggs is missing, he accuses Driss of stealing it. Driss sets out to find the egg, does he find it? Does Philippe meet his mystery pen pal? I really enjoyed the first few scenes of the Intouchables, they were intelligent and funny. Unfortunately, things go straight downhill after that. This movie engages in some of the most pernicious stereotyping of any recent movie I've seen, black people are lazy, they steal, they only want public assistance, they smoke dope, they live in ghettos, and so on. I don't accept those stereotypes from American movies, why should I accept them from a French art-house movie? I find the whole attitude of this movie condescending and patronizing towards Driss, as if he can only learn about the finer things in life through the aid of a wealthy white benefactor. Driss is in literary terms a "noble savage" a 19th century term to describe a man from another culture who can only be inculcated into "civilized" society by someone else.This movie doesn't seem to realize that it's the 21st century. In the movie, Driss can't learn about the finer things in society by himself, that's too tall an order for this movie. Social mobility, don't even think about it. This movie manages to be chauvinistic as well, women are prostitutes and subservient playthings for both men. There is only one scene where Driss mother stands up to his aimless attitude, the other women are around simply for both men to seek pleasure. The writers take a subtle shot at gays too, and this is supposed to be a feel good movie? Are you feeling good yet? The movie is also very slow and has a syrupy sweet ending. The actors do what they can, but the writers sabotage this movie almost from the beginning. Francois Cluzet is OK, as the stodgy, cultured Philippe, Omar Sy Is funny and charming at times, but can't save a bad script.The Intouchables: Don't touch it with a ten foot pole.For hundreds more movie reviews, check out my blog reviewswithatude.wordpress.com
This movie plays for shock effect as well as titters. It is filled with rude remarks to women - in fact, Driss seems to think that women are only good for one thing. But it is passed off as funny in the movie. Well if I were that poor secretary in the movie - I feel it is just about sexual harassment. His attitudes toward fat women or "ugly women" are equally crude.Yes, it puts more of a kick into the life of a quadriplegic, but on a crude level for the most part and with adolescent behaviors.Driss laughing at the opera - especially because it is in German - is ruining an experience for the whole theater of people who want to enjoy it. And there is Driss driving the sports car through Paris, speeding, weaving in and out of traffic, making high speed turns - it looks so "professional" from the driver's seat, but imagine if you were in that traffic with him - it is incredibly dangerous - forget about Driss - for the other people on the road. I kept waiting for Driss to wake up and find his better self, but no this is not that movie - there is no transformation.No. This is a guy movie - and I mean that with all the derision used on "chix flick"
I know I am pretty much alone with my opinion, but I will not be allayed, this is no encouraging film, but hypocritical justification of inaction, this film does not encourage affected people, on the contrary, it means that the healthy ones cleanse away their guilt and responsibility and that they underestimate the torment of severe disabilities / diseases and can be made to believe that it is not so bad if one has such a fate, it is nevertheless still funny, yippee !! So it is only the healthy, which can free themselves in part of the fear of a severe disability - and much more important: of the guilt of being healthy and consequently also of the responsibility to deal with the disabled and with prophylaxis. The right thing would be to finally allow and promote stem cell research on a broad scale, so that such diseases can be HEALED - because ONLY THEN can severely handicapped people really lead a happy, normal life again, not if people simply provide a funny nurse for them - which is like a band-aid for a severed head, nonsensical AND it prevents that the real problems are tackled/the real solutions can be addressed !!
