I have seen this movie tonight at a preview session as the official french national release is set on 2011, November 2nd. Eric Toledano and Olivier Nakashe, accompanied by the lead actor Omar Sy were meeting the audience and cheerfully answering questions.The movie is very well written. Although opening on a flash-forward, it is fairly classic comedy about the meeting of two opposite people who were very unlikely to meet. The first one is a paraplegic white middle aged very rich and lonely man, the other one is a young black, poor, unemployed, coming from poor suburbs and a very large family.What makes the quality of the film, beside the humour present in every scene in which Omar Sy appears (actually most of the film), is the emotion you can feel, through increasingly attaching characters.The story is based upon a true story, and real characters.If you want to watch and enjoyable comedy, with very touching moments, this is a must go.There are interesting insights about arts as well (paintings, classical music, and funk music). What is art? What is its use?


                
It's quite rare to find and have the pleasure to enjoy a genuine movie, blending comedy and drama with such naturalness: that's why "Intouchables" is undoubtedly a rare authentic picture and the fact that the story is inspired by a true one helped make the movie more involving. Funny and touching at the same time, the picture evolves with simplicity but strong pathos, with the merit of avoiding every pathetic or melodramatic attitude: there's brutal honesty in representing the real condition of Philippe, as well as Driss's initial uncompassionate attitude. There are touching moments, there are true amusing moments, both accompanied by a forceful soundtrack. Acting proves brilliant, to say the least, and the pairing between Francois Cluzet and Omar Sy sparkles and captures the viewer's attention. I was swept away by Dryss's genuine smile as well as by Philippe's melancholic eyes, and the moments when they are together filled me with an authentic feeling-good sentiment. Definitely, a must-see picture.


                
Based on a true story, 'Untouchable' is a comedy about the unlikely friendship between Philippe (François Cluzet) and Driss (Omar Sy). Philippe is a wealthy man, paralysed from the neck down due to a paragliding accident. Tired of the sycophancy and pitying care given to him due to his condition and his wealth, Philippe takes a gamble and hires the brutally frank Driss who only applied for the job to keep the benefits office happy.Philippe gets far more than he bargained for with the charisma whirlwind that is Driss, a young man who is never afraid to say what he thinks or lower the tone and is guaranteed to keep everybody smiling. Theirs is a cross-cultural friendship, drawn together by their mutual honesty and sense of humour. 'Untouchable' is an unashamed crowd-pleaser, the friendship between Philippe and Driss is undeniable and the jokes bounce along at a merry pace. A lot of the humour is based on the clash with cultural stereotypes, the film often lacks subtlety but Sy and Cluzet pull it all off handsomely. There is a lot of playfulness and mischief from both Philippe and Driss, the hilarious opening sequence of Driss speeding through Paris traffic and betting with Philippe that he could get away from the police is priceless.'Untouchable' is an irreverent take on disability, Driss is hardly subtle with Philippe's condition but his forcefulness and boyish enthusiasm energises Philippe. The film works because Philippe is in on the jokes, it would be too easy for him to be the butt of all the jokes. Philippe is aware of the stuffy bourgeois hypocrisy that he inhabits and perpetuates, and thanks to Driss's anarchic influence plays a great trick on his art dealer. To the films credit there is a lack of sentimentality, nothing is glossed over but its evident what each of their many disadvantages are. Some people may frown at the often patronising stereotyping and the treatment of a character with a disability, but the films heart is in the right place.Mismatched friendships and cultural clashes are nothing new and 'Untouchable' is often predictable, but when Cluzet and Sy click they're an irresistible double-act to burn through any cynicism you may have left. Directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano have struck comedy gold.
If u only could see one movie from 2012 u should pick this one. This is a wonderful film about the relation between two persons who you never could think would be friends. Omar Sy and Francois Cluzet is the perfect choice of actors. What really touched me was the sort of honesty their relation proceeded in and that its not always the conventional way who is the best way to go, you always have to understand that all people are and should be treated as who they are and not by a manual.The change in Omar Sy,s character is wonderful to watch and he, well deserved, won a Cesar for hes performance.All the characters in the film are very likable and i strongly recommend this movie for all ages, this is a feel-good movie with a ll the right stuff in it!


                
Intouchables / Untouchable **** 10 September 2012 I hate having to start like this but, based on the discontented grunts from the morons who walked out in the first minute, I regret I must begin with: Intouchables is a French film. Which means it's in FRENCH. Which means there are subtitles!!! Arrrggghhh.For the readers who actually have a brain, Intouchables (Untouchable for those who can't work it out) will almost certainly end the year as one of the most tender, beautiful films of 2012. Yes, it was released in France last year but this is no place for such pedantry.Intouchables is the true story of Phillipe (François Cluzet), a wealthy, aristocratic quadriplegic and his relationship with his caretaker-cum-care assistant, the reluctant, defiant Driss (Omar Sy). When Driss turns up for an interview at Phillipe's home it is with the sole intention of failing in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. Phillipe, however, sees in him a man who will challenge and inspire him and, much to the annoyance of Magalie (Spiral's Audrey Fleurot), hires him on the spot.And so begins a clash of culture, class and conduct from which both parties will surely emerge richer, softer and sharper.There are no surprises in the broad story; if a true-life tale is worthy of the big screen treatment, there's a very good chance it sticks to the formula, although don't dismiss Intouchables as merely formulaic. The surprise here is how effortlessly engaging, inspiring and downright funny it is. No, it isn't specifically a comedy but I laughed out loud more often and with less control than I have in any films billed as such this year so far.There's no great villain, no huge love story, no major tragedy, just a simple story of friendship where two men, though apparently diametrically opposed in every aspect, are absolutely meant to share their lives and have more in common and so much more to give each other then either could have considered.Cluzet, in a welcome return to British screens after last year's superb Little White Lies, is huggably dour as Phillipe with an outer crust and a rod up his backside that are begging to be shattered. Sy meanwhile, in his most prominent film for English-speaking audiences (other than a supporting turn in Micmacs), storms into frame with a demeanour that would make most of us back away and cover our throats. But though we get the measure of both men fairly quickly and there are no road-to-Damascus conversions, each of them evolves and when the inevitable tug at the heartstrings arrives, it brings a hollowness that you'll hope desperately can be filled. Soon.I really want to award Intouchables another couple of stars but it misses out on perfection for being too swift and not allowing itself the time to unveil the arcs of a couple of supporting characters that could have added greater depth to the film. Although we meet members of Diss' family at various points, there is another plot line with them that is never fully explored and there is more that occurs in Phillipe's household than we are allowed to fully enjoy.But these are minor quibbles. See it. See it before it disappears from your local screen. See it if The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel left you hankering after India, see it if The Chorus made your heart skip, see it if<U+0085> Oh, just go and see it. It's beautiful, warm and very, very funny.


                
Intouchables is an unusual buddy movie about two guys who couldn't be more opposite of each other. Driss (Omar Sy) just wants to get a rejection paper from Philippe, a quadriplegic aristocrat, so he can receive unemployment benefits. But Philippe has other plans for him: He is immediately under Driss' charm and decides to hire him as his personal nurse.The two bond more and more and that is when the movie shows its strength: It lives from the contrast between the easy-going, charming underclass prankster and the rich, art-loving lord. The collision of these two worlds offers room for plenty of funny material. When the two sit in the opera in a room full of uptight white men in suits, and on stage a man dressed as a tree starts to sing in German, Driss can't hold his back laughter. Neither can the audience of this film.It's a warm, delightful comedy that hits all the right notes, completely politically incorrect and honest. It has a comedic tone throughout the whole film but allows itself to also show the internal conflicts of the two protagonists without ever being sappy. It's a rare thing to see a handicapped person portrayed without too much pathos.Please see this movie. It's beautifully-shot, well written, heartfelt and heartwarming.
So, i saw this movie in french class. And i don't regret i did. It's got to be one of the best french movies i've ever watched. It's a really great feel-good movie. It's full of laughs, tears and emotions beyond anything. And i'm really impressed, as this is Omar's first lead role in acting, he played it off really well, not just in the funny parts, but as well in the emotionally acted parts. This is defentily a movie i would watch over and over again and recommend to all my friends. Definitely one of the best french movies i've seen in a while. I'm so glad i saw it. You should too. Everythings good. The storyline, the screenplay and the directing. The acting is great as well, and the humor would probably go well in all countries, not just France. It's worth a watch and deserves an 8!


                
Before watching this movie, I was a little apprehensive as the movie was in French (although I find the language romantic). I was also pulled by the two smiling faces on the movie poster usually these things means a lot to movie addicts like myself. As one go deeper into the movie, it gives an understanding of how life truly is and how people sometimes are not what they really seem. 'The Intouchable' is truly a fun, entertaining and meaningful movie.The actors are great and unlike other movies I have watched recently, there is no over acting on their part. Every character adds to the colorfulness of the movie and the movie obviously was sure how the plot would go from beginning to end like most great novels. Since it is based on a true story, it makes you wonder how two people from two totally different world find a friend in such condition. I do not know how much this movie achieved, award wise but I am positive, it is a movie for all people who watch movies for all reasons. This movie may not make the adrenaline going like Skyfall but no doubt about it, it is just as good. This movie is worth every penny & time.


                
Before watching, my expectation was, that it really is a comedy, not a drama with two laughs in it.It was a comedy with very subtle touch of drama.I was too busy enjoying every minute of this film. I love the actors,I love the subject. While I was watching, there is a smile in my face every time.If you watch,you'll see that; comedy is not slangy jokes. The relationship between Philippe and Driss is sensitive and quality.Same time it is funny,too. I think, that Omar Sy was a very good actor in this role, and the Francois Cluzet was a good actor in this role as well. Two words, watch it.
Although the plot is based on real events, it must be very difficult to balance sorrow and joy, wealth and poverty, constrained disability and (hyper)activity in such a way that the result is not rude and/or embarrassing. In spite of several teases and jokes related to disability, they are included in a logical and realistic way into Driss 's character (splendidly played by Omar Sy). No wonder that the film has received so much warm welcome and has become one of the biggest French successes all over the world. Opposites, even antipodes have several things in common, but there are a few occasions triggering the events to understand them. The film could be recommended even to those who have disabled persons closely around. Perhaps it is then possible to find new angles to deal with them and bring more joy and variety into their lives.And last but not least: I hope no Hollywood remake is made, although Eddie Murphy and Dustin Hoffman (just my guess due to their looks and similarity) could be tempted to go for it...


                
What a heartwarming comedy on a serious subject for a long time! What's more important is that it is a true story. That makes you feel more positive and hopeful about life.Both Philippe (Francois Cluzet) and Driss (Omar Sy) are like the untouchables whom no one wants to have anything to do with: Driss, came from Senegal to live with his aunt, is strong and big and black. He is just released from prison after a six-month term but he is not wanted even in his own home in the projects; Phillip is a white, rich and widowed aristocrat who is paralyzed from the neck down from a paragliding accident. His love for loud opera and demand for tedious care turns off many carers. Both of them have reached the bottom of their lives. When they finally meet, the opposite attracts: they finally see a way out as both of them offer each other a completely different perspective on life which turn both of their lives around.Philip introduces a world of opera, classical music, art, paragliding, lost love, flowery language and repressed emotion. He does not want pity and feels helpless about his condition. He is good at being thoughtful and offers ultimate material comfort. Driss, almost illiterate, is rich in kindheartedness and has a simple outlook of life while respecting others. He questions the value of art, ridicules opera and makes fun of classical music. He introduces rap music and dance, direct confrontation, threatening by little violence, direct expression of love, pot and massage. He is great at making the best of what he has. The link between them was respect, genuine care and a wide open mind. Even though they come from totally different worlds, they learn from each other with a very open mind and eventually forge a strong and supportive friendship.The fact that the film is based on a true story makes it even more darling and heart-warming because in real life, without the genuine open-mindedness, respect and sincere care for others, this wonderful friendship and support would never have happened. This is a perfect production on all counts: acting, script, direction, music and editing. The lines are beautifully crafted and comically delivered by both excellent actors. While Sy can use his whole body to show his extrovert and outgoing personality, Cluzet mainly uses his face and eyes to act. Yet both are magnificent and the sparks between them really dazzle. The score is simple but powerful. The monotonous piano solo reminds me of the scores from "Tree of Life", but here it sounds a little sad and a little repetitive like the monotony in life. It also shows the gradual change in real life: everything, be they good or bad in life, will phase out and all we have to do is to enjoy every moment while we can. Being wheelchair-bound and unable to move/feel from the neck down can be heavy and depressing. But if we can take it easy like Driss does, life is full of nice surprises and fun. Highly recommended.
A French movie with English subtitles enters the finicky American movie market with two strikes against it.It's French -- strike one.It has subtitles -- strike two.Which is a crying shame, because one of the year's most enjoyable and uplifting films has pretty much come and vanished from theaters, unable to garner much attention during another summer filled with mindless action adventure "thrillers" and sleep-inducing "comedies." The Intouchables is a marvelous film. Carried by two outstanding lead performances by Francois Cluzet (who bears an uncanny resemblance to Dustin Hoffman) and Omar Cy (who deserves an Oscar nomination for a movie-stealing performance), this film has wit, candor, humor, sadness, and ultimately great inspiration. The film's credibility is boosted by it being based on a true story.Cluzet plays a quadriplegic, which means he is confined to a wheelchair unable to feel any sensation below his neck. If there's any upside, it's that he's also very wealthy, giving him considerable options that would not otherwise be available to a person of lesser means.Cluzet is utterly bored with his life, not the least of which has anything to do with his physical impairment. One senses that even if he were not parked in a wheelchair, he would still need something more. A great deal more, in fact. What Cluzet needs is stimulation, excitement, and most of all – someone he can call a friend.He finds all of this in the unlikeliest of places.Omar Cy plays the part of unemployed street thug to absolute perfection. He's a Senegalese immigrant languishing in the slums of Paris burdened with typical urban family difficulties -- poverty, drug abuse, lack of hope and opportunity. One can imagine that there are many Omar Cy's living as second-class citizens throughout the modern world. In fact, the city here may be Paris. But it could just as easily be Sao Paulo or Chicago. He meets Cluzet in what can only be described as an unexpected encounter, and the two men begin to engage in an uneasy, but captivating friendship.Everyone can see what's coming next. And that's perfectly okay. Initially indifferent to Cluzet's condition, Cy will ultimately come to care deeply for the man who is not just an employer, but a pathway out of pointlessness. The man in the chair becomes a muse and means of escape, an emotional and spiritual home for a foreigner who instantly resumes the role of "immigrant" once he steps back beyond the threshold of Cluzet's luxurious apartment and back onto the streets of Paris.The two men desperately need each other, in completely different ways. Eventually, they engage on a bucket list of activities, bonding in the process, allowing the rest of us to go along for the ride. And what a joyous ride it is.Critics have correctly pointed out this film gives a somewhat sanitized depiction of what being without the use of one's arms and legs must be like. While most of the film focuses on the role of caregiver, we are constantly reminded (or perhaps, I simply could not get it out of my mind) that not every quadriplegic receives such meticulous physical care nor emotional support. It helps to have money, no matter who you are.But I was willing to overlook this and enjoy a film full of energy, comedy, and ultimately of happiness.Admittedly, the conclusion of the film seems all too neat and tidy. But again, I am going to give the filmmakers a pass here for reasons you may understand only if you see the film, which enables audiences to come and appreciate how important people are to other people. After all, we are allowed to enjoy an uplifting film every once in a while. Never mind that it's all somewhat contrived.One of my barometers in judging a film comes with a fundamental question. Namely, do I think about the film the next day, and perhaps the next.I did. I must admit I was moved emotionally by this film. So was everyone else in the audience, from the reactions I saw. I laughed. I teared up. And, I rejoiced in the end.Call me naive, but I wish all life ended just like it does in the movies. I know -- it doesn't.But that won't stop me from dreaming and enjoying the fantasy.


                
My wife doesn't watch foreign movies with English subtitles, so I had to go it alone. I know some French so it was easy to just glance at the subtitles to understand the conversations. On DVD from my public library.This is a superb movie based on real people. It is a serious subject, a wealthy quadriplegic otherwise in the prime of his life, victim of a para-sailing accident. But it is done with such style, hopefully reflecting the real person, that it is constantly interesting and entertaining.Established French film star François Cluzet (I call him the French Dustin Hoffman, for his looks and acting style) is Philippe, very wealthy and living in Paris, but only able to move above the neck. He has nurses and other attendants, but as the story opens he is interviewing hard men for the job of personal caretaker, someone able to help him take showers, get dressed, move him to and from his wheelchair, drive him places, things like that. Tall, strong, and very dark, Omar Sy is Driss, a smart and capable young man who has had a hard life growing up and now knocking around as an adult. He is at the interview just for one reason, he has to have proof he is looking for work to collect government assistance. But he doesn't really want the job, he does nothing to endear himself. But just as hospital roommates Edward and Carter hit it off in 2007's "Bucket List", Philippe and Driss seem to need each other. Driss gets hired, to his own surprise, and the arrangement works out famously.What makes it work as a relationship, and as a movie, Driss never takes pity on Philippe, nor does he let him drift into self-pity. He makes jokes, in good taste, about Philippe's inability to move. In one scene, Driss has a letter for Philippe, and puts in on his chest. After smiling and watching in twitch for a few seconds, Driss says "OH, you can't move your arms. Let me open it for you."There is even a scene where, after flying to the Alps by private jet, Philippe and Driss have a session to go paragliding, of course strapped in with experienced men. Then, as the movie ends we get a short glimpse of the real men, still good friends.Good movie!
Really enjoyed this film, and even though the sub-titles always feel like a bit of a chore, there aren't too many lines to disturb the actual viewing of the film. Driss (Omar) is just perfection and couldn't have been played by anyone else. His personality shine through and you just want to keep watching him. Once the film is over, you feel like you want to know what happens next, where did they go, what did they become? The closing credits do offer a bit of information but you want to keep watching, regardless. Without giving too much away, the ending makes the film complete. I felt like my heart was going to burst - when I realised what happened. And just how good it makes you feel. If anyone enjoyed this film as much as me, for the same reasons I did (that you can actually feel good about watching a man who can move nothing at all from the neck down), then read "Me Before You" by JoJo Moyes. Stunning...
Feel-good French film The Intouchables tells the true story of the burgeoning friendship between an old, aristocratic invalid and his young, impoverished caretaker. Sounds pretty lame, doesn't it? It sounds like the kind of film that, at some point, seems destined to travel down one of two paths, descending either into a lecture on the class differences between certain socioeconomic groups or a comparison between the relative hardships of near-poverty and living with a severe disability. And therein lies the excellence of this film. Not only does it avoid both topics and, in so doing, keeps itself from becoming overly melodramatic, but it actually subverts audience expectations by persistently looking, as those Monty Python boys suggested, on the bright side of life. A big part of the film's charm is the effortless interplay between Omar Sy (caretaker Driss) and Francois Cluzet (Philippe), who clearly have a lot of fun with their roles while concurrently displaying total immersion in their characters. If managed poorly by directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano, Driss's avalanche of one-liners and practical jokes at the expense of his handicapped friend could've come off as misplaced and in poor taste. However, the acting pair's wit and comic timing turns virtually all hit-or-miss jokes into gold and contributes greatly to making The Intouchables...well...just plain funny.In the same way that 'fun for the whole family' has comes to be interpreted as 'a living hell for anyone over six' by contemporary viewers, the classification of a 'dramedy' has come to imply a meagre handful of humour, quickly pushed aside to make room for a sob story. The Intouchables gets the formula right, injecting varied forms of comedy in between a genuine, emotionally investing subplot involving the lovelorn Philippe's pen pal Eleonore (Dorothee Briere). A toe-tapping soundtrack brimming with disco classics serves as the icing on the cake for this potentially Oscar-winning delight.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review. If you're looking for a writer for your movie website or other publication, I'd also love to hear from you.*


                
After missing last year's 'The Help' on principle (the principle being: black people have moved on; why can't Hollywood?), I couldn't help but approach 'Untouchable' with similar trepidation. My preconception was a misconception: It is one of the best films I've seen all year, and is by far the best foreign one. It's about platonic love between polar opposites. It's about hope and happiness. Set in Paris, Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano's heart-warming film stars François Cluzet (a dead ringer for Dustin Hoffman) as Philippe, a wealthy quadriplegic widower and Omar Sy as Driss, a brutish ex-offender from a Parisian project. Looking for someone who will not pity him, Philippe hires Driss as his carer. Driss almost leaves until he sees his lavish quarters – and Magalie, Philippe's sexy auburn-haired secretary, who Driss makes it his mission to bed. Driss does pity Philippe, but never makes the mistake of showing it. Instead, the two make jokes at each other's expense and a bond very quickly (and believably) develops. They introduce each other to their worlds. One is replete with operas, art and literature; the other with girls, spliffs and street knowledge. By the end of the film they are inseparable. This could easily have been a tale of race, like 'The Help' was, but that is inconsequential in this film. It is purely coincidental that Philippe is white and Driss is black. When Philippe's personnel look disapprovingly at Driss, they do so because of his rough manner, not his colour. One of the film's strengths is that it doesn't mention this detail, which is after all as irrelevant as it being set in France. One thing that ought to be mentioned is that Omar Sy is not just the help in this film; he's the star, commanding the screen with confidence, charm and credibility. What cautions me from classing this as a perfect film is the few but prominent clichés. Philippe has a daughter who's so much the stereotypical spoiled little girl, and Driss's own family hates him. Also, the setups are overly familiar. Driss scoffs at Philippe's love for classical music and abstract art, but then learns to love Vivaldi and Bach, and then, astonishingly, creates a painting of his own which sells for 11,000 euros! This film is based on real people (Philippe Pozzo di Borgo and his carer Abdel Sellou), so these things may be accurate, but this isn't a documentary of their actual lives. However, I can easily forgive these clichés because they are outnumbered by the many wonderful laugh-out-loud moments. Returning from a hiatus, Driss insists on shaving an unkempt Philippe. He snips away leaving Philippe looking more absurd upon each stroke, leaving him with a hitlerian moustache! Already 'Untouchable' has achieved a phenomenal level of success. It is making and breaking records across the globe, and is beating such films as 'The Artist' to awards. It has rightly been entered as France's entry for next year's Oscars. It is sure to win. www.moseleyb13.com


                
Intouchables is probably one of the best French movies of the last few decades. It's not hard to see why it raised such a tremendous furor in Europe, and now it's creating an even bigger fan base for itself in the United States. It's so utterly pleasurable and heart-warming. Don't look at it as a foreign feature, though, or you will miss ale the excitement. It's a movie simply made for the viewers to love and remember. Films like this one don't come out too often these days, so just sit back and enjoy it while it's still out on the big screen.Intouchables presents a truly touching story about an unlikely friendship between an older, extremely rich, but severely paralyzed white man and a black man, who just got out of prison. Philippe is in need of a caretaker and as soon as Omar steps into his house he realizes that he might be the right person for this specific role. The plot doesn't concentrate too much on the way that those two guys connect over time, but quickly shows how they got so fond of each other. It was as if they were meant to work together and, in the process, become 'intouchable', in a very profound meaning of the word, and inseparable by any outer force. It's fantastic to see how people from completely different backgrounds are able to form such a strong bond and spend so many wonderful days and nights together. Even though at first it might seem that Omar may be overly vulgar, disrespectful, ignorant, and simply inadequate for this hard job, Philippe is still eager to give him a chance. What's more, many of Philippe closest friends don't approve of his new companion, but that doesn't discourage him.It is simply remarkable, how Omar is able to bring warmth, enthusiasm, and so much fun into Philippe's life. They actually operate on the same wavelength, as it might seem, sharing the same views and opinions on various topics. Through Omar Philippe understands that sometimes all it takes to achieve pure happiness is to let go and do what one feels like doing, as if nothing really mattered, even if you are attached to a wheelchair.And with that moving tale the movie creates a very powerful message, showing that all the wealth and money isn't capable of making a man truly happy, when he doesn't have someone to share it with. It's the richness in heart and mind that really matters, not the abilities of a body blessed with fortune and power.Through his brilliant, funny, and very real performance, Omar Sy will probably give his career a fantastic jump start. He is able to show the transition that his character goes through, from a cold man living on the streets, to a deeply compassionate and art-loving protector, in the most convincing manner.The amount of clever, laughable, and sometimes insulting (but timed very adequately) jokes is simply overwhelming. Also, notice the amazing mix of classic music and 60's soul and the way it enhances the visualization of this very peculiar friendship between the characters.I don't think that if someone would've come to me with a script and said: 'Listen, I got a story about a young black guy who makes fun of a handicapped man and gives him weed to smoke just to make him feel more relaxed' I would've bought it.It's a simple exaggeration, but through that straight statement I want to show that the movie has yet so much more to offer, making the marvelous Intouchables a true stand-out movie of the last few years. Highly recommended.


                
According to IMDb, "The Intouchables" set all sorts of box office records--the second most successful French film in history in France as well as the number one film for 2012 in Germany. So, because of this very impressive pedigree I was perhaps expecting a little more. Now this is NOT to say it's a bad film--it's wonderful. It just didn't seem quite THAT wonderful. But it IS well worth seeing.As for the plot, this movie is a true-life account of a quadriplegic man (François Cluzet) in search of a new aide. However, all the folks who apply for the job seem the same--boring and sterile. On an odd lark, he chooses an unqualified man who doesn't seem interested in the job at all (Omar Sy). And, oddly, they form a friendship that seems to reinforce the old adage that opposites attract.While the plot is amazingly thin and seems to be missing chunks of the story, the film is masterful in several ways. The acting (particularly by Sy) is just terrific. But even more terrific is the artistry of the film itself. It takes a somewhat ordinary story and injects it with class--including some wonderful cinematography and one of the nicest soundtracks I have ever heard. It is a lovely film.


                
This movie is a beautiful story about friendship and everything it can bring you. It is about appreciating each other's differences. It is about how wonderful life is.When Philippe, a rich, middle aged quadriplegic is looking for a new person to assist him, he meets Driss,a young man from the Parisian suburbs, who is there only to get a paper signed. Philippe finds himself amused by him, who seems like he couldn't care less about anything, and decides, as a joke, to hire him for a month, betting that he won't even hold the position for two weeks. But Philippe, finally experiencing being treated like a normal being again after is paragliding accident as Driss takes care of him, quite clumsily in the beginning (which will lead to a few funny scenes), will find Driss becoming his best friend and making him enjoy life again.As for the comments on this movie stating it's racist; which I've seen here and on other websites, I really don't understand them. Yes, Driss is black and he is assisting a white person; that's as far as it goes. Yes, I think he is portrayed realistically. A lot of people living in the Parisian suburbs are of foreign descent, most of them dislike classical music, a lot have troubles paying their bills, a lot don't understand the world in which the character of Philippe is living in. That's just the way it is. The movie is far from criticizing that. The whole point of the movie is about mixing up two different worlds, take the best out of the two, and make two men better. Driss will become less violent, more mature; Philippe will learn to enjoy the simple pleasures of life and to let go...My rating of 8 on 10 is because the movie sometimes gets a little cheesy, but overall it is a very good movie. Funny, sometimes sad, and ends on a really touching note that brought a tear in my eye. The whole cast was great, Omar Sy that I had never seen in a movie before does great and François Cluzet is very touching.
Greetings again from the darkness. Sometimes acting elevates material to a level far beyond what a film might have otherwise deserved. Such is the case with this based-on-a-true-story effort from co-writers and co-directors Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano. Despite the elements of truth, the core material here is a sentimental tale that we have seen before. Francois Cluzet (Tell No One) as Philippe and Omar Sy as Driss turn it into an extremely entertaining story with characters we quickly connect with.Philippe is a wealthy quadriplegic widower who is interviewing candidates for a caregiver. Driss is a recently released from jail street hustler who is just trying to qualify for state benefits by going on the required interviews. Philippe is struck by Driss' direct approach and energy level, and chooses Driss over the room full of more qualified types.The rest of the movie is really a buddy flick where the polar opposites bring much to the other. Philippe slyly gets Driss to use his sharp mind a bit more effectively, and Driss taps into Philippe's hidden lust for life. Though the supporting cast is fine, the film's best scenes are those featuring Philippe and Driss.This is a film from France and much as been made of the filmmakers' decision to change the caregiver from the real life Arab to a more cinema-friendly Black man. The Earth, Wind & Fire dance may be a bit too much, but I choose to believe the casting of Omar Sy was the deciding factor, not his race. He lights up the screen and draws us right into his world and his choices - some of which are better than others.The film shares much with The Sea Inside, Scent of a Woman, and The Diving Bell and the Butterfly, but this one has much more humor and bonding than any of those. It doesn't shy away from the melodramatic moments and isn't above trying to generate tears in viewers. There will be a US re-make of this one, but the two lead actors here (especially Mr. Sy) make this one worth seeing.


                
Far too often this film is discussed within the limits of the so-called 'political correctness' (why a black man instead of an Arab, as it was in reality, and why must a black man serve a white man, etc. etc.). This film is about friendship of two very different persons, no matter if they are black or white.I think, that the black man (Omar Sy) was a very good actor in this role, and the white man (Francois Cluzet)was a good actor in this role as well.And I think that racism will be no more virulent only when people are no more interested in the question if a black, yellow, white or mixed person plays a certain role, but only in the question if he/ she plays the role good or not.


                
If you are looking for an alternative to blockbuster superhero movies or Hollywood cookie-cutter romantic comedies, you can do no better than Oliver Nakache and Eric Toledano's film, The Intouchables. Though it has aspects that are familiar and even formulaic, the film redeems itself with its honest emotion and humane message of how vastly different people can learn from each other. Hugely popular in France where it earned $280 million (the second highest grossing film in their history) and was nominated for nine Cesar Awards, The Intouchables can make you forget, however briefly, the day's headlines, and feel good once more about people and the world they inhabit.Omar Sy, César Best Actor Award winner, is Driss, a poor Senegalese man from the ghettos who is hired to take care of multimillionaire Philippe (Francois Cluzet), a quadriplegic from a paragliding accident. Based on a true story adapted from the memoir "You Changed My Life" by Abdel Sellou, Driss is an ex-con who served six months in prison for his part in a robbery and applied for the job in order to be eligible to receive government benefits after he was turned down. Surprisingly, Philippe hires Driss to be his caretaker, telling him that he likes people who "tell it like it is" without overt displays of pity or compassion.The film begins with Driss driving Phillipe's Maserati at dangerous speeds with Philippe next to him on the passenger seat. Stopped by the police, Driss tells the officers that his paralyzed friend must be taken to the hospital immediately as Philippe pretends to have a stroke. Exhilarated by their experience, the two men drive to the seashore to watch the waves in contemplative silence. The events leading up to the incident are then told in flashback. As Philippe's recently hired caretaker, Driss moves into the aristocrat's opulent Paris apartment and learns the job quickly. Before long, he is carrying Philippe from his bed to a chair, carefully dressing him, and even flirting with his assistant Magalie (Audrey Fleurot), but he does draw the line on some activities.As a result of Driss' high energy, Philippe begins to renew his enthusiasm for life and the two are drawn together by their love of music of diverse types, fast cars, and off-color humor. There are a few sub-plots including Philippe's snarky teenage daughter (Alba Gaïa Kraghede Bellugi) and her problems with her mop-haired boyfriend, and that of Driss' younger brother Adama (Cyril Mendy) and his fears of being the victim in a drug deal but they do not distract from what is essentially a two-character story. There is a lot of warmth and humor in the growing relationship. Driss introduces the staid Philippe to the music of Earth, Wind, and Fire to which Driss dances flamboyantly at Philippe's birthday party, the young caretaker becomes Philippe's barber, showing him some different and not too flattering mustaches, and they enjoy a hang gliding adventure in the French countryside.While some aspects of culture are ridiculed, the film shows respect for the arts in a way most Hollywood films never would. We actually listen to classical music, view paintings in a museum, and hear Philippe's impassioned poetic letters to Eleonore, who lives in Dunkirk, a woman he's never met. Driss also takes up painting and sells his first work for 11,000 Euros. Also, unlike mainstream American films that seem to exist in a vacuum, there are even references to real life contemporary figures such as Obama, Bush, and Nixon.While the opportunity is certainly present for mawkish sentimentality, Nakache and Toledano steer clear of that pitfall and opt instead for a genuineness and sincerity that allows us to truly care about each character. Though The Intouchables does have aspects of racial stereotyping, it can be enjoyed simply as a charming, warm-hearted, and funny depiction of friendship between two very different people who are willing to learn from each other about how to celebrate life. While happiness in their lives may still be elusive, in the words of existential psychiatrist Rollo May, "Joy, rather than happiness, is the goal of life, for joy is<U+0085>based on the experience of one's identity as a being of worth and dignity."


                
At first I thought - they say it's a comedy, but I don't see this story about handicapped person finish in other way but in tears. And I was right...only they were tears of pure joy! Both actors Omar and Francois deserve great acclaim for their roles. The chemistry between them is so flawless that by the end they convince you that you are rather looking a documentary then a movie inspired by a true story. Special honors to Omar as his role is what makes the movie. Though he may appear having the happily ever after end of a Cinderella story he fails to fall in the cliché and makes the audience twist and turn till the very end, most of the times laughing out loud. I very much liked the humor - fresh, well pitched, never overboards. So if you are seeking to lighten your spirit yet entertain yourself - try the nice touch of Les Intouchables!


                
The best thing about this film is how it celebrates the smaller things in life. It emphasises that money doesn't always buy happiness. Whilst it can bring you material profit, it can leave you spiritually deprived. There is something very touching in how Philippe finds more joy in sharing a joint with Driss than going to art galleries or the Opera.Even though Driss and Philippe are polar opposites of each other, this is why they work so well together. Philippe wants a carer like Driss due to how laidback and lazy he is. Philippe is sick of being pampered to and pedestalised. He wants a carer who will accept him for who he is. Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/jvBU9o


                
Delightfully heartwarming, genuinely touching & brimming with endless warmth, The Intouchables is an affectionately crafted, sensibly narrated & outstandingly performed cinema that's full of love, life & laughter and is an exquisite blend of drama & comedy that celebrates life plus the little joys & pleasures that abound around us at all times, if only we cared to look from a different perspective.Based on a true story, The Intouchables is a tale of friendship, humanity, disability, social divide & beauty of life itself that follows two entirely different people. First is Philippe, a wealthy aristocrat who became a quadriplegic following a paragliding accident. Second is Driss, a young man who's hired as Philippe's caretaker despite his inexperience and with his jovial & carefree nature, alters his life forever.Co-written & co-directed by Olivier Nakache & Éric Toledano, the finest thing about this picture is that it is painstakingly honest & simple in depicting a developing friendship which only gets better as the story progresses. What's also admirable is that the filmmakers manage to steer clear of the sappy, sentimental route and instead fill the whole narrative with a blissful ambiance that radiates only joy throughout its runtime.Every interaction, every conversation, every action contributes in further strengthening the bonds its characters share. Its lighthearted, precisely balanced & carefully handled humour is a highlight in itself. Its warm colour tones, smooth camera-work & lavish set pieces greatly enhance the look n feel of the picture, its 113 minutes of runtime is elegantly paced, and its mesmerising score further uplifts the whole experience by a great deal.Coming to the acting department, The Intouchables is steered by phenomenal performances from François Cluzet & Omar Sy while the rest of the cast does well in their supporting roles. Cluzet is absolutely convincing as Philippe and expresses wide range of emotions despite keeping most of his body at rest. Sy is even better as Driss and steals every moment with an impeccable input for he's the heart & soul of this feature but the best of them all is the remarkable chemistry these two actors share for it's truly flawless in every sense of the word.On an overall scale, The Intouchables is intimately human as a drama & unexpectedly hilarious as a comedy plus it treats its sensitive subject matter with utmost care & tenderness. It's about simple gestures that go a long way in making a helpless person feel worthy again. It's about the realisation that sometimes you've to see things from a different paradigm to realise what you've been missing all along. And that even the most unlikely people can bring that change in you. Guaranteed to keep its viewers smiling from beginning to end, The Intouchables is both incredibly uplifting & extremely rewarding in every sense of the word. Don't miss it.


                
