Derrick Vinyard (Norton) is thrown in jail because he brutally murdered two black men one fateful evening when they tried to steal his car. He is a monster of a Nazi and is quite well known around the community as such. While in prison, Derek has had time to think and he realizes that his reasons for believing in what he does are complete and total frauds. His younger brother Danny (Furlong) seems to be heading down the same path. Can Derek convince his brother to change his ways before it's too late?Ed Norton deserves all the credit he receives as a talented actor, and he definitely shows off his skills here. It's hard to believe that he's the same skinny weakling that he portrayed in Fight Club. He's a big muscle bound monster filled with hate for the first portion of the film and is then transformed into a man that has seen the light and faults in his ways. Top notch actor. Edward Furlong, despite being in only a few films, also shows off his acting abilities...however, neither one of them could save this film.Minor Spoilers:The premise of the movie itself would make it worthy of being in the Top 250, however it has serious flaws in execution and especially the script, as it's filled with entirely unbelievable situations. Too bad because I really wanted to like this one. Nazis playing basketball with local black gangs? Um, yeah m'kay? But a bigger flaw has to be Derek's reasons for having the beliefs he does and the reasons he changed them. His racist beliefs stem from his father's dislike for minorities and from his death in which he is killed by black people while trying to put out a fire in a crackhouse. The latter is believable but the look into his father's beliefs in the dinner scene was entirely unnecessary and laughable at best. Once in the slammer, he makes friends with a black inmate who enlightens Derek's view by telling him sex jokes. And although Derek has had the Nazi beliefs he has had for many years, a simple joke or two and getting rammed in the bootay by fellow Nazis in prison sway his opinion to the opposite. It could happen right?The ending was what really put me off though and is the main reason why the movie showed itself, to me, to be pretentious. It would have made infinitely more sense had Derek been killed, but having Danny killed for simply blowing smoke in some black kids face is a serious flaw concocted by the makers, and is again, unbelievable. It makes me wonder what they actually thought when they first read the script. I guess they figured it would blow the audience away as there would be no way for them to foresee the final events. I believe that most people fell for this simple trick and is most of the reason why this film has such a lofty rating here at IMDB. Ideally, Danny's life should have been spared for Derek's redemption. Sure, it would've been a "happy" ending, but what we are left with is much worse. Groan.This film left me very disappointed as I was looking forward to it's story and had heard many good things about it. However, the movie is simply not believable. A movie dealing with real issues needs to be, I don't know, more realistic.Great acting, decent camera work, but terrible script.
Generously, 7/10
The concept of a reformed neo-Nazi is so intriguing that it's a wonder there haven't been more movies on this topic. Once you see "American History X," however, you will understand why. The movie's racial themes are provocative and unsettling, far outside the comfort zone of the average viewer, and the movie additionally has the challenging task of explaining how a violent criminal changed his ways. Does the movie convincingly explain that transition? Not entirely.It's an engrossing movie, nonetheless. It uses a device more common in literature than in the movies: inter-cutting between several story-lines. First we see Derek (Ed Norton) as a free man, newly released from prison, and having developed a conscience. Then we see earlier points in his life when he was a white supremacist, and finally the prison experience that changed him. The non-chronological approach is very effective, making the movie about as engaging as any thriller, even though the plot itself offers few surprises. Had the film followed a more conventional timeline, we'd have quickly grown impatient waiting for plot developments that were inevitable. With the way it's structured, our focus is on the process more than the outcome: How did a bright kid like Derek become a racist? And what turned him around?The movie takes great pains to show how articulate the younger Derek is when he justifies his hatred of blacks by citing the statistics of black crime. (His more personal motive is that blacks murdered his father.) His arguments hit upon common politically conservative themes as he finds fault with affirmative action, glorification of criminals like Rodney King, and liberals who blame (white) society for the problems facing blacks. But Derek takes this reasoning a step further and argues that blacks have a "racial commitment to crime." Of course, by taking that step, he undermines his own arguments. For example, how does his harping about "personal responsibility" square with his belief in judging people for factors beyond their control, like their race? Responsibility requires choice. If race were the reason for black crime, then black criminals would be morally blameless. But no character points out such contradictions in Derek's views. When he debates a liberal teacher played by Elliot Gould, the gentle Gould character acts like a milquetoast, unable to provide a strong rebuttal. It's a powerful scene, and more than plausible: as in real life, people aren't always prepared with eloquent answers, even when confronted by someone with indefensible views.Still, it's disconcerting that the film never fully addresses the "intellectual" side of his bigotry. The main impetus for Derek's change is internal: once he learns to respect himself, he starts respecting others--a nice thought, no doubt, but I'm not sure it would be a strong enough fulcrum for change in this character's racial views. Although some would assume that Derek is too intelligent to remain racist, I would assume he's too intelligent not to come up with yet more rationalizations.There are other factors at work, too, including his treatment by white inmates and his befriending of a charming black inmate (Guy Torry). But all this seems to provide, at most, an emotional response to the earlier scenes. The movie made me realize how much the public attitude toward race has changed since the late 1960s, when optimistic films like "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" confronted racism by creating immensely likable African-American characters and ignoring any other social and cultural tensions that might pose a barrier to interracial relationships. In AHX, almost all the black characters are gang members and criminals, and there seems to be an underlying cynicism in the film's reluctance to provide a clear-cut refutation to Derek's right-wing arguments. Implicitly, the movie argues that there's a cycle of hatred going on between white and black gangs, and that the white racists aren't solely to blame for this situation. Aside from his relationship with Dr. Sweeney (Avery Brooks) and his prison friend, the basis for Derek's turnaround is largely negative: he realizes that he's no better than the black outlaws he so despises. That isn't exactly the most inspiring message about race relations.My main reason for wanting to watch this movie in the first place was to understand better how an extremist hatemonger could change. But that turns out to be the least convincing aspect of the film. The root of the problem probably lies in the conception. The filmmakers started with the intelligent skinhead character, then they thought, "What sorts of events will lead this character to transform?" That's why the conclusion feels just a tad contrived. It's a good film, overall, but ironically where it's weak is in the very area that makes the story the most interesting.


                
A Finnish commentator compared this film to American prison drama OZ . I love OZ , it`s my all time favourite American show , it`s compelling and brilliantly acted , adjectives you could use to describe AMERICAN HISTORY X. However while the HBO show suffers from lapses in logic there`s enough going on in different sub plots for you not to notice these flaws but seeing similar flaws in this film you can`t help but notice them
First let me point out the good aspects . As said this movie contains great performances . In real life Ed Norton reminds me of the Kevin character from HARRY ENFIELD AND CHUMS with his floppy hairstyle and his back to front baseball cap but he always gives a good performance . In this movie he gives a GREAT performance as Derek the skin head from hell . Edward Furlong also gives a GREAT performance as Derek`s younger brother Danny . Norton earned an Oscar nod but strangely Furlong seemed to miss out , a pity . Tony Kaye also shows us he had great potential as a director , and it`s one helluva shame it`s unlikely we`ll be seeing either Furlong or Kaye as big Hollywood names***** SPOILERS *****But it`s the script that brings the film down , and in some places it`s quite woeful . Derek kills a couple of armed home boys who turn up at his house and he`s convicted of manslaughter . I know this is a plot device but couldn`t it have been better done ? Is it possible any jury would have convicted Derek for protecting his property from armed burglers . I guess all the jurors were called Goldberg and Rubinstein ? And I`ve got to agree with everyone who don`t buy the idea of Derek making friends with a black guy inside prison even after Derek gets raped by the skin head gang  , oh and how many prisons in America have a mix of one third black , one third hispanic and one third Nazi/peckerwood ?  It`s unrealistic the reasons why Derek stopped being a Nazi but it`s even more unrealistic why he became one in the first place - His Father used the " N " word a few times ! Of course the real reason might have been that his Father was murdered by a black gang but if that`s the case then why include the dinner scene ? It`s just confusing . There`s also another confused dinner scene where Derek`s mother invites a Jewish teacher around the family table . Would a Jew want to share a table with a couple of Nazi teenagers ?But the major flaw is with the ending . AMERICAN HISTORY X is a very obvious redemption plot but Danny being murdered at the end doesn`t tie in with Derek`s redemption . If Derek remained a Nazi Danny would have died , if Derek had become a flower arranger with Greenpeace Danny would have died . No matter what Derek would have done Danny would still have been murdered . When writing a redemption plot it`s essential the ending of the movie ties in with the protagonist`s road to Damascus .AMERICAN HISTORY X possibly does deserve to be in the IMDB top 250 movies but not at number 58 . It contains great performances but also some very poor scripting especially poor character motivation . If you want to see a better , more thought provoking film concerning race hate watch ROMPER STOMPER
This is an intelligent story of racial violence and xenophobia with countless violence and broody message . It happens in Venice , California and deals with a young man , a skinhead and leader of a violent white supremacist gang named Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) previously seduced into the fascist bunch by Alexander (Stacy Keach) . The Nazi group follows a racist doctrine about white supremacy , showing the feeling for the male reality of reactionary working class environments . Meanwhile his problematic family torn apart , specially his mother Doris (Beverly D'Angelo). He goes to jail after committing a heinous crime , but while in prison Derek's view of mankind is altered, he discovers that there is good and bad in every race . When he is released , the former neo-Nazi skinhead attempts to prevent his younger brother named Danny (Edward Furlong) who idolizes him is on the brink of becoming a Neo Nazi himself as Derek must save him from a similar destination from going down the same wrong path that he did . As his only thought is to steer his brother away from that same violent past and being helped by a reformist headmaster (Avery Brooks).Intense and thought-provoking drama with powerful performances and slick direction , being developed by means of flashbacks filmed in black and white and color . It's an important production about racism and Nazism but with lots of violence and unpleasant images as a frightening rape in the prison and the shocking murder at the beginning . Extraordinary acting by Edward Norton who steals the show as fanatic Nazi that committed acts of racial crime throughout and subsequently become good guy . Very good cinematography -specially the black and white fragments- by the same director Tony Kaye . Emotive and moving musical score by Anne Dudley , including some wonderful song . However , disowned by his director and reportedly reedited by its star . The motion picture is stunningly realized Tony Kaye , an unsuccessful director of a few films and documentaries who here achieved his big and only hit . Rating : Above average , essential and indispensable seeing . Well worth watching .


                
Why can't we have good things?Easy: because every Hollywood movie MUST be, or become, preachy and cheesy at one point or another...AHX had potential, and lots of it. Edward Norton once again delivers a great performance, and the whole cast is above average too.The story, as it unfolds, is interesting and intriguing. Even the somewhat stereotyped "nazis" work quite well in the general flow of the movie. All in all the story holds up quite well until Derek comes home from jail.There it is: our turning point: the movie quickly becomes painfully predictable: thanks to a rape in the showers, to a clichéd "friendly African-American inmate unjustly convicted" and to his old professor's (African-American himself too...) Derek suddenly sees the light and turns his back to his old friends and ideals.Of course Derek's redemption has a huge influence on his younger brother Danny, but sadly his fate is written already...Essentially American History X is a movie of two halves: the first part is enjoyable and outstanding, despite some predictable twists. The second part is preachy and even more predictable, so the redemption-through-death ending doesn't come as a surprise, but more like as a consequence.To be honest, the whole movie is filled with clichés and stereotypes: Derek's dad is the typical narrow-minded WASP, the White Power guys are complete morons with zero depth (which might be realistic, but come on... show some imagination). The positive characters are African-American, and of course we can't go without the token Jewish character and the liberal one getting unfairly abused.Even disregarding that aspect, Derek seems to joins and leaves the White Power crusade too abruptly and with little-to-none inner labour.THAT, much more than the cheesy and predictable twists, is the most disappointing aspect of a movie which could and should have been more complex.But, as said, the movie industry is manichean: things are either good or bad, black or white. Layers of grey aren't welcome.
'American History X (1998)' is an uneasy, sometimes downright uncomfortable film that pulls none of its punches and refuses to make any judgement on its closed-minded characters, even at the cost of potential audience alienation or possible misinterpretation. Its this very fact that gives it its power because it ultimately allows the viewer to come to their own conclusions, trusting them to understand the separation between the film itself and the contemptible characters contained within. Ultimately, it represents a vehement cry against the racism and bigotry rampant within its first two acts and also holds the belief that someone can unlearn these bizarre beliefs which are usually bored into them by an outside source. If it didn't go the distance it wouldn't have been half as successful, perhaps instead feeling like a weak-chinned exploitation piece, and its tragic conclusion may have lost its impact. 7/10


                
"American History X" is not a weak, fluffy, cutely wrapped after school special on racism, life in the 'hood, life in prison, and breaking the cycle. "American History X" is powerful and hits like an anvil. Edward Norton does an excellent job as Derek Vinyard, a venomous, hateful leader of a local gang of skinheads.The movie takes a singular look at a young man who is entrenched in the White Supremist movement, then how he emerged from that life, and even how he started down that path to begin with. Of course most people don't like racist bigots and the movie shows the very ugly nature of the skinheads/Arian Brotherhood. But the movie also shows the interaction between the Whites and Blacks in the 'hoods of L.A. There was by no means an angelic depiction of the African-Americans in this film. A few of the blacks shown were thugs who in part helped shape the views that Derek and his brother Danny (Edward Furlong) held as White Supremists, but there were also a couple of key African-American characters that helped to reshape the views of Derek and Danny."American History X" made sure to do it right and make it true to life. The life Derek had before prison, the life inside of prison with the segregation and the gangs, and his life after prison as a changed man. This was no "Mississippi Burning" or "Rosewood" detailing events of the past, rather this was a movie showing the present, the good and bad in both parties, and the different ways people can be reformed.


                
The problem with "American History X" has nothing to do with the acting. Edward Norton and Edward Furlong are both convincing and terrific, despite the fact that Norton's character seems more like a misguided youth than a evil neo-nazi (the brutality of his crimes seemed to exist only to mask this impression).  The fact is that it tries to cram too much into too little. Ideas and characters are presented that are never followed up on and thus the film seems disjointed.  Despite the fact that Norton's character broke through a lot of the typical characteristics that typify the neo nazi, the prison scenes contain characters that exemplify many these stereotypes.  The well rounded characters (such as Guy Torry as the laundry guy in prison) are canceled out by poorly developed ones (Faruiza Balk and Ethan Suplee as a couple of dunce nazi followers).  The flashbacks really aren't that well placed in my opinion.  The opening scene presented  Norton's character with simply too much brutality, and seemed designed to do nothing more than shock the audience.  The scenes that supposedly develop the background of the Norton character are really pointless and do not at all indicate the  nature of his beliefs.  His dad telling him that affirmative action is wrong is not the reason he became a crazed nazi.  Tony Kaye clearly wasn't thrilled with the final product, as evidenced by his bizarre "Humpty Dumpty" scandal.  He just didn't get all of what he wanted on to the screen.  The overrated reaction to this movie is hard to explain.  Emotionally, the film is fairly powerful and contains a great ending, though it is a bit too preachy.  The "hate is bad" message was really an elementary conclusion that was drawn to a sprawling movie that really should have aimed higher.


                
I admire this movie, its plot, the actors' acting, so intense and letting me totally engrossed in it. But it really makes me upset and angry at the end of the story. Isn't the last part when Danny is killed utterly redundant? I know it means to bring up the complicated feelings of the audience toward the problem the movie is dealing with. But hell no, it only makes me realize how serious and impotent America's gun control policy is. Are you going to blame racism when a freaking high school student is able to get hold of a gun so easily? When weapons that are so powerful such as guns are so handy and prevalent, killing is just a matter that could be done so easily. When something could be done very easily, would its happening be a surprise? It just happens, like all other easy matters like dropping a glass on the floor. You're not gonna blame on anything for such things. It just happens. Love and peace propaganda will only appear feeble and useless, and the safety of your life can't rely on human's subjectivity. I don't know America's gun policy well, but if in fact it's strictly conducted all the time, then my anger over this film is justified for it exaggerates the reality just for its dramatic effects. But if the reality is just as dramatic as what the film has shown, then I'd really feel sad and sorry for people living in this country.
The one reason to watch this movie is for the acting - it is intense - esp. concerning the lead character.The lead character is immediately interesting because he has a good mind - he is bright, clever, consistent and intense. He is impressionable yet searching for his own answers.From this character, we see how it is possible to uncover deep understandings - not about others, but about one's own self. Watching the lead character go through this process is what makes this movie so interesting.The rest of the movie doesn't quite match the interest level of the lead character, but it is still good. Because it involves racial tensions and Nazi references, it's easy to get drawn into the story quickly. Overall, I recommend watching the movie.


                
One can change and roll back whatever his past for good. It has nothing to with the surrounding you live but within yourself. Every Man and Woman can change for good and be good. Its a universal message which this film is based on. That idea is taken to the viewers minds really smoothly but with a greater sensitive depth. Film scored only 7 from me as it lacked failed to emotionally grab the viewer as much as i hope. It talks to the brain but fails to capture the heats entirely. Nevertheless it is a fine movie to watch and rethink about ourselves.
It has been many years since I have seen this film. My memory attested it to be an excellent picture that meaningfully discussed issues as heavy as race relations, prejudice, and hatred. Unfortunately my memory is a little at fault, and upon viewing it this time I found it a bit disappointing. The film sets its sights to the heavens, and while succeeding in many ways, it could not attain such a lofty height. In trying to cover all the basis in such a thorny issue as race relations it cheats a bit in its storytelling. But we'll cover more of that in a bit.The plot involves a young, white Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) and the tumultuous 24 hours after his release from prison for killing two black men, while they were trying to steal his car. Much of the story is told in a flash backed black and white. Here we learn that Derek was a Neo-Nazi skinhead leader who has had a change of heart after his stint in prison. Post prison time is being spent trying to keep his brother, Danny (Edward Furlong) from following in his footsteps. A path he is already walking down.This is a powerful, moving film. Reading the boards on IMDb will attest to lives being changed through watching it. It works best when it shoots for an emotional response, rather than an intellectual one. Scenes such as when Edward Nortan's skin head leader rallies the troops to loot a local grocer, or the opening scene where we see Norton kill the two aforementioned black men, or a traumatic rape scene in prison, emit a guttural response from its viewers. It is in such scenes that we are rallied into discourse on the issues presented. Yet when the film gets talky it falls short of its ideals. It presents nothing beyond the general rhetoric you can find just about anywhere. In fact most of the rhetoric is spewed from the Neo-Nazi skinheads, and this type of discussion can be found every other day on day time talk shows. There is little in way of discussion from the rational, unprejudiced mind.There are two powerful performances from Edward Norton and Edward Furlong. At this point Norton was already beginning to take his role as the new Robert DeNiro, who had previously taken his turn as the new Marlon Brando. Let's hope he escapes the fate of mediocrity that they fell into. Furlong who once made Arnold Schwarzenegger look like Laurence Olivier with such a wooden performance, here has finally made himself worthy of attention. He gives a fine performance here, as a young man struggling with the passionate feelings of youth.Tackling an issue as heady as racism in America is a worthy, yet difficult cause. It proves to be too much for first time screenwriter David McKenna and director Tony Kaye. Trying to condense their story into regulation movie time they either skipped over completely or barely touched on some important issues. To give reasons for Derek's turn as a skinhead we are only allowed one small dinner table conversation with his father who spews some hateful race sentiments. This and his fathers murder at the hands of black addicts in a crack house, whom he was trying to save from a fire must suffice for an intelligent, middle class youths turn into a Nazi. Likewise his subsequent salvation in prison is not dwelt on enough to give us sufficient reasons for this turn of heart. Yes, the skinheads in prison are hypocrites, and yes the rape scene is brutal enough to turn away from their midst. But, his relationship with the black coworker, Lamont (Guy Torry) is not enough to change the heart of such hatred. Torry gives a fine performance, and does enough to show Derek that all blacks aren't as vile as the rhetoric made him believe, but are jokes about sex really going to make a skinhead believe in the goodness of the black race? In searching for a cause behind the Neo-Nazi scene in America the filmmakers seem to point directly towards the intense feelings of anger found in adolescence and the need to fit in with some social group. And rightly, these two issues play powerfully on the minds of many in the skinhead culture. But the issue goes deeper than this, and it is here, again, that this film misses the mark. Just as Derek dismisses issues of poverty, and social position in the plight of the black man this film seems to skim over some of the deeper motivation behind racism.Don't get me wrong. This is a powerful, well made film. There is plenty to chew upon and discuss. It is, in fact, a good film to watch with others and bring into light an important debate. Yet when I watch it I can't help but think of how it could have been better, how it could have reached the heights it was reaching for.Like this review? Go to www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com for more.
In my opinion, the visual was quite disappointing because the cinematography, camera angles/shots, production and costume designing was not outside the box. As a viewer the close ups became very erratic. It ignored decent portraits and landscapes. Tony Kaye's cinematography looked flat instead of mind blowing. Tony Kaye's directing did not look professional. In addition, the plot was down the drain for me because it only explored a very tiny piece of the racial subject matter. David Mckenna's screenplay was absolutely preachy. It did not let the audience have access to their perspectives. In my thoughts, it made the characters behave like puppets instead of organic. Derek Vinyard behaved more like a puppet being pulled by its master than any other normal human being. I hardly felt anything from the storyline because of the lack of depth. I could not empathize with the plot at all. To add, Ann Dudley written down beautiful notes for his orchestra to perform. His composed tunes trapped my ears from beginning to end. I am pushed to give the title a 3/10.


                
This is really a frustrating Movie. It has a lot worth watching but there are some things that keep this from being a great Movie. There is Edward Norton's versatile performance and some good looking Cinematography and it is all in support of a sociological/psychological problem that is forever haunting the American Dream.It is a confusing and only slightly believable, if powerful, story of racism and hatred. People searching for solutions to complex problems and lashing out with unintelligent behavior. Both the White Supremacist and the Black Gangs are equally ignorant and their actions are stupefying.The Film makes a powerful effort for it all to be meaningful, but it comes across as somewhat stereotypical. It is far less insightful than it pretends to be. It is all carried along by the extreme portrayals and the darkly poetic visuals.The prison middle and heroic transformation has the weakest of explanations and is rather shallow. Add to that the overacting of a fat Neo-Nazi and a stilted educator swallowing his lines as if he really doesn't believe anything he is saying, and the Film is rendered interesting but overrated. Worth a look see for some of the strong suits but ultimately superficial and somewhat a disappointment.


                
"American History X" is a pretty conventional film. The plot could be summed up as "Good boy gets led down the wrong road, realises the error of his ways and tries to distance himself from his misdeeds." Hollywood has done this sort of thing hundreds of times before but there's something about "AHX" that gripped me from start to finish. I thought that I knew how the movie would end, but I didn't. There was just enough exposition about race hate to make me question my own prejudices. There were some powerhouse performances, particularly Edward Norton's."AHX" isn't a perfect film by any means. Some scenes (like the one establishing Derek's father's racist credentials) don't work because their messages are too obvious. The pathos of the final scenes are diluted somewhat by a flagrant disregard for police procedure, which almost pushes the film into melodrama territory.I wonder what the film would have been like if director Tony Kaye had been allowed to complete his edition of it. As it stands, it's a thought-provoking and mostly uncompromised glimpse of the racial tension that simmers in every mixed-race culture. Perhaps Kaye WAS taking too long to finish off a simple story, but perhaps the message that he wanted to convey would have been more powerful if the studio suits hadn't rushed him..?
This movie is great and really makes you think. Edward Norton is fantastic in this film and it is a must watch


                
Ed Norton did a great job in this film about neo-Nazis. I must say though where I felt the film let me down was in the simplistic dialogue in parts. Overall a great film!


                
Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) is a neo-Nazi skinhead who gets sent to prison after he brutally murders the black hooligans that try to steal his car. The movie jumps between timelines following his and his younger brother's lives both before, during and after the prison sentence, as Derek learns to question his commitments to the white supremacy cause.It's a skillful movie, no doubt about it. The non-linear chronology allows us to slowly learn about Derek and see what caused him to change. His younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) also functions as an important character and a message about the cyclic nature of hate. Derek learned to hate from his father and in time taught Danny to hate. Now it's up to him to teach Danny to accept.The movie is also shot really well. The cinematography is brisk and clean, and the numerous black-n-white scenes give the film a style of its own. The non-linearity is handled well and the story is easy to follow. However, the movie does end a bit abruptly in my mind. And on a note I'm still not quite sure whether I like or not. On the surface it seems to undermine the whole message of the film, but on the other hand you could also see it as a final test. Nevertheless, I do think there could have been a better way to end the film, but I'm sure I'm on the minority in this.It's still a great film to check out. Personally, if I wanted to recommend a film about a neo-Nazi redeeming himself, I'd go with Dome Karukoski's Heart of a Lion. But that's a much more obscure film.


                
A seven is not a rating that I give freely. It takes a lot to impress and this movie has done that. Another perfect performance by Edward Norton his character shows the most depth of any on-screen. The film speaks volumes about racism and prejudice in general. I loved the idea of doing all the flashbacks in black and white. Although I realize that this is done in a lot of "flashback" type films, given the whole theme of the film I found it especially fitting. The characters in the movie steal your heart, you spend half the movie hating them, and the other half feeling immensely sorry for their closed minded views.The only reason that this movie didn't get an 8 or 9 rating is the ending. I found it dead depressing, and left the movie feeling betrayed and deceived. But overall I loved it. One of the best movies I've ever seen.


                
Well made, heartfelt story of a neo-nazi who is turned straight and tries to keep his brother from going down the wrong path is driven mostly by Norton's superb performance.  Flawed in that some of the characters seem a little too stereotyped and the theme is expressed somewhat heavy handedly, with a somewhat contrived ending.  Still, it is a well crafted story, and any flaws are outweighed by its merits.


                
Even though first-time feature director Tony Kaye shot himself and his credibility in the foot when he went on a media tirade against the so-called "Edward Norton Cut" of American History X, the picture still delivers as a tense, effective drama worthy of serious thought.  Kaye may have sounded both whiny (about the final edit) and ridiculous (his boast that he was "minute for minute" a better filmmaker than Stanley Kubrick), but he shouldn't disown the version of AHX that made it to the theaters.  Perhaps he was jealous of Norton, whose electrifying performance as neo-Nazi Derek Vinyard anchors the film.  Ultimately, the script might have been the fly in the ointment of total critical success, as a number of plot points stretch credulity.


                
A good movie with good acting and neat, appropriate lessons or message(s) about how easily influenced kids, even smart ones, can be; how confused, insecure people find in group hatred a natural way to vent their anger; how all it takes to realize one's mistake is to once catch a glimpse of "the Enemy" as a _human being_; how, in more ways than one, hate invariably breeds hate. If, however, you already know most or all of the above, you might get bored, or marvel at what a remarkably "clean" movie was made out of such an inherently ugly subject. Sure, the two strayed heroes have their dark sides but both of them, when they're not doing their white-supremacist gang thing, are mostly mild-mannered, well-behaved, polite kids you'd love to have baby-sit your daughter. It's no wonder then, that this dark side is so easily dropped by both at once - it didn't stick in the first place. This movie probably deserves a good place in a history, sociology or philosophy class, but not in a movie collection - somehow lacks subtlety, although in that respect it sure could have been a lot worse.


                
This is one of the best movies I've ever seen, Edward Norton is one of the most incredible actorsd, and was robbed for his academy award!!! The whole movie was well done, and the ending is absoulutely devestating, but it had to end like that otherwise it wouldn't have been a true to life story. Edward Furlong was good too, but it was Ed Norton who really stole the show....I acn't say enough good things about this movie... I read a review though, that said that they didn't really give a reason for his all of a sudden anti-rasist behaviour. Well, let me think, it might have something to do with what happened to him in jail!!!! The only reason he really wasn't dead in jail was because of his friend, who was black...Also, him being in jail gave him more of an open minded view of the world...I give this movie 10/10, an absoulute must see.


                
Entertaining and well acted, however, it seemed as if certain parts of the film were cut and the ending didn't seem to fit with where the film seemed to be attempting to go. Maybe there is a legitimate reason why Tony Kaye wanted to remove his name from this film.


                
"American History X" was a good, entertaining movie.  That's what's so disappointing about it.  It could have been a *great* movie, but it turned out to be merely a decent one.  I wouldn't be saying this if I hadn't really liked the picture.  There was some real potential in this film, and the potential was never realized.  Roger Ebert sums up my views very well in his review.  It's always rather painful to see a movie that "wants to take off and soar" end up sitting on the ground (albeit sitting very well).  I also agree with Ebert that the fault was mainly in the direction.  If the movie had a great director, it would have been a great film.  As it stands, it had a decent director, so it turned out to be a decent film. 7/10.


                
