Edward Norton plays Derek Vinyard, a violent but also intelligent neo-nazi. After brutally killing two black people who tried to break into his car, Derek is sent down for a couple of years. Meanwhile, his younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) is busy following in his brother's footsteps. After certain incidents in prison gives him time to thing, Derek decides to reform on his way out. Once out, he realises how quickly in number his old gang of nazi thugs has grown and wonders if he can save his brother.This is a brilliant film. Perhaps what disturbs me the most is the way that Edward Norton looks so brutal, yet sounds so intellectual throughout the film.Although the film contains a constant strong theme of violence, it is always justified in portraying a picture of racial tension. Neither black nor white people are "judged" in the film, it's primary focus being to outline that it's people's brutality that causes a racial divide, not race itself.
"American History X" is a bold and disturbing movie about family, racism and our own self-perceptions. Its main character is Derek (Edward Norton), a neo-Nazi skinhead who is released from jail to find his younger brother (Edward Furlong) descending down the same corrupt path as he once walked.In jail Derek learns a few things about life, and racism, or more appropriately, himself, and after becoming a free man again takes it upon himself to set his brother on the straight and narrow path."American History X" is not a pleasant motion picture. It begins in flashback, as Derek murders two black kids trying to break into his car. His brother, who idolizes Derek and later mimics his lifestyle, witnesses this event. It's a good message about negative influences, along with everything else.Much has been made of the film's controversy and lawsuits. Director Tony Kaye disowned the film after Norton (allegedly) re-edited footage to give himself more screen time. Kaye tried to have his name changed on the film credits, but by this time he had already taken out a complaint in several magazines, which are against the rules of the Director's Guild. He was therefore denied the opportunity to credit the work as "directed by Humpty Dumpty." Then, musical band Anti-Hero complained to New Line Cinema (the film's international distributor) because one of the Nazi characters featured a tattoo of their band. They later wrote a song, called "NLC," bashing the company.Despite the hard-edged controversy it's still a very good film, above all else extremely well-acted and featuring a gripping storyline <U+0096> even if the direction isn't always up to par.Edward Norton is simply superb in his role, showing extremely raw talent a mere two years after his film debut (in the Richard Gere thriller "A Primal Fear"). Norton careens between the role of a raging, vicious supremacist and a kindler, gentler version of the same character; a metamorphosis so convincing it's hard to believe it's just one actor.The rest of the cast is good as well <U+0096> Furlong gives the best performance of his career and Beverly D'Angelo and Stacy Keach have strong supporting roles. (D'Angelo in particular, who portrays a sleazy alcoholic <U+0096> a stretch compared to her usual Normal Mom roles in the "Vacation" movies.) "American History X" isn't exactly rewarding of all the praise it has been lavished since its release (mainly from viewers rather than critics, who were less kind) <U+0096> it isn't the best movie of its kind or even a flawless one. The black-and-white photography isn't on the same level, visually, as "Raging Bull" or "Schindler's List." The preaching is a bit heavy-handed at times.But it still manages to convey an important lesson and boasts great acting complimented by an (overall) impressive, gut-wrenching screenplay. A must-see for all who can stomach its content.


                
IT can be simplistic at times, but the messages are powerful in this great Ed Norton film. Hard to believe it's been so long since the film was made. Definitely recommend it to anyone fascinated by how Neo-Nazism could possibly exist in the modern age.


                
"American History X" is the biography of a repentant Nazi. Derek Vinyard is a young man from a poor white family in Los Angeles. After his father, a fireman, is shot dead while tacking a blaze in a black area of the city, Derek becomes a bigoted racist, joining a violent Neo-Nazi skinhead group and getting involved in clashes with local black and Hispanic gangs. When a group of black youths attempt to steal his truck, Derek fights back, shooting one of them dead and killing another by stamping on his head. For this crime Derek is arrested, convicted of murder and jailed for three years. When he comes out of jail he is a hero to his former skinhead comrades, but he is a changed man who wants to disown his past and to renounce hatred and violence. His greatest fear is that his younger brother Danny, who idolises him, shows every sign of following him down the Neo-Nazi path.The present-day scenes, dealing with Derek's attempts to lead Danny away from his fascination with Nazism, are shot in colour. Derek's own history is told in flashbacks, shot in black and white. We see him as a frustrated, angry young man, intelligent and articulate, who becomes a monster wholly lacking in conscience. We then see how he is changed by his experiences in prison, and how he comes to realise two things. The first is that blacks are people too, with as much right to exist as he has. The second is that his sterile ideology of hatred has actually blighted his own life, offering nothing better than a jail sentence and the prospect of martyrdom in a worthless cause.I was interested to note that the film's director Tony Kaye and its star Edward Norton later quarrelled about the editing of the film, because it was their contributions which helped lift the film above the ordinary. This could have been just another worthy "issue of the month" anti-racist film, but Kaye's direction and Norton's acting mean that it is much more than that. The black and white sequences, particularly the murder and the prison scenes, have a stark, violent power. I have been impressed by Norton in the past in films such as "Primal Fear", "Fight Club" and "Kingdom of Heaven", but this was probably the best of his performances that I have seen. In the scenes where Derek is part of the skinhead gang there is a frightening intensity to his violent hatred, and his transformation during the prison scenes is agonising as he realises that the whole of his life has been based on a lie. Norton receives good support from some of the other actors, such as Edward Furlong as his younger brother and Avery Brooks as their black history teacher Dr Sweeney.I was interested by the comments of another reviewer who pointed out that the first anti-racist films in the sixties tended to give idealised portraits of black characters. The example he gave was "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner", but there are other examples such as "To Kill a Mockingbird" or "In the Heat of the Night". The assumption was that the roots of racism lay in irrational prejudices among the white community which could be overcome by the simple exercise of greater goodwill. There is no such easy assumption in "American History X", and no assumption that the problems of racial tension can be overcome by the standard liberal remedies.By far the most eloquent voice we hear in the film is Derek's; the token voice of liberalism is the ineffectual one of Murray, the new boyfriend of Derek's mother, played by Elliott Gould in one of the film's weaker performances. Although some of their doctrines are just simply wrong (such as the idea that blacks have a genetic predisposition towards crime) there is a suggestion that the success of the extremists in winning support is partly due to legitimate grievances among working-class whites over immigration and affirmative action. Derek's reformation is due to self-interest rather than to any conversion to a liberal world view; he realises that following an ideology of violence and hatred has done nothing to improve his lot or that of whites in general.Although Derek is befriended by a sympathetic black inmate while in prison, the black characters in this film are far from idealised. The malevolence of the white skinheads has its equivalent in the violent criminality of the black and Hispanic gangs. There is, in fact, a suggestion that these gangs hate one another and yet are also dependent on one another. The Neo-Nazis rely on white fears of black crime in order to recruit members, increasing black fears about white racist violence, thus enabling black gangsters to consolidate their own power by exploiting the idea of racial solidarity. It is notable that in prison the white racist gang-leaders are quite happy to discuss matters of mutual concern with their black counterparts, while subjecting Derek to a brutal rape for the "crime" of becoming too friendly with a black prisoner.The implication is that the responsibility for racism does not lie solely with the white race, or with the black race, or with any other race. Perhaps the fault lies with the concept of "race" itself, the idea that humanity can be divided into discrete sub-groups on the basis of physical appearance and that the most important thing about any individual is his or her skin colour. The film does not offer any easy solutions to the social problems it deals with, a pessimism highlighted by its tragic ending. It is, however, an important film, thought-provoking as well as emotionally powerful. 8/10
A white supremacist Derek (Edward Norton) is sent to jail for brutally killing two black men who try to steal his car.  Through some harrowing experiences in jail he realizes his way of thinking and living was wrong. He gets out and tries to prevent his young brother Danny (Edward Furlong) from becoming the same as him...but is it too late?First off I'm giving the film an 8.  I thought is was excellent but it does have problems--it's overlong (I was bored more than once); there's way too many slow-motion sequences; there's disjointed editing; a finale I saw coming from a mile away and an annoying tendency to cut from b&w to color constantly.  Those issues aside the film is great.The script and imagery is strong and graphic (as it should be) and there's some great acting here.  Norton is just superb (he was Oscar-nominated); Furlong is subdued but good as Danny--a lot of his emotions come through in his eyes; Beverly D'Angelo was just great as their mother and Fairuza Balk is frightening as Norton's girlfriend.  The only bad acting was by Avery Brooks--but he's not really a main character so it doesn't really hurt the film.Some of the sequences in here were very difficult to watch (the attack on the store, the prison sequences and the finale) but they're meant to be that way.  This movie hits you over the head with its message but it does work. It just didn't affect me that strongly.  As I said, I saw the ending coming from a mile away so it didn't shock me at all.  Still, it is a powerful film.  Well worth catching.Also there was a huge amount of controversy when this was released.  It seems the director (Tony Kaye) accused New Line Studios of letting Edward Norton into the editing room and cut the film himself (this is no shock--Norton is known as a control freak).  He requested his name be removed from the credits and replaced with Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck.  He didn't win his request.  If Norton did indeed edit this film--he shouldn't quit his acting job.  The editing here is herky-jerky and the film could easily lose those slomo sequences.


                
Hands down the most disturbing film I have ever seen. American History X is simply outstanding.One of the film's great strengths is the great all round performance by the cast. Empire Magazine claimed that Edward Norton did not win an Oscar for his performance one of the greatest Oscar injustices of all time. And I completely agree. Some of Norton's racist monologues were so convincing they bordered on being scary. The rest of the cast did great as well. I do think, however, that they could have selected a better actor to play the younger brother, Danny, but that is a nit pick, the actor in the film did fine but I just think someone could have given a more compelling dramatic performance.Overall, what I loved most about the film was the fact that it shows racism for what it is, something that is taught, how naïve people can be led to believe anything if their circumstances call for it. The disturbing scenes where very disturbing and encapsulated the sheer lack of humanity that comes with such racist cults, such as, in this case, the Neo-Nazi's. Ultimately, American History X is not for the squeamish but it is one of the best films I have ever seen.


                
One of the best movie in 1998 and definitely the best performance from Edward Norton. Absolutely brilliant acting. After his nerd memorable character in "Fight Club", I guess everybody would never across their mind that Edward Norton will be able to play a rough skinhead post Nazi. Well, he is a cute little guy that look like innocent and untouchable.Well, It's called life transformation. And Edward Norton done it very well.So was here, in "American History X". His character's life transformation (Derek Vinyard) really catching every breath. He played it very well. One of the best part when He argue with his father about his Neo Nazi ideology. Almost, I gold my breath as long as it takes.Prison definitely taught him so much good things. And his turn out life begins. But, as a ex-con, many people want to try to recruit him again. But, he's wisely said no and back to his family.But, the last scene really tragedy that none of people can control. Life lesson sometimes hard and sometimes we have to pay price what we had done. But, apart of it, there are always ways to apologize.


                
"American History X" tells the story of a young man who sees himself as a neo-nazi and is one of the key players of the local scene. When he is sent into jail, slowly his beliefs begin to be questioned as he meets the people he used to hate so much and gets to know them better. Back in freedom, his younger brother wants to take the same path of right-wing gang membership and to change his mind won't be easy.In many ways this is a tremendous movie. It shows the power of education, that what we pass on to our children can influence their whole lives and even political beliefs. On the other hand it depicts how getting to know people instead of just talking about them can change your mind on how to interact with them. Futhermore, it is also a portrayal of a dysfunctional family, that struggles with death and disease. Unlike other reviewers, I sometimes would have wished for the moral of the film to be a bit more subtle. It is important to stand up loud against xenophobia, but it makes the film a bit easy to attack. Also, unfortunately, not all right-wing followers are just young and confused kids, we need to take them seriously in order to stop them.All in all this is an outstanding film concerned with a very important issue. Not my personal favorite in terms of the filmmaking side but that's just a question of taste since it is carried out more than professionally.
American History X has one of the most compelling stories I've seen in movies in a while. It's a gut-wrenching, and heartbreaking story. But Tony Kaye's powerful and challenging direction is what made the movie so provocative.The movie also proves that Edward Norton has a huge talent that, unfortunately, has been wasted. Norton delivered the performance of his career in this movie. A performance that elevated the entire movie. While Derek Vinyard, Norton's character, has the most powerful lines in the movie, they wouldn't have been as powerful as they are without Edward Norton's staggering delivering.Also, Edward Norton's performance may be the only thing that remained sharp and solid throughout the whole movie. Because aside from Norton's riveting and smart monologues, the dialogue in this movie, especially at the first two acts, is so weak and often cheesy! The things got better at the last act but at that time I was wondering why the dialogue wasn't that good most of the movie. It's really baffling because the movie needed badly to have a decent and strong dialogue from its beginning, considering its subject matter. The dialogue often was too on the nose and preachy while it should have served its already gripping story. That also made some scenes in the movie feel so awkward and heavy-handed.The dialogue isn't the only, or the biggest issue I've with American History X. As I think that everything related to the Neo Nazi gang is completely underdeveloped. All the characters of the members of this gang are one-dimensional characters. They are totally undeveloped and bland, and almost have no depth. Which is a shame because they play a pivotal part in the story. They are part of the main plot, so to speak.Besides that balancing between two contradictory aspects of the story, Tony Kaye with his mixture of black & white history contrasting with colorful reality is magic to absorb and shows this film up to be what it is. Smoothly moving camera in the scenes in Black and White that are set in the past to convey an unsettling feeling, and bleak and restrained colored scenes to match the dystopian-like present.American History X also has one of the most shocking endings ever. But its ambiguity is what makes it more dreadful. It's an ending that can make you question the protagonist's fate, and that's more than horrifying!(8/10)


                
I will get the things I did not like out of the way first. There were a few things I found implausible. I will not give spoilers, but there were a few times you can tell the plot was a bit contrived to fit the authors narrative. It was as if they were willing to sacrifice a bit of realism for a neater story. I also object to the ending, again I will not reveal what happens, but it felt unnecessary. Kind of like overkill. With some slight reshuffling there could have been a more rewarding ending. What they decided on is shocking, but it doesn't really add. With that out of the way I can talk about the good. Taking a serious look at Neo Nazis is a very bold move. The overall message is still that racism is bad, which is hardly original in itself, but I still like how they did it. Instead of making the Nazis ridiculous cartoon villains, they actually gave them a credible perspective. Not that you have to agree with their views, but you can at least see why the characters think the way they do. Actually, if anything some of the liberal characters are at times more cartoonish. Then again that might just be because it is so much more common for liberal political opinions to be in Hollywood movies, so they inevitably seem more cliche. The cast all do a great job, Edward Norton deserves recognition for this, he was able to bring a very complex character to life, and explore some very dark themes. I know this movie was made well before Breaking Bad, but it does remind me of Walter White, in the sense that you may not agree with everything he does, but you cannot stop watching to see what happens next. Overall, this is a very heavy film, you need to be in the right mood for it, but if you are, it is very rewarding. This is a great movie.


                
American History X stars Edward Norton as a racist, xenophobic skinhead who is convicted of murder and sent to prison. It follows the effect of this on his family, specifically on his younger brother, played by Edward Furlong, who idolizes him and yearns to follow in his footsteps.The movie is powerful and disturbing in the insider's look it gives us into the dark world of violent racist skinhead groups. For this reason, it is very difficult to watch. But it's an important film, because it tackles a subject that Hollywood is usually content to shy away from.Edward Norton, always one of my favourite actors, has one of his best roles of all time here. He is absolutely brilliant in his portrayal of Derek Vinyard, a character whose charisma and intelligence could have led him down pretty much any path, but who chose the wrong road. How many infamous men in history have had the exact same qualities? Countless. Norton embraces the role, wholly embodying the most terrible qualities of his character, and refusing to shy away from giving his all to even the most difficult scenes. He has even transformed his entire body to play this part (compare his muscular build here to his scrawniness in "Fight Club", for instance). Norton is so believable, and so compelling to watch, that it's all too easy to see how he could have recruited and inspired so many people to his fanatically hateful ideology. Also brilliant is Avery Brooks as the schoolteacher who tries so hard to redeem Derek when most people would have written him off long ago. Notable among smaller roles are performances by Fairuza Balk as Vinyard's girlfriend and Beverly D'Angelo as his conflicted mother. This is a dramatic film, and the acting has made it what it is.My criticisms are few. Furlong's acting isn't quite as strong - at times it seems like he's reading lines aloud for a teacher. And without giving too much away, the ending comes across as a bit too contrived. At times, the movie skirts dangerously close to after-school-special territory, and it can be a bit heavy-handed in its preachiness. It's not a perfect film, by any means.But it's a provocative film, one that I urge parents to watch with their teenagers and that is sure to open up a lot of discussion. A must-see.


                
I've always been meaning to watch this film, after hearing so much about it. Now that I have, I see what people like about the film, but at the same time, find some issues with it. Nevertheless, I really like the film still.It's easy to point out the good in the film: good performances, daring to handle a tough topic, even direction. So on and so forth. It's a mostly solid film. But it has its weaknesses too.Here are some of the issues: The story pushes a little too hard for the things that happen in the film.Spoilers follow Having the protagonist bond with the laundry guy was a little too convenient and a little too easy. Not that I don't believe it could happen, but based on the protagonist's character, it's asking a lot for the relationship have so little conflict. Also, the protagonist is supposed to be smart and a rallier of his peers. When he's in prison, he seems to lose his smarts, or they get put under his "ideals", which wasn't immediately convincing. His moral dilemma is also a tough sell, because we don't get to spend enough time with him getting confused.End spoilers In that sense, the film asks the viewers to make some large leaps of faith and I wasn't entirely convinced. The other issue is the ending of the film. The film goes on too long and the end-drama doesn't seem necessary and even goes to the point of being a little over-the-top. A little more editing would've helped the ending be less melodramatic.Nonethelss, it's good enough to merit watching. And I liked it despite my small frustrations. 8/10
This movie definitely deserves a spot in the top 250. I gave it an 8 out of ten, but I can easily see why other posters would give it a ten. I could not give this movie a ten because it is not one of those classics that I can watch over and over. The movie is a roller coaster ride that I felt should have ended on a high note. Sure, I am not a fan of the cliché "perfect Hollywood ending". However, this is one film that I felt should not have ended in the most depressing way imaginable. I have read some comments on IMDb.com about the director having problems with the ending. He even went so far as trying to have his name taken off the credits and replaced with "Humpty Dumpty". I must say that I agree with him. Since I know that the younger brother will die in the end it prevents me from watching this movie very often as it is just too depressing. I think a good alternative ending would have Norton's character held back for the rest of his life by his record. He is way too intelligent to enjoy life while having to work as some sort of laborer for the rest of his life. The irony would have been "an eye for an eye" as he ruined lives by committing manslaughter and there is nothing worse for an extremely smart person to dig ditches for a living. This is something I can definitely relate to. However, his younger brother often supports him financially in the future as a payback for saving him from a life of "naziism". Norton's character is punished for his sins, yet there is some redemption for turning his back on the nazi's which regarded him as a hero. That is how I would have ended the movie if I was given the script. This alternate ending would be far from your stock "Hollywood happy ending", without being so depressing.
Probably one of the most powerful films I have ever seen, with a subject matter that is so delicate and easily could have been mishandled <U+0096> this film delivers a performance of a lifetime from Edward Norton and a superb story shaping the influences around him.The film is told in two tales; one in black and white, conveying the wrongful doings of Derek Vinyard (Norton) and about how his racial crusades slowly infiltrate the mind of his little brother. After a brutal racially motivated murder of three individuals for breaking into his car, Derek is sent to jail where he soon learns the errors of his ways and comes to realise the pain and suffering he has caused.The second story told in colour, runs parallel to that of the past of Derek. This story focuses more on Danny Vinyard, and about the effect his brother has on him. After handing in a paper on Mein Kampf, the school's headmaster orders Danny to write a paper about his brother. This is where we hear the vocal expressions of the effects that he has had on him through a well delivered voice-over. On the same day when Danny is reunited with his brother, Danny sets about trying to impress his brother by taking up where he left off <U+0096> the tattoos, the haircut, the attitude <U+0096> aspiring to him. But as Derek's story develops from his time in prison, you begin to realise that he cannot let his brother take the same path as he did. He disowns all his friends and connections in the neo-Nazi party in a ditch attempt to save his brother from a similar life of destruction and mayhem. The relationship between the two brothers is what drives the plot of the film; the acting between them is impeccable and emotionally driven. As Danny finally realises what his brother is trying to teach him, he is shot by a gang member that he encountered before his brother showed him the right path. Derek holding his dead brother in his arms is the greatest lesson of all. Norton conveys with such passion, the pain, the guilt and true regret the character is feeling <U+0096>his brother's death was his entire fault. Without a doubt one of the most powerful films you will see, and I can't help but feel that under all this there is a powerful message that mankind is twisted and troubled in today's society over such petty issues as race and equality which could so easily be dealt with by the governments in place.
At the start of this film, I didn't know what to make of it. I found the music quite irritating, but I think thats just my opinion, I just prefer things to be less obvious , so I don't like too much music trying to explain situations for me, but once I had adjusted, I really did enjoy this film. Edward Norton gives a very good, believable performance, and the rest of the acting is also very good- there are moments when you can look into the actors' eyes and see the characters' madness, their fear, their sorrow, but don't be put off by this- it is morbid, but it isn't completely depressing. It makes some very good points and has some very strong scenes. The timing is also often perfect, with perfect reactions from the actors' which makes the chaos seem realistic. It's also not too predictable which is good, and the way it is set out allows it to be cleverly unravelledVery good, I recommend it.


                
I have just finished watching this film for the 3rd time and it still shocks me. Without doubt it is one of the most controversial films ever to be produced.The first thing that strikes me as a viewer is the direction and cinematography which is apparent from the opening scenes. ALthough it is cliché to say that black and white is 'powerful' i believe it is the lighting in these scenes that make it so. The shadowy look of the room Derek and Stacy are in highlights the darkness surrounding the period of time that the scene takes place. Throughout the film the cut scenes, flash backs and numerous slow-mo close ups are seamlessly directed and provide the intensity needed for a film based on such an important and rage-filled subject.The subject is something that the viewer will be aware of before watching the film but when it is explored by Tony Kaye, this is where is enthrals me. This could so easily have been a mediocre film about race without the intelligence shown in the script. For instance the argument between Derek and Murray and more specifically Dereks speech at the dinner table brings to light the political awareness of David McKenna. This way of at least showing that some of the base views shrouded by racism are actually logical is something that makes the film engrossing.Perhaps the most engrossing factor of the film is the plot and characterisation. The 'bad boy turned good' plot is initially not particularly original but the way Edward Norton and Edward Furlong portray this is fantastic. How Norton captures the emotions of a man in turmoil is exceptional and will always be one of the most memorable performances i have witnessed in film.American History X has been widely critically acclaimed and so it should be. It is brilliantly directed and expertly written so much so that a person who watches this film will not only be shocked but absorbed into the political aspects of it.
I've seen a lot of Ed Norton's films and he's one of my list of actors whose films I'd watch initially without bothering to read who thought what of it etc. He was completely scary in this film great acting but scary! I do wonder why he didn't get an Oscar or nomination for this rather than Primal Fear. He was good in Primal Fear but much better in X. It was a little like seeing Sean Penn in Dead Man Walking, totally convincing performance. Also made me think how frightening it is when you are faced with those who are so narrow minded as were a lot his friends in the film, and proof of how much peer pressure is a strong influence on not just the young but on us all.


                
I have seen American History X several times and now own the DVD. This is a superb film, with focus on Edward Norton's character, "Derek Vineyard." Derek is a neo-Nazi growing up in Venice Beach, CA. The film is very moving and a realistic account of race relations in Southern California, and also of the inner workings of prison life. The ending of the film was a bit sad, and was probably the weakest part of the film, in my opinion. The film moves along superbly, however, after Derek is released from Prison, he is a changed person, and in my opinion, I'm not so sure he would have done a complete 180 like that, however, it makes sense for the films sake. All in all, this is very watchable. Certainly a rated R movie, very graphic and strong language.


                
Life's greatest lessons don't often come in little convenient packages and this movie is one that will teach you one aspect of American Life you don't want to miss. We all know hate is bad, that society is full of angry factions blaming each other for whatever pain and suffering or the dwindling American dream that used to shine with glory. But times are different now. Maybe America wasn't meant to be the way it is now; maybe the framers of this nation had in mind a different vision of what a free land should've been. But, then again, if history has taught us one thing, it is that we can not change history. We can change our destiny. We can change the present if we set our minds to it. But we gotta act. This movie doesn't merely teach us that hate is bad, the more important lesson is that, to make a difference in the world, we have to use our words and actions.


                
AMERICAN HISTORY X is the powerful story of a proud skinhead named Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton), who gets sent to jail for 3+ years after murdering a couple of young black men who invade his property. When he gets out, a reformed man, he finds that his younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) is following in his old footsteps--and even turned in a school paper entitled, "My Mein Kampf." Danny's school principal, Dr. Sweeney (Avery Brooks), tells him to rewrite this paper and instead focus it on his own brother. After Derek attempts to flee from his old skinhead gang, and embarrasses Danny in the process, he tells Danny of the story that led him into jail, and what happened once he was there... which Danny then puts into his paper, in the process known as passing it on.AMERICAN HISTORY X is one of those movies that, upon first glance, is really amazing; but upon repeated viewings, it becomes easier and easier to notice its glaring flaws. The main flaw here is the script. It is awfully written, although there are several humorous moments and also several powerful ones (probably due to great acting and direction, though). Truly, the only interesting parts of the movie are the ones telling of Derek's past (filmed in black and white for an interesting contrast)--the current events, filmed in color, are rather boring and are most specifically when the terrible script shines through. And, though it's a pretty unrealistic movie for the most part, it's made up for.Then there are the aspects of the movie that you can't really win or lose with. The acting is the most obvious of this category. Edward Norton is GREAT in his starring role (and, kind of oddly considering he plays a skinhead jerk for most of the movie, very attractive), and really holds the movie together. Edward Furlong is also great, though he receives the brunt of the bad lines in my opinion. Among the supporting cast, Fairuza Balk is good as Derek's girlfriend Stacey; Ethan Suplee is good as Derek and Danny's friend Seth; Jennifer Lien is great as Derek and Danny's sister Davina; and Guy Torry is also great as Derek's fellow inmate Lamont. However, the rest of the cast is pretty bad. Beverly D'Angelo stands out in particular as Derek and Danny's mother Doris, as does Avery Brooks as Dr. Sweeney. The former is very melodramatic and has awful delivery, while the latter is completely monotonous and expressionless. Elliott Gould (as the mother's boyfriend Murray) has bad vocal delivery, but he also appears in one of the most heart-breaking scenes in the film.There are some very good and powerful moments, though, which can all be credited to Edward Norton's marvelous acting. The dinner scene is very sad and unnerving, while the smiley/arrest scene is almost unbearable to watch because it's so horrific and well-done. Even the second time that I watched the film, and I knew what was coming, I found myself cringing when Derek orders the burglar to put his mouth on the curb. The prison scenes are pretty unnecessary and badly carried out, however. And the ending totally shocked me--I could feel my jaw drop and stay there until the credits rolled.After first viewing, I was ready to give AMERICAN HISTORY X a 9. After my second viewing, though, I was less impressed (maybe because I wasn't so shocked and amazed by the disturbing and distressing ending), and was ready to give it only a 7. The average of those two: 8/10.


                
This film is easily the best performance of Ed Norton's great career thusfar. He shows his blue collar side that will work hard to perfect himself for any role. The problem here is that the rest of the film lags behind his talent. He has little help from the supporting cast, a poor director, and a very soft script in some areas. My biggest problem with the film is that the story was told with flashbacks. We miss out on a great opportunity to grow and change with Derek. The prison scenes are all but pointless, since we already know he comes out reformed and non-violent. Why should we bother watching the middle of the movie? I would have liked this movie a lot more if it was done in linear fashion. The movie also builds itself on shockingly violent and strong scenes. These are done very well (the rape, the curb incident, the rant by Derek on the news after his father is killed, etc.) However, when we aren't watching one of these scenes, the movie doesn't have much to offer.The only member of the cast who does well in her role besides Norton is Beverly D'Angelo as the troubled mom. The Nazi influences in Derek and Danny's lives are all clichéd characters that add nothing to the film (Ethan Suplee, Faruiza Balk, Stacey Keach). Ed Furlong didn't sell me on his character being a potentially violent skinhead. Also the attempts at building up the fraternal bond between Derek and Danny failed. It seemed like Norton was carrying Furlong through the whole scene at the diner. Overall i still gave the movie an 8. It seems like I've bashed it here, but Norton was good enough to wow me, and part of me thinks we had no more character development BECAUSE the director wanted Norton to carry the movie.Not a bad idea in the least. I was also a fan of the ending, the message was a simple one, but one that I happen to agree with


                
The movie, of which is probably Ed Norton's best is extremely harrowing, and moving, with a lot of very harsh dialogue. Although enhances an excellent story, plus to add to it, a film in which has only very occasionally been done before, director Tony Kaye has created a master piece, which sets an extremely good example of what may happen to racist people. Having said that, the black and white scenes are unnecessary. Spielberg created 'Schindler's list' in black and white in 1993, and this worked beautifully, setting the field of a dark chapter in human history. This film is completely different, and should always be in colour, sticking with Norton's different hair styles to embark in different sessions in the character's life!Overall rating: 8.5/10


                
I happened to turn the TV on and there it came American history x it just blew me away, one of Nortons best movies. This really tells a touching story from the ex- skinheads point of view. It makes me wonder why haven't I heard of this movie before, absolutely this one makes it to my top 10 list


                
American History X is a piece of brilliant satire that director Tony Kaye took to the next level.  No one has ever to my knowledge made a film about Nazism.  It's all ways been considered such a sacred thing that no director, producer, or movie goer would ever want to touch.  The amount of symbolism and irony in this film is unbelievable.   Edward Norton as usual delivers a brilliant preformance as a White supremicist who is jailed for murdering two gang members for attempting to break into his car.  While he is in prison his younger brother (Edward Furlong) begins to show signs that he is following in his brothers foot steps.  While in prison nortons character meets a group of fellow skin heads who end up turning on him.  It is then that he relizes that you can't hold a certain group of people responible for the actions of just a few, and that hate is just a waste of time.  The entire cast delivers an excellent preformance.  I strongly recomend this film to those with a strong stomach and a desire to see a film that wasn't made for profits, but made to teach something.  It's rare these days for a film to really teach something, but at the same time keep you interested and wondering whats gonna happen next.


                
Nothing comes from nothing. It's totally true that hatred is mostly planted and grown from surrounding people, like family. Children were born without prejudice mind, it is the adult who poisoned the mind and soul of these children so they become hard an bitter. And also good ending, another lesson: we have to be ready and willing to take consequences for things we've done. Careful of what you're feeding your children... as you will pay later on, with the interests.


                
