''American History X''is one of the most amazing movies I watched in my life! My dad gave me the tape to watch, and after almost 2 weeks of laziness to watch this movie, I finally watched it 2 times! First, I need to say that both Edwards( Norton and Furlong)are great! Edward Norton specially REALLY looks a skinhead, showing all his anger and awesome body in this movie.I like the end of this movie (who is very sad by the way, since I liked the character Danny very much)showing how hate and violence only makes even more hate and violence, in a effect like a snowball.The other ending that never was filmed, in which Derek shaves his head again in the school bathroom,would not help very much with a good message, but it could have some sense, showing that the prejudice and the racism will continue no matter what we try to solve it. (But it is too pessimistic!)I don't think this movie is racist like many people are saying. It is against racism, since the moral of the story was to show how the prejudice of all races and ethnicities only can make problems and anger for everybody.It's funny to see how many goofs we have in this movie. I didn't pay attention to any of them, since the story itself makes you not bother with errors.
Strong performances by Edward Norton & Edward Furlong really make this  film for me. The direction by Tony Kaye with his mixture of black &  white history contrasting with colourful reality is magic to absorb and  shows this film up to be what it is <U+0096> a true American Classic,  ironically by a British director.  The film itself is about two brothers, Derek the elder and Danny the  younger adoring sibling. Derek has been in jail for three years after  killing a black youth who tried to rob the family; the nature &  brutality of the crime still shocks me to this day.   AHX tracks Derek's history through the first formation of racist  sentiment laid down by the father. These feeling of hate are  embedded when later his father is killed in the line of duty. Derek  becomes involved in the local Nazi movement, his intellect turned by  youthful rage into hate crimes and the rational that comes with Neo  Nazi propaganda.   The Nazi-tattoo sporting, egotistical, philosophical younger Derek is a  steam train waiting to crash, his propulsion to stardom is eventually  embodied when he takes the life of the young thief, the scene is very  apt as he calmly lies down and knows he will be a hero to his friends.  Without wanting to spoil the film Derek encounters change in the  prison, he meets a black man whom he works with and faces his own  demons inside, I will leave it there for those who want to be moved by  his transformation. Anyway, he comes out a new man and only wants to be  that new person, which means leaving the old crowd, leaving the  Anti-Jewish sepal he's been living with so long. The problem lies with  his brother who has become a little Derek, getting drunk and being  influenced like he was. Derek's cross to bear is that he can't change  his life without his brother coming with him and being on the right  side of humanity.  I think that this film is less about race and more about our ability to  change as individuals, the fact that we can become what and who we want  is a gift. Derek becomes the man he always wanted to be, he only wants  the same for his brother.   Kaye's use of black & white creates an atmospheric drama that builds  tension and has you feeling like a stung out piece of drum leather by  mid movie. I love the way that Kaye subtly uses quotes and  intellectualises the Nazi Stance, only to watch it being broken down by  the same man (Derek / Norton).  Norton is a joy to watch as is Gould and Furlong.   To sum up American History X is a powerful intelligent drama, which  provides plenty of discussion after the movie. This film should be on  every high school curriculum<U+0085>


                
My 9/10 rating is because "American History X" is very well done in every way, except that it seems that when Derek Vinyard (Edward Norton) started spouting out the anti-Semitic diatribe, they should have asked him what became of his humanity. Then again, maybe they wouldn't know what to say in such a situation.But other than that, the movie is quite good. Portraying a reformed Derek trying to prevent his younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) from becoming a white supremacist, we get to see various issues. For example, when Derek is in jail and gets to know a black man for the first time, his anger starts to ebb. Good support from Beverly D'Angelo, Elliott Gould, Stacy Keach and Fairuza Balk make this a very good movie, even if they didn't develop it as far as they could.


                
This film is one that I would recommend to all, as it is just too important to ignore.Racism, in all its disgusting and repulsive forms, is what built the United States, and it has unfortunately been ingrained into its fabric ever since, hovering over the country and continuing to derail its progress. Despite the progress the country has made in regards to annexing racism, it is still very much alive. This theme is very important to the film, as hate is passed down from generation to generation, in this case from the character of Derek Vinyard's father to Derek himself and ultimately to his brother, Danny.The performance of Edward Norton and his transition from an angry and hateful human being to one of remorse and love for his family is impeccable. His character understands the pain he has inflicted on his family due to his beliefs of hate and tribalism, and that is a very positive message to movie goers; the more you become desensitized to what minorities go through in this country and the more you hate, the more your life will crumble. It is tragic to see the impact Derek has had on his family, more importantly his brother, which ends up being very detrimental at the end of the film.One of the most moving scenes in the film is when Dr Sweeney visits Derek in prison, shortly after Derek has been raped by some of his fellow inmates. Derek is coming around now at this time about the errors of his ways, and Sweeney tells him, "You have to ask yourself, Derek, has any of this, any of your actions and your racist beliefs, made your life better?" Derek immediately responds "No" and begins to sob. Just a beautiful scene.One issue I had with the film was how Danny, the younger brother of Derek, was so quick to realize the error of his ways, his thoughts. It just wasn't believable, from having been so upset with Derek one minute upon learning he didn't buy into racist propaganda to the next second tearing down the racist posters in his room. You would think it would take a whole lot more for him to change his thinking, based upon Derek's experiences in prison.The slow motion scenes in this film are beautiful and the transition from black and white to color is also well crafted. The direction by Tony Kaye is exceptional.Ultimately, this film is monumental in its importance and relevance to society today and holds a very imperative message - the more you hate, the more detrimental consequences it will have on your life. Life is too short to hate, just love. No need to be angry all the time, we are all the same. 9/10
If the feel-good movie is a genre, then this is the epitome of the feel-bad genre. I've seen plenty of movies that contain scenes that make me cringe because of their content, and many of them are great movies. But none of them, not even the brutal realism throughout Babel disturbed me as much in a good way as American History X. The curb stomp scene is possibly the most intense scene in any movie. After you see the violence in this movie, it definitely makes you look at some action movies in a different light.I would not call this one of my favorite movies, but it is definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. No matter how little you've been affected by other movies, you will feel at least a little sick after watching this. However, I implore you to see it no matter who you are despite the disturbing levels of violence. There's a reason it's number 32 on the top 250, and that's because it's possibly the most insightful movie ever made.Going into this movie, I had always thought that white supremacists were just idiots that had no real reason for their extreme racism. But I had my view changed by this movie. Derek and Danny Vinyard, while not terribly educated are both smart characters and their racism is not blind. As a matter of fact, it is seductive, persuasive, and even understandable. It was scary how much reason I found in Derek's arguments, but the scenes in which we see why he believes what he believes are so engaging to watch. Unlike most movies that portray racial issues, this one is hardly one-sided. While the white supremacists are the antagonists, the black characters are hardly shown as saints. True they don't commit any heinous acts of violence on screen, but they are still shown as criminals in about equal measure to the white characters. The point of the movie is not to build up or tear down one race or another, it's just to show that all the racial hatred is a mentality that, while it may be seductive, cannot lead to anything good.It's a very emotional movie, which does not mean that it's all sad. Yes, it's mostly depressing in tone, but there are a few lighter and incredibly hopeful moments to balance it out. Because of the violence and rage and bleakness of the rest of the movie, scenes like Derek connecting with Lamont, and Derek and Danny tearing down the posters and pictures in their room are highlighted and are more uplifting.In terms of technical skill, it's done very well. Ed Norton's performance is amazing, and everyone else in the movie does pretty well too. Tony Kaye does a great job directing, making some unconventional but effective shots, like the extreme close-ups in the dinner scene between Derek and his father. Even the little decision for Danny to keep unconsciously rubbing his newly bald head was, I thought, a really good choice. I read that the movie was originally only 87 minutes and was extended by Ed Norton. Knowing this, I can see where some of the extensions may have been made, and while they aren't entirely necessary, they are included to good effect.If you are an American over the age of about 16 or 17, I would strongly recommend that you watch this, and probably watch it alone. You might not want to watch it again, but it is a very important movie that has a timeless theme about what hatred can do to an individual and a community. It does not directly comment on any of the racial problems that we face in our current state of affairs, but it is still pertinent to today's race related issues. It is understandable if you don't want to watch this, but there is not a good excuse not to. Overall Rating: 8.7/10.
American History X is a 1998 American crime drama film directed by Tony Kaye and written by David McKenna. It stars Edward Norton and Edward Furlong, and co-stars Fairuza Balk, Stacy Keach, Elliott Gould, Avery Brooks, Ethan Suplee and Beverly D'Angelo.In a shocking opening scene, teen Danny Vinyard (Edward Furlong) races to tell his older brother, neo-Nazi Derek (Edward Norton), about the young blacks breaking into his car in front of the house, whereupon Derek gets his gun and with no forethought shoots the youths in their tracks. Tried and convicted, Derek is sent away for three years in prison, where he acquires a different outlook as he contrasts white-power prisoners with black Lamont (Guy Torry), his prison laundry co-worker and eventual pal. Meanwhile, Danny, with a shaved head and a rebellious attitude, seems destined to follow in his big brother's footsteps. After Danny writes a favorable review of Hitler's Mein Kampf, black high-school principal Sweeney (Avery Brooks) puts Danny in his private "American History X" course and assigns him to do a paper about his older brother, who was a former student of Sweeney's. This serves to introduce flashbacks, with the film backtracking to illustrate Danny's account of Derek's life prior to the night of the shooting. Monochrome sequences of Derek leading a Venice, California gang are inter cut with color footage of the mature Derek ending his past neo-Nazi associations and attempting to detour Danny away from the group led by white supremacist, Cameron (Stacy Keach), who once influenced Derek


                
Edward Norton is one of the greatest actors there is, and American History X is his greatest performance. His actions, as well as those of Edward Furlong, Avery Brooks and especially Guy Torry, are flawless.It's the story of how a bright kid, Derek Vinyard (Norton), with wrong ideas gets in to a skinhead-gang because of a cunning leader who uses him for his own purposes, to establish nazism in America. Its frightening to see how much Dereks racistic opinions makes sense when hes arguing for them, I almost found myself agreeing with Derek(!), and its easy to understand how some people have gone so bad because of group mentality.Then, when we watch Dereks life in prison, it feels like i'm being redempted myself. He befriends a black guy (Torry), learns how he got more years there for stealing a TV than Derek got for his double murder, and he is astounded. He (we) suddenly see through his clever arguing, and discover how stupid his ideas really is.This is a hands down MIGHTY movie, and one of the best you will ever see. A solid 10/10
I really appreciated how those associated with this excellent film refused to pull any punches in showing the life of a young skin-head so ably portrayed by Edward Norton. Instead of creating a caricature of a racist, all the vile language and violence is shown. This DEFINITELY makes this a movie NOT for KIDS, but for adults it makes a strong impact--like a right cross into the jaw! Now I know some adults will also be completely turned off by this as well, but considering how slimy and awful racism is, how can you talk about it other than by exposing it as it really is?! I applaud the efforts, though I must also admit it can VERY hard to watch--particularly the shooting scene and the intensely graphic language.


                
There is only one reason for the high user ratings this movie receives. Because of its subject matter, people like it because they think they SHOULD.  To dislike it might cause one to be perceived as being insensitive to racial issues, but anyone looking at this film with a critical eye will find that its shortcomings make it practically laughable.  The basketball scene itself is so silly, it single-handedly destroys any credibility this film might have had.  Others have already noted the unbelievable dinner and prison scenes as well.  A lifetime of hate - instant contrition.  How can anyone possibly take this thing seriously?  There are far greater movies on racial injustice, "Mississippi Burning" being one that comes to mind quickly.  AHX should be closer to the bottom 250 than it is to the top.


                
With this title i will summarize the main idea of the film. Hard lessons through difficult paths and how our choices affect the lives of other people.Two very powerful scenes is that with the arrest of "Derek Vinyard" and the other as contrast, with the hero in front of the mirror trying to hide with his hand the tattoo. Wonderful performance by Edward Norton.Film presents in real and at the same time realistic way the life of a family who live through the racist motive of the father. His belief affect in a negative way the two boys of the family.Mother tries to unite her sons.The amazing with the movie is how all this anger and hate replaced with love. The pain of loss is still and life gives lessons in hard way most of the times. The final scene leave us with a bittersweet feeling.
One of the best movies i have ever seen, there are lot messages transmitted to those who still believe in racism.


                
American History X is stirringly thought-provoking. It serves as a wake up call for the masses that differentiate on the basis of any particular entity. The movie reels off the story about a Neo-Nazi skinhead who was once against the black progeny, but later figures to prevent his brother from choosing the same path after getting a reality check. The movie is incorporated with peculiarities of anger, violence, compassion and honorable philosophy. It possesses an ideal run time of 2 hours and manages to blow away. Also, an unforeseeable climax diversifies the movie making it even more disparate. They probably couldn't have assembled a better cast. Edward Norton, who played the lead role was undeniably striking, no wonder he got nominated for the 'Best Actor in a Leading Role' category at the Academy awards. Edward Furlong was simply alluring while enacting an integral character of the story line. Greater supporting roles played by Beverly D'Angelo and Avery Brooks were commendable. Accompanying them were Ethan Suplee and Guy Torry, they pulled of a splendid task as well. Minor roles impersonated by Jennifer Lien and Elliot Gould too were above average. Film Direction was brilliantly executed. Consorted by David McKenna's screenplay, Tony Kaye, the director, doubtlessly managed to produce the necessary ambiance. Editing sector was absolutely praiseworthy. Likewise, music by Anne Dudley was pleasing. Cinematography was garden-variety. All things considered, the film is top notch. Controversial yet soothing. Violent yet placid. In a single word, EPIC. Watch it and I'm certain that it will leave you thinking about the image of racist hypothesis.


                
First off the most obvious thing about this movie that makes it so great is the acting, and I don't mean just Edward Norton I mean the entire cast. The girl from Charmed (the movie) and The Water Boy is really great though I can never remember her name. The leader of the racists, the fat racist guy (also the friend in My Name is Earl I'm pretty sure), Elliott Gould, the mom and even the little brother (and teen aged and child actors are usually awful to me). The cast of this movie is really great and make it so believable.That said obviously Edward Norton is the heart of this film. He is really awesome in this movie and gets the audience to both loathe how horrible he is but also sympathize and pity him and the life he has led and want him to earn redemption.I don't want to give away the ending but the movie is a great drama with a fantastic climax and Norton deserved the Oscar for his portrayal without a doubt!


                
American History X is one of the most powerful films that has been to cinema. The storyline is about a nazi skinhead, who tries and saves his brother from a life of destruction and joining up with a nazi group. This happens everywhere, and for the story to be brought to life from our education and entertainment was outstanding. Edward Norton plays such a critical role, and is so believable as the characters its scary. An excellent production, turns so many heads as the gripping and brutal truth comes out about how some people think and act. This film is truly a great one, and extremely pleasing. The direction is fantastic, and acting is second to none, because its so gritty there are no over dramatics. American History X is a classic, it is a must watch.


                
The beginning was intriguing, middle kinda drowned it with Edward's temperament arguing with the family. The biggest thing about the movie is the sad end. Anyhow loved how the actors played. White "bigotry," either in a current or historical context, is a favourite Hollywood theme. The films they churn out frequently portray society as "dominated" by a cruel caste of Whites who are grotesquely unfair towards minorities. These "victimized" minorities are presented as tolerant, open, understanding, calm, gentle and virtuous. In contrast, Whites are portrayed as brutally insensitive, oppressive, intolerant, hateful, violent, greedy, narrow-minded and destructive. These films show how the mean spiritedness of White Gentiles deeply hurts angelic minorities, who are at a loss to understand such raw hatred. Frequently, they feature a benevolent minority with tremendous patience and moral conviction who seeks to exorcise the poisonous racism demonstrated by the White characters (the very preachy Guess Who's Coming to Dinner starring Sydney Poitier is a shining example). The hypocrisy of reinforcing such crude racial stereotypes, when the prime message of these preachy films is that stereotypes should be eliminated, is seemingly lost on those who make them. The twisting of reality in the service of a "progressive" cause. a controversial essay near the beginning. The portrayal of White people as gullible and easily manipulated by "misinformation" promulgated by charismatic "bigots." A main character who, through deception, is rapidly transformed from being naive and innocent into a prominent neo-nazi/skinhead activist. A reversal and atonement for this neo-nazi/skinhead association. A link, or continuum, established between well-articulated and justifiable White racial frustration and neo-Nazism/skinhead-ism. Crude attempts to shock the audience with exaggerated scenes involving violent Whites who batter, kill and/or severely abuse minorities. Questions raised and dropped, which if stressed, would have made the story more true-to-life and insightful.
A modern classic. This movie plays an important role in American cinematography. It exams the hate that is bread in America's middle class, white community. Not only does it show why American youth become so angry, but it also looks into the people that exploit it. Its a story about change, about changing ones mind and most importantly about family. It pears into the power of peer pressure and how the force to conform can conquer relationships. The movie exams the fact that although one can change for the better, at some point your past mistakes will catch up with you. Karma 101. The movie moves at a medium clip and at some points can slow down but all and all it's one of the best.


                
I think that a lot of people give this movie good praise for all of the wrong reasons.  Most enjoy the violence that the movie displays (mostly the "curb stomping" scene), but fail to see the actual moral that the story has (which is extremely clear).  Edward Norton's character develops excellently throughout the film, and Edward Furlong's character is likeable too.  It paces itself well, and there really aren't any bad spots in the film, it feels like everything should be there.  All in all, one of the best and most powerful movies I've ever seen, with one of the most melancholy endings to boot.


                
The amount of flip flopping of emotions makes things feel like a beach
get it?


                
American History X is the kind of movie which shivers your balls with freight,and you have no idea what is going on,and how these matters are dealt in a movie in such a public way.But it won't be soon before the dramatic,constrained part of the movie hit the screen and the transformation of the shaveheaded Edward Norton to the haired,transformed person.The movie deals with such a great complex ideology,yet Tony Kaye dealt it in a beautifull unravishing manner,that it becomes a masterpiece.The climax is topnotch,emotional scenes are well handled by Norton,the overall movie is completely attention-seeky.Watch it and get amazed of how a movie can expand a simple ideology into two hours of realism.


                
This movie has it all! The story builds up in a very original and strong, but subtle way and it is a good story. The whole story is believable, no unlikely plot twists, although there are some twists. The acting is great, especially Edward Norton. I was impressed!


                
I've been wanting to see this film since it first came out. I finally caught it, today! Certainly didn't disappoint. Edward Norton was excellent as Derek, the bitter racist older brother whose anger and frustration over the death of his firefighter father was eating him alive. It contains very strong language and violence, so be warned. The supporting cast is excellent, too. Edward Furlong plays his younger brother and Beverly D'Angelo, his mother.


                
A psychologicaly stimulating movie straight from the shoot. The lessons and morals that this movie portrays in the underlying message is extremely profound. When we can learn to put our conditioned hate away and see people for who they truly are then we will finally see who we are to our core.


                
A movie of a great emotional level.Powerful acting performances and very honestly revealing the truth to its audience, this movie kept me grabbed from beginning to the end.Edward Norton was unforgettable.Amazing cinematography, true environment of the middle class families which reminds us where the true humanity should lie and focused.


                
This snapshot of Venice, California, a racially tense seaside city, is both accurate and frightening. The irrational response of a repressed middle class white family to the indifference of an overly permissive government (since corrected since the election of President Trump) that allow American tax dollars to be spent on undocumented immigrants is highlighted in a speech within the film. Aside from the political aspect, the pure visceral energy of the film's violence and frustration from all races comes directly to the consciousness of the viewer. All forms of extremism are shown to be self-defeating. A bravura performance by both Ed Norton and Ed Furlong. An American classic.


                
This movie covers a very controversial topic which oddly has become a big talk point in the modern world. The statistics they use, the arguments are all what you here in today's world. Definitly a must watch to show how people get caught up in extremism. Everyone should watch it and learn


                
