Marlin, a nervous and neurotic clownfish is heavily overprotective of his son Nemo, who only wants to explore the sea in its entirety. When Nemo gets caught by a scuba diver and taken away, it is up to Marlin to swallow his own fears and find Nemo. The ensuing search and rescue organized by the him is a mass effort by swimming and flying creatures of all sizes and personalities, such as a threesome of vegetarian sharks, a fish with short term memory and an aged turtle, all helping him realise the error of his ways in restricting himself to just his home.As charming as it is beautiful, Finding Nemo is a joy, both visually and cinematically. The characters are all so appealing and sweet that you want to hug each and every one of them, Nemo and Dory in particular. But the film transcends above just a generic animated film, for there are lessons to be learnt by it too. The film often tells a children's tale from an adult's point of view, with risky situations and emotional soul-searching putting stress on a disjointed family.The sea is brought to us in such a memorable and unique way that there is brilliance and beauty in every frame. The animation is of all time high for Pixar, and the sound mixing and editing are also to be credited, as they capture the heart of the sea creditably. But perhaps the best thing about the film is the musical score by Thomas Newman. He creates the essence of the sea, as well as the emotions felt by the fish throughout. Note the masterwork that occurs as an upbeat, jovial number quickly escalates into something darker in a matter of minutes. In short, the music is superb.The voice cast are capable and cannily chosen, from young Alexander Gould as the naïve Nemo, as well as Albert Brooks as the bumbling Marlin. But the star of the show is Ellen DeGeneres as Dory. As the forgetful but caring fish, she is sweet and soulful, and provides much of the comedy of the film. But the humour is also provided by the great script, which delivers a potentially dull story with wit and soul, and shies away from the sentimentality that could so easily arise of a Disney film. And the jokes, what jokes <U+0096> from satire, spoof and slapstick, they'll be a one-liner for everybody here.Gorgeous to look at and utterly adorable, Finding Nemo sets the standard for how animated movies should being terms of entertainment value as well as story and themes <U+0096> ending with the touching, thought-provoking message of how too much protectiveness on the parent's side will repel, but, no matter how independent a child (or fish) believes themselves to be, they'll always need their parents.


                
My Take: Simply magical, down to the last computer-animated detail. I was at least 13 or 14 years old when this came out, and only now am I reviewing it. But that can't stop me, I have to lay out my sentiments for this clever and occasionally brilliant animated achievement. Not only is it the best, so far, in Pixar's portfolio of animated films, it's one of the very best animated films ever made, period. FINDING NEMO is a well-told fairy tale adventure, but a well-told story is only a bonus compared to the film's awesome look and feel. The movie is visually stunning, with images that flow like living paintings, some of which almost but leaps out the screen. The movie is beautifully crafted, and sometimes, I almost didn't care about anything else. Almost.On the contrary, the story is quite simple. After a tragedy introduced in the opening scenes, Marlin the clown fish (voiced by Albert Brooks) becomes too over-protective of his last son Nemo (voiced by Alexander Gould). Every move he makes is always under the watchful eye of his over-protective father, who couldn't afford to lose him. To prove that he can walk with his own two feet (or is that swim with his own fins?), Nemo approached an anchored divers boat and is abducted by two curious divers and taken far off the Great Barrier Reef. Marlin, guilty for his loss, is determined to find his son, captured by a dentist and placed inside a too-small-for-a-fish aquarium in the dentist's clinic. Along his side is a joyous yet forgetful fish named Dory (voiced by Ellen DeGeneres) who gives a helping fin a long the way, whatever she can remember.This is quite an adventure too. Not only are we introduced to a closer-than-life-like reef, we are also introduced with a clever and elaborate band of characters, including a trio of sharks who swore their lives to be vegetarians (until the call of the wild kicks in), a couple of surfer-dude turtles, a charade-playing school of fish and many other wonders. The animation here is, by far, the most brilliant ones I have ever seen. A colorful and life-filled reef, a forest of jellyfish and a crystal-clear aquarium filled of plastic ornaments have never looked more pristine in this lavish and elaborate adventure. But other than its brilliant design which is considerable enough to recommend the picture, the film is not without a good story, and it is told well. The characters have a great deal of features and characteristics. This is most evident on the character of Dory, who not only has the showmanship of the voice who dubbed her, but also the delight we expect from a true family film.If the story may not apply to you, or you might find it cliché, then FINDING NEMO will still do as a brilliant eye-candy, with one of the best sights I have ever seen in an animated film then and now. Sometimes, sitting in front of a theater or even the small screen and just let the elaborate visuals flow right through you is more than enough to see a movie. Sometimes it's a movie like this one that reminds you the fun that going to movies are.Rating: ***** out of 5.


                
I loved this film, loved everything about it, it's colourful and entertaining and funny and sad and everything else you could wish for in an animated film. I myself am a collector of banned films, video nasties, so bad they're good films, gore-a-plenty etc etc, but I have watched Finding Nemo more than any other film I own. And I can TOTALLY relate to Dory :oDI loved this film, loved everything about it, it's colourful and entertaining and funny and sad and everything else you could wish for in an animated film. I myself am a collector of banned films, video nasties, so bad they're good films, gore-a-plenty etc etc, but I have watched Finding Nemo more than any other film I own. And I can TOTALLY relate to Dory :oD


                
Can Pixar and Disney miss with a film? Both Toy Story's, A Bugs Life, Monster's Inc., Finding Nemo, and The Incredibles. These movies are instant classics.The movie in focus is Finding Nemo, a story of a clown fish named Marlin (voiced by Albert Brooks), trying to find his son Nemo who was taken away by scuba divers. With the help of a fish named Dory (Ellen Degeneres)Marlin bumps into on his journey, they set out on finding Nemo. The only problem is that Dory suffers from short-term memory loss. She can't remember anything except her name. It's sad but brings a lot of comedy to the movie.Along the way they meet some priceless characters like Crush (voiced by writer/director Andrew Stanton), the thrill seeking sea turtle. They also encounter a trio of friendly sharks, Bruce, Anchor, and Chum. They have sworn to never eat a fish again. They also run into some potentially deadly situations with an ugly deep sea fish, also a huge swarm of jellyfish, and a whale. Marlin and Dory must tough it out and make it to find Nemo.Meanwhile, Nemo is now the new addition to an Australian dentist's office aquarium. There he meets some interesting characters. Peach the starfish, Bloat the blowfish, and more sea dwellers. There Nemo tries to fit in, becoming a member of the tank named "Shark Bait". He tries to help out Gill (William Defoe) with his plan to escape from the tank and get everyone out. Nemo must come through in order to see his father ever again. A local pelican named Nigel (Geoffrey Rush) also tries to help out in the escape. Word has spread around the world of Marlin's trip to find his son, reaching Nigel.FInding Nemo is an instant classic. With great lines and unforgettable characters, this movie is a delight. The animation itself is remarkable. It's as though the fish are really swimming. You can even see particles floating in the water. Light shines through and currents make the fish and surrounding react. The animators have done their homework for this picture.This movie is quite an experience. It is a film the whole family can enjoy for years to come. It is a timeless adventure that people can enjoy. Don't let this film drift out to sea...


                
I didn't see this movie until it came out on DVD. My family and I don't go to the movies very often, mostly because there's hardly anything worth seeing.But this movie was absolutely flawless. The voice cast was super. The voice of Nemo is Alexander Gould, who is 11 years old now. I saw his picture, and I really like his smile."Finding Nemo" is a classic. It'a among my favorite movies, and is a movie everyone should see. Unlike about 96% of movies, this movie is Rated "G", and can be viewed by children. There might be a few moments when it gets "scary," but they soon turn into comedy.Watch "Finding Nemo" and I think you'll be a happier person by the end of the movie!My Score: 10/10.


                
Never, and I mean, never, in my entire life, has a movie effect me the same way Finding Nemo did. It's the best movie I've EVER seen, and I know I say that about alot movie, but I actually mean it this time. Never, did I ever come out of a theater after seeing a movie smile for the rest of the night. The movie just completely blew me away. I knew it was going to be good, but I had no clue what was in store for me when I saw it opening night. This movie is a work of pure genius. The animation is just beautiful, acting is awesome, the music fit everything that was going on. I could go on and on with this list, but I think I'll stop there. What I liked mostly about this movie was that it didn't lack anything at all. There was just the right amount of comedy, drama, suspense/action, and even romance. And it all blended together beautifully. This is why I gave this movie a full 10. Believe, me if I could give it more, I would.


                
I really enjoyed this movie from day one. I can't help but to find myself watching 'NEMO" every now and again. This movie has a great story line, and will keep you anxious based on the characters. I will have to say that "DORI" played by the wonderful Ellen DeGeneres would be my favorite character in the whole movie. I love how comedic she is. She is clumsy, forgetful, and well you will just have to watch the movie to really she how funny she is. This movie is perfect for all ages, I'm 19 and I still watch it. I can't tell you how excited I am for the movie "Finding Dori"to come out. I would recommend this movie to anyone. Definitely a 10/10.


                
Pixar makes the best animated films and Finding Nemo is one more jewel in their crown. Like most Pixar movies, Finding Nemo too deals with universal themes <U+0096> parenting, father-son relationship & friendship. With his crisp, funny & sometimes thought-provoking dialogues, director Andrew Stanton takes you on an adventure ride under the rich and colorful sea full of interesting creatures. This movie is so engrossing that you sometimes forget it is just an animation, especially when you see animated characters display genuine human emotions. Dory is the most unforgettable character I've come across in animated movies. Other characters too remain etched in your memory long after you've seen the movie. This movie certainly deserves a spot among the top movies of this century.


                
4 Stars: With a sense of imagination that only a child could have, Pixar has finally struck gold. En route to becoming the highest grossing animated movie in history, and deservedly so, Finding Nemo is a real gem for both kids and their parents. Its first move in the right direction is setting the picture underwater. Amid a previously unseen and pleasantly quirky world of spaced-out sea turtles and 12-step program sharks, the movie presents a heartwarming story about a father's search for his son. Add in witty dialogue and extroadinary performances by both Ellen DeGeneres and Albert Brooks and you got a movie that's too good to miss.


                
God bless Pixar. I am not really religious, but for Pixar, I'll convert. Because they are the precious few, part of the species of that rare kind of filmmakers who necessarily have to check out every detail, every bit and particle of their work, and necessarily turn all of them into sheer brilliancy. Today, Pixar has accostumed us to a pattern of quality beyond measure, not only because their work needs special attention but also because the technical part is only a vessel to something much important: a heart. And since every Pixar film requires half a life and half a soul to make from each and everyone of its founding craftsmen, the results are so exquisite and unique that no other movie can be compared to them. One may wonder about their "secret". No secret. Just real feeling and love to their job. "Finding Nemo" is the new crowning jewel in Pixar's flawless hall of fame, again a movie based on the buddy formula we love so much, this time in a whole new world: the ocean depths. And the prospect of doing a movie in this setting is probably something for the Pixar artists to drool on: just imagine all the quirky ideas they can have in this unexplored realm. And they deliver, big time. Once more, the filmmakers never opt for the obvious, delivering always the right choices, always turning the right way, and once more transforming all of us mere viewers into big children, just marvelling into the beautiful sights and sounds of the big blue. And they make us travel into all aspects of the possible journey, surprising even the most visionary viewer. The result is one of the most warm movies of the year, one of those movies that makes you come out with a smile and makes you forget about all your problems. If movies are a way to make you feel better, then doctors should be out giving prescriptions of Finding Nemo. Combining intelligence, entertainment and art into one is a gift that few have. Pixar does it a naturally as breathing. And once again the result is nothing short of amazing. Movie magic at its best.


                
Nothing really needs to be said here about Pixar that hasn't been said before.  Their track record for producing amazing entertainment is currently unparalleled.  That track record just gets better with "Finding Nemo". This movie is gorgeous, heartstopping and hilarious.  I don't think many of the adults in the audience were really expecting it to be as drop-down funny as it was.  The characters are instantly relatable and, in a nice touch, there are really no villains.  Even the shark and the whale become quite endearing. (there's just the barracuda and he's gone before the opening credits)Ellen Degeneres is wonderful as Dory.  Every line that she delivers in the entire film is absolutely perfect.  Actually that can be said about all of the performances, but her character steals the show because she is, at the same time, the funniest and sweetest fish in the ocean.This movie is perfect for adults, perfect for children, heck, perfect for teenagers.  See it again and again because it is, without question, the movie of the summer and deserves every bit of praise it gets.


                
Finding Nemo is a very good animated film, probably it's in the top 10 animated features of all time. The story is about a little clown fish named Nemo. He ventures out into the open sea while not listening to his father. He gets captured by a dentist and now his father, marlin has to save him from the clutches of the dentist and his "evil" niece. The story of the film is unbelievable. I don't know how a movie about a fish can be very popular. The voice acting is pretty good. The all-star cast did a great job voicing their characters. The music in this film is sweet. The music will lure you more into the movie. The song in the film is great for people who like music 40 years ago. Once again, Pixar did not fail in its ability to make classic animated films. Overall, this is a very good film. I rate this movie 10/10.


                
I bought this movie on a Vcd when i went on a holiday to Singapore in 2004.Everything about this is fantastic..Photography is amazing.Colors are amazing.Characters are great.Dialogs are wonderful.Story is great.It tells about 2 fishes Marlin and his child Nemo.One day Nemo is taken away.Marlin meets Dory.They go to help to find him.They go to a doctors clinic and see Nemo he is being sent away to a little girl who is destructive.But in the they save Nemo.The acting is brilliant from the characters.Casting was perfect.Voices were great.i know some hated this by calling it a lot of harsh words like Pathetic,Terrible,Waste etc.Forget them this is an awesome movie


                
After a good year has passed (well, it wasn't really a good year in my life, nor was it a good year in the cinema, but it was undoubtedly a long year, allow us all to the calm down. Finding Nemo is a children's movie. It is not an achingly poetic masterwork of biblical proportions. For all its polished aesthetic splendor, it is one of many recent Pixar cuddle-tear smorgasboards that have smack of the Pixar "formula." This is, of course, more multifaceted than you might hope. First, and foremost there is the element of the micro society where one least expects it: the anthropomorphic personification in various aspects of the animal kingdom or underwater or inanimate objects like toys, insects pretty much anything that looks cute. Pixar, which has modeled itself on Disney (for starters...in that, it is trying and succeeding to be the 2nd successful animation studio in the history of the cinema) is taking a page from Herr Walt, but not just simply by making animals...talk. There is the now mandatory wacky assortment of characters in whatever new environment our cutesy little poopy poof protagonist enters: usually an inexplicably dumb character, a hardened, raspy-voiced pessimist who has the seen the outside and yearns for a taste of liberation, a simple character driven mad by the plasticized existence of the microcosm they are confined to, the optimist, completely spiritually and intellectually fulfilled with appeasing the idiotic requests of the master, or overlord or Orwellian gumbent-a-clef, easing into a life of quiet desperation, finding simple pleasures in the banal daily regimen and the emigrant, caught in the middle. Perhaps these scenarios which Pixar seems to be ejaculating in majestic, new colors every few years are truly subversive and anti-American with their One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nestesque allegories...or maybe they're just smoking PCP. Still, they're a whole lot better than the CGA DreamWorks is churning out. Don't believe me? Compare the Incredibles (which is going to rock ass even if it sucks because look at Sam Jackson's character, man is HE black!) to Shrek 2. Shrek 2 sucked. For more on Shrek 2, see Shrek 2. Eddie Murphy needs to quit. C


                
One of Disney & Pixar's finest - visually, musically and emotionally stunning. Perfect for the whole family, such a wholesome story and so wonderfully executed. Cannot fault it.


                
"Finding Nemo" can be defined by the word "perfect." The reason is because that is how the film balances drama, comedy and adventure with perfect story and voice acting, especially Ellen DeGeneres' Dory.


                
Well, this is another hit from Pixar. I did not think anything could top Monsters, Inc. but this movie certainly did. The thing that really made this movie great was the incredible animation and beautiful scenery in which it is set. Some of the other Pixar movies did not have this advantage.The plot is mature enough for adults with humor that only they would get. But it is cute enough to hold the attention of youngsters also. Although, I would say that very young children would probably not be best suited for this movie. It is very fast paced and deals with a subject that could be scary to a kid. Just image being 3 and seeing a movie in which a kid has no mother and is taken away from his father. Then the father is chased by sharks, and while the sharks were cute and rather humorous, they could still scare little kids. Many of the very young children in the theater were crying and screaming at various parts. Maybe children under 5 or 6 should wait till video to see this so it isn't so loud and overwhelming.Other than that, I loved it! I am 22 and saw it with my 46 year mom and we thought it was wonderful. You are never too old for these movies!


                
I loved the animation, and not just the pretty reef scenes either. I was particularly impressed with the various atmospheric conditions from the colourful reef, to the pitch black depths, to the world war 2 wreck, the polluted Sydney harbour, etc etc.Of all the pixar films so far, there was more to tug at the heart strings here. Maybe because I am a parent.


                
Marvellous, Marvellous. Bravo for our best animation of recent years. Finding Memo was a tough, tough feature film to make in terms of it's character constructions and underwater effects.  I found that one of the unique thing about this film is that each fish(species) has a absolute mono personality, which pushed this animation into a higher level, and of course harder to make too. Thanks to our smart and hard working creaters.  This film pushes animation industry to a position in which it should be by now, although the whole underwater scenery still look CG so to speak, but if we look back at toy story I, the fish are more real and people like. We have to accept that audiences are much more "comfortable" to see such a touching, funny, CG Feature Film.  But I have to say that this is not the best a computer can do, this is just a milestone of animation industry, after N years, I'm sure that all the actors and actresses are retired and mousing themselves moving in front of a monitor.


                
Finding Nemo, though made by Disney-and Pixar, of course, is absolutely wonderful for everyone. Even with fish, it seems, Pixar can make believeable characters that relate as well as entertain. Please bring your family to this wonderful piece of work.


                
I loved this movie. That's my opinion in a nutshell. It may be the best pixar film to date, although all of them have been relatively good. I won't spoil anything, but I plan to put my new whale fluency to good use.


                
This movie is visually interesting, exciting, funny and heart-warming. A total treat for both kids and adults!I highly recommend you grab any kid you know and take them to this movie (so you can see it yourself!)


                
This is a very good movie.  Very funny and a great message for all ages. I was impressed with the graphics, characters, and the story.  Finally a movie you can take a 3 year old to see and not have to worry about hidden messages, and inappropriate comments, but can also be enjoyed by adults.


                
You found yourself really care and root for the main characters despite you know (A) they are merely animation, and (B) this is Disney so everything is bound to OK. This is a great, entertaining movie for everyone from aged 6 to 106. It may be a little too intense for very young children (under 6). Otherwise, it's a nearly perfect mix of great computer animation (countless eye candies in life-like ocean setting), a refreshing take of an old plot, fun and intense actions, adult humor and homage to old classics like Shinning. At times, it was poignant and inspiring but never preachy. A must see indeed.


                
I have two sons, one six and one nine; we hugged, laughed and cried during this whole film. People that whined that their kids were "traumatized" by the action must be smothering their children. Only a very small child (well under two) or a kid in desperate need to loosen the grip from mommy's apron strings could possibly be "terrorized" by this film. Movies are about love, loss, fear, laughter, surprise, etc. Asking a film to be some bland thing that every little wimpy baby can see without boo-hooing is absurd. Get a life, and quit raising simps.The message of the film is very pertinent, especially in today's world, yet it is not bludgeoned over the audience's head. It takes head on the fact that children are increasingly pushing for more freedom at a younger age, and shows that a balance can be reached. It doesn't shy away from the fact that danger exists, and no parent can safeguard against every possible threat. It embraces the fact that each parent must loosen the grip, while maintaining as safe an environment as possible.Another wonderful aspect concerns little Nemo's "lucky" fin. He actually has a damaged, or handicapped right fin, although the movie never portrays Nemo as disabled, in the traditional sense. Instead it is an allegory for a parent's justifiable reluctance to allow their children to pursue their own independence in a dangerous world - and a very subtly powerful one at that.The voice talents are excellent, with Ellen DeGeneres stealing the show. Even if you don't like her, you'll like her... here. Willem Defoe and Albert Brooks also give performances, which take advantage of their public image, but add delightful twists to deepen the impact.It is a film that focuses on the father/son relationship throughout, whereas many Disney movies kill off the dad early on. This isn't to say that everything is all roses here either. Caulk a realistic relationship, with the faults and missteps present therein to a Pixar team that increasingly continues to school animation studios on the fact that STORY MATTERS MOST.This film is a great opportunity for families to feel close to one another without the impression you checked your brain at the door to achieve that. My boys and I hugged for five minutes after this film ended, and then proceeded to crack up during the humorous end credits. Parents who balk at the fear factor, need to put away the pampering powder and concentrate on bringing up kids equipped to deal appropriately with a frightening world, at that age. It's not Alien for crying-out-loud. What it is, is great movie-making and real fun, especially for families with strong, independent kids testing boundaries - as all healthy children do.


                
