Hmm, let's start with the death of a mother fish, an overprotective, wimpy father fish, jr. fish who says "I hate you", then have jr. kidnapped.  And all in the first five minutes!  Throw in big, scary fish and tons of melodramatic search and rescue action, and you've got...a "kids" movie?? They don't know any better, so this becomes their only alternative at the theater, which in turn makes it three hundred million dollars.  Usually these family films pack jokes for the older crowd that only they'd understand to keep them awake, along with the kiddie stuff.  Not here.  No fun of "Toy Story", with characters and imaginitive action passages to keep you engrossed.  Here we're saddled with a dull hero (voice of Brooks), a quickly annoying "dumb funny" fish (voice of DeGeneres) and a slew of not even recognizable celebrity voices who you'd be hard pressed to guess who it is.  The only, only, plus is the always reliable Pixar imagery, colorful and striking.  Otherwise, run.  "Nemo!  Nemo!  Nemo!"  Shuddup and get me outta here!


                
I'm 27 years old and I have a 9 year old daughter.  For some strange reason, she didn't want to see Finding Nemo when it came to the theaters, so i said cool, i'll just buy the dvd when it comes out.....big mistake.  I should have listened to my daughter. She hated it along with my 2 nieces, ages 3 & 4, and my nephew, age 5.  The animation was beautiful but the story was.....well.....just BORING.  About 30 minutes into the movie, they were ready to watch something else and frankly, so was I.


                
After the over-the-top praise this movie received, I was surprised to find it to be an pretty unremarkable movie, and one that's not especially imaginative/visual. It is uncomplicated by any element not approved by committee, which means you get regurgitated under-sea relationships, with slightly modernized shtick. (Yep, there's a shark chase, but he's in recovery ?!) Take any three familiar mass market plot lines and average them together and you get something as tepid as this. This movie was gone from my mind the second it ended. I don't recall a frame of it.The only way you could be a fan of this movie is if you think a movie is supposed to spell everything out for you and cause you to emote every twenty minutes. It never touched me and it never engaged me. Nobody ever went broke tossing look-alike projects at undiscerning American audiences.


                
Honestly, I do not understand why so many people love this movie. I can normally watch a disney movie and enjoy myself, but this one simply did not entertain me. First of all, I noticed in Finding Nemo was that there were not any songs. most disney movies have parts where the charectors break into song, not in Finding Nemo. Secondly, I found some of the charectors quite annoying, especially the blue fish. Lastly, the worse thing about Finding Nemo is that so many people talk like it was the best kids movie ever made. Because of this i was expecting another entertaining, fun, and enjoyable kids movie, but instead i wasted an hour and a half of my life.


                
Toy Story again, but with fishes.1 idea, 2 movies..... I'm getting really sick of this - GO TAKE A CREATIVE WRITING CLASS, YOU IDIOTS!Yes, but some truly *amazing* visuals, as always - there must be *something* there to make you part with your hard-earned. (and some parts of that something, for some reason, look very much like a screensaver common in Win98 days that I saw here and there... ??!!!! Maybe Pixar look for their inspiration in more mundane (and obvious!) places than I thought?.... :) )Enjoy on TV, friends places and the like. DON'T PART, etc., etc.,....


                
