This is a good film but overrated. There, I said it.This was just too reminiscent of when 'Shrek' first hit the screens, in 2001 <U+0096> the 3D animation everyone was going gaga over, repeatedly hailing as the greatest animated movie ever, and yet didn't really impress me all that much. Seemingly, I was the only person on the planet to feel that way. I didn't really 'get' 'Shrek', don't especially 'get' it even now, and for some reason I didn't quite manage to 'get' 'Finding Nemo' either, the next 3D film to get the 'greatest animated movie' ever proclamation, in spite of the fact that I was really, really determined to kick off my socks and enjoy this one. Well, it's cute and it's colourful, and the idea of a father clownfish (named Marlin) trekking the ocean to be reunited with his missing son (named, oddly enough, Nemo) is a nice one for sure, but there was just something about it which left me feeling strangely unsatisfied. All in all it's a worthy venture for the Pixar cabinet, visually gorgeous and with a handful of effective moments, but seriously, they have done better.The main problem comes in the story structure, which is too rambling and disjointed to do it for me. I actually agree with another viewer who commented that it felt more like that of a multi-levelled video game than a movie. All it really involves is Marlin swimming along and avoiding getting chomped by dangerous sea-dwelling predator after sea-dwelling predator. We meet plenty of interesting characters along the way, but the nature of the story means that they're removed from the action within minutes. For example, the trio of sinister but slow-witted sharks struggling to go veggie, who have a lot less screen time than the promotional posters and trailers might imply and are never given the chance to amount to much more than a few time-filling wisecracks. Nigel the pelican, in spite of Geoffrey Rush's spunky voicing, is a mostly bland character whose motives for befriending and assisting the fish are left conveniently unspoken (after all, naturally he's another sea-dwelling predator himself), and I found the surfer turtles just a tad annoying (particularly the young ones <U+0096> call me heartless, but bleh!).Another pretty nagging drawback is that neither protagonist, be it Marlin or Nemo, is nearly as sympathetic as past Pixar creations like Woody or Sulley. Marlin is too whiny to be truly likable, and Nemo doesn't really get the great deal of development you'd usually expect in a title character. The script is notably also less sharp than previous Pixar instalments. There was one scene in the dentist's waiting room which had me in stitches, but that was about it. It's mostly just movie in-jokes for most of the time. While in 'Toy Story' the various nods to other movies were little more than subtle extras for the sharp-eyed viewer to enjoy alongside a script brimming with plenty of witty gags of its own, they're pretty much integral to this screenplay. 'Finding Nemo' suffers from the same 'self-indulgent movie spoof' syndrome that you can find in most 3D animation from the Dreamworks stable, with a slew of constant parodies (that most of us have already seen at some point in 'the Simpsons') substituting for real humour. Usually, Pixar are always one step ahead of their rivals in this respect, but this time round even they were unable to resist succumbing to it.There are certain aspects of 'Finding Nemo' that I liked. For example, Dory, the regal blue tang who trails Marlin insistently on his travels <U+0096> technically she's as 2D as everyone else in this flick, her whole character consisting of little more than the one-joke comedy gimmick that she suffers from short term memory loss and can never remember quite what she's doing. There's so much potential here to be annoying, but somehow she manages to pull through and, against the odds, prove a surprisingly charming character throughout. Perhaps it comes down to Ellen DeGenere's brilliant voice work. Also, I like it that the standard comic relief sidekick can finally be female, and that Marlin and Dory manage to maintain an entirely platonic relationship throughout (no token love interests here).But the most interesting character by far is William Dafoe's hard-bitten Moorish idol, Gill <U+0096> he's given some hints of a personal history, yet it goes curiously understated throughout. Many of the 'Tank Gang' sequences seem pretty out of place (what does the welcome ritual have to add to the story, other than establishing the existence of that bubble volcano?), but nonetheless, some of the dialogue exchanged between Gill and Nemo is quite nice and add a sprinkling of depth to a film which I otherwise found to be just a little too<U+0085>hollow?Plus, the sight of an angler fish caught up in a pair of diving goggles is unexpectedly alluring - still, the poor, poor creature ;)'Finding Nemo' isn't a bad film by any means. In fact, it's pretty darn good. But Pixar have made other movies which, ironically, could blow this clean out of the water. In short, it's sweet and pleasant but <U+0096> there's that word again - overrated.Grade: B


                
"Finding Nemo" is obviously a good movie. But, like many Pixar films, it's overrated. It seems they give more attention to CGI movies than older animated classics like "The Lion King" and "Beauty And The Beast", that deserve to be in the Top 250 instead of this kind of film. There are good Pixar films, like "Cars" and "The Incredibles", but I don't think that it deserves to rank the 2nd best Disney film ever behind only The Incredibles. Now, they also leave out "Pinocchio", "Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs", "Dumbo", "Bambi", and other classics created during Disney's life. This is a very good movie, but I think it deserves the highest rating of a 7.3 or 7.4.


                
This film is supposed to be "the best Pixar film". I disagree. The film is incredibly overrated. Sharks that are trying to not eat fish, what the hell are they supposed to eat? Just wondering. Although Ellen DeGenerous is awesome as Dory. Dory was one of the 2 things that saved this film. The second was the animation. The beginning is beautiful and truly has the pixar animation. Although I feel this film could have been PG. The mom is killed and some of the scenes can be scary.Overall this film is good because of Ellen DeGenerous, who is one of the best comedians.Sorry to disappoint you huge time fans who just adore this film.
I avoided this movie for a long time, thinking it was strictly for kids. Finally, my niece brought it home and I watched it.  It is strictly for kids.  Technically and visually, the movie is great.  Story-wise, it falls a bit short.  Still enjoyable to a limited degree.Spoiler Alert!They have worked into the plot three or four instances where we are supposed to think Nemo may be dead.  Marlon, too.  Gets Old!There is never any real meaning derived from Nemo's little handicap; it seems any feature associated with Disney must have this (Dumbo's ears, etc.).  There is little resolution at the end; nothing like Dorothy saying, "There's no place like home", no "Rosebud", Nemo goes back to Tara and continues at school with an irresponsible stingray teacher.Kudos for Ellen Degeneris.
Decent Disney film that is fine for the whole family but lacks the heart and style of the other pixar films that came before it. The voice acting by all involved is great and the animation is as clear and precise as ever but it lacks a lot of what the first two Toy Stories had and lacks the heart that made those movies such landmarks in the first place.It's a good movie but it really not as good as some people made it out to be.


                
Finding Nemo is just an average animation movie. Unlike its predecessors, it's aimed only at kids; the plot is very thin. I watched this just a day after Miyazaki's Spirited Away, and Finding Nemo pales by comparison. I find this movie particularily overrated and I would still recommend it for kids.


                
A morose and neurotic clownfish named Marlin is raising his son Nemo alone after a barracuda ate his wife and all the rest of his children. (Trust me, it's a family film.) But then Nemo gets taken by Man, that great monster from the above world. And so Marlin has to go and find him. And we have our movie.I remember seeing this film when it came out and thinking that Pixar had really upped their game. Monsters, Inc. looked nothing compared to this and it's only a couple years older. All the locations underwater are breathtakingly beautiful, even today. Bursting with colour and life, hiding all sorts little details, nooks and crannies. And the fishes look great as well. There's a subtle scale detail on Marlin and Nemo that you only see in close-ups, but it's that extra layer of detail that completely sells it.True, the human characters are still a bit wonky, but even they have improved a lot from Monsters, Inc.Unfortunately, what keeps this film from being one of Pixar's all time greats, is the fact that the characters are not as good as they have been up to this point. Marlin especially is an aggravating character with his constant whining and scaredy cat antics. Yes, it's understandable and sympathetic to a point, and he does learn, but it's played up just a bit too much.Nemo is also a bit underdeveloped, but luckily the film has good characters as well. Chief amongst them being Dory, who's a bit of a one-joke character, but somehow the design, the jokes themselves and the voice acting by Ellen DeGeneres make it work beautifully.Finding Nemo is quality entertainment, don't get me wrong. It only pales in comparison to other Pixar films, and even amongst them it's up there. Definitely worth a watch for kids and adults alike.


                
Finding Nemo is a good movie and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
Finding Nemo is a stunningly gorgeous film and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
Finding Nemo is a stunningly gorgeous film and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
Finding Nemo is a good movie and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
Finding Nemo is a good movie and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
Finding Nemo is a good movie and the fact that it takes place underwater which means a new color pallet for Pixar makes it even better. Seriously this film is gorgeous and just for the visuals alone it deserves a pat on the back but the story is equally heartening and the characters very relatable even though they are clownfish. This soaring and deeply moving sea adventure is unlike very few films out there. Check it out if you haven't yet.


                
I liked how they combined all sorts of marine life into this film. It's nice and funny and cute too. The cast was cool, especially Albert Brooks, whom I first became aware of from The Simpsons as a recurring guest star. And Ellen DeGeneres didn't hurt either. She was quite spunky as Dory. And a lot of the characters seem too minor or supporting to be useful as part of the plot. But don't let that throw you off and just try to enjoy yourself. I know I did!


                
Great movie for kids and family. I was really nervous will Nemo find a way back home, but he did. I am very happy to watch this great movie again with friends. Pixar always make such a great movies. And this animation is something different. The amazing story in the sea. Dory is absolutely my favorite. So glad to watch finding Dory too. :)


                
'FINDING NEMO' was directed by Andrew Stanton and Lee Unkrich, and stars Martin Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres and Alexander Gould. <U+200B>Due the tragic death of his wife, Marlin(Albert Brooks) tries to protect his son, Nemo(Alexander Gould) with his life. But after an argument, Nemo gets taken by divers and Marlin must venture through the ocean to get his boy back.The late 90s to Early 00s was a golden age for Pixar. A string of hits from Toy Story 1 & 2, A Bug's Life and Monster's Inc - and then we got this movie. This movie continued Pixar's tradition of milking money out of us but did it in a distinctly unique way. A simple adventure movie at first glance that really shouldn't have held the test of time but it remains one of the most popular and beloved animated features of the 21st century. And after seeing it, I can see why.As stated prior, it is PART a simple, fun adventure flick. This part is done exceptionally well and is enjoyable whenever they cut to it. The other half of this movie is were it shines, for me. We see Nemo meet a new group of people in a fish tank and attempt to escape from it. Unfortunately, we don't spend much time here at all. Focus is instead put on Marlin and Dory's 'buddy adventure'. Again, I like their adventure a lot and can 100% understand why focus was shifted to them, I just wish we got more focus on Nemo and co. Obviously, this is just personal preference and I can't mark the movie down for that.I actively dislike the climax of this movie and it was clearly rushed. It is very lazy and I wish more effort was put into it. Time is not an excuse; they should have organised themselves better or pushed release dates back.Obviously, Ellen DeGeneres's performance in this movie is amazing. I can't say much more about it that hasn't been said so I will just say she's awesome in this movie. Albert Brooks is often overshadowed in this movie by DeGeneres and doesn't get the respect he deserves. DeGeneres is definitely the standout of the film and I wont take that title away from her but I 100% think that Brooks is overlooked with his performance which is unfortunate because he is genuinely great in the film. One thing I am delighted with about this movie is the fact the directors and writers don't force a romance between Dory and Marlin. You can argue that it may be a bit weird, considering the voice actors of the respective characters but when has that stopped Hollywood before?Alexander Gould was competent as Nemo but I honestly think Nemo is such a dull and bland character which is very strange considering his name takes up 50% of the title. Side characters are a huge strength of this movie. From the Fish Tank Gang to Brucie to Crush - all the side characters in this movie are strong, funny and memorable. They are all interesting in their special ways and all keep this movie from slipping into mediocrity. Finding Nemo was a revolution for CGI animated movies animation wise. Does it hold up? Yeah - it does. The water effects are surprisingly good and the design of the fish is good. Pixar's human creation facilities are also much better in this movie(in anticipation to 2004's 'The Incredibles') which makes them look less my plastic dolls, and more like living, breathing human beings.The cinematography and editing is also pretty good.Pixar is a master at making movies funny for both younger and mature audiences. I'll say 40% of jokes in the movie made me elicit a chuckle, which is pretty dang good to be fair. Toilet humour is present and I will NEVER condone subjecting children to it. Thankfully, it is in short supply so it isn't TOO bad.There is SOME emotion in the film and there is KIND OF an arc but it feels so artificial and computer generated. It doesn't feel genuine at all. 'Finding Nemo' is an enjoyable movie from beginning to end and I can 100% recommend you see it. It is from the golden age of Pixar, so I'll rate this film 7 'Awesome Handshakes' out of 10!


                
`How in the world could a movie about fish be interesting?'  That was my reaction to this film's announcement and advertising.  But fortunately it is a Pixar film, and I love Pixar's films from Toy Story to Monsters Inc. so when a friend called looking for someone to see Nemo with, I agreed still expecting to be bored out of my mind.  The people at Pixar truly surprised me and put my expectations in their place.Where I pictured gloomy underwater shots through and through, Pixar envisioned a remarkably colorful world seen through a slightly distorted dreamy lens.  Very seldom has the canvass of the silver screen been utilized so ingeniously with its composition.  Where I saw emotionless/expressionless creatures swimming back and forth, Pixar created the full spectrum of emotion and a plethora of fun personalities, then sent them on family-fun roller coaster ride along the ocean's bottom, and packed the rest of the film with the gags and jokes found in abundance in Toy Story and Monsters Inc.An entire underwater world opens up to the viewer in ways the Little Mermaid could only dream . . . in ways far beyond the grasp of live action films.  A visually fantastic world, with plenty of surprises up its sleeve.  I couldn't help but smile as Pixar would tease and hint at the next landmark the film would take me to, then chuckle when it arrived in its fun and heartwarming way.  With other studios laying their own claim to the realm of feature length computer animation films (and fairing extraordinarily well with the likes of Shrek and Ice Age), it's a pleasure to see that Pixar has not gotten lazy. They still possess their own edge, and if Finding Nemo is any evidence, there's going to be a damn good fight over the title of `best computer animated film.'  That's wonderful news to the viewers . . . I for one don't have any problem seeing more from the makers of Toy Story, Shrek, and Ice Age.         Though next up for Pixar or Dreamworks or Fox, I wouldn't mind seeing a renewal of the animated musicals reminiscent of late 80s, early 90s, and classic Disney features.  Anyway, I'm getting off topic.  I went into Finding Nemo expecting to be bored, and I came out of the theatre very happy with the time investment.I will also add, it's refreshing to find animated films can still hold up even after the viewer has grown up.  Ten years ago, in middle school, The Lion King caught me in a way that few films ever did; for me, films like Finding Nemo and Shrek affirm that animation holds that magic regardless of what the viewer's age.


                
(We watched the Chinese-dubbed version of it.)Taking a 3-year old to watch a movie is daunting, and this is the 2nd time I've done this.  (The 1st time was a disaster, we only stayed 30 minutes, but I digress.)I believe she enjoyed Nemo very much, as she stayed to watch the whole 100+ minutes of it WITHOUT going to the bathroom !!!  Of course she fidgeted many times during the movie, not owing to the show, but because of where we sat. Doubtless I had to explain some points to her (why Nemo's mother is missing etc) but she was able to follow the story most the time.  The silliness of Dory was lost on her, but then she may be a bit too young to understand fully the memory lost / forgetfulness of adults.She wasn't scared of the shark nor of the whale, but was afraid of the sudden darkness in the depths of the sea, and had to hold my hand.  The pictures were very clear (and seemed real to her), I could even see the fish scales.Other than that, all in all, the story has a happy ending (of course :), and if she could give points, I think she'll give this a 9 or 10.  I'll give this a 7 or 8, and recommend this for kids of all ages.


                
Finding Nemo is wonderful.  Gorgeous to look at with animation that wouldn't be possible even five years ago and written with deft, fun, and heart. The film may suffer from being directed solely at kids and there requisite guardians (me and my brother were likely the only 15 to 25 year-olds in the whole cineplex) which makes the plot structure of the titular youngen Nemo swimming off on his own to do some much needed growing up while simultaneously forcing his father Marlin to challenge himself and grow no small amount himself so delightfully subversive.  Defoe, Brooks and Rush's voicework is quite brilliant but believe me when I say this, DeGeneres improbably steals the show.  After the first word her character Dory said I shuddered and thought I'd be in for a long two hours.  But with significant screen time she never once got tiresome or annoying.  I caught myself laughing at her jokes and thought to myself, 'this is Ellen DeGeneres, right?'  Y'all may not have my inborn mistrust of DeGeneres, but those who do, don't miss out on a truly surprising road film without a road.


                
This movie was full of great characters but I was disappointed that it was one non-stop stressful scene after another.  My four year old was traumatized.   You couldn't even sit back and enjoy the fantastic comedy because the main characters were on the verge of death in practically every scene.   What's with all the murdered/dead parent themes in Disney movies anyway?  Monsters Inc. and Bug's Life both had much better balances of funny scenes and exciting/scary scenes.


                
Finding Nemo can be seen as the bridge between Pixar Studios and Walt Disney Studios. It is the result of filmmakers and crew meeting halfway on this bridge and including aspects from both production companies and making it work. Finding Nemo brings some of the adult humour of Pixar (as seen in Ice Age, Monsters inc, etc) and combines it with the morals and lessons that Disney wants to teach (as seen in<U+0085>uh.. every Disney film).While it would be more than OK with me to simply omit the latter in animated features to leave room for comedy and nice visuals, I see at least some faint need for moral statements as films like this primarily cater to children. These kinds of morals and values lessons are thankfully kept to a minimum in Finding Nemo - but they are present and they do drag the film down on occasion.Finding Nemo tells the story of a widowed clownfish named Marlin who frequently goes overboard trying to protect his only living son, Nemo, from the dangers and non-dangers of the ocean world. One day, Nemo is captured by a scuba diver and Marlin, devastated, is left to face his own fears to go and find Nemo.Finding Nemo is an ocean ride with superb animations of sharks, jellyfish, whales, gulls, pelicans, lobsters, and humans. The film parodies human behavior by creating an ocean world that greatly reflects our own (crayfish mowing their lawns, sting-rays as teachers). At the same time it brings some of nature in. I loved the sea gulls more than anything because they are seen in such great contrast to Marlin who is so human; he is complex, thinking and refined. The gulls are simply "rat with wings" in this film and are portrayed as such. Totally brainless creatures but providers of the greatest comedy in Finding Nemo. So it is not only Disney and Pixar meeting halfway, but nature and human behavior meeting halfway too.This is probably the closest (aside from maybe The Emperor's New Groove) Disney has come to making an adult-humoured animated film - and they needed Pixar to do it. 7/10


                
I have to admit that I have been positively surprised and congratulations to all the stuff that helped to making alive the fishes and birds. My three old year son says "again, again". Yeah, he liked it too of course and so my wife. The story has many original twists and plots packed in a solid and entertaining adventure trip. But the most I liked was the real special effects and the very clear animation that makes very believable that these fishes are real. Therefore some scenes could have been cut because they were too slow paced and unnecessary but this is not a problem. If you want to spend an unforgettable moment with your kids and family then you shouldn't miss it. Fasten your seat belts and enjoy it. 7/10.


                
The underwater visuals here are as gorgeous as anything Disney ever did in PINOCCHIO, and the colors are dazzling enough to keep anyone hypnotized by the lushness of it all.The slender story about an outgoing clown fish, Nemo straying far from his over-protective father (voiced by Albert Brooks) and getting scooped up by a scuba diver (to be deposited in a fish tank), is played for laughs all the way through. Despite all the humor, there are plenty of tense situations that might frighten the very young. The writers have made sure that the plot is a virtual obstacle course full of forces that have to be overcome before the boy becomes a hero who saves the day.Along the way, Nemo's closest pal is the daffy, amnesiac Dory, a bluefish with a terrible memory, voiced by Ellen DeGeneres in what has to be the film's best voice-over. Her lines are all guaranteed to remind you of the comedienne herself and she comes close to stealing the film with her antics.The movie is slanted at the youth market, of course, and kids and their parents will probably both be enchanted and satisfied with the quips that come fast and furious. I had to use the caption feature on my remote to catch all of the one-liners.On an artistic level, the underwater seascape is fascinating to observe and the jaunty background score keeps the pace flowing nicely.My favorites: the seagulls all shouting in unison "Mine!" whenever prey was cited and a whole army of them getting their beaks caught in the mast of a ship.


                
I'm not much of a fan of these computer animated films.  I've seen them all, but have only liked ANTZ and MONSTERS INC.  But FINDING NEMO is a passable flick, mostly due to its stunningly gorgeous visuals.Wow, what a beautiful-looking movie.  I was especially impressed with the jellyfish scene; there was something dreamy about their look,  It's hard to explain, but they felt both real and unreal.I laughed several times, but I'm bored with praising the movie (Ellen was marvelous, blah, blah), so let me nitpick.  Well, not nitpick exactly - these are just thoughts I had while watching it:*Much of it seemed like a video game, where you survive a challenge and advance to the next world.  *Why did some characters have American accents, and others Australian ones? And how were their voices so clear in the water?  (You ever try talking under water?)  And how did their voices sometimes echo in the water?  And howcum their voices sounded the same both in and out of water?*Can fish adapt so easily from salt water to fresh and back again?*Do fish really sleep on their side?  Do they sleep at all?*A little surfer-dude speak goes a long way.  How would sea turtles acquire such a patois?  Do they spend a lot of time on the beach?  Or licking funny frogs?*Would a doctor give a fish with a visual defect to his daughter as a gift?*Why would a doctor (or anyone) write his business address on a pair of cheap goggles?  *There was one climax too many.  Did we really need one more perilous situation?  *What's with Pixar and bad kids with braces?I guess that's about all the questions I shouldn't ask.  None matter, do they?  7/10


                
This is an enjoyable film but it simply doesn't make it up to "Toy Story", "Monsters Inc" or "Shrek". It isn't as funny or dramatic, while it is still fun to watch, I wouldn't like to watch it again. For me it was merely another animated flick like "Bug Story".


                
