I have enjoyed most of the computer-animated films made so far, ranging from Pixar films like "Toy Story" and "The Incredibles" to DreamWorks films like "Shrek." But "Finding Nemo" is the one that remains unparalleled, not because of its comedy or creativity, both of which are equaled in the "Toy Story" movies and in "Monsters Inc.," but because it truly, more than any of the previous computer-animated features, reinvents the genre of the children's animated film.Humor in traditional animation is usually based on broad slapstick and physical exaggeration. There are occasional nods to this brand of humor in "Finding Nemo," as when a flock of seagulls ram into a boat and we see their beaks crowing on the other side of the sail. But such sequences only call attention to how far this movie generally departs from old cartoon conventions. Instead, the movie invests its world of sentient animals with a surprisingly scientific texture. All of the animals are based on real species. The fish tank is constructed out of real devices. There is a strong sense of locale, as Marlin (Albert Brooks) travels across the Pacific to Australia, where even the animals speak with an Australian accent. In a scene that I'm sure Gary Larson of "Far Side" fame loved, a pelican discusses with a group of fish the intricate details of dentistry. The fact that the animals talk and understand what's going on is treated as though it were a natural feature of the world. The realism is so striking that by the end of the film, you'll almost believe it possible for fish to plot an escape from a tank.Far from making the film pedantic, this approach results in an intelligent but still entertaining picture. Most of the humor is based on parodies of human behavior: repentant sharks start a club that's like Alcoholics Anonymous, a school of fish act like obnoxious DJs while forming themselves into spectacular patterns, and a four-year-old girl behaves like most kids that age, oblivious and destructive. The manner in which Marlin finds his way to his son is so inventive that we can forgive the film for the number of coincidences involved.The story employs the same basic formula used in "Toy Story," in which two characters, one uptight and the other clueless, are thrown together as they're forced to journey through a world populated by creatures that are a lot more knowing than the humans realize. This movie, however, creates a unique character in Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), a fish with short-term memory loss. To give a cartoon character a real human disorder is risky, to say the least, and I'm glad the filmmakers didn't lose the nerve to include this ingenious device, which not only generates some of the film's biggest laughs, but reinforces the character interaction that is so central to the story. This is in fact the only Pixar film to feature true character development. In the course of his voyage, Marlin learns to be more adventurous, getting parenting tips from a surfer-dude turtle voiced by the film's director Andrew Stanton, while his son Nemo learns to be self-reliant.Of course, none of the sharks, jellyfish, whales, gulls, pelicans, lobsters, and humans that Marlin encounters along the way really mean any harm. They're just doing what they do. As Nigel the Pelican tells Nemo at one point, "Fish gotta swim, birds gotta eat." That's perhaps the film's most interesting insight, that there are no true villains, just creatures that act according to their nature, and a few that transcend it.


                
Remember back when you were little.you know, back when tall to you was about as high as a mailbox? In those days, Disney animated films (e.g. `Lion King' and `Beauty and the Beast') were some of the coolest things out there and were movies to watch over and over (much to your parents' chagrin). Now, animated movies aren't exactly the `coolest' things to see, but an exception can be made for the uber-hip Pixar movies, the most recent of which being `Finding Nemo'.After losing all but one of his brood, Marlin (Albert Brooks) an over-protective clown fish that strangely lacks a sense of humor, has resolved to protect his one (slightly disabled) `child' remaining, Nemo (Alexander Gould). But disaster strikes as Nemo is taken by a Sydney dentist and plopped into a fish tank where he is comforted by a host of other captive fish (William Dafoe, Vicki Lewis, Allison Janney, et al). But back in the big ocean Down Under, Marlin has resolved to search out his one remaining progeny.Along the way on his quest, Marlin acquires a tag-along `friend', Dory (Ellen DeGeneres)-a fish with, well, the memory capacity of a fish. The two must surmount hurdles like a group of sharks (Eric Bana, Barry Humphries and Bruce Spence) that have (mostly) sworn off eating other fish, a nasty swarm of jellyfish, a bird-brained flock of seagulls, and others.This is the bridge! Well, in a way. Back when I was younger, one of my favorite films was `The Incredible Mr. Limpet', which, for the uninitiated, combined live-action with under-the-sea fish animation. What Pixar has done here was bring back that film to my mind and start me thinking, because they have created a wondrous undersea environment (with `normal-looking' fish instead of 1960s animated fish).My favorite feature in this movie chock-full of sweet treats must be the sharks. I have always been partial to the shark family, but what has been done in creating three humorous sharks (what a movie concept), just sent paroxysms of laughter through me. Another thing that (mostly) works is Ellen DeGeneres' fish (character?) that provides a fairly constant source of laughter with her antics (although a couple gags do wear on the viewer with time). On the whole though, there is not a single bit of shoddy voice-acting or animation in it.Compared to `Monsters Inc.', `Finding Nemo' is something of a revival for Pixar. I like how they have stepped up their efforts to make an altogether pleasing film without any big flaws. The thing that I did not like with `Monsters' was the inclusion of a single key (but EXTREMELY annoying) character. Director Andrew Stanton has done an excellent job at making the film work and be (basically) non-annoying to most of the general public (and this critic).I suppose life has come full circle-now that I am (relatively) old as a high school graduate, animation is cool again, thanks to high-powered computers, at any rate. `Finding Nemo' is one heckuva movie and a good one to take anyone you know to, trust me on this-nine out of ten.


                
"Finding Nemo" is a wonderful animated adventure movie that simply is irresistible for young as well as older persons.The most excellent thing about "Finding Nemo" is the perfect timing, just like in "Monsters, Inc" the jokes are extremely well placed in a quick pace and are good for more then just a few laughs.There are some very fun and great characters which brings me to the only problem I have with this movie. There are too many minor characters, I would have really loved to see some of the characters getting a bigger role with some more importance to the story instead of meeting character after character that are only on screen for no more than 5 minutes (such as the sharks). Sure it's good for the sense of adventure but it leaves some missed opportunities to make the story even more fun.I think it's pretty obvious that the story is inspired on the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy since it uses lot's of elements from it and it has the some feeling of adventure and excitement so it's really not a big thing that the story isn't very original, the original and fun way the story is told in compensates for this.The voice cast as in many animated movies is impressive but the one that stood out was Ellen DeGeneres as Dory that you love to hate.Irresistible movie for the whole family with great jokes and lines and some memorable characters and situations. Mine, mine, mine!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Spoilers herein.Steve Jobs drags us all into higher awareness. He does so by grabbing our attention by conventional means but does his real work subliminally.In the computer world, what we see is a coherent, accessible approach with appealing style. In the movie world we see the same, except the art of excellent character development and storytelling is substituted for sheer functionality and ease of creativity. In both, we all are pulled by this tractor into a more refined space.And space is what it is all about, in particular a notion of location in space coupled with a higher degree of freedom within that space.This has been a concern of intelligent filmmakers all along. Griffith merged the theatrical space with grand vistas of mass movement and did so from a spot no human would normally have. Welles and Kurosawa played with this, the first by working with architecture, the other by flattening in deep focus. But until the eighties we always had to deal with the reality of the ground -- and the horizon.The real appeal of "Star Wars" wasn't the cowboy story or guns, nor the pseudo-religious trappings, though we all thought it was. It was the freedom from that hard bottom, the Earth which we interact with in as consistently as breath and blood. "Star Wars" -- and "2001" before -- gave a thrill because our visual vocabulary was now expanded spatially rather than ALWAYS being referenced to the floor.Pixar's work has always been cognizant of this new frontier even when owned by Lucas. Under Jobs, every film has become more and more dimensional until now. We don't honk around with the camera as much as I would like, but we do set a new standard for interacting space. Naturally, all else is well crafted but serves this notion of space ? especially the fishtank business.Ted?s Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
This movie is just gorgeous to look at, really the animation is just stunning, with the blue backgrounds and colourful characters. My only criticism is that although there are some very funny moments, like Doreen speaking whale(Ellen DeGeneres was born to speak whale, really she was) and Barry Humphries's shark, I don't think it is as laugh-out loud funny as Toy Story. Finding Nemo is definitely the most beautiful visually of the Pixar movies, I would certainly pick it over Cars. The music by Thomas Newman was just beautiful, and I always look out for this in a movie, and it was a delight hearing "Beyond the Sea" over the end credits. The characters are genuinely memorable, especially Doreen and Bruce. And who can forget the girl Darla, with the Psycho music?(that is really terrifying)The voice talents are very good indeed, especially Ellen DeGeneres, and I liked Willem Dafoe's Gil. Albert Brooks made a wonderfully paranoid father figure, and I loved the plot about Marlin's son Nemo being taken by divers and Marlin (a clown fish) racing to find him. That is simple, but we meet characters like the turtle, so the film is filled with fun, enough to satisfy the fussiest child. In conclusion, 9/10 for the visuals and the characters. Outstanding! Bethany Cox


                
I have watched this film umpteen times with my 3 year-old granddaughter (I own the DVD), and I'm going to go against the grain and say that, while others may say that Finding Nemo doesn't quite measure up, I say that in many ways this film excels. I believe that what most people find lacking in Finding Nemo is the adult-oriented humor. And it's true, there is very little of it here. There is nothing approaching the risqué or double entendres here either, those things that are supposed to go over the kids' heads and give the adults a big guffaw. So, as a result, adults looking for that kind of stuff don't find it and are therefore disappointed. But if my granddaughter is any kind of a yardstick to measure it by, the kids love it.While this film may not be a masterpiece, it's the next best thing to it. That's because the artwork is superb, unparalleled and unmatched. The coloration, textures, use of light, and shadings are the finest that have ever been done on any animated film ever, before or since. Shrek2 and Shark's Tale, for instance, came out *after* this movie, and, good as they are (and they are very good) they are nowhere near as beautifully rendered as Finding Nemo. Particularly Shark's Tale, which in some ways seemed to be a blatant theft and rip off from Finding Nemo, but in my opinion fails because it's just not as good, either art-wise or story-wise. But Finding Nemo remains a visually beautiful piece of artwork, and the kids love it. And that counts for a lot.


                
''Finding Nemo'' is one of the sweetest movies I have watched this days. Produced by the both powerful Disney and Pixar with amazing graphics and a nice story, I am not surprised that this movie won the Oscar.In the Ocean, we see Marlin and Coral, a couple of clown fish that are very happy to have kids. But when both Marlin and Coral needs to hide from their predator, Coral stays so worried with the eggs that runs out of their shelter to save them. But the worst happens, and Coral and the eggs are all consumed by the predator. Marlin is devastate, when he sees one little egg that wasn't taken away. He decides to call him 'Nemo'and take care very well of the only son that lasted. Time passes, and Nemo needs to go to school and do other stuff, but his father is always forbidding him because of his trauma with Coral and the other sons. When Marlin finally let Nemo go to the school, he is captured by a scuba diver and taken to live in a dentist office's fish tank. Decided to take his son back, Marlin will find other animals that are very funny and different, like Dory, who is always forgetting things, vegetarian sharks and turtles who are surfers.
Finding Nemo is a cute, adventurous movie which not only is great for children but entertaining for the parents as well. Finding Nemo is also, surprisingly, quite educational , teaching the Australian East Coast is a subtle manner. There are many funny jokes put in for both children and adults, and the characters are very connected to their target audience (being families). A huge range of emotional depth is shown throughout the film, and Disney has cleverly written and animated this movie to twist what can be considered frightening scenes to be more appropriate for children. I think Finding Nemo is a must see for everyone! Ellen was also amazing as a voice artist! She created a very memorable and iconic character.


                
Pixar brings it on. This wonderful trip to the bottom of the sea is worth watching again and again. It centers around a misbehaving clownfish who gets himself taken away to a faraway place, with little hope of ever seeing his father again. The characters along the way are priceless, with clever dialogue, quirky sensibilities, and, ultimately, love for one another. The creators were able to capitalize on the innate, somewhat stereotypical, qualities of the individual sea denizens by using some of our current comic geniuses (like Ellen DeGeneres) and make them charming. If you've not seen this, make time. You don't even need the kids.


                
"Finding Nemo," is an excellent movie for viewers of all ages. In this movie, three valuable life lessons are shared: 1) parents protect their children because they love and care for them, 2) teamwork is important in being successful, and 3) your differences do not define you. These lessons can apply to viewers of all ages and are presented throughout the course of the movie. Overall, "Finding Nemo" was nearly flawless. From the outstanding animation, to the talented voices of actors/actresses, to the entertaining jokes and plot, I find this to be one of Disney Pixar's best movies.


                
Well, apart from possibly, say, the Toy Story films, Finding Nemo has taken the world by storm as Pixar's biggest hit. And to be honest, it deserves that credit.First of all, this is up there with "Basil" as one of the mist f***ed up openings for a kids film. I mean, you open up with a mother all but one of her offspring being eaten by a vicious predator. I like kids films that can do that, not always trying to be family friendly. Apart from that, the film is really awesome.The strength from the film comes from its characters, there are too many to count and normally that would hurt a film but here, there are all so different and memorable. Albert Brooks is great as Merlin, who, in my opinion, is one of the great film dads. You really end up feeling for this guy and yeah he can be annoying in how introverted and protected he is but its all coming from a place of legitimate pain that the audience is introduced to early on, thus you are put on his journey. Dory is freaking hilarious. You'd think the memory loss story line would get old but it is cleverly worked in so that it is fresh in every situation. The other characters are all so fun and none of them were annoying, you enjoyed watching all of them. The additional voice talents of Willem Dafoe, Geoffry Rush, Eric Bana and many others help the cause as well. My favorite characters where the turtles, that is just how I have always envisioned turtles speaking.The film is set in modern day Australia, again using modern day settings (and a unique one at that) and there is no feeling of manipulations. You never feel that the film is trying to be "cool" no need for catch phrases or pop cultural references, just a new setting that allows for some nice shots. The film still has a timeless feel.If I had one issue with the film, its that the climax feels a little forced. Without giving away too much, there is an incident that happens at the end where a character tries to prove themselves and it just didn't feel needed.Overall, Finding Nemo is one of my favorite animated films ever and is fit for kids, teens, adults, hell its just fit for the whole family.


                
Awesome movie. Great laughs and a great story. And the turtle was hilarious. Very witty comedy.


                
Still one of the best Pixar movies to date. This was better than Finding Dory because it had more depth and emotion in the movie.


                
Finding Nemo is a remarkable Pixar film. A clown fish named Marlin, whose voice is Albert Brooks, family gets destroyed by a barracuda, but one egg survived. Marlin names the egg Nemo, whose voice is Alexander Gould. Marlin devotes his life to make sure Nemo stays protected and safe. Marlin pushes Nemo's limits, and Nemo adventures off in the mysterious ocean. Nemo is than captured by a diver and Marlin starts a search through the frightening ocean to save his son. Marlin runs into a fish name Dory, whose voice is Ellen DeGeneres, which joins him for the search.The movie defines how love and trust can beat all odds. The movie floats back and forth from Nemo and Marlin, as they are determined to reunite. Marlin's obstacles through the dangerous life of the ocean like the deadly encounter with Bruce the shark, angler fish, jellyfishes and a whale, do not stand a chance with that determination of love for his son. Nemo, lost and confused, hears about Marlin's treacherous adventures, influences him to escape.Toy Story and Finding Nemo have much in common. Being produced by the same company, show the animations of animals and toys love for another, is a determination to make it home. The two have many dangerous situations that never stop them from what they seek. The two films are both kid and adult friendly.The film has a colorful picture and everything look so perfect. The computer-animated imagines make you feel as if you are watching through the eyes of a fish. The film has every detail right from the voices matching the personality of the fish, the three dimensional of the animation, the exact flow of water, the reflection of light to the exact swim of the fish. Not only, does the film seem so real, the humor is out of control. Even during the dodgy scenes, the laughs are still there. The wow factor is there all the way through the film.At the end of the film, love reunites the two clown fish and the adventure still does not end. Nemo and Marlin take the lessons they learned to make it home. Marlin trusts Nemo to do things and Nemo learns to respect his father more. Marlin even lives up to the name clown fish. The movie is fantastic for all ages and has moments that will have you saying, keep on swimming, and keep on swimming.
I have to think really hard to find anything bad to say about this movie. I guess the only thing I didn't like was the beginning where the mother of Nemo died (which we thankfully don't get to see but it's very obvious it happens). The story is a typical one where a parent is overprotective (in this case Nemo's dad) of its kid causing the kid to get rebellious and of course gets in trouble. The difference here is that it doesn't consider humans but fish. Although it's hard to find sympathy for Marlin (Nemo's dad) as he is sooooo serious and always talking, you get to admire him as the movie goes on for being so brave. Very good there is Dory, the girl who seems to forget things so easily that it actually becomes cute and funny. Every serious character needs such a backup and their chemistry proves to be working well. There is a lot of action and funny scenes in this one and has a strong story as well. This is among my favorite animated movies.
Finding Nemo has gone down in cartoon memory books. A film that will not only keep children entertained for years to come but will delight adults world wide with it's delightful plot that will bring the toughest 'fish in the sea' to tears.The film tells a poignant story of hope and the unconditional love a father has for his son. Which just the right balance between joyful storytelling, great humour that will keep you laughing even after the fortieth time of seeing the picture and the exploration of a delicate relationship that is ripped at the seems and the determination of the ever loving father to get back what he once loved. Definitely reserve a space on the DVD rack for what I deem to be an 'all-time great'.


                
How are you suppose to find someone you care about, when there are so many fish in the sea? This question can be answered in the kids film, Finding Nemo by Disney Pixar. This adventurous film takes place in the ocean where the main characters are fish. The film really shows family issues and how it affects children of adolescence in a funny kids animation about a real serious issue. The fathers and sons relationship starts out edgy because of the issues in the family, but the father and the sons relationship starts to grow throughout the film. In the end there's almost always a solution to this, but nothing you would quite see in the film, Finding Nemo. When the film is done and over, you will see how this can affect a child and how there can be misunderstandings to every action. But in the end there's only one truth.The story starts out with the character Marlin and his wife, they are both clownfish. Marlin's wife dies by a tragic attack by a shark out in the open. His wife also laid a lot of eggs but after the shark attacked Marlin's wife, he took the eggs. There was only one left and this made the character Nemo, Marlin starts to get over protective with him because of what happened to his wife and the rest of his kids. But when Nemo starts to go to school he gets taken by divers. So Marlin sets out to find his son Nemo, he crosses by a fish named dory who suffers from short term memory loss. He goes with Dora and fights against many obstacles like sharks, jellyfish, and even seagulls. While nemo is trying to get out of a fish tank in a dentist's office.Now this isn't the best film in the world, it has its bad sides. For instance this isn't really that accurate of a film. The start of the story line starts out with the mom dying and the dad still living with his son and now the father has nobody and he's lonely. But the truth if the same situation happened in real life, the father would have turned female and the son would have mated with the now turned female. Then nemo would have turned female and would have to find a male mate. But instead this isn't accurate, they use a human interactive way. This is only one of the major things that aren't accurate if this situation happened in real life. But of course this film is a adventure/action, fiction story.I just want to say that this film is very interesting and has very many positive features in this film despite it not being very accurate to real life. There's so many lessons that kids can learn and also find it very entertaining at the same time. This film definitely shows family issues and how adolescents are affected by it. One way this is shown is by the father and sons relationship. In the film it shows right away at the beginning that the father doesn't want him to go to school while the son is insisting he goes on the first day, Nemo finally convinces his father to let him go. But the dad has to walk him there. This shows that the dad is very over protective over his son because he barely even allows him to go to his school. At some point in that scene he wouldn't even let nemo hangout with some people there. It really points out that there's family issues between the son and the father. Because nemo wants to go out and adventure while the father would just rather him stay safe and not go out. He wants this because he's afraid that he will lose his son if he isn't in his grasp. But all of that really connects with families with real issues like that because it can make them see all views and what's best to do about each situation. So it's a good learning experience in a great kids animation film.Characters really are the main part of the film. If it wasn't for the characters, the film wouldn't be a film. But it's not just characters that are important in how the characters are, it's what their identity is. If a film had a bad characters then the film wouldn't be that good and it would be a bad film. For instance, in Finding Nemo there's a scene where when Nemo is trapped in the fish tank and a bird comes in the dentist's office window and talks to the fish in the fish tank. About a rumor going around that Marlin is trying to find his lost son. Nemo hears about it and gets excited because he believes he's gonna be saved. Because of the characters in this certain scene it makes people understand better, it makes the film the way it is. Because of the bird spreading around the rumor because he does that a lot, the bird loves gossip. Nemo was able to find out that his dad was going to save him which means the characters were a big role in the film. This showed Marlins and Nemos relationship clearly and how he felt about his dad. Because of the characters and even side characters it gave you a real feel to the film and really showed how this was effecting Nemo.There's so much in this film, so many lessons hidden in the film through kids animation and child like characters. One of the main lessons was how a child of adolescents is affected by family issues. The way this is shown is by the characters and their development, and how it shows the father and sons relationship. The characters in the film are more child like and don't have anything that's inappropriate and even the animation is innocent. This and the father and son's relationship and what they say to each other shows how Nemo is affected and why he is the way he is. But in the end of the film it shows Marlin successfully getting his son back after almost failing and showing that he should never give up, and even saving Dora which he met on the way to find Nemo. There's a lesson on why you should never quit because if you don't you might even get what you want no matter how impossible it seems. But also it shows the father and sons relationship repaired and better than before. Because the family issues were resolved Nemo felt better and had a better life then with those family issues. This film was really great, it gave lessons for everyone on how you shouldn't quit and how a kid could be affected by family issues, and even how characters can be very important in a innocent animation.


                
9 June 2003. Like its predecessor "Bambi," "Finding Nemo" represents one of the best examples of animation and one of the best movies I've seen. This movie uses advanced technological animation techniques to enhance a fine, entertaining script that contains solidly comic and dramatic dramatics to produce an excellent and vibrant motion picture experience. The standard for both animated movies and children's films has been raised significantly. Emotionally and aesthetically pleasing, this movie contains a combination of separate motion picture elements that are interwoven into a brilliant exciting almost mini-epic voyage of discovering in a waterworld that breaths of life. The cast of characters are imaginative, the emotional ties some temporary other permanent all have their counterpart in the real world. This movie surely deserves an Oscar nomination for Best Picture.


                
Excellent underwater depiction lovable characters and nice background music.Enjoy!


                
Finding Nemo did for clownfish what 'Lassie' did for the Collie. Since the release of the film, clownfish are now being referred to as Nemo, with kids exclaiming "I found Nemo" when they see one. The film is as endearing as any animated film should be, with fantastic characters and a good plot. Dysfunctional Dory does steal the show, though, wonderfully voiced by Ellen Degeneres. Fantastic animation, cute humor and a few chills and thrills in the mix, as well. One of my all-time favorite animated films.


                
Pixar's beautifully animated classic shines as one of the greats! Finding Nemo's great animation and colorful characters make for beautiful film experience that will make you feel all kinds of emotion. Stellar direction and story from Andrew Stanton and beautiful performances. (the standout being Ellen DeGenerous) Finding Nemo is and always will be the great film that it deserves to be.


                
This movie is an absolute joy to watch. You'll have difficulty deciding which character you liked the most because they're all so relatable in their own way. Pixar is the best and this movie proves it. Felt very original and was a wicked adventure story with a lot of laughs and insightful moments along the way.


                
Finding Nemo" is a wonderful animated adventure movie that simply is irresistible for young as well as older persons. The most excellent thing about "Finding Nemo" is the perfect timing, just like in "Monsters, Inc" the jokes are extremely well placed in a quick pace and are good for more then just a few laughs. There are some very fun and great characters which brings me to the only problem I have with this movie. There are too many minor characters, I would have really loved to see some of the characters getting a bigger role with some more importance to the story instead of meeting character after character that are only on screen for no more than 5 minutes (such as the sharks). Sure it's good for the sense of adventure but it leaves some missed opportunities to make the story even more fun. I think it's pretty obvious that the story is inspired on the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy since it uses lot's of elements from it and it has the some feeling of adventure and excitement so it's really not a big thing that the story isn't very original, the original and fun way the story is told in compensates for this. The voice cast as in many animated movies is impressive but the one that stood out was Ellen DeGeneres as Dory that you love to hate. Irresistible movie for the whole family with great jokes and lines and some memorable characters and situations.


                
I remember when I saw the first few trailers for this, I thought that Pixar may have made a movie that wasn't up to par with the others.  However, I decided to see it, just because it was Pixar, and I hadn't yet been let down by any of their movies.  I sure was wrong in thinking that this was going to be bad!The movie starts out on a rather dramatic note, but soon, the humor kicks in, especially with the introduction of Dory.  She provides much of the humor, but it isn't just her that makes this movie great. Marlin is Nemo's overprotective dad, and he provides a bit of humor as well.  The voice acting is spot on, and Ellen Degeneres (Dory) and Albert Brooks (Marlin), do excellent jobs with these characters. What is even better is that the jokes are not just for children; they are pretty enjoyable for adults as well...(I'm a teenager, and the audience I saw this with was mainly made up of adults...without kids.)This just goes to show how great Pixar is.The computer animation is also quite stunning, from the backdrops of Sydney, Australia, to the murky look of the ocean water in some scenes.  I have to admit that I was quite impressed with several scenes in this film.
The minor characters are great as well.  The fish in the aquarium also provide for plenty of laughs.  The character of Darla, with her introduction including the 'Pyscho' shower music, was pretty interesting as well...She kind of reminded me of Sid from Toy Story.Anyway, Finding Nemo is an excellent, well-made flick, and it is probably the best movie so far from Pixar.  This is definitely one that you should catch in theaters.The best movie that I've seen so far this year....9/10


                
How many movies can you think about that:1) Have you laughing *before* the main feature starts ("The Incredibles" trailer, the "Snow Man" short film).2) Keep you glued to your seat, just watching the incredible beauty of it all.3) Make half of the entire theater *stay* during the credits, just to watch the main characters swim back and forth and be generally cute, while being completely quiet.4) End up with all of the people leaving the movie theatre with a huge, sincere, honest and childish grin in their faces?Not many, I'm sure. Pixar's "Finding Nemo" is all that, and more. A true family movie, a true "buddy" movie, a  true "kids" movie; a hugely entertaining and sincere film. Once again, John Lasseter and company play with your emotions, raise up questions to be answered, manage to deliver a deliciously complex, thought-provoking movie, all while entertaining kids from 1 to 12 years old, and making everyone else laugh and *think* throughout it all.I don't know what or how Pixar manages to deliver such beautiful, enjoyable gems with such regularity. All I know is, the little studio that could will be remembered for a long time for making the only movies that have a heart and soul buried deep within bits and bytes. Best movie of the year. By far.


                
