A few very rich people and a great many very talented people, not least Snr. Leone, invested a great deal of time, talent and moolah to bring this movie to completion. It shows, and the movie is a rich spectacle - but nothing more. No-one should waste their time watching this except to learn how to overspend on art direction. I just want four hours of my life back. Naively, I sat through endless period son-et-lumiére, gratuitous sex and violence, dubious ageing makeup jobs, unrealistic dialogue and nondescript music, hoping that the ending would tie it all together in a satisfying way. Epic fail. It's a bad B-movie plot dressed as The Sting.*SPOILER* Noodles (De Niro, wasting his prime - the ridiculous name of the protagonist says it all) returns to New York after 30 years to find he has been advanced a million bucks for a hit, but why? It's Max, (James Woods) his boyhood gang chum that he thought he'd double-crossed and got killed, wanting Noodles to kill him before the real baddies get hold of him. What rubbish; after all, a million buys a lot of secret hideaway. It is so telling that the movie's premise considers a huge sum of money a good enough maguffin to hang a four-hour marathon melodrama on. Mild, ostentatious tedium follows - mystified, Noodles wanders from mausoleum to left luggage office to cold-cream besmeared dancer's dressing room, all the while flashing back to a squeaky-clean 1930's gangland, where we eventually learn that it is a bad idea to call Max 'crazy'. Because instantly he goes crazy, in a piece of character development that probably had the Scooby-Doo writers looking to their laurels. That was said of 'Bugs' Moran, actually - you didn't call him 'Bugs' to his face. There's no chance of any such real-life wit or irony in this script. No chance of any reality at all, because the intention seems to have been to make grand opera, so it doesn't matter that a man can be forced to sit in a vat of gasoline (and drink it) yet jump out when rescued as though it were gameshow gunk. It doesn't matter that driving a car at speed into a quay with no-one wearing belts would result in a bloody mess, not male bonding. Grand opera requires grand passion to drive the plot; Noodles' only passion is for looking at length through one of the movies' two terribly unconvincing peepholes at a budding ballet dancer, whom he goes on to rape. As you do; another piece of meaningless quasi-characterisation. Grand opera requires grand symbolism to resonate with people; there is no symbolism in OUATIA, the whole thing is a completely pedestrian display of directorial indulgence. But then, in 1984 we all thought the money would last forever. This movie certainly feels like it.
Once Upon a Time in America is Sergio Leone's epic tale of the lives of four Jewish gangsters in New York City. The period spans decades, ending in the 1970's, but focuses on three periods - the childhood of the gangsters on the Lower East Side, their young adulthood and the old age of the survivors. 
The protagonist, in a manner of speaking, is Noodles (Robert DeNiro), who along with Max (James Woods) calls the shots for the gang. The story focuses on their odd friendship and their relationships with the other gangsters (William Forsythe and James Hayden), and with Fat Moe (John Rapp), a non-gangster friend from the neighborhood.  Watching Once Upon a Time in America is a very strange experience. Director Sergio Leone directs with the same eclectic, erratic style he employed in his better-known `spaghetti westerns' starring Clint Eastwood. The result is an exquisite, ridiculous movie. At least it's a thing of beauty to look at, and this gets you half-way there. At times, the movie has overwhelming visual impact -- when Leone films the actors close-up, they look like portraits painted by the Great Masters, and in wider shots he frames the actors so that they interact electrically with the locations or sets. And the sets are themselves beautifully produced - his reconstruction of the Lower East Side, for instance, is vivid and incredibly detailed. It's all wonderful to see.
Leone also skillfully uses music to set the scene and convey emotion. True to form, his melancholy theme music is hard at work in the movie, and it performs yeoman service. Now and then he trips up, however -- his trademark use of pan-flute solos is even weirder here than in the spaghetti westerns, and, to be frank, when the Beetles song `Yesterday' popped up at one point, I laughed out loud, so out of place was it, so cloyingly sentimental. For the most part, though, Leone's characters are amazing to look at, set in vivid backgrounds and propelled forward by terrific music.
Unfortunately, the plot and the writing are terribly clumsy, and so the movie does not make it all the way to the status of a great film. It's a bridge half built, which can be more frustrating than no bridge at all.
Actually, the movie's premise is intriguing at first, and the fatuous dialogue doesn't get in the way too much. Noodles has been driven out of New York and has lived in exile, hiding for more than 30 years until he receives a mysterious invitation to return to New York for an unknown reason. But the screenplay itself is a toxic brew of histrionics and adolescent bravado, with an almost comically-exaggerated sense of its own gravitas. It was clearly written by a staff of writers, and what's even more clear is that all of them spoke English as a second language. The movie is reminiscent of a story written about adult life by a teenager -- it is not nearly as deep as it thinks it is. Troopers all, the very talented actors weather the implausible situations and hokey dialogue as best they can. As the hours roll on (I watched the four-hour long `director's version'), and the story marches toward its unsurprising conclusion, the viewer begins bracing for this with a mixture of dread and relief. At the end, the disappointment is all the more palpable because the cast, sets and cinematography are so good, and some of the initial scenes held great promise. The fact that the movie is itself mostly about rough people is absolutely no excuse for any of this, as Martin Scorcese's phenomenal Goodfellas readily proves. Likewise, the fact that the movie is set amidst a haze of opium at certain points is even less excuse for shoddy characterizations . The simple truth is that the movie is trite and makes little or no sense, long version or short. Leone assembled an impressive cast of young talent to act out the story of Once Upon a Time in America. As mentioned, most of them try very hard to make the fatuous story float, and some - particularly Woods and Tuesday Weld as Max's sometimes-moll - are terrific. DeNiro himself is strangely out of place and not terribly convincing as a Jewish gangster, although he is good in his scenes from the 1970's.  Elizabeth McGovern does what she can with the role of Deborah, but it's probably the worst-written role in the movie, and again her strongly-Celtic face doesn't exactly conjure images of a first-generation Jewish immigrant.Received opinion has it that Once Upon a Time in America is a great movie, possibly because it is a very long gangster movie (like those other ones), or because it was an epic work of passion for Leone, or because DeNiro is in it (again, like those other gangster movies), or maybe it's a combination of those elements. But here, as is often the case, received opinion is mistaken. Once Upon a Time in America is a mess, though an often-beautiful one.


                
I concede that the film is well made and quite intricate in its structure (and that it takes time and patience to attempt to come up with an explanation for the unfathomable gray areas in the screenplay). Leone evidently had an eye for detail, composition, lighting and camera movement. I am sure that no-one will deny that the technical side of the film was handled with care and it does show. The screenplay is a mess. I expect to be lambasted by angry fans that will claim that I am an unimaginative watcher and would like all aspects of plot and character explained to me instead of having to think and immerse myself. Fine. I also know that art defies easy definition, and that all the best art in the world offers itself up to multiple interpretations. Fine. I maintain that Leone is being wilfully obscure in his attempts to cover up the head-scratch-inducing narrative techniques that he conjures up. He does so by claiming an opium/dream logic: some kind of remembrance of childhood and prohibition (an immutable, fixed past) as well as a progressive imagining (regarding the "future") on the part of the focaliser Noodles as he lies in the opium den. This may not be the case as he could not possibly know of the exact styles, decor and music of the sixties without having lived through them to some extent. So here we have an organic problem with the screenplay: claims to dream logic to confuse and inspire debate regarding the plot's many unsure points (e.g. was that Max in the dumpster? How Why? What does that wry smile at the end mean? Etc. Was it all a dream of the past and possible future?) counterpoised with the impossibility of this evident in the physical and cultural environment presented to us in the visuals. This, to me, is just vague and sloppy. It is not just a case of great art being unfathomable, it is a case of sloppy art trying to be unfathomable. Take that incessant telephone sound and its related imagery. Did Leone himself know what effect he was trying to achieve when he put it in there? I would say yes in one respect: in order to mystify his audience. I do not think that it stands for much more than that. Perhaps also to establish the confusing and ultimately untenable nature of the film's time structure (he is literally 'calling into the past') and it's relation to Noodle's 'dream' (which the film quite clearly can not be). Also, the film's attitude towards women is just plain nasty, containing two of the screens most unapologetic rape scenes. We could claim that it is merely the nasty attitude of our enigma focaliser Noodles. He most obviously is not a very nice guy when it comes to women and the film does present itself as an exploration of his singular consciousness (if it is a dream). To put it crassly: he is nasty to women so the film has also got to be nasty to women if it claims to be deeply related to his attitudes and point of view. If it is a film of dream and imaginings, then certainly Noodle's dream is mutable (as we know all dreams are) and what he 'does' to the characters played by Tuesday Weld and Elisabeth McGovern is heightened by his desire and imagination. This is the only way in which to explain why Tuesday Weld's character seems to enjoy rape, that it is Noodles imagining her enjoying the rape. This is vague, but it at least validates the epic romanticization that pervades this ugly world (of which rape is only a part) when the main character is an absolute lout: it is him who romanticizes it. This is a sneaky way around a touchy subject. But, as has been established by many, this world may not be a dream- back to that inconsistency in the plot. Is it? Isn't it? If not then there is not much of an excuse for the rape sequences. The dialogue is also slightly off, too often it sounds stiff and mechanical, and it is too self-consciously scripted to sound like naturalistic street parlance. Ennio Morricone's score is alright. It is evocative in places (when he sticks to the minimalist piano melody) and far too saccharine in others (that pan pipe stuff I find grating and kitsch).
So to be sure, it is a complex film. It is a rewarding film. It requires more than one watching. It falls far short from a masterpiece, though. Too inconsistent when it should be incisive. It bears the marks of a troubled production and evidence of Leone himself not quite knowing what to do with the beast he had created.


                
This film was long, but not in the sense that it is a 3-hour long film and therefore any film that is three hours long is too long, but in the sense that it is an uninteresting story that is dragged out and out and out. It is also full of clichés that try to make Jews actually kind and also physically tough, Italians mafiosos and thugs and of course Chinese docile fu manchus that run opium lairs.All these clichés might have been interesting or art 30 years ago, but today we have evolved.Bottom-line: this movie serves a narrow band of an audience which is primarily people who were in Hollywood thirty years ago and had a background in Jewish New York City and want to promote it.Boring, overlong and nonsense.


                
It is high time that American critics and fans alike start to debunk their unquestioned, sloppy veneration of films like Sergio Leone's 'Once Upon a Time in America'. The checkered history of this opulent film (and the grand, fanciful myth associated with it's production and many versions) belies its mediocrity on a narrative level. The film lurches backward and forward in fits and starts, its central figures adrift and seemingly out of place surrounded by the ersatz decadence of towering sets, the minutia of production detail and the, by 1984, cliche'd but gorgeous cinematographic confection on offer to the audience. The plot's time frame is confusing, gimmicky and laboured, leading some critics to imagine the Noodles figure's opium binging to be the antecedent of some future 'dream reality' as well as the sepia-toned remembrances. This ham handed, overly fan boy-apologetic interpretation glosses over the glaring narrative irregularities on display. Even at this full (?) running time, figures appear and disappear with alarming suddenness: the Deborah character is fleetingly established in child form, a cold and unattainable 'trophy' female, not even hinting at the gravity with which she will re-establish her relationship with a post-prison Noodles, the said re-union henceforth rings completely false. The deadening pace is somewhat to blame, certain sequences drag along stagnantly for far too long, signifying very little, hinting at a director with so little restraint and narrative economy that he often feels obligated to usurp every iota of screen time possible in order to show off his production, fatal for a film that contains figures so sullen and aloof. The trajectory of the figures' lives is presented to us as a microcosm mirroring the historical trajectory of America's teens through prohibition and its spoils, ending with the (arguable) ruin of its moribund central figures (save Deborah- a make up department fumble or intentional one wonders). This notion is commonplace, even banal. The cast of characters as imagined in the one note script (written by seven Italians no less) are flatly and awkwardly played by all but the younger actors, who at least venture a few variant facial expressions. This is understandable given the almost unworkable material. Some critics state that the characters may seem so impenetrably self-absorbed, but actively seek their own goals, assuming the compliance of others (e.g. when Noodles gets out of prison, Max picks him up and offers him a hooker without asking him whether or not this is what he desires and later makes deals assuming Noodles will comply). This explanation of their abrupt, abrasive dispositions is unsatisfactorily extraneous and merely serves to highlight the complicated ends the films unwavering supporters will go to to defend their positions regarding a film unfortunately short on sense. Although Ennio Morricone's score is much revered, it is undeniably schmaltzy and repetitive, it gushes with an emotional redolence that the scenes themselves, many violent, just do not warrant. At points it is questionable whether or not Morricone was watching the same film I was so incongruous is his work. As a paean to American Filmmaking, it succeeds in terms of mood (helped by a few strokes of masterful editing segueing between time periods) and visuals (not helped by said score) but lacks narrative cohesion and fluidity.


                
Another piece of crap to go join Bad Santa in that funerary pyre. This flick's not only trash--it doesn't have any redeeming features--but it's also offensive to Jews. I'm not Jewish--rather an agnostic, even if Catholic by upbringing—but I feel insulted as if I was one, as judging for what you see here you'd think all Jewish men are murderous, predatory pricks who don't know what loyalty or friendship is--and that their women are nothing but shallow and opportunistic whores. I think the roots of this disaster of a flick may be traced to some penis envy syndrome in Leone who, watching how popular Coppola had become with The Godfather, felt the inevitable "Me Too" reaction. That added to the habit of overdoing cruelty when making his Westerns flicks, which we accepted as long as that just happened in some imaginary Neverland, in a mythical West, not in our everyday world. But he didn't see things that way. For him a Jewish neighborhood in NYC in the 30s is just as good as any frontier town where El Manco shoots dead half the pop. without raising an eyebrow. And to think he refused to direct The Godfather because he had this dreck in mind...Now, the costumes and the settings are superb here and the Morricone soundtrack out of this world. Also, the acting overall is mostly appropriated--even if I'm not a great De Niro fan, who at least here I consider self-conscious in an egocentric kind of way—-but that isn't enough to save the tripe. The cinematography is uneven: too many superfluous long shots and meaningless close-ups of De Niro's mug (there was some clause in his contract demanding this?)or shots that don't do anything but serve as padding--as those panning the mausoleum's ceiling after he gets inside it. As for the editing, it seems as if Leone and his Editor had found themselves with miles of film cut in countless segments, and had forgotten where they left their sequential order, and that they had finally lost patience and randomly glued everything together. I say that because the story goes backs and forward along Noodles' time line with scenes being put together without any order, coherence, as if they were just lying there and they had to go somewhere in the movie. When you add to that the many inane, superfluous sub-plots you are looking at a disaster of a movie that can make Gigli a masterpiece by comparison--I mean, what purpose serves Treat William's subplot? And the scene of Carol trying to guess the man who raped her—just for the fun of it!--or Noodles' smoking dope with the Chinese? The Godfather is such a great film because it totally embraces, from the Italian POV, the immigrant experience in the U.S. in the first half of the XX Century, of which only part is the mob's birth & growth. Such community appears to our eyes as a real human group, in which a complex web of relations, rituals, conduct codes, has developed along the years for self protection--something considered necessary to fight the racism and poverty they found in their newly adopted land & which was established following the traditions of their European ancestors, in the form of tightly knitted societies ruled by semi-feudal overlords. But you won't see the Jewish equiv. here. No visible community, no scenes of families at the dining table, no wise elders; just some isolated scoundrels and murderers (And see how well these "street urchins" look; how well fed, groomed, dressed. That's just bad movie making). If you think I'm exaggerating, let me put this way: this is the only flick I have seen where the only way men know of declaring their love to a woman is by raping her. And the worst part of it is, sometimes the woman likes it! This is also a movie featuring the basest kind of characters. You won't find here a single one you"ll like, as they all are equally repulsive. What says a lot about the mindset of the filmmaker is that the only 2 people for whom you may feel any sympathy are killed at the beginning--Eve--or shortly after--the little kid. So, Leone is sending us a message here: this one is not about people he likes, not even about people towards which he's indifferent, but people he considers abhorrent; the bottom of the human barrel. It can't recall any other movie were people were portrayed in such an ugly fashion. Romero's Day Of The Dead maybe, but even in it people kept some ethics, principles, even if deviated ones. Not even that we got here: Noodles and his friends are nothing but predators who you'll expect at any moment start shooting or stabbing each other. That was my expectation every time Noodles and Max embraced.I all, not even worth a Library checkout. If someone tries to lend it to you, punch him in the nose. BTW, the scene of the garbage truck is a premonition: there's where all OUTIA copies will end up.
SPOILER WARNING: IN MY ENHTUSIASM TO EXPRESS HOW MUCH I DESPISED THIS MOVIE I DIVULGE DETAILS THAT WILL RUIN IT FOR YOU <U+0096> EVEN THOUGH WATCHING IT WILL DO THE SAME.Though my favorite genre, having watched dozens of gangster movies dozens of times each, I hated this movie. It shows evidence in practically every part how it tries to be like Godfather I & II yet fails miserably. It's worse than the worse parts of GF III and Mobsters. This is why ...I found no reason to care about any of the characters, or want to follow them through the maze of scenes. In GF II we cared so much about Vito and Michael we anticipated every scene. We felt Vito's pain seeing his own mother killed by Mafioso and we so badly wanted to see his own children escape from under the same social threat that we hailed Michael's rise to the top and forgave both their misgivings. This willingness to empathize and forgive was so powerful we watched it eagerly even after seeing essentially the same story the year before in GF I. In 'America' any anticipation comes only from waiting for something meaningful to happen <U+0096> and the growing disappointment after each scene fails to deliver.The main character Noodles has no heart and is despicable: he slunk away after his friends were killed and raped the love of his life. Frustrated or not do you think a Corleone would rape anyone <U+0096> let alone their loved one? The director also attempts to endear to us the other 4 crewmembers - an impossible task even in 3.5 hours <U+0096> and fails by forcing likability on them like the scenes are forced on nostalgic backdrops. As children one crewmember chooses a fancy desert instead of using it as currency for a romp with a child harlot, one 3' tall calls a seasoned middle-aged gangster "paisan" and throughout the story another plays a sad tune on the harmonica <U+0096> likable traits sure, but not nearly enough to leach a single tear as they burn to death in a car while you wonder why.Lines and characters are inconsistent, contrived and outright stupid like Wood's girlfriend's minor disrespect causing him to yell 7 times "SHUT UP!". He was supposed to be the strongest and smartest but what kind of gangster needs to yell, or pretend to throw away a girlfriend, to earn respect? When a dying friend utters "I slipped Noodles" Deniro later refers to it as a life defining moment. What a crock. "I made him an offer he can't refuse" or "I don't want to kill everyone Tom, just our enemies" are also simple lines but they elicit respect without a character pushing it on us.Mario Puzo was masterful with the way he wove together different eras in GFII perfectly clarifying what era you were watching regardless the scene. Leone's attempt was annoying and confusing. You can blame American editing that Noodles disappears early in the movie - which makes as little sense as his return <U+0096> but not the mixture of same era scenes that don't even blend - even in the European version. Though much scenery elicited pleasant thoughts of days-gone-by the fact it was shot over 10 years takes toll, the resulting visual effect - exasperated by a lame 60-year long story line - causes you to feel like you're in a different movie in every scene.Scenes too are contrived and inconsistent, like a peaceful beach scene where James Woods blows up angrily for no reason that's followed with an out-of-place disturbed seagull flock flying off toward a sunset; a scene which, I believe, is a poor attempt to match the GF II lakefront scene with Frido screaming, "I'm smart, and I deserve respect." The pathetic Frido scene is timely and makes sense, he was being coaxed to come clean, he was weak and stupid, and it showed Michael's resolve to stay in power <U+0096> even when faced with familial betrayal. The Wood's scene, hell most of the movie, comes across as a ridiculous concoction of mob flick and Chris Cross music video.I was so mad I bought this movie that I had to watch it three times to try to understand why it was made that way and why I hated it so much. As a writer I wanted to make sure I never ever create anything so bloody terrible. Many mob movies were made in the 80's because America loves them <U+0096> but this one is the worse attempt of all to capitalize on that market. You will never love it like you loved GF, not even close <U+0096> trust me.
If you like Leone's films from the 60's like The Good the Bad and the Ugly, For a Few Dollars More and Once Upon A Time in the West, then you may be in for a shock if you expect a similar film in Once Upon A Time in the West. This is the first film Leone directed in 13 years from the the last film he directed in 1971 'Duck you sucker'. I don't know what happened to him in his personal life in those 13 years but it shows in this film. A film is in a lot of ways a reflection of the director, his taste, his morals, his emotions. And to me this film was dull, at times disgusting, confusing and depressing. It's nothing like the vibrant TGBU or the emotional For a few dollars more. To me, after TGBU, Leone was on the decline. Even though there were some nice scenes in Once upon a time in the West (especially at the end), the story and the characters were lacking.Leone's style became more pretentious as he attempted to make more 'serious' films. You can see that mostly in the endless closeups of the actors faces while they speak their often vague dialogue. It looks like Leone was trying to hard to be 'deep' and 'intense' to the point where he lost the humanity in his characters and they became his puppets trying too hard to impress us when we couldn't identify with any of them. That's the main problem with this film as well. It's hard to care for any of the characters because they are all quite inhuman. The motives of the characters are never really revealed which makes it hard for us to identify with them and we're completely disconnected from them, as they start doing things that make us cringe, like rape, for instance. After more than an hour viewing this film, I'm wondering what I'm watching and why. For the most part..I just don't care. There's nothing to draw you in and interest you. Sure the cinematography is nice, the score and the set pieces are impressive. These are the three things that deceive people into believing that they're watching a quality film. A lot of people who like this film are huge fans of Leone and that alone makes them bias. Also the fact that this was Leone's dream project and final film makes a lot of fans of refer to this film as the greatest film that Leone made which to me is laughable. The final reason I can think of why people would like this film is because it's vague. As I mentioned; there's a lot of close-ups on actors faces with a dramatic music in the background. Some people (while viewing these) will think of events that took place in their own lives and be moved by those and feel like it's the movie doing this to them which is not the case. It's sad how Leone made one of the best films of all time in TGBU and ended his career with this depressing, long and troubling film. This film is often compared to the Godfather(2) but they have absolutely nothing in common other than the fact that both are 'gangsterfilms'.
Once Upon a Time in America is Sergio Leone's epic tale of the lives of four Jewish gangsters in New York City. The period spans decades, ending in the 1970's, but focuses on three periods - the childhood of the gangsters on the Lower East Side, their young adulthood and the old age of the survivors.Before watching this movie buy some super-glue. Next glue your butt to the chair. This movie moves slower than molasses. Each and every scene is so bloody long drawn. I could not watch it beyond 21 minutes. The movie starts slow. It remains slow. Ever scene is stretched out. If you are not a fan of such movies then I will advise you to stay away from it. The duration of the movie is 3 hours 49 minutes. If you must watch this movie then I will recommend you increase the speed to 2x.


                
When I found this tape in my collection, I was astounded that I had missed it when it came out. The cast list reads like a who's who of awesome actors, suited perfectly for a gangster movie. And Sergio Leone directing! Wow! I read several reviews comparing this movie to the Godfather and Goodfellas, and was over the moon to see it. I set my machine up, got ready and sat down. An hour and a half later (I fast forwarded through so much of it) I was dulled to the point of near madness. The cinematography was great, and brilliantly imaged, but literally nothing of importance happened in this entire movie. The characters were unsympathetic with back stories of little to no relevance or interest. The plot dragged on ad nauseum, padded by long close ups of "dramatic" faces staring contemplatively as if they knew something we didn't. Oh they did, and that was that you should go to bed early and skip this one entirely. The few action scenes were few and far between, and the interminable dialog and love interest offal seemed to drag forever. Maybe I missed something, because I had to fast forward through a lot of this movie, something I rarely do, but I just couldn't stand it after the overwhelming pretentiousness of each character's chatter. Worst of all, nothing happened of interest. Nothing. It was as if the movie were made for the sole purpose of getting Oscar attention, without any nod to entertainment value. If you make a period gangster film, make it better than a History Channel documentary. the only redeeming quality of this film was the cinematography and the old cars. Instead, just watch Godfather and then go to a car show.


                
This film looked beautiful and pitting Jennifer Connelly to play a young Elizabeth McGovern is a brilliant piece of casting. But the rest of the film falls terribly short. The story is all over the place, the direction is utterly confusing, the script is laughable and, despite the great cast, the acting is pathetic at best. I've seen two versions of this film and it gets worse and worse every time. I'm not too sure how director Sergio Leone envisioned this film, but it felt like Leone lost his focus and tried to put two small overblown films into one hugely overblown film. How on earth this film got onto IMDb's top 250 is beyond me. I think Once Upon a Time in America may fall into the category of being "voted" a great film based on the names in the cast and production crew.


                
I watched this terribly long, boring, slow, bloody, gory, silly film several times. Why, or why was that so overestimated? What for? It has nothing, but too much blood, sex, more blood, more sex, child molesting, more blood, more child death, child sex, more blood, more slow talks, more long shots, more blood and more molesting. Raping, killing, talking, sex in a car, more fights, more sex... I am not a sick person. This film did make me feel sick. Why was it made? No one plays here, it drags 4 hours, it leaves a heavy heart and empty brain. Not for kids, not for those who idolizes De Niro or Woods, not for Leone's fans. This is just a bad, tasteless, vapid, senseless, soulless, heartless, clueless rape of our brains. Very bad.


                
I think this movie is a jumble... The first 60 minutes are way too long. The subsequent 40 minutes would have been more like the main conflict, but they are not. The action is weak (so-so choreography and awful colors), and the film is bristling with clichés and so predictable. The film was original but that is about it. It's the directors fault, nice actors, but no chemistry between them and stupid dialogue (no one in the film or watching it knows why this film is here). Moreover, there are some nice costumes and sets. Still not a good movie, not far away from being one of the worst ever.


                
I am taking the time to dispute the high ratings this movie has received. I saw it when it came out, and maybe once since then, and then just now, and my opinion is unchanging . . . it is a really dumb movie. The music is schmaltzy and totally out of place, makes no sense, does not go with the scene, etc. The sequencing (time-wise) is weird and adds to the stupidity of it all. Are you going to tell me that the James Woods character becomes a prominent politician, steals the woman DeNiro loves, etc. etc. and "Noodles" (after 35 years of this) knows nothing about it? Also, the "Deborah" character does not age at all in the film, whereas DeNiro and Woods look a great deal older. The best thing about this film is Jennifer Connelly (as the young Deborah). After watching a piece of garbage like this I am almost inclined to give up film watching. This is a stupid piece of gangster smut. There is no art or excellence to this movie. It is a really dumb movie.
I know a lot of people liked this movie, but I didn't. I fell asleep during watching it on TV. Then I watched it on tape at a friend's house. I did get further in staying awake though when watching it on tape, but about 45 into the movie, I fell asleep again. No offense, but this movie wasn't great in my opinion. Sure it has Robert De Niro and famous actors, but they didn't act great in this movie.Call me crazy, but the characters acted wooden while I was watching it before I fell asleep. The scenery (backgrounds, etc.) was great though, but it just didn't entertain me long enough. Don't criticize me because of my opinion, as I'm entitled to my own opinion.


                
I didn't like this movie.I found it corny and self-indulgent. The characters were uninteresting and one-dimensional. The story didn't grab me -- and did they really need nearly 4 hours to tell it? It was gratuitously sleazy, like a Tinto Brass film. The music was cheesy and unmemorable -- and yet others say that it's one of Morricone's best scores?! Not to mention that the music was mismatched to some scenes.I'll concede that the cinematography did rise to above average from time to time and that the last 10-15 minutes of the movie (starting from the scene with the garbage truck) were outstanding -- atmospheric, surreal, disturbing, bizarre, and beautiful. Too bad the other 3 1/2 hours weren't as good.1 out of 10 stars.


                
This film was a load of pretentious crap. 3/4 of the film was Robert DeNiro staring at the camera. The other 1/4 was women being degraded, that loved to be slapped,punched and raped and loved their rapists. If this is someone's idea of high end art than we have reached a new low in art. Sergio Leone is a one dimensional asshole. This man has an extremely narrow scope of humanity. Where are the women directors in Hollywood. There is still a 1950's mentality in Hollywood and we have another great macho male series to look forward to in Boardwark Empire directed by that other great misogynistic director Martin Scorese. This is the very definition of tedious, insidious and boring to the extreme. This is from a male.


                
I would rather have listened to the soundtrack only. Though rich in atmosphere, the movie was far too slow for my taste. I would have preferred a watered-down ten minute version which would have the same plot. It moved as slowly as Tom Hanks in "You've Got Mail" and "Castaway." I was disappointed that Joe Pesci was in the movie for a total of two minutes (possibly). Maybe he left to go start filming "Casino." I liked "Casino," the first few "Godfathers," a "Bronx Tale," etc., but I did not like this movie...at all. I don't even see why that rape scene with Deborah was necessary- seriously-why? And why did Maxie do that to Noodles?
Don't be fooled by the cast - even DeNiro and James Woods couldn't save this screenplay. I am very surprised so many people seemed to give this movie a good review. The story and dialog was contrived and unbelievable. Even a scene with a young boy dying, which normally would cause a viewer to feel empathy or loss, was made comical by the ridiculous acting. A huge waste of time in every way. Nothing redeeming about this movie at all.


                
The whole point of a "story" - whatever the medium used to tell it - is that it has a beginning, a middle, and an end. Anyone who tampers with that simple principle is just asking for trouble.As soon as I saw the opening of this film on television I thought, "oh, oh, here we go again, pretentiousness at its worst". In other words, the film starts off at Point A-10, shifts forwards to something like K-2 and then back again to B-3 .....and so on and on it goes. I stuck with this film from before midnight through to a 03.A.M. showing, and in the end (absolutely tired out) I was furious with myself for having stayed up to watch it. By near to the end I had become totally confused at what the hell was going on, what the purpose of everything was, and then the viewer is presented with that completely useless and senseless end to the film.Besides which, I can't say that I am a fan of Robert DeNiro's acting. I find the man super-self-important in anything and everything he does - a complete turn-off so far as I am concerned.All of this is a pity since had the director decided to behave maturely and present a much more comprehensible story in a conventional and narrative and chronological manner - such as the Godfather films - he could have hit a goldmine with the story of the nascent Jewish gangsters who grew up and emerged from the Lower East Side east European immigrant communities of early twentieth century New York.Instead, he completely blew his chances. As to how anyone can describe this film as a "masterpiece" or even put it above the Godfather films in cinematic worth- please, do educate yourselves about the modern cinema and what narratives are all about!
I watched this because it has been compared with The Godfather. NO way in hell - this is a complete waste of time and money. The plot line is incredibly thin and you can predict what will happen in virtually every single scene. I've never seen such a waste of good actors and production. The only comparison there is between this and The Godfather is that both contain violence - that's it. One of the worst movies I've ever seen. De Niro snoozes his way through the entire movie - I get the feeling he knew it was a hump. For a movie with Joe Pesce, where the hell was he? One scene? Way to go on character development. And the female lead - while De Niro ages into a sixty-something - she doesn't change a bit! And Woods looks eighty! No explanation of how Woods got to be who he is at the end - zero. I think the screenwriters are the ones ought to be shoot.


                
After struggling through this movie, I had a very unique thought about how it came about. It is possible that the director(Sergio Leone), sitting in the year 2000 watching the Godfather trilogy and thinking about the mafia movies of the 90s, took a time machine back to 1984. There, he threw together this movie knowing that the actors would eventually be popular and by default, he would be know as "discovering them" for his "masterpiece"? He would also have gotten the actors at rock bottom prices keeping the movie budget to something he could afford personally and therefore not draw attention to his time travel. This movie is arguably one of the worst, drawn out attempts at "gangster nation" that I have ever seen. A word of warning that you would do better spending all of this time(nearly 4 hours) watching the DVD extras on Showgirls and then throwing up.


                
A horrendous story of self-aggrandizement, loathing and pity told for over 3 1/2 hours with no ending. Just the pits.


                
This movie combines great actors and a great director, unfortunately the formula and story does not work. De Niro is at his worst and so is Woods. Tuesday Weld, on the other hand, gives an Oscar performance as does Burt Young. McGovern, though stunning as she is, does not even measure to what being an actress is all about. This movie is such a failure on every angle, that one has to question what happened in Cannes. I presume people were trying to be nice to Sergio Leone, having become an old Gothic figure of the "spaghetti westerns". Morricone's musical score is amazing but does not fit into the mood or era for this film genre, and the theme keeps repeating till the end (Zamfir plays the Pan flute). Most of the children in this film, that play the parts of the characters when young, are not only the ugliest kids on film but the worst possible actors. The only kid that stands out is young and beautiful Jennifer Connelly. This movie is to be avoided no matter how much Tarantino praises it. PF Bondesen-David


                
Very boring..I never enjoy with it, no story or acting, I dislike it.
