I have now watched this film twice in my lifetime and still cannot understand why it is deemed "a classic". The opening scene of a murder and search for the films main character Robert DeNiro as "Noodles" is reminiscent of Sergio Leone's openers for his "man with no name" westerns, but the thing that even sinks this interesting beginning is an annoying telephone ringing, that rings for about 3 scenes at least for 3 or 4 minutes before anyone answers it and the piercing noise of this phone only makes you irritated, I really couldn't wait for someone to answer it.So right off the bat I am agitated with the movie, to paraphrase the rest of the film's first 3 hours and more annoyances and perverseness. I ask these questions: Do we need to show a young girls (Deborah) naked breast and behind, played by 14 year old Jennifer Connelly?Do we need to see a teen boy sitting on a toilet, or groping a buxom teenager in the same bathroom?Or losing his virginity to the same girl on the roof of a building. Or statutory rape of the child by a police office at least 40 years her senior.Then we have an uninteresting character named Moe whose face was beaten to a pulp in the opening sequence, fully recovered and owning some bar in 1968, played by one of the worlds most boring actors (Larry Rapp) in a cast of boring actors. Question: Why couldn't it have been the "Moe the bartender" character from the Simpson's instead? We have to put up with a rape scene of "Deborah" now full grown and portrayed by Elizabeth McGovern, by her childhood "sweetheart" Noodles (Robert DeNiro) who is supposed to be the "Good guy". Why does this scene need to go on and on?The rape scene takes a good 2 or 3 minutes to transpire and when he is done, he rips off her top and rapes her again without any regret. The scene is so vile and repulsive it makes the Jodie Foster rape scene in THE ACCUSED look like a gentle kiss on the cheek by two friends.Has Leone ever heard of the expression "less is more"? We can learn a lot with only a few seconds devoted to a subject rather than the entire act being played out in all its disgust.Now the pacing, the pacing is so slow and tedious without any real sense of awe or marvel. Why take so long to uncover something as mundane as a crypt where we already know that the 3 buddies of "Noodles" are kept? I was half expecting James Woods to be sitting atop his casket saying "thought I was dead didn't ya?" with all the time it took Deniro to walk in the darn door, the door that he seemed to open then close then open again then look at the names on the graves then close the door then get the key. Why does this scene take so long? What was the point?I found myself asking this question about almost every scene. Throughout the film.The pacing is just so slow and non revelatory in any real eye opening sense that it just leaves you frustrated.This movie is neither a classic nor even a good gangster movie, all the good things he did that made ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST so great he doesn't do here, and one of the major things he failed to do when casting great actors like DeNiro and Woods (all the other actors are awful) is give them interesting characters to play or interesting things to say. Heck even a narrator could have helped me out here.And Burt Young? Why Burt Young? Does anyone even know how this guy achieved an acting career? I had to rewind a few times just to understand what he was saying when he was telling that joke in the restaurant.In a scene where the 4 Jewish gangsters rob the diamond merchants; All I could think to myself was that Guy Richie did this scene so much better (obviously Richie was influenced by this scene) in the movie SNATCH.Then during the heist Noodles rapes Weld's character who is I guess a masochist? This is basically done to set up how he treats women he actually cares for, like Deborah who he rapes in the limo as listed earlier. Oh that's correct the man was in prison, I forgot.And what the hell was that about the 4 friends whipping out there dicks for the Tuesday Weld character to measure with her eyes? I thought a porno was gonna start happening. I could hear the "Dun-chicka-dun-dun" music in my head somewhere.....This movie was dull, non revelatory, brutally shocking in many places for no good verifiable reason and humorless, even when the 38 different writers that are listed in the credits tried to be funny. OK there are not really 38 writers more like 6.All in all this movie was a waste of 4 hours and should have been edited down to 2 and even then nothing could save it from being boring, filled with wooden performances by B movie actors, a bad score, anonymous background noises, phones ringing seemingly forever, pointless rape sequences, women treated with the utmost of disrespect and did I say Burt Young? Well Treat Williams and Larry Rapp are in this too and THEY SUCK as well!!!Give me Millers Crossing, Road to Perdition, Goodfellas, A Bronx Tale, The Sopranos, The Godfather and Mean Streets any day!! Heck I would even watch Christian Slater and Richard Grieco in Mobsters again, that Once upon a time in America!!Classic?? As in classic over pretentious, unsubtle garbage!!!
I've seen a lot of great reviews for this movie, along the lines of, 'it's great, one of the best of all time', etc. I really have to disagree. This movie was just too slow for me to sit through. I am usually a great fan of Sergio Leone's work, and I love most things with DeNiro and even James Woods, but I just couldn't sit through this movie.The pacing wouldn't have been a problem if the story were better, but I felt that it just meandered through a lot of scenes and recollections that were unnecessary. Some of the comedic scenes, for example between the 'young' DeNiro and Woods characters and the cop, were too slap-sticky and didn't ring true. those scenes would've been more in place in an Italian movie, perhaps like 'yesterday, today, and tomorrow.' It just didn't ring true for the Lower East Side during prohibition.To the people who say, 'if it's too slow for you, why don't you go watch Armageddon or something,' I can only respond that I loved The Seven Samurai, and also the Seventh Seal, two magnificent movies, which were slowly paced but still riveting. Once Upon a Time in America does not stack up to them. It doesn't measure up to the Godfather(s), or even Miller's Crossing.A noble effort, visually very beautiful, but guaranteed to put you to sleep.


                
With such a promising cast and a director that I have heard great things about, I was utterly disappointed by this film. It started off with signs of a great epic gangster tale and turned into a completely muddled mess with many unanswered questions and some completely ridiculous and pointless scenes.(and yes I did watch the full length version). I love Robert DeNiro and as usual he did a fine acting job, but in all his other gangster films, no matter how many people he kills, I always still had respect for his character, but in this movie he was a lowlife drug-addict, rapist with no care for anyone but himself. Also, James Woods, another fine actor, had some completely ridiculous scenes written for him. I thought the parts where Robert DeNiro called him crazy and he flipped out came completely out of left-field and towards the end the writers just throw in this random comment about how his father died in a nut house and that's why James Woods didn't like being called crazy. So much was left undeveloped in this movie.  Also, we never find out who the men are in the beginning that are trying to kill Noodles and we never find out more about Joe Pesci's character.  It seems that the writers threw together about five different stories and never fully explained any of them. The only redeeming quality of the film was the story when the characters were young kids.  The story ran smoothly in this part of the movie and the kids did a great acting job.  Overall, I was thoroughly disappointed by this movie and I don't see how anyone can even compare this to the Godfather 1 and 2, or even Goodfellas. I am sad that I wasted four hours of my life watching this film
This is not a bad film, it is only good - nothing more.You could write The Dictionary of Movie Clichés from the script; it's predictable and disappointing.There is some good acting, but nothing outstanding. The content does not warrant a movie of this length and it becomes a struggle to watch.The characters are interesting and well-portrayed, but we only get into the minds of Max (the mind of a madman) and Noodles (whose sanity is also in question).Historically, in the 1930's, OUATIA is magnificent, but it is let down by the weak portrayal of the late 1960's.Once Upon a Time in America does not get into my top 100 movies, and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.


                
The story of the movie takes place in three different layers - each being a certain part of the main protagonist's life. First, there is his adolescence, where he slowly turns from rascal to junior gangster. Then there is his adult life in his gang, and finally, his return as old man to his old home city, after 30 years of hiding in excile.The movie begins with a crucial scene: The death of his gang. The rest of the movie tries to tell the story of that event - how it came about, mostly.But all of this does not capture the spirit of the movie: The summary of the story pretends that there is some sort of development, some movement. Yet the movie manages to slowly ooze from set to set, from time layer to time layer, without ever generating excitement, without ever feeling as if the story was progressing. There is painfully little dialogue - and whatever there is is slow. How many times does one character ask a question, only to receive the answer after a long break, during which his opposite pretends to be lost in thought or emotion or just lost? As a consequence, none of the characters seem real. Given the cast and director, it is probably considered a sacrilege to point this out: But whatever they were doing for this movie, they were not in the least succeeding in portraying life, or lifelike performances. Perhaps on some other planet, frozen in liquid nitrogen, there are life forms with reaction times similar to those depicted in the movie - but on earth people tend to talk, and act, and live, a lot quicker. Stealing well over three hours of our lives for this movie is way too much.The only explanation is that this movie tries to be a piece of art - not entertainment. Which would make it a fairly ugly piece of art, showing prostitution, sex, drugs, violence, perverted sex, rape and almost every element that could shock or thrill, but without thrilling. And there are only two scenes in the entire movie that manage to shock. If it is to be seen as art, then perhaps they should have told the story as a long series of still images, as opposed to a movie (i.e. similar to the French "movie" that inspired "Twelve Monkeys"). That way, the entire thing would not have felt so awkward and out of place, and perhaps, it could be more appreciated. Especially the soundtrack, as background to a series of images, would have made this a piece of art. In this movie, it feels oddly dominating - where there is little talk, the music is very noticeable. It is the only character that won't shut up...In the end, the movie tries so hard to be a classic, it feels obvious and annoying. The ending is confusing, and everything between start and end is boring.3/10


                
The unending ringing of the telephone at the beginning really put me off, and I never recovered. While it is a good looking film, it is also boring and drawn out. And some of the actors are just terrible.


                
movie boring.  you watch a guy approach for five minutes.  you watch a guy look at something for five minutes.I got a lot of use out of the fast forward button for this one.
The episodes in the movie do not take place chronologically.  Many episodes discussed, like the betrayal, are not even shown.


                
Well, I finally saw "Once Upon a Time in America" and it was not worth the wait. : ) Can someone who really LOVED this movie tell me why? I saw the extended version and it was like watching glaciers making love... : ) SO slow. The kids acting in the first part of the movie were painful to watch.To give you an idea of how low an opinion of this movie I have, I saw "Sharkey's Machine" (1981) today on TV (Burt Reynold's last big movie) and let me say I enjoyed it's 70's style silliness better than this seemingly pretentious "masterpiece." Don't get me wrong, it has it's moments but in between long periods which could have been trimmed. The sets and costumes look great though... : )************ Spoiler Alert ****************** What is with the opium den stuff? Not really explored at all, just to be taken as a given that De Niro is a Hophead? *********************************************Anyway, someone tell me how this gets over 8 points when other ENTERTAINING flicks get the shaft. Keep in mind I also found "The Deer Hunter" too long, but couldn't get enough of the extended version of LOTR. Perhaps I am just a heathen... ; )
I watched the whole movie to see if it is as bad as it starts. After 50 minutes still sucked. Then it sucked more after 2 hours. Then it came back and sucked again till the end. No. This is not art. This is a waste of time. This is a " i cant write a Godfather so i will do something like it hoping that my Hollywood friends and the Jews will give me good reviews". Even the music is trying to be like the Godfather's. 8.4 ???? Seriously?If it wasnt for De Niro ...


                
Without a doubt, Sergio Leone is one of the greatest directors of all time. And Robert De Niro is among Hollywood's finest actors. Though both worked together in this film "Once Upon A Time In America", it is awful. The idea of five childhood friends joining together to start an empire of crime is an interesting idea—which pulled me into viewing this nearly 4-hour feature. So, what makes this movie so bad? Mostly, it is the direction of how the story unfolds. The film's primary focus is on David Aaronson, nicknamed Noodles. The movie jumps around a bit, starting in 1933 (when Noodles is an adult); then jumping 30 years to 1968 (when he is an old man), going back in the 1920s (when he is a kid) and so on. The theme that Leone tries to display to the viewer's is about a man filled with regret and remorse from the way his life turned out, as well as the fate of his friends. I like this. But Leone throws in so many scenes that aren't relevant to the plot. One, is the numerous amounts of sex sequences. Within the first hour of the film, teenage boys are seen doing an obese teen prostitute. How is this pertinent to the movie? It isn't. Later on, there are two very graphic rape scenes. Immediately, this puts me off. What's worse is, is that Noodles commits these. They are very painful to watch and they have no purpose to story at all. Ten minutes right here could have been cut. Perhaps though, these instances are thrown in to show how despicable Noodles and gangsters really are.They are despicable, yet other Hollywood features such as "The Godfather", "Goodfellas", and even "Scarface" somehow hold the magic of making thugs the people to care about. In "Once Upon A Time In America", there is no one to like or care for, except for the innocent bystanders that get murdered or horribly maimed through the duration of the film. This is what the movie lacks; a reason to sit through the film. Without a character to care about, what's the purpose in watching a film? I guess Leone wanted the viewers to see the ugly side of nature, and not so much of an epic story about loss and regret. In addition, there are other scenes that drag the film to the point of a bore fest. One is a three-minute scene of a kid tempted to eat a desert that he was going to original use to impress a girl. Another is an elongated sequence of a phone ringing. Another is a young gal wondering in a dark room to find a lamp to illuminate the set. Again, what's the point in these? Leone is a master of making scenes move by at a slow pace. This is good for his westerns when the good and bad guy square off for a final duel, but not for a kid wanting to eat a desert. Scenes like this divert from the story, making it dull and hard to pay attention to. Leone may have well have added a 5-minute scene of Noodles sitting on the toilet, grunting. In contrast, important scenes and characters are left merely implied. One that comes to mind is Joe Pesci's character. He's such a great actor, but he's only in 1 scene and disappears from radar completely, and you'd think he's the type of character you'd see again. Another is the whole bank job that the gang was going to pull off. It was a setup, but it would've been interesting to see how it unfolded, rather than merely told by a character in the feature. The acting is not too bad; I was thoroughly impressed by the child actors. Unfortunately there is an awful miscast, Elizabeth McGovern as Noodles love interest. She looked bored through the whole film. Hearing her talk is like listening to nails on a chalkboard. Even Noodles makes the remark to her later in the film, "You're a lousy actress." I chuckled at that, catching a little inside joke there. I may come off as seeming to hate this movie. Believe it or not, I don't. The cinematographer pulled off some sweeping shots of New York City. The sets and costumes are exquisite, and I love Ennio Morricone's score. I'll admit that at times, Morricone's score was over sentimental and bombastic in some key scenes. The gangster flick is a genre I enjoy, but "Once Upon A Time In America" is not qualified as a great one in my book. It's too bad, because this was Leone's last film, and I hoped this was going to be his best. If you like Sergio, stick with his old westerns.
I had to give up on this movie after only about 5 minutes. The violence was so brutal, so gross and so realistic I just said "I don't need this" It properly belongs in the category of S&M not drama.This is far more violent and sadistic than the Godfather series.I would call it sick. I can't think of any other movie that came close in gross out ability not even a Harvard documentary about tribes in Indonesia killing each other in ritual warfare I saw as a teen back in the 60s. The movie is quite long and I saw just the beginning. Perhaps it redeems itself later. But that opening was too much for me to take.


                
Boring and jumps around a lot! Mostly a joke movie. Also, extreamly long!


                
Well, the individual performances won't disappoint. What this 'production' needed, though, was at least four more intermissions.


                
Sergio Leone's "Dollars" trilogies are possibly the greatest "westerns" ever made (his lyrical "Once Upon a Time in the West" has great stuff but doesn't quite match the earlier versions because of the clichés). And Ennio Morricone's music for all four movies were instant classics.Leone's movie raised a question: after "The Godfather" (I & II) what more needed to be said? Well, being Italian, Leone found a source to use Jewish gangsters. That's a switch.His powerhouse case included James Woods, Robert DeNiro, Elizabeth McGovern and . . . oh, way down on the list, a very pretty young Jennifer Connelly. I saw the shortened version of this flick long before she was a major star. She looks great.Major spoiler ahead.And that's the problem. In one scene she moons the camera (it's probably a body double, but may inspire perverts everywhere); in another scene, when a man changes the diapers for his son, he finds out his "son" was switched for a daughter. The camera sees everything. It's disgusting, showing naked babies.Lest you think my objects to "Once Upon a Time in America" are merely prurient, I also found the longer version of the movie dull, despite its resorting to violence.Though I'm a voracious reader, I usually eschew biographies as they deal so much up front with the subjects' childhood. "So?" you might say. But the first third (it feels like a century) of "Once Upon a Time in America" is taken up with the story of Woods, DeNiro and the other little creeps as children, and it seems to go on forever! Leone is a good enough director to give us lots of visual tricks that keep us mostly happy, but I found the entire section with children dull and think it might have been integrated even better.Leone deals with "heroes" only in the technical sense. The "heroic" antics of Eastwood and Bronson in his earlier movies do not necessarily make them the good guys, despite the ironic title "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" (one of the best titles ever, btw). The leads in "Once Upon a Time in America" are even more flawed, being rapists as well as robbers and murderers.In fact, given the prevalence of prostitution, rape, child exploitation and the rest, sex as a normal and loving act never seems to enter anyone's heads. Perhaps Leone and his writing team don't want his depraved thugs to have any positive characteristics at all.Jennifer Connelly as the little girl who tries to put the kid playing the younger DeNiro comes off best, as well as the almost clownish version of the 1920 song "Amapola (Pretty Little Poppy)" that may be slightly anachronistic by a few years in its first context, but which brings a smile every time it's played.
