This Godfather-type film was done by Sergio Leone, of spaghetti-western fame, so you know you will see and experience several of his trademarks. Namely: (1) a lot of facial closeups; (2) some slow-motion or slow-moving dramatic scenes; (3) good overall photography and (4) a unique soundtrack.The period sets here are magnificent. You get a real feel of the time, whether it's 1910, 1933 or 1967. The colors are awash in blacks, browns and grays and the DVD brings all these out very well, especially considering the film is over 20 years old.Despite some of Leone's slow moments, this is a fascinating film to watch for the story, too. There are numerous memorable scenes, some of them involving some downright shocking violence, even for today's movies. However, the amount of violence is less than what you see today.The movie also sports an interesting twist near the end involving the two major characters, played by Robert De Niro and James Woods. The story is not always clear, either, so be prepared to be possibly confused about a few things....at least on the first viewing. Confused or not, this film always is fascinating to view, especially with intense actors such as the two men just mentioned, along with Elizabeth McGovern, Tuesday Weld, Joe Pecsi, Burt Young, Treat Williams and more.The child actors in here take up almost half the movie and are excellent. What an injustice they don't receive any publicity for their acting, especially the kids who played De Niro and Woods as youngsters. One of the girls has become a famous adult actress: Jennifer Connelly. She was 12 years old in this film and was already alluring.This is Godfather-type crime movie that ranks right up there with that famous film, not taking a back seat to it at all.


                
Leone's most ambitious epic moves across three separate time periods: the twenties, the thirties and the late sixties<U+0085> It starts in 1933, with the murder of a woman after merciless gangsters have briefly interrogate her (while Noodles hides out in an opium den), then returns to the disastrous night of the bloody betrayal, then jumps to Noodles' return to New York in 1968, then shifts back to the early 1920s to their adolescence<U+0085> This display in a series of flashbacks and flash-forwards is used throughout the film, until the climax where all the dissociated parts of the story fall into place<U+0085> "Once Upon a Time in America" tells the story of five precocious teenagers born in Brooklyn and the Bronx, Noodles (Robert DeNiro), Max (James Woods), Patsy (James Hayden), Cockeye (William Forsythe), and Dominic (Noah Moazezi), the youngest<U+0085> As kids in 1921 Prohibition New York, they take only superficial interest in minor street crime, spoiling things or stealing from drunks, until they start running their own rackets<U+0085> Noodles is sexually attracted to Deborah (Jennifer Connelly/Elizabeth McGovern), the mesmerizing ballet dancer, sister of their loyal friend Fat Moe (Larry Rapp), the son of a saloon-keeper<U+0085> But the gang's rivalry with Bugsy (James Russo), another street hoodlum, leads to Dominic being fatally wounded and Noodles going to jail for years for taking a bloody revenge in a blind rage<U+0085> When Noodles is released from prison a decade later, Max was there with a car and a hooker<U+0085> Noodles joins his three pals, who have become prosperous by continuing in the crime world including entwining with unions and the strikers, led by their leader Jimmy Conway (Treat Williams).The four best friends accept to assault a jeweler in Detroit, for a major mafioso Frankie Minoldi (Joe Pesci), and his sidekick Joe (Burt Young)<U+0085> And at the end of Prohibition in 1933, the top mob criminals find themselves having gathered $1 million<U+0085> In their vacation in Miami, Noodles was highly worried that Max's next plan is a step too dangerous to take and too risky<U+0085>The most tragic and moving part of the film is probably the romantic obsessions of Noodles<U+0085> Noodles and Deborah have deep and strong affinity for one another<U+0085> Noodles feels he has the right to Deborah's feelings, but she closed herself to him years ago when he responded Max's call over her own<U+0085> Noodles seem unaware of her decision... Their meeting in 1968 only communicates what could have been<U+0085> In one memorable scene, young Patsy (Brian Bloom) is awaiting for a young hooker<U+0085> Her price is a fancy frosted cake<U+0085> While awaiting, Patsy attentively observes the cake and recognizes he can scoop some of the white cream without damaging it<U+0085> Tempted by the good taste of the cream, he devours entirely the cake on the staircase and forgets the girl<U+0085> Here we felt the kid's innocence and hesitancy between pastry over sex<U+0085>Friendship, innocence, trust, passion, honor, betrayal, and guilt are the most important basis on which Leone's encircles his masterpiece<U+0085>


                
Sergio Leone made epic cinema - he understood events resonate only when you adequately set them up.In the 4 hours extended edition of Once Upon a Time in America, it's forty minutes before the first flashback to the initial storyline kicks in, with the protagonists as teen members of a gang roaming the streets of early 20th century New York; a whole hour before Noodles (played as a child by Scott Tiler, as an adult by Robert De Niro in one of his iconic performances) meets Max (Rusty Jacobs / James Woods, never better), his criminal partner.Leone's darkest movie - where his trademark friendships are betrayed and broken - Once Upon a Time in America features sparse dialogues and a complex structure jumping back and forth in time, following Noodles' meteoric rise and fall during the Prohibition era, as he poisons the relationships with his best friend Max and Deborah (Jennifer Connelly in a great cinematic debut / Elizabeth McGovern), the one woman he loves. Classic Leone themes are there - like the inherent violence of civilized society in general and of business in particular - but given a darker spin: Max morphs into a businessman / politician involved in the higher spheres of crime - someone who doesn't get his hands dirty, like Morton in Once Upon a Time in the West - severing his ties with Noodles, until he chooses his own karmic comeuppance.Or is the whole story an opium-induced hallucination by Noodles as a young man? That's possible, but besides the point: the ending is a way to show Noodles trapped into his own self-inflicted nightmare of violence and betrayal.
"Once Upon a Time in America" is a crime movie which shows a former gangster who returns to the Lower East Side of Manhattan after thirty years. He has to deal with some changes that happened and he missed all of those. We watch also the past of him and how all of these start and of course all of that has to do with the mafia and the gangs of New York.I really liked this movie because of the plot which I found magnificent and the direction of Sergio Leone which was outstanding. About the interpretations I have to say that the interpretation of Robert De Niro who played as David Aaronson (Noodles) was for one more time great, equally good interpretation made by James Woods who played as Maximilian Bercovicz (Max). Another good interpretation that has to be mentioned is the beautiful Elizabeth McGovern's who played as Deborah Gelly. This movie reminded me plenty of movies with the same plot, gangsters, mafia etc but this movie was simply one of the best in this kind.Finally I believe that "Once Upon a Time in America" is one of the best movies that a crime movies fan wants to watch. It gives you many emotions and this happens because of the interpretations of the cast but also from the great direction of this movie.


                
I think the first time I saw Once Upon a Time in America I was a bit disappointed because I benchmarked it against Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns such as the endlessly more entertaining but not necessarily more emotionally rewarding The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Approaching this gangster saga, you will not find Clint Eastwood in a poncho, and you have to deal with it. Once you do, you have four very good hours in front of you.The film follows Noodles (Robert De Niro) in three parallel acts. First as a child, where he and his gang of hoodlums starts out with harmless thefts against drunkards, before things escalate into a violent and life-changing confrontation with the older gangster rival Bugsy (James Russo), all the while chasing the girls of New York. Then as an adult in his life of organized crime and associations with the labor union during the prohibition era, where Noodles' best friend Max's descent into madness plays a key part. And finally as an old man returning to his old neighbourhood to tie up loose ends from his life. The three parts fit nicely together, and the editing between them works fine.All in all, the film has a fine ensemble. De Niro more or less plays the same type of guy that he does in all gangster films I have seen him in, meaning that he is solid and knows his part as the back of his hand. Joe Pesci shows up as he does in all gangster films I have seen, although he is more understated during his brief appearance here. Tuesday Weld looks uncannily alike some Hitchcock character, perhaps one played by Eva Marie Saint, in her unthankful role as a gangster wife. The real star, however, might be James Woods in his mentally unstable portrayal of Max, whose madness breaks out whenever the condition is implied in conversation.In four hours, Leone has time to cover a lot of ground, and there are several highlights. My favourite scene is the one where Noodles finally goes on a date with the love of his life Deborah (Elizabeth McGovern). It starts off romantically, but evolves into sadness as she says that he is the only person she has ever cared for, but then asks, in a moment of unusual clarity for women in gangster films, "you'd lock me up and throw away the key, wouldn't you?", to which Noodles replies that he probably would. This sums up almost every gangster relationship ever depicted on film. The episode, as many others, then concludes in a gruesome manner.What might distinguish Once Upon a Time in America from other films of its ilk is how nostalgic and sentimental it feels, which I don't mean in a negative sense (except at its low point when it plays some washed-out version of Yesterday); the childhood act takes you back to a time when the streets of New York were brimming with life (due to terrific compositions) in another sense than today, whereas the (chronologically) last segment finds a worn out Noodles reminiscing about those days and what has been. The final scene, in which he sees some young people going by fast in their fancy cars, feels like the moment where his memories of youth escape him. Even the part that takes place in between, where the gang is doing well financially, is less than usual about being a high roller and more about regretting what you've done and dealing with its aftermath, as represented by a phone that won't stop ringing. The most conspicuous aspect of the film is perhaps Ennio Morricone's bittersweet, nostalgic score that runs through virtually every scene. It borders on sentimentality, but it fits a movie about a man looking back on his life perfectly.
If Noodles had killed Max, I would take it as an epic; but he didn't, so I took it as a life-story which happened tens of years ago. I saw the movie on last Saturday. If I have seen this movie 5 years ago, I will be very excited. But now not. People seeing too many movie are readily to be sick of movies which are designed deliberately. Just not so easy to be excited. If it has a dramatic ending, I guess, I will throw the movie into garbage can, and never mention it again. But it ends quietly, just as I wished. Whatever ever happened, let it go when it is gone. That is life, not just a story, So the ending changed my review of the movie. It touched me. It hit the sad half of my heart.I love the acting of Robert De Niro in this movie. I have never realized more that he's such a great actor. Also love the pace of the movie. You may hate it, but it is great. It is that kind of pace that makes you feel sad, but not heartbroken.I read some introduction about this movie before. I knew there was a turnover in the movie. So I was guessing who was the bad guy since the start and made the right choice. 'Max', CZ other guys were not very strong here, CZ Max was ambitious. Ambitious people tends to be bad. Though not surprised, I still feel sad for Noodles. He was a great guy, but he spent almost ten years in the jail for revenging for his friend, and more than 30 years in regret for protecting his friend. I was happy at last he didn't kill 'Max', otherwise he would lost the last years in his life. I still feel sad when thinking of what he said at the start, 'you can always tell who is the winner, who is the loser.'BTW, the little girl was acted by Jennifer Connelly, he-he, I recognized her at first sight. Such a lovely little girl.


                
I believe that this movie has a complicated story and everyone should watch it 2 times to understand it.


                
This movie is huge. I've seen the massive 229 min cut. And surprisingly it did not feel that boring! The pace was slow but for this story it was absolutely necessary. Otherwise the story wouldn't fell the way it felt. I was tired but also satisfied when this ended.The acting was fitting. The child actors did an amazing job. In some cases I think even better than their adult counterparts.One might get confused at the way this movie is shown. The constant switching between present time and the past might seem weird but its a massive buildup for the last segment. Once a person sees it all, he/she would understand why it was shown that way and would for sure appreciate the making.The long shots and the enthralling musical score that shows and makes sure channels all the emotions into the viewers was expected from Sergio Leone. I always enjoyed his work and this didn't underperformed at all. It's sad that this was his last movie.This was an epic tale and one of the best crime dramas I've seen so far. Too bad that it was a commercial mess due to a trimmed version being released in theater. I would recommend the whole 229 min version to anyone anytime.


                
Different from the typical Leone-style of western films, this is a novel- esque, visually bold & non-linear narration of the lives of two gang members spanning over decades. The transitions during the time travel are superb and neat. The movie slows down at various intervals just to instill blatant entertainment with intrinsic awe.After redefining the western genre through his earlier flicks, Leone now redefines the gangster-flick genre. And manages so easily to leave you mesmerized. Epic in terms of length and direction. Leone's direction is visionary as always and hypnotic and so is De Niro's acting. Jennifer Connelly looks so beautiful as a 14 year old in her debut movie. James Woods gives a career-defining performance too. Do not dare to ignore the movie only because of the length.


                
Once Upon a Time in America begins with some music featuring an artist singing of an America to be proud of; of an America worth dying for and a nation of which is generally somewhat better than just rather decent. The places Sergio Leone's 1984 film, the last before his 1989 death, will go are places not necessarily inclined towards painting images of the place as the song would suggest; his film an other-worldly and quite fantastic hierarchical tale told across numerous decades in the early to mid-twentieth century about kids coming to grow into adults but all the while living a persistent existence as criminals. The film begins at the ground zero stage of the 1920s streets of Brooklyn, New York City, before going on well into the 1960s; a stage by which time friendships have been forged; mistakes have been made and people have come and gone for whatever reasons. By the time it has ended, we are exhausted but in a strictly positive way.Despite being as close to death as he was, we don't necessarily feel Leone lost much of what made him the director he was. When a gangster rummages through an opium den with his cronies looking for somebody specific, he comes face to face with a female patron and her lover; a scene which is allowed to play out in that fashion that sees it oddly disgusting in its overall tone and yet oddly beautiful in its overall craft; that fashion Leone was always able to wedge out of such instances – a wordless exchange purveyed through facial expressions and feeding off of the threat somebody carries via their lowered brows and narrowed eyes. Such an instance is similar to that of how a group of ugly, disfigured bandits waited at a train station nearer the beginning of 1964's A Fistful of Dollars – their toying with the surroundings, systematically seizing and weighing absolutely everything up as what is essentially a hunt for blood takes a brief excursion, feeling prominent.The reasoning for the gangsters doing what they're doing is because of what Robert De Niro's David Aaronson, nicknamed Noodles, got himself involved in at a very early age and kept with him as he grew up. Leone has the sorts of people after Aaronson mercilessly gun down a young blonde and then beat a guy within an inch of his life in hunting their prey, a playful cut to the desired lying face-up in said drug parlour looking severely spaced out and rather vulnerable heightening tension. As it is, Aaronson knows his time has come; the curious notion of having a lead character in a gangster film effectively run from his both troubles and the enemy, when the comparable thing might be for confrontation thus leading to action. Aaronson's exit and re-entry to New York a whole forty years later is carried out in a remarkably played sequence paying sly homage to its own passing of time; specifically, utilising the sole words of "yesterday" (temporally) and "suddenly" (spacially) so as to establish an awareness of the transition from one era to another.The proceedings begin in earnest in the 1920s with Aaronson still a boy; a boy forming a clan of four with some friends and a boy whose chief items on one's mind lie in that of milling around with these pals, stealing a little something here and there, and the equally young Deborah towards whom he takes a fancy. We feel Aaronson has a genuine fondness for Deborah; the instance in which, through a corrupt cop doing things he ought not, he is permitted sexual relations of some kind however brief and crude, does not deter him from an overall goal of naturally coming to bond with Deborah. It is during these promiscuous times that he comes into contact with that of the slightly elder, but equally street smart urchin, Max Bercovicz; eventually played by James Woods. Bercovicz appears to ride into proceedings, indeed town, with his family on a horse driven cart, as if unreal; as if coming on in from the horizon: this mythical figure surely not even belonging to this realm. Aaronson and Bercovicz's oneupmanship begins mere minutes after they first meet, the targeting of an elderly drunk as a robbery victim seeing Bercovicz effectively come out on top over Aaronson but nicely teeing up what will become a series of fascinating crime infused interplay. The distinct underpinning of homoeroticism in the pair's relationship is fascinating. Overhanging it all are failed relationships with various women and quotations when things get heated, such is the way these two bicker like an old couple, along the lines of: "Maybe I really should just dump you" or De Niro's gem "Wherever you go, I go"; entirely encapsulating the nature of their ties.Without letting up, Leone's exploration of these men whom grow up out of the boys we initially witness is little short of tremendous; a firm eye on the pratfalls of a life of crime. The covering of the advancing through a life of crime by Aaronson and Max et al is as dramatic as it is fraught with a great deal of substance; an occurrence in which the crew execute a diamond robbery and then double-cross the employers seeing said instance unfold within an isolated coastal locale rich in grounded tug boats. The killing of those executed a figurative running aground of those, perhaps literally, previously having had to pull along the likes of Aaronson and co. – now reduced to neatly echoing the presence of a number of small tug boats in the vicinity: rusted, unnecessary and not needed – their time to be discarded has come. Leone crosses from strand to strand; decade from decade with ease, the overhanging mystery of whom it is is involved in Aaronson's calling him back looming over everything in what is a miraculously played, really rather wondrous gangster film that is wholly recommended.


                
This is truly a complex film to watch! Leone's final testament to his cinematic artistry and his most beloved project is a movie that draws inevitable comparisons to such films as The godfather and Novecento. There are many elements in common with these pictures: the chronological leaps in the story, the gangster background, a love-hate friendship, all of which are treated in a unique way that distinguishes this movie from his pears and gives it Leone's brand. Robert DeNiro is David "Noodles" Aronson, a young hoodlum turned gangster that, as we are told in the beginning of the movie, has betrayed his friends and partners and so goes in to hiding. Several years later he returns to track down a mysterious person who found him and somehow knows all about his betrayal all those years ago. This premise stars off a series of flashbacks from Noddles that, piece by piece shed some light in to previous events and scenes from the beginning which to the viewers didn't make much sense.Leone's storytelling is slow. It was in his previous two movies and much more so in Once upon a time in America. That in itself might detach even the more patient viewers. Truly he aimed very high with this picture, and if you take on the suggested comparison I mentioned, you have DeNiro's "Noodles" a tragic character that ends up losing everything and everyone in the end, much like Michael Corleone in The Godfather, or some of the characters from David Lean's movies for that matter! So, the epic proportions of Once upon a time have a precedent that must have been present in Leone's mind when he conceived it. Even more: Franco Arcalli, co-writer of the movie, was also co-writer, and editor of Novecento, so you can't help wondering how much of the "two men friendship" motif transpired from that Bertolucci film. But I think the similarities stop there! In Once upon a time in America the love triangle between Noodles, Maxie and Deborah come to the central fore, and the prohibition/gangster plot, despite providing long pauses in the narrative, serve as a stylistic background to the main theme. Leone was a passionate for American History, as his Western movies confirm, so it would be expected that he explored an American period (the prohibition era) with so much elements in common with the violent and mythic Wild West. Furthermore, to add to the complexity of this film he introduced yet again an unexpected turn in the story witch unfolds in the very end, and keep you guessing about what you have just seen. It was so in the end of Once upon a time in the west and in Duck you sucker, and here you get the idea (as suggested by Leone himself) that the whole movie is Noodles opium based dream, and you really never leave the Chinese theater where he is smoking his pipe in self pity for his actions! Complex? Very much. In the end you get the feeling that Leone got through his point rather more effectively in his earlier western Once upon a time in the west. But enough with the critiques! If you can get through the slow pace of the movie, and really sink in the intended suggestions in the narrative the reward will be, as the whole movie in itself, grandiose and epic. After all this is a Sergio Leone film. As a "master painter of pictures", if you don't quite grasp the meaning of the painting you can still get reward by just admiring the colors. You have the beautifully composed shots of 1930's New York through the cinematography of Tonino Delli Colli (Leone's regular collaborator); the extreme close-ups that depict character emotions like with no other director; Leone's trademark eyes close up which are reduced to a single, beautiful transition shot between the elder and the younger Noodles watching his beloved Deborah; the final showdown, which evolved into a duel of words between the two friends; and last but not the least, Ennio Morricone at the helm of the soundtrack (composed prior to the film) conveying the dream like feel to movie, both idyllic (in Deborah's theme) and cruel (in Dominic's death scene). My advice? Whach it! After all, this was Leone's final masterpiece!
I wanted to like this movie. I love some of Sergio Leone's other movies and kind of expected to enjoy this, his last movie, at least as much. For some reason I had never seen more than clips of it.  Leone's movies always have great atmosphere and interesting minor characters. It was a treat to see Jennifer Connelly in her 1st role, and of course it had to be her eyes that got her the part, since Leone tells at least part of his stories with the eyes. This brings up the movie's weakness, the story. I didn't think it was a compelling story, not one to spend 3+ hours on. There weren't many tense moments, unsympathetic main characters that all deserved to die if only for not cracking any good jokes or one liners, and there was none of the sweeping scope that you might expect from a Leone movie. The end was a muddy puddle that didn't make a lot of sense. I'm glad I watched this highly regarded movie, but I doubt that I will again.


                
I decided instead of returning it unwatched, I would actually sit through the 229 minute Director's Cut of Once Upon a Time in America. It has DeNiro and Leone, so it's gotta be really good right? Right?Nope.Like, it's not a horrible movie by any counts, but it's just way too long. Like some movies benefit from being longer, fleshing everything out, and making it great. And some movies just eat up the time, and make it seem to go by fast. This does neither.A lot of it is just purely random. Characters pop up, and don't come back. Some show up for a bit, then come back and have zero significance later on (Joe Pesci being key example). And a lot of it is just plain confusing. People are getting killed for no reason. People are arguing for no reason. Things are grazed over, and not really talked about. Things happen, and aren't explained. There's random breast rubbings with a gun barrel, random sex sequences, and just random things in general going on. There's even a wild rape scene featuring DeNiro. And after watching it, you're just left saying "What the hell?", especially because she openly talks to him later in the movie.This is a 4 hour movie for Christ sake. You'd expect everything to be tied up by the end.Now I see why Once Upon a Time in Mexico is so flawed.But it's not all terrible. The actors are all fairly good, even if I've seen them do better stuff before (yet I still don't look at James Woods the same, ever since Videodrome). Leone's direction is great, having the trademarks of a usual Leone film (little dialog, long drawn out shots), but more focus on story as opposed to style (so sadly, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, this movie is not). And Ennio Morricone's score is just perfect.All in all, it's worth watching, if just for once. By no means is it really Leone's masterpiece as I have heard, but it's worth a look anyway. I'm just really disappointed because of the fact that it just drags for long periods of time, and isn't as stylish as I would have thought.8/10.
Once Upon A Time In America is a brilliant movie with a fantastic story line,an incredibly well acted cast and great characters.The movie was on television the other night,so I decided to watch it,so IA looked it up on this,and it said its two hours and nineteen minutes long,the one I was watching was definitely much longer,it went on for at least more than three hours,it must have been a directors cut or something.Robert De Niro did a brilliant job as usual,and so did James Woods.This is my first time seeing James Woods in a proper role,I had only previously seen him in cameo roles and the many voice overs he has done,IO never realised he is actually a fantastic actor who knows exactly what he is doing.The story of David Aaronson (Robert De Niro) who returns to Manhatten thirty years later to confront his past.We learn what happened thirty years ago,the rise and fall of Davids mafia,and what brought him back.


                
Pros: 1. This is one of those movies that you need to see more than once. The first viewing may confuse you with the shifts in time but the more you see it and the more closely you pay attention , you see the movie is well-constructed and it doesn't jump through time just to be artsy.2. Bad child actors are at least twice as annoying as bad adult actors, so it's a relief that all the child actors are good, even if the boys didn't grow up to be Oscar-Winners like Jennifer Connelly. They can be believable as criminals while maintaining a certain level of innocence. On tough streets like that you had to do what you needed to survive.3. De Niro And Pesci prove they don't need Scorsese to make a good movie, having Scorsese just really really helps (let's not forget that James Woods would work with De Niro, Pesci and Scorsese in "Casino"). It's a shame Pesci wasn't in the movie as much as Sergio Leone originally intended but the work Pesci does in this movie is great.4. Very glad Burt Young found time in between Rocky III and Rocky IV to be in this movie. His story about insurance is hilarious and definitely sounds like something Paulie would say in an R-Rated Rocky movie. Like Pesci, it's shame Burt Young is in the movie so briefly but at least Burt Young has a definite end and doesn't just disappear from the movie like Pesci.5. The music is phenomenal. Certain musical themes are consistently reused and they never get old. The instrumental version of Yesterday is sadly appropriate for a movie in which the good times were clearly in the past. It helps that the scenes with Elderly noodles are in 1968 when the Beatles were still active though well on their way to breaking up. 6. Like The Corleone Family in The Godfather, I always get a kick out of seeing the main characters get the better of their opponents, whether it's a corrupt cop, a hoodlum who would kill a child or a strike-busting cop. I especially love how they use the strike-busting cop's newborn son to get the cop under their thumbs in a way without putting the baby in danger.7. For the most part, this film does a great job of avoiding any accusations of being a Godfather rip-off. There's just a few moments that vaguely remind of The Godfather. For instance, the kids blackmailing a cop (who was often very hard on them) for having sex with a minor reminds me of the condescending senator in Godfather Part II who ended up under the Corleone's thumb after finding himself in bed with a dead prostitute.8. I liked the scene where the kid chooses a Charlotte Russe with whipped cream over sex with Peggy. A woman's much sweeter than wine but not as sweet as good candy.9. Despite nearly running 4 hours, this film is never boring and scenes never feel unnecessary. 10. Best Line: Dominick: Noodles, I slippedCons: 1. Rape is never a pro. The worst thing is that Noodles never really gets a comeuppance or apologizes for his actions. Though perhaps he went to the train station the next day attempting to apologize to Deborah. Carol seems delighted to meet her attackers again. While Deborah isn't happy to meet Noodles again, she doesn't tell him to get out of her sight or even mention the rape (perhaps she just put it behind her after 30 years).2. I would have liked to see more of the Eve character. We don't even see her meeting Noodles, she's just there in Florida all of a sudden. It's never really indicated whether Noodles really cared about her of if she was just a substitute for Deborah. Would Noodles cheat on Eve with Deborah if he could? It seems Eve's only true purpose in the movie is to be killed so we can see how badly the bad guys want Noodles. Even if the story had been told chronologically and she didn't die in her first scene, I doubt her death would have much impact.3. The relationship between Noodles and Deborah as kids is a tad confusing. She's usually very rude to him (not that you could blame her for being rude to a peeping tom) then this one moment she's tender before she does back to being rude. 4. Elderly Noodles tells Max he's crazy and Max responds "You said that to me once before". Noodles actually said it twice before: at the Florida beach and in New York shortly after Noodles makes the phone call that (he thinks) betrays Max.5. In the poster for Deborah's Cleopatra play, it mentions that age could not wither her beauty. How could age affect Cleopatra? She committed suicide at age 39. Cleopatra didn't give age a chance to affect her beauty
One of the most beautiful and memorable films I saw as a child. It brings us in the darkest ambiance of the US, with characters that we are seeing grow. An absolute master piece.


                
The first time I saw this film was opening day in 1984. I liked his Clint westerns from the mid 60's and always love a good gangster film. All of us left the theatre 139 mins. later less than satisfied. Unfortunately we had no idea we had watched a completely butchered version of the film that jumped around too much and made little sense. We quickly forgot the experience and watched much more satisfying films for the rest of the summer popcorn infused flicks of the 1980's.
Years later the complete version finally surfaced with little fanfare. This film is one of those that gets better every time you watch it, "if" one takes the time to sit down and really watch and absorb it.


                
I am doubtful about this movie. It is certainly a classic; it is at times beautiful,moving and insightful- but I felt it was somehow unequal. A sequence of great scenes and a rigorous construction; but also a number of plot elements and twists I don't know how to feel about. Just off the top of my head- How come Bugsy just randomly starts shooting in broad daylight, with the cops just one block away? Is he stupid? You don't do things like that. How is it that after some ten years Noodles comes out of prison to immediately rejoin his gang as if nothing happened? Sure, it's possible, but a lot of things change in that time- especially if you're a teenager; I don't know, it was just too natural. What line of business are the guys actually in? They seem to do hits, robberies but also booze-traffic and are involved with the union too. Yet at the same time they just work for themselves, no bosses, no gang. You don't get to do that kind of things; unions are not doing business with four thugs who haven't got their backs covered; you don't get to just buy and sell stuff like alcohol during the Prohibition or drugs nowadays; you don't get to gun down Mafia members and then walk around as if nothing happened. It's a rather common thing even with the best crime movies that the script is not quite sure about what the heroes do- they're just 'gangsters', and that should include all.(ex. in The Departed, you have Jack Nicholson selling military information to the Chinese & also driving drugs around himself in the trunk of his car & also collecting protection money from the local shop; so what is he? Big Boss, supposedly, and yet acts as a foot soldier sometimes...).
"Once upon a time in America" is one of those movies you remember for a long time after watching. The story is very interesting. It is based on the phenomenon "friendship" presenting the good beginning, the excellent and funny growing and finally the inglorious ending, in the world of political and financial profits.Its special directing makes it further more complicated. The exchanging of scenes that are not consecutive in time, the going through one scene to another with that special way that only great directors as Sergio Leone know, the starting and ending with the same scene,with spectator's knowledge being the only difference, are some of the reasons I am fascinated! It is a film that makes the spectator use his/her mind. However some chapters move on a very slow rhythm that may become mortal.I think that the title fits the story. Noodles needs to go some years back, to remember what happened "once upon a time", to realize who is the betrayed and who is the betrayer. "Once upon a time" he had friends, that he doesn't have now.


                
This is an interesting film, well worth watching for both its excellent period recreation of New York and also as another version of the gangster epic.The commentary by the film critic Richard Schickel on the DVD is an absolute revelation <U+0096> I didn't come anywhere near understanding how good this film is until I switched on this feature and watched it for a second time.  He explains the opium den scene and how it's all probably just a dream.  He also explains the unusual transitional shots favoured by Leone which always seem quite enigmatic and effective.


                
Sergio Leone is a brilliant director, first and foremost. He has a way with each camera shot. He finds tension and wonderful moments in the most simplistic of moments. He's a genius. Once Upon a Time in America has some of the same delineation as Once Upon a Time in the West, yet it's missing a lot of the magic that makes Once Upon a Time in the West the great film it is. Once Upon a Time in America is a very good film, but not a great one. The ending is splendid, it makes one think Noodles was dreaming the whole thing, however if that were true then the ending would be when Noodles woke up at the Chinese opium den. However, Noodles dreaming would mean that he didn't find the money and that he got it 35 years later, and that doesn't make sense as he woke up, went to Fat Moe's, got the key, found out no money, so on and so forth. No I think him smiling at the end of the film is his way of saying in two ways that now he gets all the mula to himself and also that he's now rid of this burden of loyalty to friends that he feels like he lost a connection with long ago. From the beginning of the film, Deborah(wonderfully played by Jennifer Connelly and Elizabeth McGovern)states that she loves him but she can never be with him because he's a two bit punk(something to the likes of that). How very true. Noodles puts his hand in the pact they make to share the money even though his lack of enthusiasm shows he wants it all. He had a connections with his friends when he was younger, but after prison you feel the connection is long gone and only there out of loyalty from the history they've had with each other. In the end, Noodles is a loner, is a selfish two bit thug, and he hates himself, the only thing that might make him happy is being with his one true love and when she shatter's that dream, he seems to become numb for good. He then ends up raping the only girl he ever loved because he's certain he'll never see her again and that kills him, but also he just has a self loathing that is calm and well executed through DeNiro's performance. It's almost as if Noodles as a kid was Larry Darrell before the war(Larry Darrell is a character from the Razor's Edge), but after Noodles gets out of prison he is a different man, disconnected, just like Larry Darrell is a different man when he comes back from the war. After 35 years Max has believed he has made Noodles suffer by taking all the money, taking his woman and taking it all. Max believes he has made Noodles suffer after all these years. But again, Noodles comes back, calm, disconnected. He's not mad because he was relieved of that burden, he was relieved of being rid of that old life, to where he got to have a new life for 35 years. Noodles was still miserable, of course he still missed them as us humans do with any loved ones, but that had become innate, his numbness and misery within himself. Max is heart broken that it has no effect on Noodles because Max truly loved Noodles. And Noodles had a love and caring for all his friends, but not the way Max did for Noodles. It was a love story among friends, and how that friendship changed after prison(But how it was still always different even from childhood, just changed more after prison). In the end it hurt Max, and he ultimately did himself in regardless. Some terrific acting, a beautiful music score, music, sound, with some great action and brutal fight scenes, the works. If these elements were missing this film would be a 5 at best, but because of the actors and Leone's unique genius as a director this is a very good film and worth the watch. Brilliant scenes all around too, from the phone ringing segueing into another scene to where Noodles watches Max go to the garbage truck as it then segues into young kids riding in cars. Lot of brilliant stuff, but again, lacks the magic of it's more fine predecessor Once Upon a Time in the West.
Sergio Leone made a masterpiece and an epic with this one. Robert DeNiro, James Woods, Joe Pesci, the debut of Jennifer Connelly, Danny Aiello... the cast alone sells it.But then, you have a story of gangsters covering roughly 50 years, from their childhood to their old age. It is quite the story -- who becomes powerful, who goes to prison and who dies? I particularly loved the scene with the baby switching. The use of the music from "Clockwork Orange" (I do not recall the actual song name) was priceless. I knew instantly that hijinks were coming and I was not let down.


                
Sergio Leone was a fantastic film director. Not everything he did was perfect , far from it , but you cant deny that he had a directing style all of his own. Usually his films contained lots of close up portrait shots, a haunting and memorable soundtrack and usually his movies were very long. Once upon a time in America was the last film Sergio Leone ever directed and without doubt was one of his finest.When he was a boy, Noodles and his friends would roll drunks and make trouble in their Jewish immigrant neighbourhood. His life changed, however, when he met Max . Together the two of them and their gang began planning more complex jobs and successfully making money. As they grow up learning about crime together, they also learn about life and love.Their friendship is interrupted when Noodles is sent to jail as an adolescent, but although he is a young man when he is freed, Max is there to collect him. He discovers that his partners have been busy in his absence, taking advantage of the money to be made illegally during prohibition, and for some time he joins in with their business. But prohibition isn't going to last forever, and when it ends Noodles is concerned that Max's next job is a step too far.I have heard it said by some people that Once upon a time in America is the greatest gangster movie of all time. In my opinion this is way of the mark. It may have been the best up until 1984 ( Godfather fans will disagree) but six years later Martin Scorsese paired up Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci once again to make not only the perfect gangster movie but the greatest movie ever made - GoodfellasIn some ways this film is very Scorsese like. It reminded me a lot of "Mean Streets". Robert De Niro is fantastic as Noodles as is James Woods as Max " don't call me crazy" Bailey. Neither of which turn out to be very nice people. I would have like to have seen the Joe Pesci Character a lot more but he just disappears from the movie without explanation. The timeline drifts quite a bit and it does get a little confusing in the latter part of the film especially due to the extremely poor make up job done on Elizabeth McGovern who played Deborah Gelly . At one stage she is supposed to be the same age as Noodles expect he looks 60 and she still looks 21 . Another problem is the length of the film 3 hours 49 minutes . I'm sorry but that's just too long for a film. Apparently there is a version that is just 144 minutes made for the American Audience but it is cut in chronological order that makes very little sense.I found this to be a very sexually charged movie. Some scenes are quite graphic and i am surprised they got past the censor back in the eighties. The rape scene and the peeping scenes are two that i wont forget in a hurry. As with all Sergio Leone films i loved the soundtrack. Those haunting panpipes sound like they have come straight from one of his spaghetti westerns. the cinematography also looks fantastic. Especially the scenes set during twenties and thirties. This is an epic film about , innocence, trust, passion, honor, Friendship , betrayal, and guilt and was a fitting finale to the career of a great director. 8 out of 10


                
Sergio Leone's "Once Upon a Time in America" was ruined for American audiences at the time of its release due to heavy editing at the studio's insistence. It wasn't until years later that the film was seen in its original form and it now has a sizable following.The story, which is based on a novel by Harry Grey titled "The Hoods", follows a group of gangsters from their days as young punks to their demise in a botched liquor run. All of this is told in flashback as the one remaining member of the crew returns to his old neighborhood to take care of some unfinished business.It should be noted that the film is nearly four hours long, so those with short attention spans need not apply. That being said, those hours go by fairly quickly and, if anything, it seems like there are parts that could have used elaboration. However, this is probably just a result of Leone trying to do too much.The cast is well-assembled with Robert De Niro in the central role and James Woods in the next most prominent role. The rest of the cast is pretty solid though some of the supporting characters are underdeveloped. The only performance that I thought wasn't on par with the rest was Elizabeth McGovern as De Niro's love interest.Leone's direction is expertly handled, giving the film a polished, yet realistic, look. The editor deserves credit as well since he does an admirable job of keeping the narrative flowing, even when switching between three different time periods. Ennio Morricone's score is good for the most part but the motifs get a bit repetitive by the end. Also, there are a few questionable choices, such as the use of the Beatles' "Yesterday" and the pan-flute playing of Zamfir.Even considering the film's faults, I think that it has to be considered a classic gangster movie. While the current IMDb rating is, in my opinion, overly generous (as is the case for a number of Leone's films) I wouldn't begrudge it a spot somewhere in the top 250.


                
I love this movie. although i find it kinda hard to follow at times. but the story is a classic and the sad music just takes me back to the whole 1920's thing. does anybody else think so? and when Domenic died, that was real sad too. i cant believe u have 2 write a minimum of 10 lines. I'm just going to start writing random words to take up space. Jakie banana purse yellow ox buffalo wings luff taffy Chinese Asian Japanese hot pockets toaster strudel pop tarts twang clan cars palm trees godfather blah blah blah wow I'm running out of words to say purple rain yellow fog dark star place web youth great stupid ointment years revolution 1999 doom kitchen German Portuguese American Brazilian .


                
