The first episode looks really great, very promising, with lots of eye candy, nice costumes and sets, some great CGI shots of the picturesque old Berlin. In later episodes they repeat the good stuff over and over again, it gets boring and it gets ridiculous very quickly. The last episodes are insanely stupid and simply annoying. Giving "Babylon Berlin" only one out of ten stars is therefore not an exaggeration.From the very beginning there is something off about BaBe. It's like someone talking about a topic while thinking about a completly different one all the time. You might ask yourself: Why is BaBe - promoted as a fun show about the "The Roaring Twenties/Weimar Era" - set in 1929, when the party was basically over and the roar had become long-since hoarse? Why should I care about "criminal cases" like the one of the secret military cooperation between Germany and the USSR, two pariah states at that time, a cooperation that actually existed since 1921 and was common knowledge since 1926? And that's a main plot-line.The creators of BaBe went to great lengths to make BaBe look historially correct - and then blow it all up with stupid stuff like having a prostitute joining the vice squad or ignoring the facts that poison gas doesn't get the more toxic the more it is diluted -- and doesn't explode. They mix strange historic facts with total rubbish. They were even proudly bragging about this, declaring that BaBe is not supposed to be a boring old period movie, but a work of pure imagination. Unfortunately their imagination is anything but pure. Why?Babylon Berlin is about Hitler's rise to power.
From a communist point of view.Let that sink in. This information is the most valuable key to the understanding of BaBe. Now you'll comprehend the strange plot-lines, the strange things people do or say, why everything turns out to be so humorless, one-dimensional and predictable."Die Weimarer Republik" - nearly a hundred years later her story is still told by her enemies. That's real bad luck, old girl! The 1920s in Berlin, especially the early 1920s, have been a time of extreme misery, extreme hope, extremely crazy new ideas, extreme lust for life, of extremely great stories. Instead of that BaBe gives us stale propaganda by rich Trotskyists about the omnipresent evil that inevitably led to the rise of Hitler. They try to do it discreetly, sneakily. While there is quite some talk of Trotsky (whose ideas "have never really been tried"), the first mentioning of Hitler is in episode 1/6, the first obvious, uniformed Nazis turn up in episode 2/7. But on a deeper level, the real theme of BaBe pervades every episode of this show. If you know the author's intentions, the whole thing makes much more sense. Unfortunately not in a good way, most definitely not in a good way.


                
As an American, the dubbed version of this series is unwatchable. Dubbed voices are in American English, so that Weimar Republic characters sound like they came from Iowa. Tremendously disappointed.


                
Berlin is a great place, and 20s Berlin is the place to be. And those Ivan guys heading to the German capital with the runaway train really scared the sh*t out of me, while Commissario Brunetti investigates the case of the evil porn dealers in the mean streets of Wilmersdorf. I was so scared out of my pants that I thought Wilmer from the Maltese Falcon would round the corner any second. Unfortunately, Wilmer remained in Steglitz, so my friends and me (among them my old friend Axel) had to put up with that Wilma girl who bumped into the Commissario when they left the elevator. That was pure suspense, and this certain kind of subtle humour you only find in German movies. A terrific scene, full of awesome suspense. I have to admit that I also missed Maria Furtwaengler, as well as the great Hubert Burda. The plot is similar to Mad Men actually. Although I think Babylon Berlin is better and also better than Game of Thrones. Because you have real characters here, pure action, and lots of porn. Though I think there might be a little bit too much of porn on German TV, especially since the prime time hard core porn Tatort shown in October 2017. Did I already mention that it is a great series? More so, heaven.


                
I am a big fan of the books upon which this series is based, and I can tell that the production and acting is of superior quality. Unfortunately, the series is rendered unwatchable in the U.S. by the detestable voice-over. In fact it made an absolute mockery of the show, like some sort of Saturday Night Live sketch, but not even a good sketch. There really should be a subtitle version available as an alternative. Perhaps there is, but not that I could find.


                
