The program is everything everyone is saying... but watch it in the original German only.
The English soundtrack is absolutely horrendous. It is truely so bad that it completely alters the rating for this brilliant piece of television. It sounds like a bunch of drama students took a bunch of downers and sat around a table to read the script. There is no emotion, commitment or ownership of the characters. 
And what characters there are! Babylon Berlin is an intriguing world beautifully filmed, scripted and acted.
If, like me you started watching in English and thought it was pox... do yourself a favour, watch in German and experience Babylon Berlin as it was envisioned.


                
This series are one of the best I've ever seen. First of all because they are educational. They tell us about how life was under the Weimar Republic (the democratic regime in Germany between 1919 and 1933). I am tired of all those cliches about Germany as fascistland, ignoring the rich history this country had before authoritarianism.In Germany 1929, the country is falling apart because of the great depression combined with the crippling punishment of Versailles treaty, plus almost all adult males are crippled because of WWI or heavily shell shocked, with seizures and convilsions that prevented them of working or actually leading normal lives. Starvation, homelessness, drug use and prostitition (male, female and transvestite ) are essentially the only way many families resort in order to feed their children and older relatives. Heroin addiction is a menace, and that despair is driving people to embrace any charlatan, demagogue or ideology that promises bringing them a better future (which at the time, was not fascim yet, but Bolshevism, with Trotskyists and Stalinist competing and fighting each other).Despite all that hopelessness and misery that Germans were enduring, there is an incredible cultural scene happening in Berlin, where the nightlife is intense, American Jazz musicians and dancers achieve success, the arts (Cinema, design, architecture, music) is evolving, there is a lot of beauty and reckless sex happening. Decadence is the word to describe the atmosphere, where a caste society lives another planet, with country clubs, mansions and servants, while the plight of the majority is simply ignored. It almost feel like the Blade Runner society.It is not mentioned in the series, but at the time, Albert Einstein was a professor in Berlin, and Fritz Lang was the king of Cinema, Walter Gropius founded Bauhaus by that time, Vladimir Nabokov was living there, in short, the great Europeans minds flocked to Berlin in the late 1920s. So what you appreciate in the series is this dicotomy. How a society with so much brilliance, talent and efficiency could have rebuild itself slowly and become a prosperous nation, but later the population made wrong choices and followed the call that ended up in a disaster that they will never recover. I was in Berlin 2 tears ago, and saw how damaged the city is and felt so sorry for them and their curse.The series gives us some contex that help us understand how many people, mostly good intentioned, ended up supporting a system in 1933 that was almost non existent in the 20s (fascism). Their regime at the time was democratic, with a free press, a legal system, parliament, etc.Babylon Berlin is not only politics. It is also thriller, romance, drama and action. The main actors Gereon and Lotte are very charismatic and you cheer for them all the time, because they come from disfunctional families, but they try to do the right thing all the time. It is almos impossible not to fall in love with Lotte. The rest of the cast is also very good looking, but still keeping the beauty standars accurate with the early 20th century. Their nude bodies are beautiful, but never arousing. The nakedness is constant, but never out of place. And people smoke all the time, whic is also accurate. There is almost no scene without a cigarette.I hope most people enjoy just like I did


                
I was quite aware of the history of German film making which excelled up until the 40's. Babylon Berlin has shown me that the German film industry is not in limbo anymore, but is now making a major comeback with such wonderful mini-series as this one.The cinematography, acting, set designs are just superb. I can not get enough of this great series.To the directors, actors and film crews I want to thank you all for this masterpiece and keep up the good work.


                
As a German I feel a little desperate for good German TV series productions. The last I watched was Deutschland 83. Before that I really don't know, there is quite a big gap.Babylon Berlin chose an interesting time period. The golden 20s. Not so golden for everyone, as we see through Charlotte Ritter and her family. The series starts in the year 1926. The future will show how far they get into Naziland. The takeover is still a couple of years in the future, but the general turmoil is already coming.The production quality seems to be outstanding. Loved the last ten minutes of the second episode with a nice scene. There will be quite a bit of nudity. Which I don't mind, I like it actually.


                
Hard to believe, but one of the best series of the year comes from Germany! The many years of effort by the makers to make this series possible has more than paid off. "Babylon Berlin" appeals to all the senses, tears its audience into an emotional whirlpool and captivates in every scene. Great scripts, fantastic sets and pictures and a great ensemble. Thank you for this great trip - and more of it, please!The Setting the performer the Music the Lights the Camera everything is amazing! Absolutely must LOOK!!! The best German TV Series ever! Cant wait for Season2.


                
If, you are tired of the condescending, juvenile American TV series banality? watch "Babylon Berlin" It is a German TV series set in the 1920's in Berlin. Shades of "I am a camera" The plot, actors, locations, script, dance routines (yes dance.. it does actually fit into the story) are all fantastically well done. The lead actress, Liv Lisa Fries, is perfect as a cross between Audrey Tautou in "Amelie" and Caroline Proust in "Engranage" Quirky, tough, determined, good hearted (buried a little) and capable of doing what is necessary; however distasteful. She also has a passing resemblance to Proust which is definite a good thing! Her character depicts the resignation of women, in a man's world, to what levels they have to sink to... to get by and keep themselves sane. Of course, it is in German; but you can find it with English subs. Make efforts to find it and you will not be disappointed.


                
Its a dizzying assault on the senses, each scene is a painting, its decadent, sexy, violent, bloody, edgy and yes, beautiful, I'm only 2 eps in and I think so far it's a masterpiece. It has a graphic novel feel to it, it's noir but to spite that it feels authentic. This is simply must see TV.


                
This review is based on Astonishment. I did not believe anymore that there would ever be a German production that is well produced and greatly entertaining as well. Babylon Berlin takes place in Berlin in the 1920s and tells an interesting, thrilling and branched story line with likable evolving characters. The scenery and language are very authentic for the depicted period. The actors do a great job. The show provides different genre elements like comedy, drama, eroticism and action. I recommend it to everyone who likes history and crime in TV shows and ofc to everyone who has lost all hope for German TV/Movie productions.


                
This is an exceptional TV series. It has all the elements to make it an award winning piece. Great complicated characters that work well with each other, mystery, intrigue, excitement, shell shock, suggestive, authentic and genuine. Who new that Germany had the ability to produce a show like this that would compete with BBC period series. It is well written and the cinematography and sets really take you back to what it could have been in Berlin 1920s. The poverty, life, rich, poor, politics, morality, ethics and corruption are all part of the story. I have the benefit of being able to watch this with English subtitles or I would have missed the opportunity to really enjoy this show. Unfortunately, whom ever translated it, their English is not the first language and at times the sentences are backwards in English which is normally when someone is translating verbatim but I get the gist of it. If you like time pieces and or like shows such as Endeavor, George Gently, Trapped, Modus and similar then you are likely to enjoy this program.


                
A great series - good acting, story, direction and photography and the sets are beyond cool. I have watched six episodes so far and liked every one from the first to last minute. I hope this is a signal that the Germans are going to add a bunch of great series and movies to the Netflix library.


                
Just when I suspected the golden age of TV might be in decline after close to twenty years (counting from the advent of the Sopranos) along comes Babylon Berlin. What a savage swath through the Weimar Republic, that time in Germany between the World Wars. Were I to recount the plot, the multiple plots, the plots with the plots, this review would go on for many pages. Even Wikipedia has trouble keeping up. First, nothing is at it seems. The heroes often topple off their perches and the villains sometimes show flashes off humanity. No one trusts anyone and with good reason because no one is trustworthy. Morals are beside the point; betrayals are the politics of the day. And amazingly, according to what I read, the history in this series is not exaggerated: this is the way it was in the Weimar Republic.  The production values are fabulous; this is one good-looking movie. Berlin is bright, yet dark, completely addictive. The acting is superb, ranging from a conflicted detective, who reminds one of Clint Eastwood, to an actress who lights up the screen each time she appears, the lovely and very talented Liv Lisa Fries who plays Charlotte, a child of the slums, who has the strange ambition to be a homocide detective.Even the minor characters are sharply drawn.Contributing mightly to the verisimilitude: the costuming which is anything but costuming: these people look as if they had been wearing those peaked lapels and flapper gowns all their lives. Someone said this might be the greatest serial film of all time. Hard to say that when you have such brilliant forays as The Sopranos, Breaking Bad and Fargo but I think they may be right. My only criticism is with the dubbed version in English; everyone has an American accent which is off-putting. The second time around I'm going to try to find the original German version which I understand exists. The golden age rolls on.


                
Don't watch it dubbed... after seeing first 4 episodes on my phone subtitled I started to watch on another device dubbed. Bad move! Dubbing is horrible!!!


                
A wonderful series that connects fiction with real historical facts and human characters.It has captured the spirit of that time through a very balanced story-line. Wonderful acting. At last after almost 100 years, German cinema proves with this series, it has found his artistic know how, which it possessed when Fritz Lang and so many other often Jewish artists made Germany the capital of the seventh art-form. The board walk Empire of Europe


                
This is the best detective series I've ever seen. I've never felt so affected by the characters. Genius storyline and incredible well filmed.


                
Fantastic show. If you like to immerge into other worlds, if you enjoy the maelstrom which can be created by great fiction and art, Babylon Berlin is just right for you. You don't even have to be interested in history or politics or cinematic artistry. It still works perfectly just as a story full of suspense and entertainment. 
It took a while to really get under my skin because it does not use the usual tear jerking bits and no clear cut heros who always do what you wish them to do in order to like them. It creeps into you in small but steady doses. The pace does increase in the second season (E 9-16) with a perfect finale. They do a great job of letting you feel the hope, courage, glamour, stupor, dust and doom of Berlin 1928. They do not force any morale or ostensible messages on you, yet it never feels spineless. Historical insight and information are weaved into a fictional world that captures your senses and intellect alike. They do it in such a natural way that it never feels educational. Like they did in Mad Men or Downton Abbey, but with some more use of experimental ways to visualise or narrate the story. The acting, the visual art (both set and cinematography), the music, are all impressive in the literal sense. The singing: Wow. A haunting performance by Severija Januauskaite, and not to forget Brian Ferry. I can only recommend to watch it. And good to know that they plan on creating two more seasons.


                
In 1929 Berlin, the struggling masses just can't get a break. Not only are the brutal sufferings of WWI still visible in the scars and memories of those fighting in it, but Germany had recently experienced the hyper inflation of 1923, driving millions into dire poverty. Young people wanted to escape reality by living it up in the "anything goes" night clubs, or wheeling and dealing for some extra activities in the discreet "upstairs" rooms. The political winds were getting forceful, with Communists and Nazis fighting for power. Corrupt police and politicians played both sides against one another. The hero, mysterious vice cop (with an apparent morphine addiction) on a secret mission, joins forces with a street smart yet compassionate "Gal Friday"; both refuse to give up hope for a better future for the people of this socially plagued city.The closing theme song is established at the end of episode 2. It's a haunting song by another mysterious character, sung in German with a thick Russian accent. Throughout the series the song is woven into the closing titles, even as other period Jazz music is included in the score. This series is a masterpiece of drama! Some may be put off by many violent scenes, but because these do contribute to the plot, they are not gratuitous. The overall production values are mesmerizing. As a native to Berlin, I am very much impressed by the realism. "Cabaret" gave similar descriptions of the rough life ca. 1930. "Babylon Berlin" offers a sustained, chilling experience no other period piece could match. This is historical fiction of the highest quality!


                
Babylon Berlin is based on the novel "Der nasse Fisch" by Volker Kutscher, but the production changed the story and the characters quite a bit, so much so that I wonder if further seasons can still be based on Kutscher's books.
Since I had read the books not too long before watching the series, I got confused because of those differences, mixing up the images in my head and on screen, so make sure to leave some time between reading and watching.
I can really recommend the books, they are well reasearched, they are historically accurate and give many nice details about the Berlin of that period.
I'm not expert enough to say if the changes and additions made in the series are still as accurate, but the production team consulted a historian while producing it.Babylon Berlin is the most expensive German production so far and you can see it. Where cheaper productions have to go with 3-4 takes to get it done, here each scene was shot until the director was finally satisfied (I was an extra in this series, so I know).
Productions of such magnitude were not new to the team, many "Hollywood" movies and US series were shot entirely or in part in Berlin and Studio Babelsberg, so they had an experienced crew, headed by Tom Tykwer.So is it any good? I'm not quite neutral, since I was there on set, and I dislike it when a good book gets altered too much in filming, but the images alone are worth it, you can see the extra money spent, so give it a try!


                
To make it short: I enjoyed it. A lot.
The 1920´s in Berlin is such a fascinating time. The series takes us into a shady Berlin with corruption, sex, social issues, new culture and a vibrant nightlife. 
The storyline and has a nice built up, which makes us familiar with the characters and stage. What I found most enjoyable is the variaty and detail fused with a great atmosphere, that creates a sometimes dark and nostalgic vibe.
The vibe is enhanced with the interesing characters and a great acting performances. 
Only question for me: Will there be a third season?


                
Babylon Berlin is perhaps the best thriller I have ever seen, and there's no need to duplicate all the rapturous praise everyone else has given. But the worst CRITICISM I see of the series here is that the German dialogue is dubbed into English rather than subtitled. Some people have given it low ratings just because of that.But that's completely silly. Europeans often prefer dubbing, because people can listen faster than they can read, so dubbing can give you a more accurate picture of what's being said. Subtitles inevitably show you only a sampling of the actual words being said.But if you prefer subtitles, it's easy to change the dubbing. Click on the little gear at the bottom of the screen, turn on the English subtitles, and turn the dialogue from dubbed English back to the original German. Problem solved.


                
I watched this after listening to an NPR review. I love history, but crime and violence Is not my usual genre. This is such an amazingly shot series with twist and turns through out the plot that I have become fully addicted up to epi 8( even with the subtitles). A dark story during dark & violent times in 1929 Berlin, it is full of sad situations, the afternath of war on it's vets and population, corruption, decadence and interesting characters. Perhaps a lesson for current times, but when have we ever learned from the past?
This series deserves all the accolades & awards it's been given.Give it a go, you won't be sorry.


                
Wow...more than enough historical context to carry the plot in spite of some expensive technical excess. I am compelled to read the original, if only to follow more closely in fictional narrative why Germany forewent open democracy and gave in to autocracy as an antidote to social and economic chaos.Volker Bruch resembles in looks and certain mannerisms the late Montgomery Clift. His portrayal of a flawed protagonist is classic. The rest of the cast is equally adept at making 1929 come alive. Knowing as we do what happened in Germany in the 1930's it seems poignant indeed to witness the years immediately precedent to that time within this highly accessible story of crime and politics intertwined. And of course to speculate from our own time how easy it is for an anxious public to succumb to the siren's song of an unscrupulous demagogue.The English dubbing here is more than adequate, whether or not it contains 100% accurate content. Some oblique dialogue and jargon or figures of speech do not translate literally. But technically it is all pitch perfect. The framing and sound production are equally first rate.I have seen only the first few episodes, and cannot wait to carry on.


                
I've just looked at the previous reviews and noted that one gave this a 1, another (less ridiculous) gave a 3. Unbelievable!I must admit that I've only seen two episodes so far. The first was very good and the second, excellent. Thank God for a great, thrilling series set in a time that's totally different from the norm. Deutschland 83 was good, but this is superb.The only top-class TV thrillers that the UK has produced in recent years is Line of Duty and the present McMafia (that recent Le Carre series with Tom Hiddleston was ridiculous and over-rated). The USA, of course, has been plowing them out, and I can't wait for the 4th series of Better Call Saul. In the meantime I'm going to wallow in the next 14 episodes of cracking Kraut TV.


                
Babylon Berlin is a great series and shows us where ignorance and belittlement can lead. The series takes place in 1929 and who could have guessed that it was not the Communists that were the bad guys, but the Nazis. Great actors especially Liv Lisa Fries (Charlotte Ritter). I can not wait to see Season 3 and 4. Unfortunately, that will take another 2 years.


                
This new series sets European crime fiction on its head. It has everything, but you don't feel that they are throwing the whole cook book at you. Murder, vice, louche night clubs catering to every gender and taste, disabled war veterans, penniless war widows, the unemployed, fascists, communists (Soviet and Trotskyites), displaced wealthy Russians, possibly corrupt police and politicians, and a right wing appealing to patriotism to make Germany great again. The plot takes the familiar form of the investigation of a random crime which uncovers deeper and deeper layers of something not right and bodies begin to turn up with alarming regularity, all set against the seedy underbelly of Berlin between the two world wars and the hedonistic night life. It is even more disturbing as we know in hindsight what the characters in the series could not see coming. The 1929 stock market crash which sent the world into a depression, as if things were not bad enough already, and the rise of Nazism. The Germans have upped the game on crime drama, which was getting monotonously stale, and it is about time.
This is a really first class series with very troubling contemporary overtones. You have cops who are trying to maintain a regime of law, corrupt cops who are trying to overthrow the government, class conflict between communists and the state; even international intrigue as the Germans clandestinely rebuild their military.It's also sexy and sleazy, the Moka Efti scenes already have, I think, cult status. Widespread drug addiction is disturbingly contemporary. But most troubling is the extent to which what we all know is a big deal is very much just one of many currents in the background: This is a society destined for Nazi takeover and a colossal conflict that will engage the nation in unparalleled crimes, and end in near total annihilation at the hands of the invading allies. You KNOW that's going to happen. But the characters don't. They frame their struggle to arrest crooks and stop crimes within the narrow context of "doing their job." This is a ship that has *got* to go down. But they don't know that. Even the right wing nationalists are not all Nazis, we are carefully shown the right wingers who want to subvert the state so they can bring back the Hohenzollern monarchy (that lost power in WWI, after centuries of rule). Sometimes friends ask me whether a series is as good as Breaking Bad. I say that's a very tough mark because in my view Breaking Bad is the best single series in the history of television. But this show is definitely in the top 5 or 10% of what is out there. It sticks with you.


                
