After having watched the first episode I am most of all fascinated by the atmosphere of the show. Imagine a film-noir-like setting (hats, cigarettes, violence, to mention just a few) against the historical backdrop of Berlin in the 1920s -- having in mind it would become a major and tragic turning point in world's history.From different events in the show (supported by good production value) I got an intense impression of what it must have been back then in Berlin. A newly established democracy, built on the legacy of World War I, vulnerable with enemies on different sides, communists as well as royalists. Personal struggle with traumas from the war, a vast number of poor people, a small number privileged, and all hoping, fearing or at least expecting a major political revolution... you can sense that this kind of society will not go well for long. And in the meanwhile people resort to excessive parties to express themselves and/or escape reality.The acting is top notch. If you don't know the lead actor Volker Bruch yet, imagine Jon Hamm (Mad Men) but with a broader range of acting skills. Also everyone else delivers great acting in my opinion. As a side note, the directors even managed to build a musical piece into one episode, and it fits in perfectly.But after all this awesomeness there's also some disappointment, unfortunately. And that's mainly in the script. First of all, the characters seemed a little weak to me. In other words: I didn't care that much about them. The exception is the female lead, Charlotte Ritter. We see her supporting her family, despite being treated badly. As she's getting ambitious in her work for the police, she struggles with the male dominance and society's gender expectations of that time. That helped me identify with her (even as a man) and wishing for her success. Everybody else we don't learn much about. Even the male lead, Gereon Rath, we only learn in one of the first scenes that he has a trauma from the war. That's it. His motivations, hopes, fears, etc, don't become apparent. So I rooted for him mainly because he's the main character and seemed decent. But I wouldn't call that an emotional investment.The problem of many other major characters is that it's unclear if they're the good or bad guys. This may work for Games of Thrones and some other shows -- but only if you have reference points, so that you can at least *hope* a character will pick one side or the other. In Babylon Berlin I missed these reference points, meaning the sides to pick weren't emotionally strong. The good people as I just explained, and even the apparent bad guys mostly weren't so bad that I could really hate them. Character development? None that I noticed.My second criticism is the plot. There's essentially two plot lines: One following an underground porn movie that could become a problem for a somebody we don't even know... So why should I really care? The second follows a train from Russia with some illegal extra cargo. This becomes a little more interesting because one of the sides that's interested in this cargo actually seems to be violent, so I was inclined to support the other side. But then again I wasn't really sure what the other side wanted either, so in the end I only rooted with reservations. Also, both plot lines weren't really linked, or maybe I missed it. Either way it felt kind of random for me, whether we follow one or the other plot line now. And it makes me sad that even if you pull together some really big names from German cinema, most of all Tom Tykwer, you can't get a script above average, apparently.At the bottom line the show really caught me, though, so that I wanted to see more after each episode. That's partly due to the great setting, atmosphere, production value and acting. But partly also because I was hoping the characters and plot would become more intense next time. In that sense I find it similar to Mad Men actually. Although I think Babylon Berlin is better, because the number of subplots doesn't go through the roof. But compared with Breaking Bad or Game of Thrones it lacks character and plot intensity. In the end, however, these shows play in the same league, so Babylon Berlin is worth watching in any case.


                
