This is an exceptional TV series. It has all the elements to make it an award winning piece. Great complicated characters that work well with each other, mystery, intrigue, excitement, shell shock, suggestive, authentic and genuine. Who new that Germany had the ability to produce a show like this that would compete with BBC period series. It is well written and the cinematography and sets really take you back to what it could have been in Berlin 1920s. The poverty, life, rich, poor, politics, morality, ethics and corruption are all part of the story. I have the benefit of being able to watch this with English subtitles or I would have missed the opportunity to really enjoy this show. Unfortunately, whom ever translated it, their English is not the first language and at times the sentences are backwards in English which is normally when someone is translating verbatim but I get the gist of it. If you like time pieces and or like shows such as Endeavor, George Gently, Trapped, Modus and similar then you are likely to enjoy this program.


                
A great series - good acting, story, direction and photography and the sets are beyond cool. I have watched six episodes so far and liked every one from the first to last minute. I hope this is a signal that the Germans are going to add a bunch of great series and movies to the Netflix library.


                
A wonderful series that connects fiction with real historical facts and human characters.It has captured the spirit of that time through a very balanced story-line. Wonderful acting. At last after almost 100 years, German cinema proves with this series, it has found his artistic know how, which it possessed when Fritz Lang and so many other often Jewish artists made Germany the capital of the seventh art-form. The board walk Empire of Europe


                
Babylon Berlin is based on the novel "Der nasse Fisch" by Volker Kutscher, but the production changed the story and the characters quite a bit, so much so that I wonder if further seasons can still be based on Kutscher's books.
Since I had read the books not too long before watching the series, I got confused because of those differences, mixing up the images in my head and on screen, so make sure to leave some time between reading and watching.
I can really recommend the books, they are well reasearched, they are historically accurate and give many nice details about the Berlin of that period.
I'm not expert enough to say if the changes and additions made in the series are still as accurate, but the production team consulted a historian while producing it.Babylon Berlin is the most expensive German production so far and you can see it. Where cheaper productions have to go with 3-4 takes to get it done, here each scene was shot until the director was finally satisfied (I was an extra in this series, so I know).
Productions of such magnitude were not new to the team, many "Hollywood" movies and US series were shot entirely or in part in Berlin and Studio Babelsberg, so they had an experienced crew, headed by Tom Tykwer.So is it any good? I'm not quite neutral, since I was there on set, and I dislike it when a good book gets altered too much in filming, but the images alone are worth it, you can see the extra money spent, so give it a try!


                
Wow...more than enough historical context to carry the plot in spite of some expensive technical excess. I am compelled to read the original, if only to follow more closely in fictional narrative why Germany forewent open democracy and gave in to autocracy as an antidote to social and economic chaos.Volker Bruch resembles in looks and certain mannerisms the late Montgomery Clift. His portrayal of a flawed protagonist is classic. The rest of the cast is equally adept at making 1929 come alive. Knowing as we do what happened in Germany in the 1930's it seems poignant indeed to witness the years immediately precedent to that time within this highly accessible story of crime and politics intertwined. And of course to speculate from our own time how easy it is for an anxious public to succumb to the siren's song of an unscrupulous demagogue.The English dubbing here is more than adequate, whether or not it contains 100% accurate content. Some oblique dialogue and jargon or figures of speech do not translate literally. But technically it is all pitch perfect. The framing and sound production are equally first rate.I have seen only the first few episodes, and cannot wait to carry on.


                
I've just looked at the previous reviews and noted that one gave this a 1, another (less ridiculous) gave a 3. Unbelievable!I must admit that I've only seen two episodes so far. The first was very good and the second, excellent. Thank God for a great, thrilling series set in a time that's totally different from the norm. Deutschland 83 was good, but this is superb.The only top-class TV thrillers that the UK has produced in recent years is Line of Duty and the present McMafia (that recent Le Carre series with Tom Hiddleston was ridiculous and over-rated). The USA, of course, has been plowing them out, and I can't wait for the 4th series of Better Call Saul. In the meantime I'm going to wallow in the next 14 episodes of cracking Kraut TV.


                
Please....watch with subtitles if you don't speak german!!!


                
Babylon Berlin is simply great television ... visually and aurally stunning ... historically accurate and brilliantly acted.I am not even going to start to discuss the plot. It is too complex and multi-layered for simple explanation and I am sure you can find better plot discussions here and elsewhere.There is a film made in Berlin over that summer of 1929 .. the exact time frame of the series, called "People on Sunday". Sequences of this film are shown when our characters go to the movies adding a just one minute detail in a series full of details. It shows a lost world ...soon to tumble over the precipice.As in Bergman's "The Serpents Egg" the thunderstorm that is Nazism is looming. But Hitler is mentioned only in passing ... in 1929 he was a small feature of German politics.The sense of doom is however palpable ... like the passengers on the Titanic they do not know what lies ahead.... sadly we do.Do not miss this series. This is very adult television at its absolute best.


                
There were times early on when I was struggling to keep track of what was going on but, overall, this is one of the most intriguing and satisfying series I've ever seen on Netflix. Or anywhere else, for that matter!


                
This is one of the most gorgeous series every filmed. It has an interesting story and first rate acting.But WOW, Netflix really screwed up the English versions. The English dubbed sound track should just be destroyed and pretend it never existed. I think the dubbing actors must have been working from nothing but a script and didn't yet have the video to watch. I hate dubbing anyway, but only started watching the dubbed version because...The English subtitles also leave a lot to be desired. Whoever translated the German to English obviously wasn't a fluent English speaker and shouldn't have been selling translation services on this level. Let's hope Netflix sees fit to fix the English subtitles so this series can shine. It truly is glorious.


                
A well done period peace with great acting. A little over the top at times, but overall well worth it


                
Set design outstanding along with cast and simple direct script brings from Germany incredible surprise, questions, and grace far better than current North American 'müll'.


                
Good story , very good handling , amazing camera and special effects. Watch it .


                
Fascinating look into the Weimar Republic in this suspenseful crime procedural. A richly glowing production from Germany. Fantastic performances from Volker Bruch and Liv Lisa Fries.


                
Just into the first season. Very impressive show. Great cinematography, great acting, great script & a fascinatingly complex storyline. This is "Golden Age of Television" material at its best. Highly recommended!


                
Stylish, suspenseful and dangerously addictive. At its height, Babylon Berlin is one of the best foreign language TV shows out there. It is well acted and mostly well written but does lose itself at times in the many interweaving plot lines and can at times leave you with a bad taste in your mouth with its sometimes sloppy writing but nevertheless, Babylon Berlin is a must watch for any fan of historical dramas.


                
This is an excellent drama series from Germany. The acting is great and the stories remain very interesting right up to the end.


                
This is undoubtedly one of the best TV you'll come across.
The story,acting,characters,music,gorgeous cinematography,editing,etc is beyond most things ever seen on TV. Clearly a lot of reviewers agree and I won't waste time on that.
My only grouse is the direction of the finale of the second season.It is very good but completely out of tune with a superb second season.The editing is odd,the sketches include some scenes which stretch your belief, when the best part of Babylon was that most of the story looks and feels believable and hence very involving. No one who likes Transformers is watching this and the need to make characters magically appear somewhere with no logic was not needed. 
But congratulations and thank you for providing an outstanding TV series.


                
