The most complex thing to think about the film Prisoners is why any of the Oscar nominated or recognisably 'serious' actors agreed to be in it in the first place. While it is clearly meant to be, judging by the blind critical reaction, a tense, thought provoking, violent and difficult film, I found it to be too dreary, too melodramatic, too obvious and, most importantly, too long.There are few films that can, successfully, keep me gripped for 2hrs35min. JFK is one and that other Gyllenhaal detective drama Zodiac is another but what they had, that Prisoners forgot, was a complex, gripping detective narrative with possibly many solutions and actual characters. It is in these two areas that Prisoners woefully falls short.Focussing, for the moment, on the little good in the film, Prisoners is very well shot by seasoned director of photography, Roger Deakins and not badly played by the starry, Oscar grabby cast, not that they're given a whole lot to work with.That being said, my first problem with the kidnapping plot is that it was obvious. If you, like my wife and I, indulge your silly brain cells every week by watching 45min detective procedurals like The Mentalist, Castle, Elementary, White Collar or whatever, then you will see the ending of the film coming a mile away. This is because, the way it was set up and as it continued to play out, there was only a handful of ways it could play out. Now, I'm sure, for those not so used to the simple twists and turns of evening TV, Prisoners may have been a gripping whodunit but, I am sorry, if you've read any, even mildly, detective orientated books or watched a Murder She Wrote then you'll know the plot, like I did, 45mins in and will have to sit there for another 1hr and 45mins waiting for surly, grumpy, tattooed Jake Gyllenhaal to work it out too. Which he eventually does but even his, supposedly brilliant, 'never lost a case' detective is beaten to the punch by 'very angry indeed' Hugh Jackman.Gyllenhaal's detective is supposed, I am guessing, to be a tortured, dogged genius but we never see any evidence of him really doing anything insightful or perceptive, he's not a fantastic puzzle solver, good with people particularly and there doesn't appear to be a great intellect pounding away inside his furrow browed, slicked back haired head. It struck me as one of those characters him and the director talked endlessly about but forgot to put any of the motivations into the actual script. We are told in dialogue he is brilliant and we are just meant to take it as read, despite the fact that all he does is mundane and routine investigation. Yes he has tattoos, a grumpy face and spends thanksgiving alone in Chinese restaurants but apart from that, we have no idea what makes him tick, oh and his superiors and the police around him are also woefully inept.Jackman is a survivalist, all American, possible religious nut who is also an alcoholic with an atrociously bad temper bubbling underneath a, not very interesting, surface. I was never sure if we were meant to side with him so that, we the audience, were complicit in his violent actions later on but seeing as I didn't really like him from the get go and seeing as I suspected that probably Paul Dano's massively red herring probably wasn't the bad guy (just by watching the trailer) that didn't really work for me. I actually found his reaction a little unrealistic and over the top but then I also found Paul Dano's character as annoyingly, idiotically stubborn as Jackman found him. Mind of a 10 year old or not, traumatised or not, I didn't buy for one second he'd stay silent for as long as he does, when he had no problem talking to Gyllenhaal's character for an apparent 10hr interrogation (we're told and see on video).Maria Bello, Viola Davis & Terrence Howard are all shockingly underused and irrelevant (mostly) and poor Melissa Leo is left playing, what slides very close to being, a comical old grandma part. Complete with bad clothes, huge glasses and a terrible wig. I am, personally, amazed that this film got made the way it did at all and, secondly, amazed that people love it so much. It's not that it's a bad film. It's fine. It just felt very obvious, mundane, grim and too long.
Some ground rules. Legend has it that the first-time scriptwriter for this oddity was paid a million dollars, and then the project was shelved because they could not figure out what to do with it. Then they had a brainstorm. Just make it. And here we are with an almost-Hitchcockian pseudo-thriller that occasional resembles a police story and even sometimes a horror film. The story gives new life to the cliché, "plot holes you could drive a truck through." Hugh Jackman gives the performance of his life, but his character is so lacking in empathy that this might not be enough. Jake Gyllenhaal plays himself which ironically is more than enough to carry the role. Maria Bello is lost. Dennis Villeneuve is a great director who can make even the rain interesting and one would like to see him try his hand at something better written. Like the phone book.


                
Really surprised that this has garnered so much praise. Many comments talk of great acting performances but as I frequently point out to friends, shouting with intensity is not great acting! I can't believe Hugh Jackman agreed to take such a risible role. You always know you're in trouble when there's SYMBOLISM! The policeman is Loki, Norse God, everyone is 'religious' though nothing stops their sadism,etc. Subtext link to US forces in Iraq - being bad to bad guys just perpetuates the violence. The 2 mothers are ciphers, with no characters, letting the Men do the work! Come on this is 2013! Great cop who's solved every case- yeh, right!- who misses every clue. And at 2 & a half hours...in the end, I didn't care.


                
What a disappointment. I'm a huge fan of Denis Villeneuve, I love abduction films, I like the cast... but this movie was just boring. At one point you'll be about 20 minutes ahead of the supposedly genius detective--who doesn't seem to do much detecting whatsoever. The biggest sin of the film is that you don't care about anyone in the film. You don't care who the "bad" person is, you don't care if the kids are alive or dead, you don't care about anything and you have a LOT of time to not care about it -- more than two and a half hours! Seriously, at ninety minutes this story MIGHT have been captivating. At 150+ it's mind blowingly dull. None of the characters have any basement--none of them have more than a sentence or two worth of backstory to inform their present, the women characters are absolutely wasted. Poor Maria Bello can never catch a break--her character lies in bed the whole movie. Terrible waste.Viola Davis is the best of the cast--she almost always is, but even she doesn't get much room to do anything. The film also goes for numerous cheap shots, blatantly obvious red herrings with no purpose but to manipulate the audience. What a waste of pretty much everyone involved. Ugh.


                
Story was good. But I don't think it could have been directed any worse. First of all movie was extremely slow. The pacing the timing was so awful. There were a lot of unnecessary scenes that could have been shortened or not used in the movie at all. I can say at at least 1 hour of the movie could be cut out and the story wouldn't change, in fact it would be better. The slow rhythm of the movie made it like drama more than a thriller. There were parts where it got really really boring. Jake Gyllenhaal's bad acting made the movie even worse. And it had the worse ending ever. The only thing good about the movie is Hugh Jackman. He's kind of saving the movie with his great acting. Other than I can say that it has a good and strong story, but unfortunately turns out to be a really bad movie.


                
7. Rain. Constant rain and snow. The story is gloomy, I get it. Does it also have to be relentlessly dark and poorly lit?6. When was the last time you watched any decent film, or TV show for that matter, where a sensational headline-grabbing crime against children is investigated by one-- count him, one-- detective. This small town may have limited resources, but when two young girls go missing, even a two-man department puts both men on it. When Jackman blames Gyllenhaal personally for not finding the girls quickly, it took a few seconds for my eyes to roll back into place.5. Nobody locks their doors. Even AFTER the girls go missing, one of the possible bad guys walks into both of their houses, while people are at home, and steals items. Easy peasy.4. The Paul Dano character endures 10 hours of interrogation by Gyllenhaal, then when he is released, suddenly whispers a clue to one of the fathers (Hugh Jackman), which no one else can hear, and therefore no one believes. The result is Jackman capturing and torturing Dano for a week-- and he still won't talk. Why not? So the filmmakers can have him tortured twice.3. The other suspect (David Dastmalchian), another man who was once kidnapped and abused, keeps trunks full of snakes in his house. Evidently, this is just to scare the police, and the audience, but it only confuses things.2. Okay, I know this will be about as popular as saying that Ryan Gosling actually looks like a gosling (which he does), but here goes: Jake Gyllenhaal has one expression: doleful. Given how dumb his character is, that almost works. Still, you'd think that an animal expression would cross his countenance occasionally.1. Motivation. While we drown in motivation for Jackman's vigilantism, little motivation is provided for the crime(s). We're told the kidnappings are the perpetrators' way of "getting back at God" because their son died. It's a lazy, trumped-up reason for a thriller. And the balance is way off. The filmmakers wallow in the torture of innocent suspects, motivated by "good" characters (Jackman, Howard, Davis), while the real villain is hardly seen until the end, and the motive for having tortured children is only mentioned in passing. It's amoral film-making. By the time the movie is over, my relief and apathy were so great that all I wanted was escape. If I'd had a toy whistle, I'd have been just like Hugh Jackman at that point.
The first 20 or so minutes was promising and I was gripped by what might unfold...then it fell apart with too many illogical and unrealistic actions by (supposedly normal) people to 'force' the plot, which doesn't make for good story telling.Too many times, the question of 'why is he/she doing that?' pulls me out of the movie sequence and after an hour, I was forced to be a critic instead of being absorbed by the story. To the movie's credit, it kept giving me hope that things will be explained later, but sadly, more illogical actions by the main characters dashed my hopes, and by the mid-point, my mind went to 'whatever' mode and stopped caring about the story.Very sloppy police work - 10 hours of interrogation of a mentally-challenged suspect, without once bringing in an expert to try to coax some truth out; In fact, all interrogations are a waste of time (All three suspects) and the police seem to be okay with learning nothing; a detective who is a loner and 'rambo' all crime scenes by himself, and never once discusses the case with anyone else; When following a suspect, he allows a truck to keep honking him instead of moving out of the way to stay undiscovered? Must be a new surveillance method; a captain who acts like a security guard on a fairly high-profile case, never once directing his people on the investigation nor ever seemed to be interested in the case; Cuff a suspect but leaves him right beside the main door while going deeper into the house searching various rooms? In real life, the suspect would try to make a break for it, surely!; Shoot a suspect, and being shot in the process, but wait, a child is hurt, so let's not even check if the suspect is dead or call it in, just drive to a hospital with blood obscuring his view. Great, a car chase wouldn't make sense for the plot, so let's add this to pump up the adrenaline. Stupid!; stop digging because the ground is frozen, really? Urgency is not valued in police work. Anyone who has seen even one episode of CSI will shake head at how poor the investigators are at treating the case and evidence. The search scene shows a rather large police force, yet on a case with multiple suspects and leads, 'lone ranger' goes it alone. Conveniently, all the clues are on the internet because the police couldn't link various cases of missing children to find some common treads in a (supposedly - due to the 'redneck' style police work) small community; DNA tracing and finger printing must be too new to this police department so that the plot can keep going without the disruption from truth or logic. The main suspect's parents 'died in a car accident'? Let's not check his background and his parents' names.Very strange crisis-management/grieving process - one mother resigns to sadness and spends her time in bed medicated; another mother sits at home staring at old photos. Hang on, the children are not known to be dead yet, shouldn't they try to do something? No, it's easier to grief instead of looking. Why is Dover doing all the running around? And, four parents, each seem to do their own thing, unknown to their respective partners, are allowed to carry on. No one wants to 'band' together to discuss how to find their missing children, they just want to rage in their own way. A new family structure? Terrible villains - The priest who knows a dead man is in his basement, but keeps it to himself. Maybe he didn't kill the guy, but a priest is not bound by silence when known crimes are committed (kidnapping and killing children cannot be said to require the vow of silence, surely)...perhaps, he wanted in on the action? But then why let the guy die and then keep the body?; Dover becomes a kidnapper and torturer, in the hope of learning the truth, but he never gives his captive a chance to speak...every time the captive says something, instead of coaxing more out of him, he goes on a yelling rage of 'tell me'...mate, shut the f**K up and listen, maybe he is trying to tell you something. Then he cleverly constructs a box so that he cannot hear what his captive says...this means he only wants to torture the guy and not extract information as the main objective of the exercise; The old auntie seem to be an experienced abductor and child killer, yet wouldn't shoot a man threatening to reveal her true identity...why toy with him when children are her real targets? He is just an obstacle to her pursuits, so shoot him in the head already and throw him into the hole and be done with it...but noooo, we need the last whistle scene to close out the story. She can bound and gag the children when Dover comes to visit, but would lead the detective to the child (With open door no less) instead of getting rid of him before killing the child; and if her real objective is to rage against god by killing children, why keep the children alive for 6 days? Are there 'auspicious' days to kill children that we weren't told in the story? All in all, the movie has enough to keep audiences watching, but their minds must be switched off to accept the story development. Based on the plot alone, there is no reason to watch after the first half an hour. Acting is brilliant when compared to the script and maybe that is the ticket; have a terrible script so that the actors can make use of their talents to keep the audience watching. When I say brilliant, I do not mean good, I just mean it is much better than the script. What a waste of talent on this 'didn't-think-it-through' crime caper.
Very well directed, poorly written, badly cast, well filmed waste of time.Predictable, trite but pretty film with poor performances from all except Paul Dano who was absolutely brilliant.The narrative didn't go anywhere you couldn't predict and trod ground already well worn and muddy. Jackman seemed insincere, Maria Bello miscast and extremely annoying. Considering other features of the genre, Silence of the Lambs springs to mind and makes this look quite amateurish.A polished turd.


                
****Warning Spoilers don't read this if you plan to see the movie****This fascist propaganda movie could actually have become a good story with the right ending and message. Seldom have I watched a movie where I ended up hating practically every character shown. In terms of depressing finale this movie even beats "funny games" since I actually started rooting for the so called "bad guys". What scares me is that most people don't grasp how morally repulsive this movie really is. It makes me scared of todays society when movies like this one gets an 8.1 average rating and most people actually think that the end justifies the means, and that police brutality, torture, sadism, suicide, assault, retaliation are stuff you can be OK with if there only is a suspicion of a crime. Don't get me wrong, I've grown up with the Dirty Harry and Death Wish movies, and they didn't leave me upset at all. I even enjoyed them. Junkfood for the brain. At least in those movies they catch the bad guys in the act most of the times. But this movie is disgusting. I've got nothing against it portraying selfish, egoistic evil psychopaths and unprofessional people, but it's the moral stand that it takes in the end that makes it awful. They deliberately edit out the scene where Detective Loki finds the tortured and mentally disabled Alex. And everything is immediately forgiven as long as you have committed the right type of sins. During the 2 and a half hours they showed so much egoistic sadistic violence by "the good guys" that I even ended up hoping the girls would be dead. You don't care about them anyway since their characters aren't developed in the story. All crimes should be punished in this movie, not just the ones that media decides are the worst. At least 3 of the parents deserved jail-time, probably all four. The detective should've been suspended if not prosecuted for the way he handled that interrogation. Even the captain was at fault. If the movie showed good police work and real heroes this movie would've gotten an 8. You can't have a morality tale with an hypocritical message. As entertainment it's OK but it's dangerous entertainment and you should never forget that. 3 out of 10.
You've seen and heard it all before. This wont leave you feeling anything positive about life, its just another suspense filled thriller about murderers. A slight twist in the story does not save this well trodden theme. The fact this film has more than 8 in the ratings says more about the state of mind of the public than anything else. If your looking for something different , this is not the film for you. Its high time the mould was broken and people started making more films that don't leave people worrying or in fear of what might happen to you or your family. Untouchable(french film) is what im talking about, or searching for sugar man. those type of films give you a good feeling, they contribute to this world. This is just another turd in a cesspool.


                
So how did it happen? How can a movie with so many great actors, doing their best acting ever maybe be so bad? Well, I guess it starts with the script... The script for this movie is doing several things that I consider insulting for the viewers. First, it gives you all the information in advance on a silver platter, there are no real surprises in the movie (though you keep hoping there will be some), but the clues are so visible and obvious that anyone who ever had to solve a logical question, should be able to understand the plot pretty much from the beginning... It also tries to shock the viewer in order to convey the characters' dilemmas. It's an easy and cheap way of conveying a message. I find it more effective and lasting when the ideas are presented to me to digest than being thrown at my face, trying to force me consider issues that I don't even think are worth my consideration. The movie is full packed with gaping holes in the plot. Things that just don't make much sense in 2013, and Jake's character, as a detective, seems to simply be a very bad, incapable detective. Overall, it's disappointing to see so many good actors, and good acting, goes to waste on a badly written, badly thought of, screenplay.


                
Jackman plays Keller Dover, a bully with a family and some friends. On Thanksgiving, the Dover and the Birch families meet for lunch and in the afternoon both their younger children disappear.Enter detective Loki, played by Gyllenhaal and the hunt for the filthy kidnapper starts with the lengthy interrogation of suspect number one, Alex Jones. Alex is suitably creepy and with a shady past, but is that enough to make him a child abuser?Drenched in the cold light of the winter season, with plenty of rain and snow, the movie manages to maintain a tense rhythm just about three quarters of the way. Then it collapses due to several problems:none of the main characters seems able to articulate their thoughts. A movie with one, strong silent type is OK, but here just about everybody (strong or otherwise) is extremely silent, even when keeping their mouth shut results only in getting additional beatingsthe Dover character, being an anguished father should attract some sympathy, but he is just a bully, determined to beat his way to the truth. A bully with a family is still a bully and the extreme violence Dover is capable of is not justified by the circumstancesthe "investigation" seems to be carried out by a single man. Detective Loki puts himself in dangerous situations without any back-up or contact with headquarters. Seems stupid and I doubt a real detective would risk that muchthe token pedophile priest is one of the semi-red herring sub plots that has been done way too often. Besides, even if this character could be relevant, he is also unable to relate his story in an intelligible wayat the end of the movie, Dover's wife tells Loki that her husband is "a good man". Apart from the fact that he lied to and threatened everybody around him, bullied his friends into being his accomplices, kidnapped and tortured an innocent person and planned to do worse to somebody else.<U+0085>. but we are supposed to buy into his being "good" because he loves his child.over two hours of movie with very little dialogue and no sympathetic characters is way too long.


                
Wow, that's one really overrated movie (it even got an Oscar nomination). I don't understand why director Dennis Villeneuve is hold in such high esteem but this drama/crime/mystery film is just boring. Despite the shiny cast and the atmospheric direction this is just a mediocre missing persons crime movie that is painfully slow and lengthy. Good luck trying to cope with 153 minutes of slow motion "action scenes", like watching people crossing a road in the rain in real time (and in slow pace)! I do not know how everyone considered this movie an "emotional, absorbing and disturbing viewing" (rotten tomatoes critics consensus) but I would say that is just a disturbing viewing. period.Grade: D


                
I like watching movies that have a clear and defined finish, this movie definitely does not have that. For me the finish left the movie hanging, now I love watching TV shows that have cliff hangers I cant wait for the next episode to see what happens. This movie does not have a second to help resolve definitively what happens in the ending, so for me it wrecked the rest of the movie.The storyline was OK not unfamiliar, I deciphered very early on the guilty and sat watching and waiting for the crime to be solved. The story opens many things and leaves the trail opened yet unfinished. The acting was good and it was gripping in places. However if your are like me and like to watch a movie and fill completed at the end do not watch this one.
Where do I start? A mishmash of a plot, a waste of some really talented actors. I had to read the spoilers here to figure out what had happened. E.G. SPOILER - I thought the guy with the snakes was the woman's missing husband. She didn't look that old, just had old people's clothes and a bad hairdo. Aha! According to IMDb, she was only 5 years older than Viola Davis. SPOILER #2 - obviously JG was going to find HJ after he heard the whistle, but really? An ending like that? And all the slloooowww quiet talking of JG and HJ. And an unrealistic wife taking pills instead of looking for her kid. Full of clichés and bad dialogue. Big disappointment.
If you do not care whether or not a movie makes sense, you may find this film compelling and exciting. After all, the cinematography is moody and the performances are self-consciously intense. However, if you are the kind of movie watcher who likes your movies to be coherent, you will be disappointed. Beyond some glowing reviews no doubt posted by hacks for hire, you will find several other IMDb reviewers who point out this movie's many nonsensical plot holes. These critical reviewers are correct and I urge you to read their posts-- just look for the low scores.The writing in this film is so sloppy that at one point, suspicions hang on a half-used bag of lye. Um, people use lime, not lye, to cover up the smell of decaying bodies. I guess screenwriter Aaron Guzikowski could not be bothered to get this fact straight, since he was too busy stealing half-remembered ideas from other, better movies. If you care about story logic even just a little, skip this baggy, saggy mess of a movie.


                
It is clear from the reviews it is a film you will either love or hate. For those that found in an 'on the edge of your chair thriller' I can only assume you haven't seen many film.The detective is portrayed as a super cop who has cleared up every case he's dealt with. Judging by his performance in this film I find this very hard to believe, and wouldn't trust to investigate a shoplifting let alone an abduction of 2 kids.A guy with a mental age of 10 is able to endure over a week of torture without dropping his aunt in it. Some guy collects kids cloths and covers them in pigs blood, and places them in a suitcase full of snakes for no apparent reason.One of the kids manages to escape but we don't really know how.No real motive for the kidnapping.The viewer has no empathy for the family or children as no bond is established, at one point I briefly forgot that two kids had been kidnapped.The significance of the 'Maze' was never explained.I could go on but I've wasted 153 mins of my life watching this film so don't propose to waste any more.
Before I rented this movie, I looked at the reviews and got my first clue...older women didn't rate it as highly as young males. That's weird for a movie about the kidnapping of two little girls. But now I get it.This movie is long, boring, dark, and violent. Some of it is just plain old torture porn, trying to masquerade as something more meaningful. The plot, which isn't really about the kidnapping of two little girls, borders on the ridiculous, as do most of the characters. I fast-forwarded through a good bit of it without missing any of the story, and still it was too long.As to why some people thought this was a 7- or 8-star movie...I don't even want to know. Really.


                
This was a good (if not too long) thriller that should have been so much better. I refer to the ending so if you don't want to know come off now.Hugh Jackman's character is seen as a tough guy who can certainly handle himself,that is until he comes up against a little old lady in her kitchen. He then acts totally out of character and does exactly what she asks even though it is obvious that she is not going to let him live, and he won't rescue his daughter. In the kitchen he could have easily over powered her, OK she had a gun but so did he in his bag. Or when she gave him the drink to weaken him, what does he do? He drinks it rather than through it in her face.Then the most stupid part. He gets into a car and reverses slowly as she asks him to, rather than reversing quickly to knock her over or oat least off her feet. And then he jumps down a hole so she can lock him in with the car over it.Sorry but none of this makes sense and it spoilt an otherwise good film.I also thought that Jake Gyllenhaal was a poor choice for his role as a cop, he was clearly unhinged and hindered the investigation, (then maybe cops are like that?). Terence Howard's character was the only one I believed out of all the parents and Paul Dano plays his part well as the mentally backward son of the nutty woman. I also thought that the film had too much unnecessary bad language, (Then I always find that people swear and curse more in movies than I ever find in real life(, But I put up with it as the story was gripping until the end.It is a real shame that this film ended the way it did. The silly ending with the whistle noise was so predictable as to almost turn this into a comedy.
I saw this movie 2 times , because i am father for 2 daughters and i reacted with the movie so much because i putted myself in the father's place in the movie and i was waiting all the time that moment of the meeting between the father and his daughter ( the happy moment ),but we lost this moment and lost this feelings because of the bad idea of the end of this movie , i think the director putted this story in a maze , and he couldn't solve it , therefore we saw very silly things leads to bad scenes , many weak points happened in this movie , the main idea of this story is bigger than the ability of the director.you have to know that the viewer day after day become more smart and refuse the weak points in the movies .


                
Plot & Story was awesome. Acting & sequence of events did not make much sense... Especially the choices that were made by key actors... Great plot though. The choices made by the characters were very contradictory to reality and how things would really happen. They made characters seem a little too stupid in my opinion. I heard the movie was really good from friends, but maybe they were individuals who lacked imagination. I think the actors were great choices. I was definitely surprised in the turn of events and the suspense was amazing. I feel as though the girls initial choice in the beginning, was a little ridiculous as well. Also, the neglect of the law enforcement was very discouraging, as my Uncle is a detective. But I guess that is the realistic portion about people in general. I would not watch the movie again because of my annoyance to certain events. I think the Director had a great idea!


                
Three stars for excellent acting and good photography.If you enjoy being immersed in a relentlessly dark, depressing, ugly world of creepy, sick psychopaths and even some "decent people" who descend to extreme violence and torture to achieve their aims - then this movie is for you. Very much in the vein of "Silence of the Lambs."Full of red herrings and plot elements that are easy to miss or don't quite add up. For just one example, the viewer is expected to very quickly spot and understand a "maze pendant" that reappears in different scenes and plays a major role in the story. I'm an average viewer and missed this both times until reading about in an online plot summary.Not recommended.
I have to say something about the plot to say what I felt was inappropriate about it. The plot includes a significant amount of something I feel is in practice quite ineffective, quite brutal. Because it generally doesn't work well, to me, it's prominent inclusion in the film is damagingly and offensively tasteless. I'm talking about the use of human torture to extract information. I'll concede you get information using it, but often quite unreliable information as the victim concocts anything they can think of to stop the torture. Especially in a situation of uncertain guilt, it is a really stupid way to proceed. And I hate brutality being glorified.Other than that, the film has an excellent cast who give excellent performances. But the plot is dumb in my opinion. I had high expectations from all the dazzling reviews of this film, but I thought it would be valuable to share my contrary reaction for the sake of others who may share my opinion of torture.
