Wow, what an intensely suspenseful film Prisoners was. The film commences with a naturalistic and peaceful look of a suburban neighborhood, leafless trees calmly swaying along with the cool air that encompass them. All is fine, and a perfectly normal family visits their friends/neighbors for a delightful dinner and some music. Everything is fine and dandy until both family's two kids run off to retrieve a toy they left outside. After pleasant conversation, the two families begin to realize that their kids haven't gotten back yet. The noiseless environment around them feels incredibly unusual, and once they realize that their kids have officially gone missing, chaos breaks loose. We are suddenly presented with a ruthless father (played by Hugh Jackman) who loves his daughter so much that he's willing to transcend any morally difficult obstacles to hopefully locate her. A spectacular cast, ranging from the likes of Hugh Jackman to Jake Gyllenhaal to Viola Davis and Terrence Howard, create such a chilling atmosphere that everyone in the audience immediately notices the discomforting subject matter as they prepare for a disturbing viewing. One should know prior to visiting the movie theater that this film doesn't feature morally perfect individuals. They are all human beings cast into an unbelievably frightening situation, and this is where larges amounts of debate will stir. There's one side of the audience that will persistently detest the characters' actions and the characters themselves, and there's the other side (which I am proudly a part of) that will essentially understand that people can't possibly (always) be the "goody-two-shoes" heroes, perceived in Hollywood blockbusters, in reality- that, by god, I will partake morally and ethically questionable activities to save a precious, loved one, absolutely! Such conversation/argument is healthy for it proves the memorability factor of the film itself. After you witness the terrifically-crafted picture, you will find enjoyment in discussing the movie's events with friends and family with- eventually- two sides forming over the talk. And holy crap is Hugh Jackman entirely convincing in his performance. You can see the longing to find his sweet, innocent daughter through his miserable eyes, filled with redness, desperation, and anger. Then, there's Jake Gyllenhaal as the second lead, playing an ambitious cop who holds a very impressive resume: no unsolved cases left under his plate. Can that mean his skill will greatly help in this predicament? On a similar note, Paul Dano takes the prize after Hugh Jackman for another wonderful performance. No offense or anything, but he completely fits into these immensely creepy and eerie roles. Speaking of, the soundtrack will definitely remain in that shocked mind of yours long after you've left the theater because it fills us with a sense of hopelessness and discomfort. At times, it sounds exceptionally ominous with the disconcerting sound of those violins in play. At others, it sounds like the music weeps for all those involved. The pace never seems to drag even though it clocks in at around 150 minutes as you remain at the edge of seat the entire time, utterly perplexed by everything that's transpiring and wholly befuddled by the choices that these people are making. The film will make you cringe and question the humanity of the participants or the competence of our law (that word could mean two things). Although I was slightly disappointed with the end result, the majority of the film strongly intrigued me. And, oh, how could I forget, the cinematography is simply amazing. Roger Deakins, the brilliant cinematographer behind last year's Skyfall, manages the camera-work of this film as well. As one wise critic said, a drive in the rain never felt so disquieting- a moment of foreboding. Furthermore, I would not recommend skipping out on Prisoners unless you're of the type that prefers more lighthearted and fun movies like The Avengers. If you love films that explore more than just entertainment and "fun," such as important themes and moral ambiguity as a whole, you cannot go wrong with Prisoners. With a mix of top-notch cinematography, remarkably unsettling music, superb performances, and a thrilling/powerful story, Prisoners will definitely be one of this year's features that I'll surely be remembering. The true cinema season has started; now, let's hope every film from here on out delivers like this one did.


                
Writing about James Fennimore Cooper, D.H. Lawrence said, "the essential American soul is hard, stoic, isolate and a killer. It has never yet melted." Prisoners is a Canadian director's meditation on this passage.Michael Mann's The Last of the Mohicans opened with Hawkeye shooting a deer and then praying over the dead animal. Prisoners opens with Keller Dover (Jackman) saying the Lord's Prayer as his teenaged son sights in and shoots the deer that will be Thanksgiving dinner. The parallel is no accident. Dover thinks of himself as the Deerslayer. He's a self-employed, self-reliant workman with a basement full of canned goods and ammunition stored against the breakdown of society, which he expects at any time. He's a survivalist and a handloader. He lives in a nondescript former industrial town somewhere in the part of Pennsylvania that James Carville described as Alabama. His suburban house is the smallest in the neighborhood, with the siding stained dark brown, looking like a log cabin. His only vehicle is the pickup truck from his contracting business. He seems to have come down in the world from his late father, whom he revered, and he's just barely keeping up with the mortgage. Though not a political word is spoken, he's prime Tea Party material. His belief in himself and his disdain for institutions are going to be tested to the extreme when his five year old daughter and her neighborhood playmate disappear, victims of an apparent abduction, on Thanksgiving afternoon.This is a foreigner's take on the United States. The director, Denis Villeneuve, is a French-Canadian whose last movie, 2010s Incindies, was a perceptive look at the Lebanon civil war of the 70s and 80s. Villeneuve is looking at a society whose individualism, distrust of authority, and general availability of firearms are very different from Canada, and he does not take those things for granted in the same way an American director would. Prisoners makes an interesting companion to this summer's Still Mine, a Canadian story about an old fashioned self-employed individualist who falls foul of local authority in rural New Brunswick. I've long thought that the Canadians are King George's dutiful children while Americans are his rebellious ones, and the two pictures set off the contrast nicely. This is an anthropological look by a Canadian at what a very American man like Keller Dover might do when his child is kidnapped.Villeneuve uses one of the more annoying tropes in American movies to humanize Dover – the Validating Black Guy. Cousin to the Magic Negro, who puts the white protagonist in touch with deeper values, the VBG's function is simpler – to show that this white man, regardless of his other faults, is actually all right because he likes black people and they like him. Dover's neighbor, friend and one-time high school buddy Franklin Birch (Howard) and wife Nancy (Davis) are cast as black because otherwise Keller Dover would come across as a complete redneck.But the essence of the Birches is class, not race. They live in a nicer house and are much more securely in the middle class than the Dovers. Nancy's a veterinarian and Franklin looks like he has some kind of office job. Their function is to react as decent, normal middle class folks would when their daughter is abducted and when Dover goes off the rails looking for the kidnapper. The parallel with our reactions to 9/11 is pretty obvious, but that's not where the movie ultimately goes.The spousal relations break pretty clearly along class and historical lines. Nancy and Franklin Birch are a contemporary married couple of the upper middle class. They pull each other through. He confides in her, she's probably the stronger of the pair, and her moral judgments are the last word between them. The Dovers are almost 19th century. Grace Dover (an under-used Maria Bello) is passive; a pure housewife who looks to Keller as her protector and hero. She breaks completely under the strain, spending all of her time in bed under sedation. Her husband is content to have it so, keeping his activities secret and warning his son not to let his mother know what is going on.Dover's opposite number and antagonist is Detective Loki, the star of this small town police force, and apparently the only detective on the case. (I find this improbable. For a crime like the abduction of two five year old girls, a one horse police department would get overwhelming support from State Police detectives). Loki is zealous, smart, though not as smart as he thinks, and willing to fall back on shouting and violence when nothing else seems to work. He's cracked every case he ever worked on, and he expects to crack this one. He's also got the official mindset that regards Keller Dover's insistent involvement as a clear nuisance if not something worse. But he's got far more energy and drive than his police chief, a mediocre man who has learned to rationalize mediocrity with philosophical resignation.The plot is full of trap doors and red herrings, and you have to pay very close attention to the dialog to pick up what you need to know. Even if you do, I think that one key element is left unexplained. You will be completely involved in what comes next for two and one-half hours, and there will be a lot to chew on when it's over. Definitely worth it.


                
Denis Villeneuve didn't debut with Prisoners, but it was this movie that put him on the map as one of the most exciting new talents to come around in sometime. Prisoners is about a pair of girls who are abducted which leads to an investigation and search effort by the father of one girl played superbly by Hugh Jackman. This is a tough but rewarding film to sit through and the pacing is good- you will be transfixed throughout. The acting is superb and everyone from Terence Howard and Jake Gyllenhaal to Paul Dano and Melissa Holly shine, but the star act is Jackman who should have received more accolades for his turn as the distraught father in this movie. Cinematography is stunning as is the direction.


                
This was a gloomy crime film, directed by the Canadian Dennis Villeneuve (''Blade Runner 2049'', ''Arrival''), and is an experience not for the faint of heart, as it deals with every parent's nightmare: the abduction of their children. Hugh Jackman delivers a solid performance as the father of the family who is willing to cross any ethical boundary in order to find his kids and restore the serenity in his household. Jake Gyllenhaal is great as the persistent cop who swears to solve the case even if that means risking his own life. The chemistry between the angry and suspicious father and the police officer who asks him not to meddle with the case is the driving force moving the plot forward because ''Prisoners'' is more of a character-driven drama than an action thriller, which places the emphasis on the emotions of the devastated parents and the obsessiveness of the detective. The rest of the cast acts pretty decent and overall ''Prisoners'' should be on the top-10 of crime films for the last five years. Highly recommended!


                
Denis Villeneuve didn't debut with Prisoners, but it was this movie that put him on the map as one of the most exciting new talents to come around in sometime. Prisoners is about a pair of girls who are abducted which leads to an investigation and search effort by the father of one girl played superbly by Hugh Jackman. This is a tough but rewarding film to sit through and the pacing is good- you will be transfixed throughout. The acting is superb and everyone from Terence Howard and Jake Gyllenhaal to Paul Dano and Melissa Holly shine, but the star act is Jackman who should have received more accolades for his turn as the distraught father in this movie. Cinematography is stunning as is the direction.


                
The whole "Crime:In the name of Love" story is not that attractive due to the mass editing problems,some scenes seem to be a little strange without any logic senses.The director has tried so hard to show the story with two parts including the Dovers and the Detective,but also failed to dig the real meaning from it,about crime,about faith,about love and belief.The whole frame of the story is so vacuous that everything seems to be unreal,so are the performances.To be frank,Hugh Jackman has given us a convincing father who has suffered a lot,but some of his behaviors still remain incomprehensible.Jake is awesome as a police detective,but I'm not sure if he can get another Supporting Actor nomination.Oscar winner Melissa Leo has shocked me indeed.


                
There is a scene in "On Dangerous Ground" (1951) in which half-crazy detective Robert Ryan is about to beat the living crap out of a suspect to gain information. Ryan's features twist into a pustule of hate, hardly human. "Why do you DO it? Why do you punks make me DO it?" And then he goes frantically to work.This is a a more complex story of the kidnapping of two little girls and the lengths to which the parents and police are willing to go to either retrieve the victims or find the bodies. But the most complicated character, the father who engages our interest because he instrumentalizes his grief and anger (Jackman), does more or less what Ryan does in the earlier film. He goes berserk, tramples on the law, and reduces a half-wit that he suspects to a bloody pulp.There are harmonies in the sometimes torpid story that I didn't quite get or wasn't sure of. There are ominous organ chords, a drunken priest who is a red herring, and references to penance. There's a candle light vigil for the girls. It's deep enough, even without any spiritual content. After all, when you get right down to it, the question raised by Jackman's tactics is: "How far is it ethical to go in torturing a prisoner, even in a good cause?" It's a medieval issue but recently a more contemporary one.It's a long movie -- too long, really -- and it could have benefited from more ruthless cutting, yet it all adds up. The director, Villeneuve, effectively captures the drab aspects of working-class life in one of those flat, brick, ranch-type residential neighborhoods on the outskirts of a small town in Pennsylvania, actually shot in Georgia.The acting is, well, hard to describe in a word but maybe "naturalistic" will do. It's something like "All The President's Men" in that respect. The kidding around and the hesitations and interruptions don't sound as if they were being read from cue cards.Jackman is fine as the enraged father who is determined to beat a confession out of his retarded prisoner, but he's not a sadist. He doesn't ENJOY doing it. And the scenes are truncated, avoiding the nasty current affection for torture porn that has infected movies like "Unthinkable" or the unbearable "The Killing Gene." The viewer is likely to be "for" or "against" the other characters but Jackman's is problematic. He's not just rude or irrational. He's brutal. It's what makes it the most interesting role.In fact, everyone pulls his or her weight, but Maria Bello is truly impressive, though she doesn't have that much screen time. And Mellisa Leo as the mother of the chief suspect is outstanding. One of those distant, suspicious, kindly authoritative, slightly sour Midwesterners, though she's from New York.The ending collapses in upon itself. People do idiotic things like search dangerous places without calling for back up. Without warning, a familiar character splits open and reveals the demon within. Cliché follows cliché. I still don't exactly understand it. The rest is tense, involving, quite well done.
This is a tricky one. I'm going to try and avoid any form of spoiler so there'll be a certain amount of tip-toeing through the tulips. Denis Villeneuve's 2013 drama was released to widespread popular and critical acclaim.Hugh Jackman plays Kelly Dover, a survivalist minded yet ultimately decent man committed to protecting family from a hostile world. However, Dover is thrust into impotence when his daughter and her friend go missing. As the pressure mounts on the police to produce results Dover takes matters into his own hands.So, a great set-up. It looks great. All mute greys and dark brooding realism, but, it is shot by Roger Deakins so we would expect it to be visually fine. The characters are well drawn. The drama unfolds gradually and slowly over the first 90 minutes and is absorbing, gripping with the smack of truth. The performances are good (Maria Bello as the distraught mother and Gyllenhaal as the frustrated lead police investigator in particular). Maybe, it's being a father myself but I found Dover's sense of frustration and impotence at his inability to protect his family engrossing and the film asked some profound questions upon the line we draw for own limits and actions.However, everything collapses in the last third act as the film decides to get, well.... silly. All the good work done previously is undone as the plot takes a turn to the formulaic. It's as if the film-makers lost confidence in their set-up.The film switches tone from an engrossing drama into a rather silly police-procedural/ serial killer finale. From fine to formulaic in one movement. At one point I was expecting to hear, "He puts the dog into the basket..." The potential to be great dissolves away and the film becomes merely.... OK. Which is probably more of a crime than being rubbish. Ever get the feeling you've been cheated?
Two small girls, the daughters of two families, are abducted while playing outside. An unbalanced man is taken into custody but released for lack of evidence. The detective on the case continues to pursue leads, but one of the fathers takes matters into his own hands, seizes the suspect, and tries to extract the location of the girls from him. But maybe he doesn't have the right person...There are good things about Prisoners, starting with the performances of Hugh Jackman (father Keller Dover), Jake Gyllenhaal (Detective Loki), and Paul Dano (suspect Alex Jones). The situation is a good one, the moral issues are interesting, some suspense is generated, and the cinematography and production design is very good at conveying a cold, dark world where cold, dark things happen.There are some not-so-good things about it too. At 153 minutes it is overlong by at least half an hour. The final third goes seriously off the rails story-wise. The moral issues are never really addressed. The female roles are, by and large, underwritten. And, ultimately, it is a somewhat dispiriting movie.I didn't enjoy it as much as I expected to.


                
I enjoyed the film, but noticed too many implausible situations: 1. Holly's house was searched by the police (before it was known she was the kidnapper) but it was not noticed that the photo of her missing husband showed him wearing the same pendant recently discovered on a murdered child killer. They notice these things in most TV detective shows! 2. The rescued girls did not mention the pit, but they must have been conscious there at times (or surely would have died if dropped in that distance if unconscious) and would have recounted that horrific experience. Thus the police would have gone there to search for the pit, especially when Keller was missing. 3. It seems improbable that the first rescued girl would not have mentioned that they did go into the RV and, perhaps also, that a woman was involved at some point (I am sure she would not always have been disguised enough or said so little that it was not detectable); these clues would have sent the police to Holly's/Alex's house for a very detailed search. 4. Keller went to Holly's house fully suspecting she was the kidnapper; he had a gun but chose to keep his back to Holly for an overly long period (in fact, until she had the chance to produce her own gun!). A sensible person would have gone there with his gun out (he was already in plenty of trouble over the beating of Alex so this would have been a criminal risk he was willing to take). 5. Detective Loki drove at high speed with a bullet wound to the head to get Anna to hospital asap and narrowly missed several accidents (apart from the fact he may have fallen unconscious) and may have killed Anna and himself; he could have phoned the hospital and met an ambulance part way! 6. The derelict house owned by Keller would have been mentioned to the police at an earlier stage; anyway, the impression given was that the police accepted quite readily that Alex must have run away (and also later Keller), both cases in spite of this being a kidnapping case! Little serious effort went into finding these two missing persons.
Denis Villeneuve didn't debut with Prisoners, but it was this movie that put him on the map as one of the most exciting new talents to come around in sometime. Prisoners is about a pair of girls who are abducted which leads to an investigation and search effort by the father of one girl played superbly by Hugh Jackman. This is a tough but rewarding film to sit through and the pacing is good- you will be transfixed throughout. The acting is superb and everyone from Terence Howard and Jake Gyllenhaal to Paul Dano and Melissa Holly shine, but the star act is Jackman who should have received more accolades for his turn as the distraught father in this movie. Cinematography is stunning as is the direction. 7/10 (A future masterpiece classic for sure).


                
My first viewing of this film close to its original release made me pretty angry. I felt that the film had cheated me a little, by presenting itself as one thing and delivering something very different. My initial sense of the film was that it would drift into something horrific and exploitative, but Villeneuve muddied things by bringing what I thought was a rather crass morality to bear on the second half of the film. By the time we are confronted with the true sadist of the film, we have been suitably chastised for our vengeful impulses. My overarching sense was that Villeneuve had worked out the ideas behind this film, the politics, at the detriment of either thrills or plausible characterisation.On this reviewing I was more open to the ebbs and flows of the drama. What really shifted on this second viewing was my attention. Whereas in the first film I found myself pinballing between Hugh Jackman's Keller and Paul Dano's Alex Jones. On this viewing I began to see the procedural aspects of the film, as Gyllenhaal's mannered Detective Loki came more sharply into view. As a representative of the law Loki is far from infallible, frequently prone to rash errors of judgement and is nonetheless dedicated enough to a code and ethics that he manages to ultimately rescue all those who can be saved. His is an obsessive pragmatism and close attention to deducible facts, as opposed to Jackman's rash torture-as-solution/vengeance approach. What gives PRISONERS ending a bit more intrigue on this second viewing is the way in which it is Detective Loki who fully registers the horror of the belief system that has been grafted on and around the sadism of the film's villainous character. Without the Detective's more balanced approach to the justice, then Melissa Leo's Holly Jones' has won, as her aim seems to be that of the purest evil, to corrupt any potential or capacity for good within a person. This is powerful, sombre, desperately depressing stuff, but I still wish it wasn't such awkward medicine to swallow. Villeneuve would go on to finesse his approach with his next film, the masterful exploitation thriller SICARIO - which balanced off the weighty portentousness of this film's moral posturing, with the full-depth experience of moral dislocation that PRISONERS still lacks.
Denis Villeneuve didn't debut with Prisoners, but it was this movie that put him on the map as one of the most exciting new talents to come around in sometime. Prisoners is about a pair of girls who are abducted which leads to an investigation and search effort by the father of one girl played superbly by Hugh Jackman. This is a tough but rewarding film to sit through and the pacing is good- you will be transfixed throughout. The acting is superb and everyone from Terence Howard and Jake Gyllenhaal to Paul Dano and Melissa Holly shine, but the star act is Jackman who should have received more accolades for his turn as the distraught father in this movie. Cinematography is stunning as is the direction.


                
This was a very teeth grinding kind of movie. very emotional. some really good acting on everyones part. they did not mess around and build it up to when the girls would be taken. right at the beginning of the movie they would kidnapped. and right then i new it was going to be a emotional ride through out the whole movie. I feel that the police did do what they could and only could do at the time when they arrested the man in the RV. now Hugh Jackman did what i think any father would do. my self included. I'm a father to a wonderful little baby girl. i would do anything to keep her safe. You could feel the anger and the determination in Jackman when he was questioning the young man. great movie all around. its a must see.
Denis Villeneuve delivers a movie with perfect cinematography: the direction and mise-en-scène are top-notch especially with regards to the work done on lighting, the shots are almost of surgical precision and perfectly underline the narration.Speaking about the content now, the story is relatively captivating, as is the atmosphere, and carried by an excellent Jackman Gyllenhaal duo. But the movie loses too much time trying to develop a plot and characters that ultimately are quite shallow.A lot of scenes are very conventional and don't help broaden the perspective, and you even sense some hesitation on the writing at the end especially regarding the false leads which are not properly integrated and seem to serve no purpose whatsoever.As the movie progresses and the outcome unfolds, you begin to realise the banality of the story, its lack of impact and depth on every level.It is therefore a nice package but that sounds a bit empty, you don't end up overwhelmed after watching Prisoners, far from it, it's actually more of a certain disappointment that emerges considering there was better to do with these elements.


                
From the director of Incendies & Polytechnique, Prisoners is a very tensely crafted cinematic maze of intense emotions & moral complexities which with the help of its clever plot, intricate script, strong religious themes, ensemble cast & stellar performances creates a darkly disturbing & grim atmosphere of uncertainty that looms over its story from start to finish.It tells the story of Keller Dover, who is a deeply religious man & believes in being prepared for the worst at all times. But one day when his daughter & her friend go missing and the police fails to make any breakthroughs for days, Keller takes matters into his own hands & sets out to find his daughter by targeting the prime suspect for information before it's too late.Denis Villeneuve's direction here carries the very riddles & moral complications of his previous works and these elements eventually end up playing a major role in shaping up the whole experience of this film. Roger Deakins' cinematography is another standout as the entire film has a dark & mysterious ambiance enveloping it & even the sequences filmed in minimum light are able to retain a crisp clarity.Coming to the performances, Prisoners has a pretty reliable cast but it's Hugh Jackman & Jake Gyllenhaal who end up impressing the most. Jackman plays Keller Dover; the grief-stricken father of the missing girl, & delivers an emotionally charged performance. But he is constantly challenged by Gyllenhaal who delivers a knockout performance as Detective Loki; the officer spearheading this perplexing case.On an overall scale, Prisoners is a labyrinth of moral & ethical ambiguities represented through the degeneration of an immensely faithful & God-fearing person into a remorseless sinner, all exhibited in a darkly compelling manner, and it's also an interesting focus on the devastating change an event like the one depicted in this film can bring in any parent out there. Multiple viewings advised


                
Denis Villeneuve's Prisoners possessed an intensified, unrelenting atmosphere that is provides a uniquely captivating atmosphere. This psychological labyrinth covers multiple layers of how people are prisoners in their own complicated world. The film thoroughly and informatively explores all the character perspectives with refined detail, however in instances this tight grasp the story has on depicting the explicit stress each person displays perhaps gets in the way of a fluent, coherent story line. Subtle moments in the film such as Loki's tattoos, Bob Taylor's boxes of snakes and more significantly what was the ultimate outcome to Alex Jones go unexplained. Nevertheless with phenomenal lead performances, you can happily ignore minor plot flaws to this riveting mystery and cynicism this film hits the audience with.
Thank god the prayer came true,This movie truly captures how devastating having your children abducted can be. It portrays the atmosphere perfectly, the desperation and despair.Jake Gyllenhaal performs as well, if not better than he did in Zodiac. Hugh Jackman gives one of the best performances of his career, an Oscar worthy performance in my opinion.I have always thought Hugh Jackman didn't know how to play anything well except for Wolverine. However this movie in combination with Les Mesirables has changed my mind.This movie is definitely one of the best of 2013. It stands up there with Gone Baby Gone and Mystic River as one of the best movies about child kidnapping there is to date. It grips you throughout with an atmosphere of suspense and mystery. Showing how the kidnapping effects the families and the detective associated with the case. A definite must watch for anyone who appreciates an excellent thriller or drama film.A 9/10 for me and it earns a spot on my favorite thrillers list.


                
Full of emotions and with all the necessary twists and turns 'Prisoners' achieves to keep its audience for the full length of the film concentrated and awake. It simply makes you think how far will you go to protect your family.Though its plot is not unique, the performances by the main actors keep this crime thriller among the better of this type of movies.It is definitely one of the best films for 2013. It is probably the best movie i saw with Jackman and definitely one of Gyllenhaal's best! It shows very clearly to all, the grief, agony and pain parents feel when something goes wrong with one of their children.I recommend this film as one of the best of its kind!!!


                
"Prisoners" is a methodically paced mystery about two families desperately searching for their daughters who disappear on Thanksgiving Day. Many people (my wife included) will stay away from this film based on its premise alone, finding the misery too realistic. This is unfortunate because director Denis Villeneuve, writer Aaron Guzikowski and the cast of Hollywood heavyweights have created an engaging story that is really more focused on the mystery of the girls' disappearance than on the misery of it. Now, the script can be pretty heavy handed and far-fetched at times, but there is much more to praise. There are plenty of unexpected maze-like turns, some great sound editing, and "Prisoners" may hold the distinction as being the most beautiful film of the year. However, the movie's main draw for many people will be the cast, which is filled with powerhouse performances. While some of the actors may be bordering on melodrama, the acting throughout is darkly stellar. Above them all is a quiet but powerful performance from Gyllenhaal as the detective given the unenviable task of solving the puzzle. This may be the first film of the year that feels to be reaching for an Oscar or two. And with some strong performances, beautiful cinematography, and a dark twisted mystery (which the Academy loves), I wouldn't be surprised to see it pop up again next February during the big ceremony. "Prisoners" definitely delivers as a decent, if at times absurd, mystery that is gorgeously shot and skillfully told.


                
Interesting movie, full of dread and plays with the question of who the prisoners really are. Everyone is pretty good in this. Wolverine bares some claws but really doesn't channel Wolverine, we get to see some more range. Terence Howard was underutilized in a key and understated role that was very well done I thought. The main detective character was the most charismatic but the other characters seemed more real. There are other similar movies that deal with different elements of this one, such as The Vanishing and The Orphan, neither of which I want to see again though they were very well done. As a parent the idea of a child being abducted with no trace is of course very disturbing and the film makers obviously play that up a bit. Lots of crying and various people coping or failing to cope in various ways. The scenery is bleak, rainy Midwest or Canada, we get a sense of the cold and grime in these middle class people. The overwhelming flavor of this movie outside of the main plot is the essence of abuse and mental illness. We get lots of doses of that. As far as this type of genre goes, this one is more hopeful than many, there is little to no gore (one dead body that's been dead for awhile). The movie doesn't work in sharp pokes but one long slow dread buildup and it's pretty good at that. There is lots of character study here but over all I'd say it's more plot driven than character driven. The ending which I won't spoil seems to make some people think there is ambiguity but I didn't see it that way, seemed pretty clear what was going on at the end.


                
Just to be clear, I'm not a person who dislikes movies that are sad, challenging, difficult to watch. I think many of them have artistic value. I think this one does too because it was so well acted, so well done, and succeeded in making you think and keeping you on the edge of your seat.That being said, this was a pretty sick movie. Very depressing, left you with a feeling of dread and distrust in humans. Again, some people value that, but I just wasn't feeling it after the movie.The biggest thing for me was the fact that at the end of all this, the girls are found, and you find out the kid Hugh Jackman was torturing was entirely innocent...a victim himself. So, with that extreme moral dilemma being resolved to highly immoral, it leaves you kind of hating Hugh Jackman, and then the ambiguous ending was kind of like...really? So if he dies, whatever...he tortured another human being for over a week in horrible ways. If he doesn't die, great he's reunited with his now very messed up family. It leaves you with not caring too much either way, but it did make me think about the implications of what had happened in the movie. Anyway, great movie, one of the most suspenseful I've seen, but I wouldn't recommend it to hardly anyone I know. There are plenty of downright depressing things going on in the world, and sitting through watching a human being torture another innocent human being is just not too worth it.Afterthought: I also disliked the clearly fabricated red herrings such as Alex hanging the dog. I can understand if he was singing the song because he is simple minded like a child, but the hanging the dog was EXTREMELY intentional. He looked at Hugh Jackman, then did it. It was ONLY there so the audience would also second guess during the whole torture aspect. Also, this other kid who had been abducted who happened to be stealing clothes and imitating a child kidnapper but was ENTIRELY unrelated to the lady? Come on. Talk about just feeding the audience highly fabricated information that was essentially unrelated but made you think it should be important.
You may think this film is your typical Tinseltown thriller - thanks to its impressive A-list cast - but don't be fooled; this is a dark, unrelenting tale that cares more about posing moral questions within its murky world than it does about providing narrative twists and turns. Aaron Guzikowski's screenplay delivers grim by the barrel-load, but also intelligence and maturity, whilst Denis Villeneuve's direction is haunting and suggestive without being manipulative or overwrought. Hugh Jackman is front and centre as Keller Dover, the distraught father who will do anything to find his abducted daughter, and he's given credible support by Maria Bello, Terrence Howard and Voila Davis, although it's Jake Gyllenhaal as the loner cop in charge of the disturbing case who is the standout. So far so good, yet there's one major drawback that stops this gritty affair being brilliant: its length. At two and a half hours long, a large chunk of its power is lost with a bloated middle act that should've had 30 minutes shaved off in the editing suite. Prisoners is a Zodiac-esque thriller that requires a strong emotional resolve, your undivided attention and a pre-movie toilet stop.


                
Are the days of promoting team playing over? Leading characters in Prisoners are strong individualists who are committed to pursue their case and obtain results at any cost; feelings of people close to them are less important.True, observing vigorous personalities is always catchier and attracts wider audiences - and the movie in question has enjoyed big popularity and positive attitudes already. Director Denis Villeneuve has skilfully utilized Hugh Jackman's and Jake Gyllenhaal's skills, and supporting actors like Paul Dano or Viola Davis are always a firm choice. Tensions are high, viewers can ponder about guilt and remorse, gray and rainy background boosts anxiety... The length, however, is too much (pace tends to fade at times) and motives of the chief offender could have been different. The ending is versatile, a kind of summing up all preceding events... Unexpected, but still not wow!.Thus, a decent thriller, recommended to those fond of gloomy surroundings dinned by weather. But take/save your time as ca 2,5 hours are ahead...


                
This is a really good example of its genre and is a rewarding watch. The performances really make this film, especially Maria Bello and Terrence Howard in their supporting roles. It's two and a half hours long, but doesn't feel like it's dragging on. It's not especially smart but there's enough suspense and grim mystery to keep your attention. I thought it picked up nicely during the vigil scene and kept my attention from then on. I liked Gyllenhaal's portrayal of Loki, and thought the eye tick and neck tattoo underscored the dysfunctional motif. There were a few clues along the way that make sense once the film reaches it's conclusion, which I guess is fun if you like figuring things out. It's a good movie and the actors did a good job, but it's not one I would watch again soon.


                
