Prisoners is a gritty, incredibly well-acted, suspenseful, thought-provoking crime drama thriller. The film mainly focus on the choices taken and the consequences faced by the characters when worst things happen to them.It simply raises the question: When your kid's life is at stake, how far are you willing to do to protect your family? It explores the likelihood of human behaviour when such crime is happening to us, blurring the lines between good and bad people.For a 153 minute movie, the story does unfolds at a slow and solemn pace (which hurts the film and might bore some audiences) but the dramatic scenes performed by the main cast members in the film will keep you engaged. Hugh Jackman and Jack Gyllenhaal both giving intense, Oscar-worthy performances here, defining and developing their characters with various layers of emotions: affection, anger, grief, empathy, guilt...throughout the film.The film's atmosphere, heavy rains, stormy days and icy cold winter managed to create a dark, dreadful environment to make up the dreary and haunting mood in the film. Every violent action taken by the characters are acts of desperation given that they are running out of time.However, the film is not perfect. Despite some plot problems from the various twists and turns shown in the film, the superb performances from the casts was sufficient enough to make the story succeed and believable.Highly recommended for those who wanted to watch a serious drama thriller with powerful, engaging acting performances from its talented casts.http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2013/09/movie-review-prisoners.html


                
There is a sensitivity that Director Denis Villenueve and writer Aaron Guzikowski inhabit in bringing their newest film "Prisoners" from Warner Bros. to the screen. Starring an Academy Award nominated cast that includes Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Terence Howard, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, Oscar-winner Melissa Leo, and Paul Dano, this is a smartly constructed and emotionally resound mystery thriller that is thoroughly enjoyable.The synopsis is fully in the trailer. When two young girls go missing, one belonging to Keller and Grace (Jackman and Bello), the other to Franklin and Nancy (Howard and Davis), a hot-shot detective (Gyllenhaal) is assigned to the case and relentlessly tries to find the clues that could lead to the whereabouts of the missing. When a mentally handicapped Alex Jones (Dano) is found near the scene of the disappearance with no hard evidence, Keller takes matters into his own hands.I have to say that I've never been this hypnotized with the works of Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. Jackman, who is fresh of his inaugural nomination for Tom Hooper's "Les Miserables" has capitalized in a massive way. Approaching his character with the ferocity that made him a star in the "X-Men" franchises, he hammers his way into every scene, keeping the audience guessing about their own moral complexities. He tears into scenes in a way we've never seen him and layers his character with plenty of affection, empathy, grief, and rage. It's his best dramatic endeavor he's ever done.When it comes to Jake Gyllenhaal, many, and probably for the right reasons, gravitate towards his work in Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain" as his shining moment in film history. I believe he's gone deeper in works like "Jarhead" and "Zodiac" but those were just the surface of what he can do as an actor. As Detective Loki, Gyllenhaal stands firm and tall in one of the year's finest performances. Terrifically executed as a man disconnected from real emotion, he finds himself enamored by the mystery surrounding two missing girls. He also orchestrates character beats and ticks that's reminiscent of Joaquin Phoenix's towering work in "The Master" last year.What is very refreshing in the film is it offers a great reminder of how brilliant an actor Terence Howard is. The Oscar-nominated actor seemed to fall by the wayside following his nomination for "Hustle and Flow" in 2006, coincidentally the same year Gyllenhaal snagged his first, and now has realized his capabilities when he chooses more dynamic and passionate characters. In a film that centers around his involvement, Paul Dano doesn't have too much to offer but is completely adequate in form.The film however is not entirely perfect. Aaron Guzikowski's depth screenplay offers a great mystery story, full of twists and turns, all the bit a tad predictable, but that's not where he falters so much. His construction of the female counterparts, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, and Melissa Leo, are not as crisply or smoothly put together as I'd like them to be. They each have one "scene" that gives us their character's motivation and the look into their cinematic psyche however, some are thrown in quite lazily and manages to halt the story in spots.The film's technical merits all rise to the abilities of its cast. Roger Deakins, the most overdue Cinematographer in the business, captures stunning portraits of conversations, weather, and scenes that continue to prove his brilliance in the film world. The film's score is masterfully placed by Jóhann Jóhannsson while Joel Cox and Gary Roach edit the film to an impeccable pace. At 153 minutes, the film is detailed, precise, and engaging nearly throughout. I feel there's a shorter cut of the film that would surely be a Best Picture nominee for this year's Academy Awards if it existed. The film could still garner that support with what they have now, but I think there are aspects of the film members won't be able to get around. A high level of violence and torture scenes infused with a longer run time could keep people at a distance. One thing that can't be denied is the towering works of Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. The two have offered plenty of memorable performances in their filmography, but their work in "Prisoners" is cut and clear their best they've offered."Prisoners" is a magnificent achievement for the film year. Thorough, enigmatic, and purely amazing. A must-see for the movie lovers.The film opens in theaters this Friday, September 20.


                
Prisoners, the new film from Canadian director Denis Villeneuve (Polytechnique), is a top notch nail-biting crime-drama that is as good a theatre as modern Hollywood has the ability to produce. Hugh Jackman and Maria Bello play the parental figures of the Dover family. They are your average hard-working blue-collar family who begin their story by visiting neighbours Franklin and Nancy Birch (Terrence Howard and Viola Davis) for a Thanksgiving dinner. The Franklins and the Dover's each have two children, the youngest of which (Anna and Joy) head out from their home on a November afternoon to play only to mysteriously disappear. Upon a frantic search, the Franklins and the Dover's suspect the worse. Especially when their elder children tell them of a mysterious camper that was parked just down the street. Police soon find the camper with Alex Jones (Paul Dano) behind the wheel. Alex has the mentality of a 10-year-old and tries fleeing when surrounded by authorities. But when Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) begins to interrogate Alex, he is less convinced that Alex was a part of the abduction. As days pass, Loki and Keller Doller work in opposite directions on the investigation. Keller is convinced that Alex Jones was a part of the abduction and kidnaps the frail and challenged Jones and tortures him for days in an attempt to extract answers. Meanwhile, Detective Loki follows leads that open up possibilities of a crime where multiple persons may be involved. And Oscar nominee Melissa Leo appears in a supporting but pivotal role that will assist in the closure.The trailer for Prisoners may have audiences hearkening back to Ron Howard's Ransom, but this is hardly the cookie-cutter kidnapping film that Mel Gibson lead back in 1996. Prisoners instead is an engulfing drama. One with a superb performance by lead Hugh Jackman that challenges how far someone would/should go in an effort to locate their stolen child. The script, from writer Aaron Guzikowski (Contrband) takes audiences down many different paths and emotional rides and Jackman's performance will have you rooting for his quest for answers even though his methods are unorthodox and highly illegal.The film is gritty and full of realistic characters and situations culminating in a perfect ending that goes 9/10ths of the way in giving its audience full closure. Not as much an edge-of-your seat thriller as it is a Zodiac type of crime drama where the stakes are the lives of two small children. Denis Villeneuve's last effort, Incendies, was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Film in 2011. Prisoners shows that he can move solidly into big star larger scaled films with the ease of a well worn slipper. And Prisoners catapults Villeneuve into not just a director to watch, but a director whose work should be awaited with palpable excitement.www.killerreviews.com


                
Prisoners is the kind of movie that has little to no action, but is more of a watch to see details and listen closely dialogue. It starts out joyful and happy, almost immediately it is filmed (and acted) so that it is incredibly realistic and relatable. Things change drastically when the two little girls just vanish into thin air. Now, I won't give away spoilers because I don't want to ruin this movie for anybody but let me tell you this, it is incredibly wrong and at times a little slow but it holds true to the realism of these kind of events. You bite your nails wondering where the children are and you begin to doubt if Hugh Jackman is doing the right thing by abducting (and torturing) a boy who he thinks took the girls. Each parent is shown as they spiral downward from fear, anger and loss. Jake Gyllenhaal gives his best performance as Detective Loki, his bad ass attitude slowly chipping away into desperation. The movie may not be the best out there but emotionally, it makes you question how far you would go to find the person you love and just how hard will you cling to the belief that you are right.


                
Denis Villeneuve is no doubt one of the very few directors that have vision and a complete look at the story before he direct it. He brought the picture so intelligently with a lot of references and small details that as any other big director he gave clues to and used it in important scenes. The movie has that way of telling from lot's of camera angels and telling style that makes you in complete vision of it's details. The music of the movie was good but didn't give the scenes the intense or add to it . The acting was excellent by Hugh Jackman who performed the character of the father so well and was a very challenging role that he succeeded in it and by Jake Gyllenhaal gave a solid performance as the cup and the rest did a great job. The movie's problem is that it focused more on showing the suffering of the family and especially the father and on the cup trying to understand what's wrong with him doing some silly actions especially when he went to ask Alex in his home as If he would tell him!. The characters of his friend wasn't good and didn't add to the movie neither did his wife. The ending was acceptable though it not very good one but for the last scene of course with the hint of the small detail of his daughter. Overall, very violent , heart moving and has a lot of mystery in it. Don't miss a chance watching it.


                
Police 101: Never enter an interview room with your duty weapon. This movie displays why.Police 102: When a person is examined and displays the mentality of a 10 year-old, yet possess a driving license, a detective worth his weight would enquire at the license office how this came to pass. Something might be learnt which sheds light on the reality of the displayed behaviour. Something a seasoned detective would not ignore.Other law enforcement failures, but the movie does do well otherwise.Jackman and Gyllenhaal play very believable characters. I was quite impressed with Jackman's part. His emotions are running wild as he wants his child found. And Gyllenhaal does well feeling stymied by the system and a Captain who is more worried about perception and budget than solving crimes. Great acting on all parts. Very enjoyable film.
Keller and Grace Dover's worst fears come true, their six year old daughter Anna and her friend Joy go missing, suspicions point to Alex Jones, the driver of an RV which was parked near by. Detective Loki is in charge of the case, he has no choice but to release Alex, having only circumstantial evidence to hold him on. Desperate father Keller decides to take matters into his own hands, kidnapping Alex, hiding him behind a false wall and battering him regularly into a confession.This is one of the darkest, most bleak films I can remember, almost slightly too bleak in terms of tone, a wee bit too harrowing in parts, that said it was exceptionally well acted, well directed, and definitely one of those films that stirs the emotions. I wish it wasn't so long, it seemed to go on forever.Far from being a feel good film, it's violence with linger with you long after the credits have rolled.Paul Dano was brilliant in his part, such a good actor, possibly the best element of the film, although Jackman puts in a stellar performance too. Gritty, heavy and full of suspense, definitely worth a watch. 8/10
Keller Dover (Hugh Jackman) is facing every parent's worst nightmare. His six-year-old daughter and her friend is kidnapped. Minutes turn into hours, hours turn to days. Keller turn to Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) for help. Their only clue, is that RV has been parked on their street, earlier that day by suspect Alex Jones (Paul Dano). While, Detective Loki is looking for evidence that links Alex Jones to the crime, Keller takes the matter in his own hands; how far will this desperate father go to find his missing daughter? Prisoners is one of the best movies of 2013 in my opinion. It's sure to get a few Oscar nominations. I have to say Hugh Jackson deserve to win, if he does. There is a very powerful scene with him talking to Loki in a car, stating out, how his daughter is looking for him to save her, not Loki. You can't help feeling for this character as he goes through an emotional hell storm. He was a man who can only trust himself. He was a survivalist, and somewhat a paranoid. He prides himself on his strength and independence as a man who can make decisions and get things done alone. That is why he did what he did and he went through a great deal of punishment for it. Keller though loses his way, and ends up in a literal pit in the ground, a "hell" as it were. Great use of symbolism. I love the fact that his wife's name is Grace. (Maria Bello). Grace gets more and more lost, as Keller lose more and more of his morals. Basically he has lost the "grace" of God through his actions. There are many scenes initially shot through dirty glass that was pretty interesting. Nobody in this film was the clear cut good guy and villain. Remind me of the verse 'Through a glass, darkly' in the Bible. Then, there is the many crosses, including one hanging from the rear-view mirror in Keller's truck. The symbolism doesn't get in the way of the plot, too much until the snakes came into play. I guess, it was a play on the serpent in the Garden of Eden, but it also could had meant the Norse symbol for the god Loki which is two entertained snakes, eating each others' tails which Jake Gyllenhaal is name after. Still, it could had been left out. Then the movie became a symbolism smorgasbord with the endless mazes, one eye themes, opening Pandora's boxes, tattoos, free-mason rings, and that got the plot more confusing. Research all the examples, I have stated out. You find yourself, surprising in depth this movie goes. Trust me, the plot will get confusing. I had to watch it, multiply times to get all the twist and turns. It was a maze of suspects. The allegory of the prison is a significant theme throughout the film. Each character, whether psychologically or physically, is the subject of some kind of confinement. Without giving it away, the ending of the film is a brilliant bittersweet ending, that can be seem as both a happy and tragic at the same time. A lot of parents will be hugging their children tonight after watching this film. A few people might not like this movie due to its controversial subject matter. I think some Christian conservative might find the movie as liberal anti-Christian propaganda that makes Christians look bad. I didn't see it that way. I think a certain Alex Jones in the world, might, but I see Keller going through the same emotions if he wasn't a Christian. The characters put into huge stressful tragic events that makes them challenge their own faith. I think the use of faith was highly welcome into this film. It made the film interesting with its symbolism. The second thing, people didn't like is the animal abuse. First off, no animals were harm during the filming of this film. Second off, the killing of the deer makes more morality sense than it's made out to be. Deer can actually overpopulate an area and starve the local species if not controlled. Some states have actual contracts with hunters to maintain a quota by cutting the herd. Then there is the dog scene. Let's remember, Alex Jones is not a smart guy, so it would make sense that he wouldn't know how to handle a dog. I hate to see PETA boycott the film over those, without understanding the facts and story. The movie isn't about the animals, but looking for kidnap children. People coming in, should focus more that, then what happen to the animals. The question comes down to morals and ethics. The acting is amazing. It's seems to me that Jake Gallenhaal's Loki is such an interesting character that fans of the film is asking for a spin-off movie. By the way, Loki blink so much, is probably because he is a detective, and they rarely sleep. At less, that what I got from his character development. It's a very long movie directed by Denise Villeneuve, but not boring. It was a very tense film with little slow areas. Overall, it's can be a bit depressing, but the thrill factor made this movie bearable to watch and it deserve the critical acclaim that it got.
This is one intense and drawn out film, maybe too much so. I wonder if this movie really had to be over two hours long? It felt even longer but not always in a tedious way. The subject matter is extremely heavy and morose and there is no break for the viewer right through the conclusion. (BTW- the ending elicited many gasps, muttering and even consternation from the crowd I saw it with.) The performances really are superbly intense, believable and even award worthy. There are a few scenes where you really feel emotional pain ooze from the screen. Maria Bello, Viola Davis, Terrence Howard and especially Hugh Jackman each give us at least one scene that breaks the heart. It's powerful, intense acting at its most emotional peak. Despite the great performances however, this really is a one and done film for me. I recommend it but I can't say I'd ever want to see or experience it ever again.
A bit long. But intriguing. I just have so many unanswered questions though, that I wish somebody could answer for me. The main one being "why"? If you see the film, you will know the reason I am asking that...too many loose ends... Jackman and Gyllenhall are good in this..as are Viola Davis, Terrance Howard, and Melissa Leo..though their roles are very small. At 2 /2 hours is does however keep you interested. The first few scenes are contrived..but then it ropes you in. The cinematography is gritty and grainy, and not a film for kids. It is pretty brutal in places but not gratuitous. This is a film worth seeing, with the tension of the film "Ransom" If you like movies that keep you guessing and wondering what happens next this is for you. The director seems to really know where to put the camera to make you feel like you are there. Gyllenhall gives a troubled performance worthy to see. Jackman at times seems wooden, and tries very hard to go to places to make you feel for him. Viola Davis is always good, and the few moments she has you feel for her as well. This film is worth going to and not waiting for the video to be released.


                
As expected, September gives its film lovers the chance to cleanse themselves of the uninspired and redundant movie season that is Summer. This month is the first of many that will give many cinemas across the globe freedom from reboots, remakes, rehashes, and the now-accepted void that is New Hollywood.Thus, the first cleanse offered, in my opinion, is the newly-released film, "Prisoners", starring Best Actor Oscar nominee Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. Focusing on a parent's worst nightmare, child abduction and possible murder, the film incessantly grabs you from the first frame to the last. Walking out of this film without any feelings of gut-wrenching or punching is impossible; unless, you are a complete sociopath intending to laugh at every scene.Jackman, plays Keller Dover, a loving husband, father, and carpenter in trade, who, along with his wife, Grace (played by Maria Bello in an understandably catatonic state throughout the movie), and friends/neighbors, Franklin and Nancy Birch (played gracefully by Terrance Howard and Best Actress Oscar nominee Viola Davis), find their worlds turned upside down by the kidnappings of their youngest children after Thanksgiving dinner.Seeking the help of Gyllenhaal's Detective Loki (No "Thor" jokes, please!), an officer seemingly dealing with demons of his own, the only information they have is the appearance and disappearance of a mysterious RV parked not far from the Birch home. A creepy man-child (played astonishingly by Paul Dano) is the prime suspect, questioned, held, and, of course, released after the required 48-hours. Without giving away spoilers, Jackman decides to place justice into his own hands.While I understand his position as a desperate father, I cannot condone the behavior because of the fine line of criminality that Dover exhibits between protector of his child and sadist. "Prisoners" director, Denis Villeneuve, sharply presents that case because, as a viewer, you want the children found, but at the same time, you feel that you're participating in a crime, while questioning whether or not the ends justify the means. More so, the Birches struggle to find which side of the coin they belong as well, and they often are the voices of reason. What follows Jackman's actions is a film of welcomed twists and turns that, as cliché and trite as it sounds nowadays, truly leave you by the edge of your seat.Therefore, I recommend this film (8 out of 10 Kashmirs). The performances are top-notch. Jackson never fails to deliver as he goes back and forth with both grief and depravity as he serves as the audience surrogate. While Gyllenhaal raises the bar as he plays the reluctant hero, both wary of the individuals involved and job weary, period. Plus, I did appreciate the nod to Gyllenhaal's early work in the much underrated "Zodiac". I will leave that nod unspoiled for those desiring to figure it out themselves. Last, but not least, I must give special applause to Paul Dano, who delivers the role as a constant enigma. Viewers never know if he's a great deceiver or a victim himself.While I cannot find fault with the film, the film's ending is a cool smack to the face. While mildly annoyed, it was a taste of the unexpected and rarely used sublime. "Prisoners" is a must-see film of the Fall season.


                
It's a dark and at times disturbing slow-burn of a thriller that somehow manages to keep you on the edge-of-your-seat with it's bleak domestic ominousness and outbursts of futile yet explosive violence representative of the volatile frustration of a fairly hopeless situation, one that can only bring out the very worst in even the very best of people simply scrambling to retain some semblance of control in the struggle for the survival of all that they hold dear; it is a picture which could seem somewhat inconsequential due to the slightly tangential nature of its plot, but the very human characters (all portrayed excellently, especially by Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal who both turn in truly Oscar worthy work) and thematically rich narrative manage to marry together all of the differing elements into a work which somehow feels entirely cohesive and incredibly powerful despite its long running time, allowing for this to be one of the most affecting and emotional films of recent years - an accolade compounded by its brilliantly restrained direction and profoundly realistic screenplay. 8/10


                
Suspenseful, moody and wonderfully acted. A worthy contender with the likes of 7even, Gone Girl or Zodiak. More Hitchcock than all out gore fest, a prime example of how to put the viewer in an awkward position and question the integrity of those in the movie.I very rarely have to pause half way through movies just to have a think and a break- but this did it. It makes you confront our own morality and pushes generic stereotypes (such as the priest) to the limits of our own minds. It's also rather poetic, the prisoner theme dips in and out but the ending really ties it all together and gives the title more meaning. A dazzling display of cinema.The same director will be doing the next Blade Runner and at this rate, with this directors background - it's sure to be incredible too. Bravo.


                
First of all, I would like to state that I don't want to give any detail about the story for the people who haven't watched it yet. So, my review will not be about the story of the film, but the bad comments about the film.I would like to tell something about the comments related with the runtime of the film. In some reviews it is told that the film is too long and that is one of the reasons that they don't like it. I really do my best to understand why people judge a film with its runtime, but I cant. Cinema is the art of telling a story on the white big screen. If you need long time to tell a story, then you do it in that way. The success of a film does not depend on the runtime, gentlemen. You may say that you didn't like the film, it is that easy, but the runtime itself can not be an excuse not to like a film unless you don't make a short film. (You know short films tell the story in the shortest time as much as possible, that is why they call them as short film, but "Prisoners" is not one of them)The reasons that I like "Prisoners":1. It didn't MAKE ME FEEL that IT WAS TOO LONG. It means it took my attention from the beginning to the end.2. Techincally, I like the art directing, especially color grading and the usage of cameras.3. The acting is not as bad as some say. I don't know if you expect an exaggerated acting or not, but the acting is AT LEAST AVAGARE, but not worse than it!4. For the questions like "why did he do this, why did he do that? why did it happen like this?": I would like to remind that in every story telling you can find or make up a problem if you want to. All right, I agree with the people who think that there are some missing or nonsense parts in the story, but keep in mind that it is a film and even the best films can have knowingly or unknowingly have such problems. (Some friends of mine told me that they didn't like the masterpiece "Crouching Tiger and Hidden Dragon" directed by Ang Lee as people in the film were flying while they were fighting and they thought that this was nonsense. What can I do except laughing?) On the other hand, would you like it more if all questions were answered and not kept as secret? It changes from person to person, but i would not like it personally...5. Some say that they didn't like the end though it was so clean (sometimes you don't need to see the end to know how it ends). Moreover, some film makers knowingly leave the end to the person himself, so, if you cant be sure how it ends, work your imagination and let the film end in the way you wish.6. Some say that it is the worst film they have seen in 2013. Shame on you! Please respect to the people who gave effort and spent money to bring it to the white big screen. It is not a masterpiece but not a bad film, either. Do you seriously think that it is the worst film of the year? If so, I have nothing to tell you except that I collect real bad films as they have a great value in film making, but I can say that this is not one of them.As a result, it took 8/10 from me.Best Regards.


                
I think that a movie needs to be watched at least twice to know whether it's good or not. Lots of movies aren't worth a second viewing but Prisoners was OK enough to see again.The first time I liked it. The plot is interesting, quite original despite the topic, kidnapped children. It's a bit depressing and not for sensitive souls. The actors are doing a great job and there's a dark atmosphere throughout the entire movie, mainly because of the great cinematography.When I watched it a second time and the story was no longer a surprise, I thought there was too much added thrill factor/action scenes. I think it would be a lot better without the excessive violence, a rapid car scene that is way too long and so on. I rated it an 8, a bit high maybe but I tend to like cinema with certain atmospheres and this thriller does it quite well.


                
Legendary director Alfred Hitchcock could easily have crafted this brilliantly written, incredibly riveting and intensely suspenseful thriller. Instead, the virtually unknown Canadian director Denis Villeneuve is responsible for what is without doubt the best movie of 2013. There are staggering performances from Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal,intricate plot twists that keep you on the edge of your seat and atmospheric elements that will make your heart race and interfere with normal breathing patterns. Before viewing this movie, It is recommended that you keep a brown paper bag by your side to prevent hyper ventilation and make sure to trim your fingernails as you will be biting them to the very end.


                
I saw the late night showing of Prisoners last night at the Alamo Drafthouse Richardson, TX. I was instantly sucked into the beautiful yet gritty cinematography and the director made me feel as if the little girls that were kidnapped were my own and that I was running out of time to find them. I love it when a director has the ability to draw in the audience in such an emotional way. Possible spoiler alert beyond this point:Prisoners is about two families with children in a nice suburban neighborhood that meet at one of their houses for a dinner party to unwind and enjoy each others company. Each family has a six year old daughter. The two young girls ask if they can go fetch something that they left at the other families house which is a couple of blocks away from the other families home, but they tell the little girls that they must have the older siblings permission and for them to accompany the small kids to the other home. The little girls don't ask the older kids to come with them and end up vanishing completely. The two families become very frantic and worried when they discovered that the little girls were playing near a really dirty, ran down looking RV from decades past. The police are notified, and then detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) accepts the case to find the missing girls. The police find the RV parked at a gas station at the edge of the woods. The police move in and arrest a very strange mentally disturbed, childlike man in his early 30's (Paul Dano). After long interrogation, the man is released and the father of the young white girl (Hugh Jackman) becomes enraged and decides to take matters of finding his daughter into his own hands. The film now becomes a desperate race against the clock to find out what has happen to the missing girls. Desperate measures are enacted and the parents of these children must decide how far they are willing to cross the line in order to find their kids. I would imaging that this film is very disturbing and frightening to parents of small children. I am not a parent, but I am an uncle of a 3 year old boy, and I would do the same thing Hugh Jackman did for sure.I would recommend this film to people that enjoy intense dramas, but spoiler alert: this film will make you crazy with emotion, and there is a lot of crying and freaking out from the parents of the little girls.I rated this film 8 of 10 because I thought the ending could have been better. The film was a perfect 10 until the last 5-10 min.I would like to note that Paul Dano who plays Alex is a very talented actor and he plays Alex so well that you forget he is an actor and not really a mentally disturbed victim/ kidnapper. This film shows how the kidnappers brainwash their victims with LSD & Ketamine cocktails. (that should answer everybody's questions about how can a kidnapped person identify with their kidnappers and not run away. It's because the strip their mental image of who they are with the drugs)Lastly, I was kidnapped when I was 2 years old (1985) at Richardson Square Mall in Richardson, TX while my mother was shopping. I was later re-united with my family. So this film really hit home about what could have happen to me.
Nice story, great acting, and good direction. Just one negative point that the movie was too long.


                
"Prisoners" is a straightforward movie that holds you in your seat from the beginning. Even if it is grim and depressing, and hard to watch, it is manages to capture your attention throughout.
RATINGS (1-10)
Entertainment, pacing and thrill: 8
Actors: 9
Direction/Cinematography: 9
Script: 7


                
The Good:
1. Acting, i should say that this is one of the best performances for both leading actors. Hugh Jackman was incredible.
2. Plot and characterization, well i can expected that by seeing the director's name. One of the best crime-thriller ever made, keep you sucked into the plot.
3. Cinematography, genius Deakins success to build the tense of the film only by his work. Film atmosphere was really good.The Bad: Overlong and the original score not pretty good to lived up the film. I mean, Johann was a really good composer, especially his work in Sicario and Arrival, but it's not work here.Conclusion: Many good aspects of the film, but its just good, not amazing. 81/100


                
This is a beautiful film, with a very original and exciting plot. Characters are great, too. Because of a kidnapping of kids, their parents become kidnappers too, but nothing as it seems...you'll see. Thriller is not my favourite genre, but i got really excited until the end.


                
There is a sensitivity that Director Denis Villenueve and writer Aaron Guzikowski inhabit in bringing their newest film "Prisoners" from Warner Bros. to the screen. Starring an Academy Award nominated cast that includes Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Terence Howard, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, Oscar-winner Melissa Leo, and Paul Dano, this is a smartly constructed and emotionally resound mystery thriller that is thoroughly enjoyable.The synopsis is fully in the trailer. When two young girls go missing, one belonging to Keller and Grace (Jackman and Bello), the other to Franklin and Nancy (Howard and Davis), a hot-shot detective (Gyllenhaal) is assigned to the case and relentlessly tries to find the clues that could lead to the whereabouts of the missing. When a mentally handicapped Alex Jones (Dano) is found near the scene of the disappearance with no hard evidence, Keller takes matters into his own hands.I have to say that I've never been this hypnotized with the works of Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. Jackman, who is fresh of his inaugural nomination for Tom Hooper's "Les Miserables" has capitalized in a massive way. Approaching his character with the ferocity that made him a star in the "X-Men" franchises, he hammers his way into every scene, keeping the audience guessing about their own moral complexities. He tears into scenes in a way we've never seen him and layers his character with plenty of affection, empathy, grief, and rage. It's his best dramatic endeavor he's ever done.When it comes to Jake Gyllenhaal, many, and probably for the right reasons, gravitate towards his work in Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain" as his shining moment in film history. I believe he's gone deeper in works like "Jarhead" and "Zodiac" but those were just the surface of what he can do as an actor. As Detective Loki, Gyllenhaal stands firm and tall in one of the year's finest performances. Terrifically executed as a man disconnected from real emotion, he finds himself enamored by the mystery surrounding two missing girls. He also orchestrates character beats and ticks that's reminiscent of Joaquin Phoenix's towering work in "The Master" last year.What is very refreshing in the film is it offers a great reminder of how brilliant an actor Terence Howard is. The Oscar-nominated actor seemed to fall by the wayside following his nomination for "Hustle and Flow" in 2006, coincidentally the same year Gyllenhaal snagged his first, and now has realized his capabilities when he chooses more dynamic and passionate characters. In a film that centers around his involvement, Paul Dano doesn't have too much to offer but is completely adequate in form.The film however is not entirely perfect. Aaron Guzikowski's depth screenplay offers a great mystery story, full of twists and turns, all the bit a tad predictable, but that's not where he falters so much. His construction of the female counterparts, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, and Melissa Leo, are not as crisply or smoothly put together as I'd like them to be. They each have one "scene" that gives us their character's motivation and the look into their cinematic psyche however, some are thrown in quite lazily and manages to halt the story in spots.The film's technical merits all rise to the abilities of its cast. Roger Deakins, the most overdue Cinematographer in the business, captures stunning portraits of conversations, weather, and scenes that continue to prove his brilliance in the film world. The film's score is masterfully placed by Jóhann Jóhannsson while Joel Cox and Gary Roach edit the film to an impeccable pace.At 153 minutes, the film is detailed, precise, and engaging nearly throughout. I feel there's a shorter cut of the film that would surely be a Best Picture nominee for this year's Academy Awards if it existed. The film could still garner that support with what they have now, but I think there are aspects of the film members won't be able to get around. A high level of violence and torture scenes infused with a longer run time could keep people at a distance. One thing that can't be denied is the towering works of Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. The two have offered plenty of memorable performances in their filmography, but their work in "Prisoners" is cut and clear their best they've offered."Prisoners" is a magnificent achievement for the film year. Thorough, enigmatic, and purely amazing. A must-see for the movie lovers.The film opens in theaters this Friday, September 20.


                
The movie is a beyond any doubt one of the best suspense thrillers in recent times. Denis Villeneuve and team have very finely exhibited a stupendous drama flick. It possesses a gripping story, thus getting the audience's attention. It is bolstered by some exceptional acting skills and a justified conclusion. Though it is a crime film, not much of action is portrayed, the only reason being is that the situation in the film doesn't favor it. The first half is a bit slow paced as in most mystery films, but it is the second half where you start getting more and more curious about the truth. The cast assembled was first-rate. Hugh Jackman, as Keller Dover, a desperate father trying to find her daughter, was top-notch, undoubtedly. Jake Gyllenhaal who played the role of a detective, was meritorious. Viola Davis & Terrence Howard, in supporting roles managed to pull out an average performance. Maria Bello, who played Hugh's wife in the film was moderate, performance wise. Melissa Leo, although having lesser screen-time was brilliant. Paul Dano's challenging role was executed finely. The director deserves some real appreciation for this one. He clearly manages to enhance the plot, making it intriguing and exemplary. The screenplay has been brilliant, very well scripted. The music, editing and cinematography departments too have perfected their jobs. All in all, the movie is one hell of a masterpiece, not much witnessed in present times. It's about a father crossing all his boundaries to protect his family. It's a revelation about how a single person's missing can turn around the lives of so many around him. Watch it and it'll be surprising if you don't feel the same as I feel.


                
*For everybody that disliked the movie: Watch the movie again, and closely, you probably won't, but seriously, say every plot hole I read about in the negative reviews, are explained in the movie. And NO the movie doesn't automatically stir you in the right direction. It shows things that look important, but aren't. The police mainly looks at unimportant stuff and it makes it so frustrating!To start: normally a movie explains the story, this movie doesn't, the camera is 'just' an eye, watching a story developing in front of it. In combination with the brilliant acting, a master class Stanislavski, it gets a tremendous realistic feel. Just this will bother you later on in the movie, because maybe you don't like what you see. It places you in amoral situations, but the movie doesn't judge what you see (the camera is just an eye, watching). The movie plays with the audience, so if you are the average movie watcher and you like movies straight forward, maybe this isn't the one for you.It doesn't want to explain everything, and I believe that's good. PLZ!!! Stop with the movies that go and explain minor plots, like we don't have any brain that understand and figure out. Start with: USE YOUR IMAGINATION! (sorry). There are some movies that do a very good job in leaving the audience with a 'what the f?'example: Inception. Does the whirl fall???? they don't show, so maybe instead of talking about the little twitch it made in the end, the movie suggests that you have to search somewhere else. CGI everywhere just to keep your eyes from seeing that small detail that explains EVERYTHING, just for the close watcher. LOVELY.This movie overloads you with false clues, raises so many questions, that you miss the important details. And if you follow closely, you'll figure it out before the big: SO THAT'S THE ONE!8.6, so a 9 starsPs. the movie breaks many cliché's. While (real)life is filled with cliché's. So how people say that this movies (with it's scary realistic vibe) was filled with the same old, I can't understand. If it wasn't it would be a more fantastic movie, which wouldn't make it much better, definitely not as realistic. A Master Piece, and luckily most people where able to keep their attention, to notice it.Pss. for the people that found Loki story unrealistic... talk to a cob. *MINOR SPOILER*: Would you move the fridge? I will tell you, any decent detective would've!


                
"Pray for the best, but prepare for the worst."Prisoners is a dark thriller that will have you at the edge of your seat during almost the entirety of the film. It was a very intense experience. It is hard not to compare this film to Mystic River or Gone Baby Gone because those two movies set the landmark for modern thrillers dealing with abduction. Prisoners almost lives up to the standards that those two films set. Canadian director, Denis Villeneuve, follows up his Oscar nominated film, Incendies, with this intense thriller that manages to capture the audiences attention once again. Incendies was one of my favorite films of 2011, and despite Prisoners not living up to the perfection that film achieved, I still thought this film was highly entertaining and satisfying. There were a few minor plot points that didn't work for me, but that didn't take anything away from this great film. It is a more mainstream film, but it manages to follow a similar approach as Fincher reminding us of Se7en or Zodiac thanks to its dark and haunting atmosphere. I am a huge fan of this genre and really had a fun time trying to solve the mystery through the small clues that Villeneuve masterfully presented in the story. Prisoners was without a doubt one of the most gripping and intense experiences I had all year. Unfortunately it is a little too intense and at times I felt the film could have used some moments to release such tension. Anyways Prisoners is a highly recommended film and a must-see. Keller Dover (Hugh Jackman) is a family man who is always prepared for the worst. He is a survivalist with a basement full of provisions and is teaching his older son, Ralph (Dylan Minnette), how to hunt. He's married to Grace (Maria Bello) and they have a daughter named Anna (Erin Gerasimovich). One afternoon, Keller's worst nightmare comes true while they are hanging out with their friendly neighbors the Birches. Franklin (Terrence Howard) and Nancy Birch (Viola Davis) have two kids about the same age as Ralph and Grace, Eliza (Zoe Borde) and Joy (Kyla Drew Simmons). While the two families are having a lovely time together, Joy and Anna decide to go back to Anna's house, but when the Dover's come back home they are horrified to discover that the kids never made it back. Ralph remembers that they were playing next to a strange RV that was parked up front which is now gone. Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) is appointed as the lead investigator in the case and the first thing he does is locate the RV. The driver is a disturbed young man named Alex Jones (Paul Dano) who has the IQ of a 10 year old and with no evidence to incriminate him Detective Loki has to let him free. His Aunt (Melissa Leo) comes to pick him up and explains how naive and innocent he is. As hours pass, Keller begins to get more desperate and convinced that Alex was involved he decides to take matters into his own hands. From here on the tension begins to escalate as they try to solve the mystery.Prisoners succeeds as a neo-noir thriller building up a lot of tension with a very dark atmosphere which is perfectly captured by cinematographer Roger Deakins. It adds to the mysterious mood of the story which on its own is already pretty intense. The screenplay, written be Aaron Guzikowski (Contraband), is very well written with a very interesting premise and some great twists. My only complaint with this film has to do with the lack of a strong female character. With such a strong cast, I thought that Maria Bello or Viola Davis could have been given a stronger role, but the film focuses mostly on Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. They both give very strong and convincing performances, and Gyllenhaal has surprised me over the last three years with very good films (Source Code, End of Watch, and now this one). I guess he has been choosing his roles very wisely lately because his next film also looks interesting (Enemy which is also directed by Denis Villeneuve). Paul Dano also gave a strong performance as his character's motivations were very hard to decipher. The strong cast and the interesting story make this a very entertaining film despite some minor flaws involving character motivations. It is one of the best recent thrillers coming out of Hollywood and I doubt you will be disappointed.


                
