Obviously Christopher Nolan was trying to touch on one of the prominent issues of recent times. That of the environment. He did this by recycling tired old jokes and set pieces from many action films before, and the rest of the plot was salvaged from toilets and rubbish bins. He also comes up with the perfect formula to make a profound sentence, by taking two words that mean complete opposites and shoving them together.Joking aside, after almost nodding off for the first hour and a half the second half of the movie actually was pretty good, albeit drawn out until the ending which was very frustrating. They literally left the joker hanging while dealing with the completely pointless and irrational side-story of two-face. I'd have thought that a man of dent's resolve would have been made stronger by the events that took place, to get back at the joker and stop such events from happening to other people, instead of deteriorating into the monster of similar calibre to the joker.I really don't think the film got the best out of the actors involved, probably due to the script. Christian Bale is a fantastic actor, but he is completely wasted as batman where he spends most of his time jumping about in a bat-suit using a silly voice, instead of displaying his incredible character acting skills in movies such as American Psycho and the Machinist. Heath Ledger's performance was the only real solid one in the entire cast, however at plenty of times he guilty of completely over-acting. His introduction to the members of the mob was farcical and the laughter in the cinemas was due to the awkwardness and stupidity of the situation.The main reason I think the film totally fails is Christopher Nolans approach of trying to make the film really realistic with an explanation for everything. A man running around in a bat costume and a man dressed up in clown make-up is just to surreal to try and be addressed in this manner. This is why I think the original Batman is a lot better because it didn't try to be ultra-realistic and took the comics and had a fairly serious tone with a very comedic undercurrent. Christopher Nolan undoubtedly has talent as a director, memento, the prestige and even insomnia are all great films but I feel his attempts at the batman franchise are far outshone by Tim Burton.Obviously the film is already a hit and there is nothing anyone can write to stop it from being so, however I must implore you to actually watch the film critically and realise its shortcomings, than get swept away in the hype.
I know I am going against the tide here. And I am happy that so many people had a good experience watching this film. I didn't. Maybe I just don't get it? I'm not sure, because I am a fan of superhero films in general. I think perhaps what I don't like is a superhero film that tries to be so serious as to make us believe in it. Batman, and previously I would say Unbreakable, fall into this category. If you want me to take you seriously then tell me this. How the hell does a guy with his face painted run around a city causing mayhem without getting caught? How does a guy who kills his accomplices continue to have support? I mean he even burns the loot so money isn't the answer. How does a guy who claims he doesn't like planning (because he's too crazy to care about planning) manage to get so many barrels of oil and dynamite positioned all around the city with ease. How does he get said equipment on to the two very important ships? A city that is on high alert? Was there nobody to check? The list goes on and on. If the film wants to be taken seriously, I think it has to fill these holes. If it doesn't, then no problem. There can be as many holes as you like.Another bad point was the length of the film. Far too long.On the plus side the acting was very good, although I didn't like the overly put on voice of Batman. However, Ledger deserves all the praise he has been getting for this.
This is the future comic book adaptations are headed? THEN WATCH...ME..GO. What a sucker punch. I had such a big hopes (mostly because of the hype created by people who invested millions into this flop), that it really hurts me to say, the biggest disappointment in 2008 was this movie. (Although, I still can't say it was the worst) There is nobody I can warn about this movie since I was probably the last person to see it on the earth, But-Man, to see a great franchise falling this low?! Millions of dollars spent on this movie, could have ended the poverty on this world, and I couldn't see anything to justify the spending. For example the bat-cave, in this movie is an undecorated, plain, underground garage. Fhuy!! Batman costumes always were lacking behind other super hero's outfit, however for what they used here, I have to admit I seen better on some kids showing up at my doorstep for Halloween. Not to mention it was so uncomfortable that Christian B. couldn't even move properly in it,(heck, he couldn't even speak properly in it), so all the fight scenes were TERRIBLE, hidden in dark or under a stroboscope light. How about the gay cowboy licking his mouth every 5 seconds, scary? try Retarded (No offense) Imitating raw home made camera footage, once invented by Blair Witch Project, in a News-break part was when I almost smashed my TV. (Again, where the money went in this film???????????????????????)I'll tell You where. Paying all the critics for a few favorable words. Shame, on You Hollywood.Sure, Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher versions were Over-The-Top, But-Man, did I love their use of colors and mood, it was a visual treat.Dark Knight: was it a bad movie?, No, it wasn't. Disappointment? You betcha'a!Long Live Jack Nicholson.


                
Although an average film, "Batman Begins" had a dark, brooding quality and got off to an interesting start about the origins of the caped crusader before turning dreary. Unfortunately, this followup takes up right where the previous one left off - still dark but also dreary and even sillier. The script is atrocious and the plot line involving Two-Face is unbelievably lame. The most interesting thing in this tiresome film is the mesmerizing farewell performance from Ledger. He is simply fun to watch as the Joker. All the other actors look bored, a result of Nolan's dull direction. At a length of two and a half hours, it seriously overstays its welcome. Time to make "Batman Ends."


                
I waited until the DVD came out and the initial media coverage had played out. This movie made money only due to the unfortunate passing of Heath Ledger. Throughout the movie I transitioned from "when is this movie going to get good" to "when is this movie going to end."Christian Bale is a fine actor and we were able to see his talents in the first installment. He had very few scenes where the audience could see these talents in this movie. He was regulated to the Batman Costume and his Clint Eastwood voice impersonation. This was unfortunate. Heath Ledgers performance was good, but not award worthy. He kept sticking out his tongue while speaking to make his character look crazy. Gary Oldman has played much better bad guys in his day and Heath Ledgers performance does not match any of those or Jack's for that matter. Maggie Gyllenhaal was fine but her role was so limited that they could have pulled all her scenes from the movie and the plot would not have skipped a beat. She is a fine actress but we did not get to see much of those talents in this movie.Aaron Eckharts did an excellent job however his characters transformation into Two Face was rushed. It was kind of like they ran out of time and had to rush him into the bad guy role because they spent to much time elsewhere. I will probably check out the third installment when the time comes, but I hope they get back to the format of the first movie. They let the the actors do the work in that version vice putting all the emphasis the superhero & bad guy characters. If they are not going to let Christian Bale act then they can put anybody into the batman suite and it will not matter. This installment is also getting to the borderline where far fetched gadgets are concerned.It's unfortunate this movie made so much money as it will give the production team a false sense of accomplishment. If they repeat this performance they will bomb next time around unless they catch another break with another unfortunate off set tragedy.
Instead of questioning Capitalism, Communism, Taoism or Existentialism... and challenging the audience... it is about corruption and surrendering to corruption like surrendering to jaded teen boredom. Fueled by the claustrophobic helplessness due to terrorism, and the merciless acceptance of hipster nihilism, TDK is a cold unrealistic mechanical set-up sold over and over again by it's proponents as "ultra-realistic". That is the most frightening thing about the obsessive if not immoral blatherings of TDK fans is the Emperor's New Clothes insistence that the film represents "realism". From the Joker's precision timing to drive a school bus into a line of school buses, with one space left for him... to Dent's facial damage due to 5 seconds of burning gasoline... the film is rife with movie fakeness sold like Ad (or ADD) pitchmen for "Nolan's formulaic realism", which is actually just him stealing from "The Long Halloween".A meaningless Rube Goldberg contraption, Nolan takes the audience on an endless set of fake-out twists and turns to deliver very little but loud moments. As calculated and obsessive as The Joker is, and to the degree he plans about 5 separate "back up plans" that come to fruition, he enters the level of anal retentive... yet somehow we are to believe he is some "agent of chaos". Which, means cool. Chaos = cool, get it? There's nothing cool or chaotic about this drugged out riffing Joker, and as fun as Ledger makes him, he overshadows what should have been the center of the story: Harvey Dent. But it's Batman so, business as usual... problem child villain acts up, makes a mess, BatDad shows up to clean up the mess. Crowd applauds. Unfortunately what the film creates is a subtext of a NeoCon wetdream with "by any means necessary" militarism, where the Batman uses unethical means to "detect" the Joker, and we are to assume this fall from grace makes him heroic because he is banished and falsely accused (for 1 minute of nagging by the Joker, turning Dent evil for yet another film coincidence) of driving Dent from white to dark knight... so Batman takes the blame and is the dark knight cuz he's just a Christ figure. So our sacrificial Justice League hero is supposed to be a sympathetic figure of crossing moral boundaries to save society... George Bush must have loved this puppy. Not sure half the tween tards watching this caught that bit of hooey, but as much as the poster art evokes Fight Club, this film is about as far from punk anarchy as you can get. Maybe they should all be sent to military school if this is their idea of rebellion.


                
Gotham is cleaning its act up, Batman is a successful crime fighting Legend, Jim Gordon is moving up the ranks and Harvey Dent is a tour-de-force for the city as its high flying District Attorney. Nothing can go wrong, can it? Well that it is except for a lunatic criminal called the Joker decides to bring chaos to Gotham, Batman is faced with a criminal who will stop at nothing to make a point and is seemingly always one step ahead of the Dark Knight, will he cross the line and kill to stop the madman and make Gotham safe, and will Bruce Wayne get to hang up his cape and get the happiness he deserves.After Batman Begins the scene was set for a bigger and better film to follow and after hearing all the hype I felt that this film could not fail ...I was very wrong. There are a number of issues that I had with the film that I have yet to hear a good defence for. The great films may not be liked by everyone for bizarre reasons but their criticisms are usually swept aside by the faithful. There are far too many errors in this film for it to pass such tests. I will address them one at a time, as one by one these spoilt the film for me.The first is that the film drags and drags and drags. Around the time of Batman's big decision of who he gets to save seems to be the perfect time to end it, on an Empire style ending, instead it goes on and on and we have about thirty to forty minutes extra to wrap everything up that the film simply doesn't need. End it with suspense, leave me on a high, but if I'm looking at my watch you've failed.Two, the performance of Heath Ledger is not all that. Yes, he is dead and this is sad, but the Joker we get in this film is sadly not the Joker of "The Killing Joke" or the Joker of "The Dark Knight", sadly it is somewhere in-between and this version is very mish-mashy, added to that the make-up changes from scene to scene when the jokers skin is supposed to be white all the time, also the make-up should make him look like he's smiling, DO YOU GET IT WRITERS, HE IS CALLED THE JOKER. Did he laugh that often in the film, I think not, he hardly smiled at all either, what's that for? For me, the big star turn in the film is by Aaron Eckhart who is magnificent as Harvey Dent and seems to steal every scene that he is in. Eckhart cranks the film up and makes it his own, and this is what increases the rating as it does.The action sequences that are so gripping in the first film are sadly lacking here as the editing to make it a lower rating and get more bums on seats have cut the films strongest feature to shreds.The last thing that really trashes the film for me is the end sequence with the Joker's final trap, as there is little explanation of how he has done this, are we expected to believe that the Joker is magic as that is what it feels like the director is saying. I'm all for big surprises but this was just too unbelievable, and I'm saying that about a film that has a man dressing up as a giant bat! Many of the people I have spoken to claim to love the film yet so few have any defence of the errors I speak of here, many of them Jump in and agree, and sometimes even add to the list, which annoys me for two reasons, because it will mean that more rubbish will get churned out that is supposed to be good and also because people's standards by accepting sub-standard films as good are lowering and we should always, as viewers, expect more, and pace, performance, writing and even make-up should all be first rate when $170 million dollars have been spent. Maybe many people feel that because there is so much hype for a film, and so much critical acclaim that they must be wrong for not liking it, when the truth is that the people who don't like it all that much are the ones who are right and those that just suck up to the critics view are very wrong. Thankfully I have been here before and faced exactly the same backlash 14 years ago for saying I didn't enjoy "Jurassic Park" which had similar levels of hype and got similar levels of public favour at the time of release. I find it interesting that it is now so very far down the rankings as, upon release, it was supposed to be the best film ever, according to the critics.No film could get a reaction like this on these boards without some element of over-reaction, and in this case it's to Ledger's death, the best time to judge this film will be in a year's time when the hype has died down, and for those who can admit they made a mistake to rethink their over-hyped ratings. Disappointing.


                
This is starting to be downright ludicrous. Another naked king makes it to the top of the charts, helped by massive publicity.This is just another generic action blockbuster, based on tired clichés. It's not different from, say, those old Schwartzenegger movies: it's just updated for current trends and mass appeal: more effects, more speed, more violence, more noise, more music, just more of everything (except the intelligent stuff of course).The whole thing takes itself so seriously, and even pretends to bring some, er.. philosophical insight (sic) to the mix. Yeah, right. You end with a product that is not only mediocre, but aggressively and arrogantly so at that! Yes, Ledger's acting is a treat. And there's even a ~30 sec. good scene halfway through the movie. Er... That's about it."Overrated'" doesn't even start describing the irrational hype around this formulaic and forgettable action flick for teenagers.


                
I am really astonished reading all the commentaries and the incredible average mark of the film. This movie is simply deceiving.When I first saw Batman Begins, I really loved it. From then I began to investigate more about Christohper Nolan and his films. I discovered also that Memento was directed by him, as well as Insomnia with Al Pacino and Robin Williams, highly interesting thriller placed in Alaska.Back to "Knight", I found it firstly too long. I went with 3 friends and all of them slept the whole last hour.Secondly, and probably the most important from my point of view, the plot is not surprising and of a quality you wouldn't expect from such an expensive movie.More, Christian Bale is not the same. In that film Batman as well as Bruce Wayne are poor, somehow sad, definitely not inspiring. Nothing comparable to his performance in Psycho. All the action scenes are the same, batman knocking and slamming with its legs, arms and fists. Where is the intelligence and slyness? The highly praised Heath Ledger is not bad, but the character, this new Jocker is deceiving again. Not fun, not subtle nor ironic, simply violent.To finish with, this film is too long, unnecessarily complicated, and if you see the images of the trailer, you have seen it all.


                
This movie was given way too much credit. It was not as good as people said it was. The only good thing about it was Heath Ledger. This was the best performance of his tragically short life. He was amazing as the Joker, and extremely frightening. The rest of the movie was a waste of my time, though. The other actors were sub par, and the story was unoriginal. That really annoyed me because of how people were RAVING about it. This movie is not worth your time, don't listen to the people saying 'Oh, The Dark Knight is great, it's the best movie ever', because that is not true. I actually don't know if I was watching the same movie as those people, as the movie I saw was total garbage, almost but not quite saved by one absolutely stellar performance.


                
I have to admit that I am writing this comment, just because of pure amazement. I am baffled, I am sorry. But the reason for the superb ratings, this Batman movie has received, is beyond my imagination.In my opinion it is a good comic movie, not a great one and definitely not a masterpiece.The acting is almost non-existing. That does not mean that the actors are bad. It just means that there was no space for acting.Christian Bale does his best, but his performance as an actor is just a faint shadow of what he can actually perform. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman are simply wasted.Heath Ledger is offered more freedom when it comes to acting. He does the Joker in a nice way, crazy at times, funny at times and sometimes he looks like a guy who protests against the WTO. He is good, but does he surpass Jack Nicholson? Definitely not, and the same applies if you compare this batman edition with the first Burton Batman.There are still too many flaws and weak points in the movie. The list would easily crack the word limit.Nonetheless it is still a good, sporadically a very good comic movie. So if you are a die hard-comic fan, then you will probably like it. If you think that comic movies are the masterclass of movie making, then you can call this movie a masterpiece.From my point of view, if anybody asks me which good movie I have seen recently, then I can easily name two or three better films, that I have watched during the last month. And even those are far away from being called great.


                
Back to the movie, clearly the actors are first rate and the dialog is entertaining. I particularly enjoy the incarnation of The Joker by Heath Ledger, which may bring Heath a posthumous Oscar nod; the writers give him some clever lines... like the "you complete me" phrase in the above quote (from Jerry MaGuire). But you know what I'm not buying? I'm not buying that this Batman flick, because of it's dark humor, is better than other comic-book-inspired movies; aside from the rare Joker line, nothing in this movie is humorous, dark or otherwise. In fact it's uncommonly depressing. I suppose Knight is similar to the later Spider Man films, in which we're to solemnly consider the deep emotional conflicts presented to a post-pubescent boy who has been given superhuman powers.My friends, these are movies (and movie advocates) that take themselves way too seriously. ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008


                
I am sincerely confused by all the hype around this movie. It just didn't seem that great to me. No characters had any personality or motivation whatsoever, except the Joker. There was no plot structure at all... the entire thing was just the Joker threatening to kill people and everybody freaking out, then repeat, then repeat again. No break in the action, no climax. And all this for at least two hours. By the end I was TRYING to fall asleep.Not to mention the really, really stupid plot devices. (If you don't care to hear my rant/list of these, which may include SPOILERS, skip to the next paragraph!) Being able to remotely transform all cellphones into high-resolution sonar devices? This idea is just stupid. Wayne chooses "taking a boat ride with the entire Russian ballet" as an alibi? Because somehow he trusts all these near-strangers enough not to blow his cover? That entire plot device was clearly an excuse to fit in at least one scene with scantily-clad women. And the Joker escapes from jail because they didn't bother to put his handcuffs back on after Batman took them off. How lame is that? As soon as he got into jail it was obvious he'd escape, because that's how these stereotypical plots always go, but I at least hoped it would be because of Joker's cleverness rather than because of a completely unrealistic and inexplicable lack of security. He was an infamously dangerous criminal, obviously an entire police station wouldn't be so lax around him. And when he holds his knife to an officer's neck to make demands, another officer about ten feet away is pointing a gun and has a clear shot at his head, and a reason to shoot, but he doesn't. Why not? This movie follows SO many other predictable plot stereotypes. Like the fact that as SOON as Harvey is disfigured, it's completely obvious that he is going to become a villain. Because you can't be disfigured without being evil... Only the handsomest of men are heroes. The most annoying thing is how they didn't even feel the need to explain his lighting-quick transition to being a supervillain with no convincing motivation except for showing his burns, because as soon as you saw that his face was burned you just knew he was evil, end of story. It's just like the way that as soon as you see a child in this movie, you KNOW that group of people won't die, because children never die, of course. The audience might be offended. Also, both protagonists are totally infatuated with some boring girl for no apparent reason, which is a pretty good sign that a movie isn't very thoughtful.Some of the ridiculousness and predictability of the movie's plot could have been forgiven if it wasn't so very tedious. Two hours of the exact same continuous action sequence with no breaks to allow for deeper plot or character development is just too much. Unless you like watching violence for its own sake regardless of plot, and have a really, really long attention span, I can't understand why you like this movie (and you probably do, everyone does, apparently). Not to mention that this long tedious action sequence mostly consists of the exact plot of the first half being reused as the second half (Joker's setup on the boat and the hospital were the same story, it's as if they couldn't decide which one to use and then thought "hey, let's make this movie REALLY long and just use both of them, one right after the other...").It did have some redeeming qualities. The joker WAS great, the nihilistic spin on his character was well-done. The beginning was relatively interesting, before they got into the repetitive action sequences. And toward the end they killed someone who I really didn't predict would die. But, I would never, EVER sit through this again.
Well, it's been a few years, but I might as well warn future moviegoers.This is the movie which so many critics and viewers raved about, yet I couldn't see what for. Let me explain:I'll be brief because I don't want to reveal too much of the plot. The film is basically where the Joker sets out to corrupt the Batman and to prove that 'chaos is order' through death and destruction, and Batman goes to his limits to defeat him. Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne goes through an emotional crisis as Rachel Dawes is now dating Harvey Dent, who later is scarred and becomes Two-Face. It sounds good like this, but it's not.The two main leads are terribly irritating and not at all like the comic book and cartoon versions. Instead of a deformed, conniving, sinister clown, the Joker is a painted emo who preaches about chaos while he senselessly murders people to no apparent aim except to cause that Batman turn to the dark side. I'm not sure if his plan was to pretend to be crazy so that he could conquer the crime syndicate, because it never clearly states any actual goal of his. He acted like some generic psycho, not the real Joker, and I could get ten times better on Criminal Minds.Meanwhile, the Batman is constantly whining about how terrible his life is, and pining after Rachel, and several rushed scenes leave it ambiguous as to whether he wants to be Batman or not. It seems to be a poor rehash of Spider-Man 2, which did this story-line much better. The Batman is the one character in the superhero universe who sacrifices personal relationships for justice more than any, so this is an inherent contradiction of his character. The worst part of all this, though, is that he actually believes some of the Joker's moronic pseudo-philosophy, and acts as if he will somehow be exactly like the Joker and go around murdering people needlessly if he kills him. Really, though, Gotham would be better off if the Joker died, yet the Batman saves him even though, in the final fight, killing him is in self-defense. I didn't get any sense of the bitter rivalry between the two.The rest of the movie doesn't fare well, either. Harvey only becomes Two-Face later on in the second half, after the mob deforms him and kills Rachel. The Joker is responsible, of course, yet, he goes after a few corrupt cops and then Gordon's family. They give no back story to him or reason for his actions, and he is killed off accidentally by Batman. Plus, the love triangle angle is never fully developed anyway (although, because I never really liked her, I wasn't sad when Rachel died). Sal Maroni is a minor secondary villain, but gets more involvement than Alfred or Lucius (they're just minor roles here). Gordon is the only consistent and interesting character in the whole movie.The film is too dark (literally, because everything's in shadows), and the actions scenes, while sometimes good, are hard to see, and seems misplaced anyway. He travels to China to capture a mobster who's not really important, and destroys half of Gotham in a pointless chase scene. The Joker magically seems to be able to blow up bridges, a hospital and ferries, and hack into television broadcasting, without notice and with unlimited resources, but his acting makes this all too unbelievable. His idiotic master plan is to rig two ferries with explosives and see who blows who up first, and the Batman defeats him by magnetizing the city's cellphones to track him. And, in the end, the Batman pretends to be responsible for Harvey's crimes after the latter's death so that the Joker's doesn't win the battle for Gotham's soul (although he and Gordon commit corruption, so the Joker does win, anyway). The musical score is fine, but it's the same one from the last film.All in all, it's just boring and dull. All the philosophy was nonsense, and felt forced. They just used the Batman franchise to sell a film which would otherwise be panned by critics (so why it wasn't, I don't know). I don't recommend that you don't watch, but don't be sucked in by all the hype.
Well I had anticipated that it would be something like this, with all the hype about this movie. I gotta give one thing to them though, it was well commercialized, which is probably one of the causes for it's super god status.Now going into the movie, the first flaw that caught my eye, the most, was during the first 10 min of the movie when Batman takes a hard bang on a concrete wall trying to climb a van and then the dog bites he gets. Both of which were shown later in a scene where Bruce is stitching and mending his wounds. Now fast forward to the part where the Joker drops Rachel from a skyscraper and Batman plunges like he was Superman, both take a fall on a car and both are absolutely fine?! Come ON ! at least put some rope action or something, also why doesn't Batman go back to the top floor where all the guests are left with the "deranged" Joker? Or is it that Joker just said "oh Batman is gone the scene is over I should leave too?" ridiculous!So i relentlessly made myself forget all that , but then i realized that Nolan and Ledger were both too busy trying to darken the joker character to a point where they forgot that the movie is a batman movie and Alfred is a lot more important in his life than a butler. and that because it is a batman movie there should have been glimpses of Batman's dead parents, well at least once cause that is the reason he is Batman/ the dark knight. Adding more fuel to fire where was his bat-craft ? when he went to Hong Kong to kidnap the mob boss , why would he spend billions on a cargo plane and not on his own bat-craft, I failed to see the logic - cargo planes are slower and easily traceable where as the bat-craft is fast and can beat radars. I would call this missed opportunity for the movie. And then came the sonar phone thing now Batman said that the technology allowed them to monitor 2 or 3 million phones, does Nolan know how big a server you would require to do that? Given that you had access to all security protocols from alien ware. Instead they stuck in about 600 little LCD screens and 4 or 5 servers. in my opinion lame. Now comes the joker character : 1. he should have laughed hysterically all the time, if ledger had managed to do that, then it would have been perfect. he basically missed the craziness of the real joker. 2. Joker does not go around telling people how he got the scar . but it is true that he makes up a different story each time he says it, but this is when he is asked about it, he doesn't advertise it! even if i take it for what they did in the movie i think it was way overdone, joker seemed like a Joker merchandise salesman to attract kids buying the new joker t-shirts "Why so Serious?" and crap and by God it has worked, but that is not what makes great movies. Now few things they did get right : joker and batman confrontation at the precinct that was the best scene of the whole movie, joker's dialogue was straight from the comic books, but again minus the laughter. Gordon's character, as in his importance in Gotham was well portrayed although, it was very rushed. - forgivable.. Harvey Dent was good but two face lacked the intensity. over all i would say the movie wasn't made for the Batman comic fans but more for the people who like blockbusters. You should watch it cause its fun to watch and you will realize all the opportunities it had to make it an actual masterpiece in the comic book movie adaptation genre. Now looking forward to watchmen, superman: man of steel and the next Batman which could be Arkham Asylum !
Being a Libertarian wherein one debates the proper time and place for Force, dismayed at the level of government interference in people's lives, but also willing to do what is necessary to survive through defensive forms of Force, this movie does provide fodder for thought. Also, as a believer to some degree in the theories of French Absurdism as an avenue to proto-nihilistic philosophies I can perhaps understand that real life does not some up to an easily digestible whole, but a movie that is primarily entertainment should take you to some endpoint intellectually.Does the prior paragraph make much sense? To initiates, it probably does, for people looking for some action and a bag of popcorn maybe not. And that's the problem for TDK for me. It purports to be one thing, executes something much different, and become unsatisfying as either. If I'm in the mood for a shoot'em up popcorn movie, I'd like a little complexity, sure, but I want the good guys to be good guys and bad guys dead. If I'm looking for a treatise on the absurdity of life and also how man wrapped up in fear, real or imagined, will resort to all sorts of Force that is misplaced and misused, I'll watch something else. I can even at least see a movie that leaves you hanging quite a bit as the use of Art to prove a point, not only as the message but the medium as well. But I certainly don't want an examination of existentialism bound up with my popcorn movie. It just ends being a waste of two and half hours.Basically TDK can't be both a pleasant diversion and a deep philosophical movie about the death penalty, righteous Force, blind fear of the masses, thugacracy, and even more. A movie that has fast action fight scenes, with breaking bones and baddies being dumped over railings to some unknown end, a movie that maintains its limited view of action and consequence (like these baddies being taken off to a hospital for care or some such instead of being simply gone) and yet be a piece to evoke philosophical debate. Basically it can't have its cake and eat it too.The movie basically creates a character of pure nihilism in the Joker and then doesn't know what to do with it. What point is trying to be made? It almost seems the creative team didn't know either, or nothing they'd admit to. So I don't mind being philosophically open ended, but such doesn't in any way make for a satisfying action movie. And yet it still pandered to the action movie template far too often to believe that it was a serious philosophical movie.Basically it was a mess that more or less wasted two and a half hours.


                
It just got so boring. Lots of silly chases and explosions and people doing dare-devil stunts. Whoop-dee-do! But what about the plot? What about a bit of realism in the way people would react to the stuff shown in this film. And what about trying to stick to the laws of physics when doing these ridiculous stunts.But mostly, I couldn't really care what happened to any of the characters in this film. I couldn't care less if Batman or the Joker got blown up or shot. And it just went on and on and on... Good grief, they could have cut an hour off and it might have been a good film.I kept looking at the time and thinking "How long to go before I can get out of here?".I see someone on the message boards has a topic "I haven't met anyone who hasn't liked this film". Well, now you have.
I don't understand the big deal over the Dark Knight. Sure its OK and the actors are OK and all but its not GREAT. I believe that the movie wasn't all that great and was way to boring. My opinion is the movie is O.K. The atmosphere was the main theme of the movie, it was meant to shock us, gore us out and make us feel sympathy. It dragged on to long and by the end i was half asleep and was glad it was over. As soon as it started I was excited to be watching and by the end i was waiting for it to finish. Most of the actors irritated me. I laughed when the love interest died. She annoyed me.But the movie wasn't horrible. Im not saying its the worst movie I've ever seen - but its not one of the greatest. It definitely has no right to be up there with the greatest. No moment in this movie made me stop and think - wow this is good. If you like action you may like this movie but if you like non-stop excitement you won't.Sure there will be people out there who think that this movie is a masterpiece and there will be people out there that don't like it like myself. But I don't believe such a movie has the right to be called one of the greatest movies of the year, or of all time.
Unfortunately, this is a movie that just didn't know where to go most of the time. We have an almost three hour movie that really feels longer and doesn't know where to go and when to stop.First of all, let's talk about Heath Ledger's performance. The hype is absolutely justified. He lights up the screen with his performance and the film is delightful when he is on the screen. Part of the problem is that no other characters are equally as interesting and that includes Christian Bale as Batman. There is not all that much charisma in Christian Bale's characterization as Bruce Wayne and none of the other characters grab the screen the way Heath Ledger does, so the movie doesn't really give Heath Ledger much to play off of most of the time. Eric Roberts, almost unrecognizable probably due to the work that has been done on his face, has some acting moments in a minor role that cause a stir. I always liked him and wish I saw more of him.Meanwhile, the film has so many twists and turns that do nothing more than confuse, I felt more like I was in a maze that I couldn't get out of rather than on a roller coaster ride. Just when I thought there might be a resolution to the film, yet another plot twist, a new discovery would occur. I found myself looking at my watch after about an hour and a half or so, and the movie was only half over! The first part of the film, that is to say, the first hour, was more character setup and that was far more interesting. The first part of the film relied more on dialogue and there was quite a bit of evident wit. But when the plot points started getting laid on thick and heavy, I got restless and continued to get more so. At film's end, I ended up thinking "So what?". I was glad to have seen Heath Ledger's performance, but not much more than that. I felt, other than for Ledger, the film wasted my time (and money).


                
Well, maybe not.I won't bore you with any of the plot details, believe me when I say The Dark Knight will do this for you. Tedious, that's one way of describing this film. As well as insipid, dull, uninspiring, boring, and yawn inspiring.I seriously can't believe the ridiculously high scores given here. Did we even see the same movie? I'm starting to think not.The one I saw was achingly long, had A-Team level violence (you know, explosions and a lot of shooting but never any blood), and a hero who disguised himself by adopting a stupid 'I'm disguising my voice so you'll not recognise my lantern jaw' voice. Heath Ledger was okay. As in OK. As in not great. I half suspect that the only reason people are gushing over him is because he's dead.Anyway, this film has a LOT of flaws and certainly isn't anywhere near the masterpiece it is touted as being.I'll give it a 6/10 for some solid cinematography, -1 for being so damn boring and another -1 for failing to live up to any of the hype.


                
THIS MOVIE IS WEAK! Unfortunately, this film fails to deliver the same way Batman Begins did. The characters were mishandled (Nolan should do MORE research) and the acting was unsatisfying. Ledger did great, only he was NOT the Joker. The man hardly giggled. I'm sorry, but if you're going to play someone like the Joker, DO NOT go off on a tangent and try your own thing. In a medium like comic books, they're different from books in terms of we get visuals. We know EXACTLY what the Joker is supposed to be like. Ledger dropped the ball big time and Nolan should have done something about it. CELL PHONE SONAR?????????? That was awful. Two-Face looked good and Eckhart was an awesome choice but he had very little to work with. They should have given his character the attention he deserves, meaning his descent stemmed from his childhood, not his damn relationship with his co-worker. Gordon could have been good but he wasn't. Apparently he had to die to catch the Joker. WHAT? The ruse was mishandled. Let your audience know what's happening. Batpod? Whatever. NO BATCAVE???????????? Michael Caine plays an excellent Alfred only he had nothing to do. Does anyone recall the whole thing from Begins about Why do we fall? Apparently EVERYONE forgot it in this one. Everyone had a moral dilemma in this and that's fine, but WE DEALT WITH THIS IN THE FIRST ONE!!!! This is a damn superhero movie and why do people like superheroes? Because they beat up the bad guys. The fight scenes are poor at best because the camera is too close and YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHAT IS HAPPENING. I want to watch Batman kick the hell out of an army of jerks, not have it implied. These scenes were the weakest part of the film. Batman films, whether you agree or not, should have scraps like the ones in City of Violence or the hallway scene in Old Boy. THOSE ARE FIGHT SCENES! Does anyone know the plot of this film? Look, I know the Joker was supposed to be insane and never plan a damn thing BUT THERE WAS NO CLIMAX! Every scheme amounts to nothing and in the end of the film, THERE IS NO MOMENT OF TRIUMPH FOR THE BAT! Especially since they locked him up once and THE JOKER GOT OUT! WHY IN SWEET HELL WOULD THE JOKER BE AFRAID OF INCARCERATION?????? Plus, the scene at the end with the boats was a little too far-fetched (I know that's a risky thing to say since this is a film about a man who dressed in a rubber suit to fight crime). I mean, I just don't see people blowing each other up, especially when the National Guard is involved. WEAK! And back to that cell phone sonar thing: CHRISTOPHER NOLAN!!! BATMAN IS SUPPOSED TO BE A DAMN DETECTIVE!!!! WHY HAVEN'T YOU DEALT WITH THAT???? HE DOESN'T NEED THE DAMN SONAR TO FIND JOKER!!!!!! Ultimately, what kills this movie is the writing. Awful!!! David S. GOYER!!! STOP BUTCHERING SUPERHERO MOVIES!!! FIRST THE DAMN CROW (did you think I'd forget, dumb-ass?) THEN NICK FURY FOR TV WITH HASSELHOFF AND THEN BLADE (Goyer's third Blade, which he directed, SUCKED) AND NOW BATMAN. WHY DO THEY HIRE THIS MAN??????? People, this movie was terrible in terms of WHAT THEY COULD'VE DONE WITH THE MATERIAL!!!! If Nolan decided to do a third, he should FIRE himself because he cannot direct comic movies and TURF GOYER!!!!! There are some fine ideas in this film but they are masked by the garbage. The bank scene is great but the subsequent ones fail to deliver. All in all, I WISH I liked this movie. But if left me suspicious of a third and slightly hoping they'll reboot it again. I thought Bale was a great choice for the mantle but he phoned this performance in. If he doesn't step it up, get someone else or start over. Ugh.
I noticed that a film I had not seen was riding high in the IMDb chart and being intrigued I bought my copy of The Dark Knight. I was fairly impressed with the special effects and the acting from the cast was good and it was clear that a certain amount of care, effort and attention had been put into the films production. Ultimately though I felt as if it was a case of a fairly good attempt but no cigar. The film could have been a classic but it simply isn't good enough. Personally I was glad I had watched it but will not be rushing to watch it again and its current position in the IMDb chart is way above where it should be. It is also clear that the film has numerous enthusiastic supporters and having watched the film I can see why. I think there are a lot of people out there who have got carried away with all the hype, marketing and advertising and also I think it may be a case of its cool to say how good it is and agree with the majority. Lets just see in say five years where this film figures in the various charts that are out there. This film is not bad but its not very good either. I am not in the slightest bit bothered about swimming against the tide where this film or any other film is concerned, if its not very good I will say so but what the hey as I have said before opinion is all and I would recommend that anybody watch it at least once.


                
A few arguments to show how mediocre this movie really is: two ships, having the choice of killing each other, or being killed. If every ship will be blown up at midnight anyway, what kind of choice is that? It is certain death, so pushing the button seems the only choice you have. The only way to survive is to push. It is no real dilemma. The weakest Batman in history. Being saved several times by humble earthlings. Carrying a suit that is not up for dog bites but yes for bullets? Further: the least interesting. Where is the psychology?Morgan Freeman's character: the whole city is burning, hospitals are exploding, people on ferries about to kill each other, and he's making a point of privacy? How can a joker have no sense of humor? Scary at times, he is as flat as a penny. A bit of humor, the dark one that is, would have made him really dangerous. Now he is but a nut. The whole point of a joker is that he is bad as hell, but charming too. He makes you fall in love with evil. Ledger did excellent with how little he was given.Harvey Dent: turns into a revengeful monster in seconds? Psychologically so empty: first all he wants is good, then all he wants is revenge. 'They took her away from me'. Such a stereotype.Chris Nolan seems to be: humorless, wanting to distract the viewer from a hollow story by means of flashes and effects.
To be honest this movie has the same plot-line played over and over again until its done till death, i liked the first new batman film more, although many people liked the pace, i thought it was actually very slow. Heath Ledger plays the Joker OK, but nothing special although the joker clips were a lot more interesting than the batman parts. I think this would have been a great movie if they had shortened it and stopped overusing that climatic building sound over and over again. I feel that the next batman movie will not be so great, and why is everyone making movies about superheros's ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------


                
Let me first say that I myself am surprised for only giving it 4 stars. When I first saw this film, and first reviewed it I had given it 10 shiny stars...However upon my second viewing of it, something turned me completely off to it.Now, in all honesty this movie for me could be looked upon like a very expensive sushi dinner: Everything is beautiful: All the players involved were amazing. The scenery was incredible, the dialogue (with the minor exception of Christian Bales' 9000 cigarette a day Batman voice) we not over the top in any way. The story line was well thought out, and well played.I mean from that standpoint you really can't say anything bad.It had substance, and wasn't just all fluff. It really was a 10 star film! So why do I only give it 4 stars? Well, like any high class restaurant, appearance and presentation, and quality of the food is simply the the beginning. And this film had it all, really it did.However, it lacked one thing for me, and that is...Taste...It simply left a bad flavor in my mouth and it took me the better part of a day to figure out why.With a film that is so incredible on every level, it did exactly what so many films before it has done, and failed miserably at every single time.Trying to fit in too much.The "more bang for your buck" mentality.I was simply enjoying Heath Ledgers performance, and honestly did not seem him on the screen anywhere. He was Joker all the way. Sinister, psychotic, mad. Simply amazing.But where it killed it for me was with Harvey Dent and Two-Face. Yes he acted it well, yes the makeup artists were phenomenal. I mean everything about him was good.Except that all of his character should have been saved for Batman 3! Partway through the movie, it almost seemed that The Dark Knight could have ended, and another film began.It wasn't one particular point per say, but more of an overlapping of ideas. Here we are following the Joker, and then the Joker's story starts to overlap with Harvey Dents story.Like Venom in Spider-Man 3, Harvey Dent while integral to the story became an after thought.A very strong after thought mind you, but an after thought none the less.They could have done so much more with his character and the end result of The Dark Knight could have very easily been incorporated more into a third film.But instead they chose to cram as much as they could into one film, and there you have it.Had I done it, I would have had the transformation of Dent as the cliffhanger to the Dark Knight, and made an entirely different story line based more on Dent/Two-Face in a 3rd film.It is this reason that the film left a bad taste in my mouth.Petty? Over reacting? Nit Picking? Maybe so, maybe not. However, as most avid film viewers know it usually only takes one thing to screw up a great film, and for me, this was it.
