This particular relic serves one purpose today: to show just how far we've advanced as viewers of movies in terms of our expectations. This may have been definitive film-noir in its day. Now the distance between this movie and the ubiquitous use of noir in our time is as distant as the dictaphone within is to today's digital recordings.Surely, it's hard to get much purer than "Double Indemnity". It announces in undiluted terms how it's all about the individual caught up in the machinery of uncaring Fates. The men are openly and piggishly sexist. The women are decorations...but there's no actual sexuality this deep in the Code period. Not a drop of irony anywhere. And so I think we expect a lot more than this now. At least I know I do. What I expect is a movie that visually plays the game with me, and is not just about a game perpetrated on the world of the movie's characters that we passively observe.This is obsolete. I'll go with any one of this movie's many descendants, starting with "Body Heat".


                
Double Indemnity is one of the most famous film noir classics of all time, but I absolutely hate the beginning! Fred MacMurray, bleeding and panting, stumbles into his office and turns on a recorder. He starts his confession, and then the film goes back in time to relive his story as he tells it. I've never liked movies that go back in time because I've never been able to forget the beginning that has pretty much ruined the ending. It was in the back of my mind that Fred MacMurray will do something terrible and get very badly wounded-so the suspense of the flashback was killed for me.While there's nothing wrong with Fred MacMurray's or Edward G. Robinson's performances, Barbara Stanwyck was terribly miscast. I think she's a fantastic actress in many different roles, but an irresistible femme fatale is not one of them. Lana Turner, yes, or Linda Darnell, but Barbara Stanwyck just doesn't pull off sexy in this movie as she did in other films like Clash by Night. Plus, her haircut in this film is bad enough to turn any man away, not attract them! I don't know why those ridiculous bangs were ever popular. However, if you've never seen this classic and you like femme fatales, corny voice-over narration, and stupid men who are easily swayed to the dark side by a pair of legs, you should probably watch Double Indemnity to see where it all began.


                
