To be as brief as I can although I liked season 3 the ending was a disappointment. Why? 1. Varga who has been the criminal mastermind for the entire season walks into an obvious trap. He would never have been that stupid. 2. Nikki Swango has endless amounts of time to prepare the entire warehouse for the ambush but forgets to turn off the CCTV cameras?? 3. Emmet Stussy's car breaks down in the middle of the highway. After Nikki and the cop kill each other he gets in his car and just drives off without a problem??? But it was broken down! Ridiculous. Did no one re-read or edit the script before submitting? Were they in a hurry? These glaring mistakes destroyed the ending for me and were so strange since everything else was so well written. So while it was fun to watch I have given it only one star for the bad ending.
I have to acknowledge the fabulous cast in Fargo Season 3, however the story line this time around was a bust! I loved all the previous Fargo's and waited anxiously for each new episode. This season was actually painful to finish. From the first episode I held on , assuming it to just improve each week. Not the case, in fact I found myself finishing up the series like it was a chore to just get done. So disappointed.


                
What the **** did I just spent two evenings watching?? After two brilliant seasons of Fargo, I've got a bitter taste in my mouth after the third. For all of you people who like inconclusive endings, this will be a goldmine - go for it, but for the rest of us, this was a total waste of time.


                
The series premiere is one of the worst things I've seen in a long time. It is unbelievably bad in many different ways. To think that the Coens were involved with this blows my mind. Freeman's accent is terrible, and literally unintelligible at times. The shot selection at its worst is cliché, and some of the edits help land the clichés. The characters and dialogue and scene construction are god-awful and ham-fisted. There's a nagging wife, a dweeb salesman, a local bully, and so on. Everything about this is like an elephant playing piano. It's "quirky"(tm) without being at all charming or even original in the way that a series based on the movie could have been. Good grief. Willa Paskin's review on Slate gets at some of the problems of the series.


                
HORRIBLE! Fargo is in my top 5 films of all time and this looks like some bootleg ripoff. They claim it's new characters & story lines but its a lie. The characters are cheap 2 dimensional facsimiles of the amazing performances from the film. The plot points are thoughtless and the performances, shallow. Scenes stolen right from the film. Snow covered highways. quirky north dakota types that seem like actors trying their best to be unusual. All in all it is a horrible, HORRIBLE idea for a TV show ripoff of an absolutely incredible classic film. Billy Bob Thornton is the only actor portrayal that is worthy of an award nomination.


                
A friend of mine was always going on about this series and insisted it was brilliant. I have always been reluctant to watch season programmes but after watching BREAKING BAD which was superb, I thought I'd give in and watch the first season of Fargo. Well, I was extremely disappointed with the series and the acting was very basic. Billy Bob and Michael Freeman were somewhat acceptable but the rest of the cast was really awful. Gus Grimley was a wimp and reminded me of a comic strip character who actually was a wimp, Solverson was supposed to be a detective, the best one mind, but still played the part of a simpleton cop 'very successfully!!!' and I could moan load's about the other actors... I couldn't believe the script and choice of actors for the police in particular. They were made out to look inept and stupid and, dare I say, simpletons! The way they spoke with "Oh Jeez" and "Yep" and "Oh boy" and so on was so basic and although the storyline was interesting, it was hard to believe that it could have been true when you consider the level of acting. If the series was meant to emphasise the stupidity of a police force in the US, it succeeded - in every way. And to play the devil's advocate, I did watch the COMPLETE season 1 and although the plot was interesting, the bad acting from season 1 will prevent me from watching any of the others.


                
I watched this show (I bought it on DVD) because I absolutely love the original Fargo movie. I rate the movie 10/10, and there are very, very few things that deserve that high a rating. I own the movie, and have watched it many times, and have had the pleasure of introducing others to it. Unfortunately those making this series appear to have totally missed what made the original movie great (at least for me). They have imitated the style of the movie, but have totally and utterly failed to capture any of its heart. The original movie certainly has merits on many levels. The cinematography and music are great, for example, and some of that is imitated reasonable competently in this series. However, after many viewings, I feel that the real heart of the movie lies in its characters. Almost every character in the movie is a delight to watch, even the bad guys, stupid and misguided though they may be. The TV series simply does not have that at all. Most of the characters are just annoying and unpleasant to watch. Deputy Molly comes closest to capturing the strength of the original movie. But she is not enough on her own. Her Dad is pretty good too. And Martin Freeman does a good job as Nygaard. Also Colin Hanks as Gus. But I wouldn't fault any of the actors. The writing and direction is just completely missing what made the original film a jewel to watch and re-watch. To give this one star compared to the film's ten is to over-rate it - it's not close to a tenth as good as the movie. Somewhere around a half a star would be closer to the truth. If you love the movie Fargo, I wouldn't recommend this series to you at all.


                
i loved season 1 and 2, great memorable characters, well paced and lots of dramaseason 3 however is a huge letdown, there are entire scenes where nothing important happens, just mind numbing conversation it is so slow paced, the characters nicki swango and carrie coon are both annoying and not very attractivethe worst character is VM varga,every time he is on screen he rambles on about nonsense,he has to give a 5 minute history lecture, i wished someone would blow his head off the first time i saw him, compared to lorne malvo and the villains in season 2 varga is patheticmcgregor is excellent as always, another viewer complained about the music, i completely agreeto sum it up,the director obviously wanted this season to be quirky and thats exactly what it is, so you have quirkiness in favour of entertainment and drama


                
Season 3 has just destroyed this! The first 2 seasons were fantastic. Brilliantly written, perfectly cast and so well made that every time you thought it couldn't get any better, it did! 
To then follow on with this 3rd season is purplexing to say the least. Simply awful and an absolute chor to sit through I can't belive I've just sat through this. I was so impressed with the first two seasons. If you haven't yet watched the 3rd season then don't ruin the brilliance of the first two by watching it.


                
Derogatory characterization of Midwestern whites, pointlessly violent, moronic dialog...a horrible take off on the original film...the Coen brothers showed the culture with humor and good natured parody...this show was crude, insulting, and exaggerated to the point of being idiotic...the scenes were unrealistic in terms of behavior to the point where I swore they were actually making a parody of the movie...then I realized they were merely trying to be imitative...the fact it averaged 9 stars is truly sad but not surprising ...I have to say I only watched one episode but I could not stand another one...I'm sure if blacks or Jews had been parodied and made to look this idiotic and depraved, the ADL and NAACP would have been all over the producers in a NY minute...


                
What people find entertaining shows how low humanity has fallen. Stupid people killing stupid people through the decoration of dead animal meat flesh to tantalize your blood thirst. Its not clever, it is just ugly.. . it is all just ugly vile and a waste of time.If you like this show, maybe take a look at yourself and wonder what the hell is wrong with you. Do you find it uplifting to know there are people more inept as you? Do you like to see stupid people get away with murder?...or is it the quirky satire that leaves you feeling satisfied that 'ain't life strange' with the notion you have escaped your real sad life for an hour. Wow....how pathetic is that.


                
The whole intrigue of Fargo, the film that inspired someone to come up with this pile of trash, is that it's a quiet town that was not prepared for the events that took place. So rather than come up with an original idea for a TV show, creator Noah Hawley decided to piggyback off of a truly classic movie and create something that makes no sense. It's pathetic that other reviewers on here think this is a good idea. It goes to show how our expectations for quality, original entertainment have been completely decimated over the last 15 years.Do yourself a favor, watch the movie and pretend this garbage show doesn't exist. By watching it, you're encouraging the lazy, stupid ideas that Hollywood has been constantly assaulting us with recently.


                
I mean come on. This is some kind of believable story or something ? It starts great and the first couple of episodes is setting you up for something amazing. And then what happens ? Of course you have this demi god guy that is like a superman walking on earth knows everything even before it happens. Every police officer is pictured as a not very intellectual individual and their only purpose is to shoot everything that walks or let the suspect go. In my opinion this is a very bad production aiming very high and landing almost on point zero. No point of watching this unless you have an IQ lower than 70 and your only entertainment is to see some gun fire. And even in this case you can just watch some documentary on guns. I can only compare this with the pure mediocrity of second season of True Detective or the mindless nonsense that happens to be the new Tarantino movie.
Rule no 1 of fight club XXXXXXXX sorry IMDb reviews:.If it's a 9 rated movie then it's been hyped.With a current overall of 9.0 and an S02E01 rating of 9.2 then this is a prime example.Setting a series in the past does not mean that the standard of acting should be set back into the cheesy quality of a 50s B movie (that said I love B movies) and re-hashing successful old plots should not be done for the sake of it.Not clever or ironic, this is a lame and contrived performance of tired subject.I thought Ted Danson did an excellent job of re-inventing himself in the CSI expansion but he has undone much of that credit in this performance.Frances McDormand killed the character of Sheriff Marge Gunderson in the 1996 original and no follow-up is necessary other then to line the pockets of greedy producers. Anyone wanting and ongoing taste of excellence should just re-run the original movie once every week or two and you will have a far better feeling then watching these re-hashed series.Current rating of the Oscar winning 1996 original is 8.2 which is about right. This falls well short of that mark.


                
I thoroughly enjoyed both seasons 1 and 2 but season 3 is a mess.
SPOILER ALERT *******
The whole idea of a series is that the parts eventually fit together to form a whole. This bit seems to have been omitted entirely in season 3.S3 Episode 3 was all about the sci-fi books, We had a flashback to how the young author was scammed, we had a cartoon representation of book, we had officer Burgle flying to LA to investigate/interview. And then, nothing because the books had zilch to do with the plot?
I mean, 1/10th of the series had nothing to do with the plot?? Yep!Then we had the Russian baddie Yuri Gurka, remember him?
After spending days relentlessly hunting down Nikki Swango, he goes into a bowling alley, is chatted to by a random guy (supposedly a homage to the cowboy in the Big Lebouski??) who tells him a story about 17th century Jews..and he disappears from the series, just like that???Or, how about the scene where Emmet Stussy's car breaks down, Swango arrives and confronts him, she's involved in a shoot out with police and Stussy makes his escape. Except..he makes his getaway in the very same car which had broken down two minutes earlier!!!Then there were the subliminal messages put there for no reason other than to demonise Russia notice them?
As in the story about Jews being killed by Russians in the 1700's.
Or the prominent picture of Lenin on display each time Varga was working on his computer (and why would a globalist, capitalist have a picture of a communist leader on his wall?)There were some good performances from the lead actors but otherwise the storyline was totally banal, and not in a good way.
I have no inclination to search out season 4, if it ever comes out.
An abject lesson in how to ruin a good series.
I quit watching half an hour into this sexist, insulting piece of garbage. The movie is one of my favorites of all time. Yet I soon discovered that the best character in it--and the only female not a stripper or a hooker, or a housewife with no lines beyond nods or screeches--had been changed into a man. A perfect flawless man with a none-too-bright pregnant wife at home and a dingbat moron employee sidekick. Take out a brilliant woman and add 2 more stereotypes...did the Coen brother married to the star of the movie version get divorced and try to divorce the movie character as well? That was the inescapable feeling I got, and enough to make me shut off after the 2d moronic group of comments by the now-demoted female cop and the corrections to her flawed reasoning by her new boss, the now-male police chief. I wish the Coen Brothers were sentenced to read the book Backlash cover to cover for ruining a great movie's memory. I still have the DVD if I ever forgive them tho I'll never watch this tripe of a TV show. It's a shame people are still so unenlightened they buy into such stereotypes, judging by all the good reviews.


                
Terrible, just bad.  I just came from Fargo, and although I liked the movie from the Cohen  brothers. I found the people and the town are nothing the way the show  nor the movie portrays.   Most of the actors and actresses have poor Dakota accents on this show  and there is little of the actual city portrayed, with nothing but ice  and snow portrayed.   The homes are on the show are nothing but California homes with some  plastic flake on them, and look nothing like the neighborhoods in the  REAL Fargo.  I do not believe the show has actually been shot in N. Dakota. Most of  the trucks in the show are not even 4x4's and that is all people have  up there if they own a truck.  In all, a poor job of actually portraying life in Fargo.   Really poor. Really Really poor. FYI Poor
Don't waste your time. It's boring like hell. Actions are shamefully predictable. Story is simply not interesting. no thrill, no real drama, no real action. There's absolutely nothing of interest in this series. nothing. Users giving high rating have other taste, sure, but I'm telling you they were trapped in a pretentious marketing, and hype, due to the Bros Cohen name.


                
