From the very start, from the opening shot of the cold dark icy road and the background music starting to play, I knew this would be something different, something awesome.Coming from someone who hasn't watched the 1996 film by the Coen brothers, I really didn't know what to expect. I was in a way wondering if I was just wasting my time and watching a series that would fall short of everyone's expectations and just flop, like so many other TV series do nowadays. However, that didn't happen at all.The performances were outstanding in my opinion. Martin Freeman was excellent and to my surprise did the accent fairly well. Billy Bob Thornton was amazing as Lorne Malvo, the enigmatic vibe you get from his performance gave me chills.The cinematography is also one of the good things about this pilot. The shots are smart and intriguing, yet still simple and not too overdone. The music is also outstanding. There are times when it is quirky and funny, there are times where it is tragic and sad yet epic, and then there are also the times when it is intense and mysterious.Fargo is mysterious, intense, funny (at times), tragic and just simply plain awesome! I really hope there are more to come like this.10/10


                
Im here once again to state the difference between a show and a masterpiece .Many times you ask yourself ,how can i spend my time watching something worthy ?! this is how! Great cast , great story, scenario , pacing, and that feeling about wanting more and more !I watched the entire 1st season, now the 1st episode from the 2nd season , and i can say ,this is something especial .I hope you can watch, and after you do that, please review this amazing show ,and be pleases to leave a 10 as i did. This way ,all of us can make a difference , the difference that puts something special at the top, not all of those crappy shows that gives you nothing but a truly time-wasting !Hope to read you here very soon ;)Regards


                
I just finished watching the pilot for this show, and it was a "wow", a top notch level of excellence.It might be too early to say it is a potential Emmy-winner or other awards winner show just by the first episode, but I would say it is on the "MUST SEE" list. I've never watched the classic film "Fargo", so I didn't have any preperception of comparing the film to the show. It is just simply amazing with excellent direction, ACTING, and scene setup. Billy Bob Thornton did a great job showing a baddie with such a power of manipulation. As usual, his performance is fantastic. Martin Freeman's performance is just perfect, and he surprises me a lot by changes in his body shape, reactions, and the accent. It is just amazing that an English can do such unique northern American accent.Performance from other actors are also compelling and excellent as well. It's comfortable and joy to watch their performance.Definitely recommended!


                
I'm not good with reviews but i decided to give it a try, i was boring, watching TV show after TV show, everything was average at most. Then I tried another one, Fargo and I was so tied with the story and great acting that I watched all 8 episodes during one night, recommending to everyone!The only thing that bothered me - are these events really based on true story? because it got a little unreal at places so i googled a little and turns out that it's not really based on true events but hell, who care! maybe it's even better ;)I really don't know much other TV shows (OK OK maybe i do, like Stargate, Breaking Bad, etc.) that make me addicted but Fargo - definitely can be added to my list of MUST_WATCH, solid 10/10 !


                
After watching more recent offspring of the new "One hour movie" esq shows ,ushered in by Breaking Bad, I was expecting a pretentious, exuberantly high budgeted, slow and pandering television show trying to feed off the Breaking Bad withdrawn audience. After watching the first episode of Fargo I was very surprised. The first episode's last 20 minutes left me with anxious tingles down my spine. The mix between light hearted comedy and darkness provided by the interactions of the extras with Billy Bob Thornton and Martin Freeman. Without revealing anything about the plot I can safely say I will remember the interaction between Officer Grimly and Malvo for the rest of my life.Also the cinematic quality of this series will be second to none as the placement of the camera in certain scenes truly adds to the comedic or dark value of the scenes.


                
Fargo is great.Pros: Just the right amount of humor. Just the right amount of intensity. Just the right amount of weird.Cons: NoneA roller coaster ride of a show. Sets up scenes beautifully. The characters are not your average theater heroic type. They have typical human traits, which is what draws you to them. It has a dull atmosphere, and for that reason everything that occurs is just that much more extreme.Do watch.


                
it is definitely one of the best first-episode TV series that i have seen and i'v seen a lot.so if it gets better episode by episode,i'm absolutely sure that it will be one of the top ten series of all time and in crime-drama genre maybe just maybe as good as True Detective.now about the first episode,the plot is dark,cold and a little funny(in a dark way i mean) but it's not that mysterious like true detective was.the acting is solid,all the cast do a great job to make scenes believable,the reason i mention believable is that,after watching the first episode you might find it difficult to find sense and good reason behind some scenes but i believe that crazy people do crazy stuff and ordinary people do unexpected things under pressure and stress and if the actors and actresses achieve those characteristics which i think they did then the scene is believable.anyway the writing is compelling and solid that keep you interested and it is also complicated enough to make good crime characters which i think is very important in a crime-fiction.overall if you like crime genres,then i highly recommend it.


                
Wow! Fantastic! Murder, mayhem plus over-the-top hilarious Minnesota-speak. If you liked the movie, you're gonna like this too. First TV episode had more action and maybe a little less comedy in the dialogue/dialect of the movie, but the Coen Bros. influence is omnipresent. One concern I have is that if the murder rate continues (4 dead in episode 1), they're gonna run outta characters by mid-season. But let's trust show's writers to overcome this hazard. Observation on Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton character): maybe it's my imagination, but I see some of Anton Chigurh ("No Country for Old Men" bad guy) in Malvo. Both are obviously sociopathic hit men whose "work" doubles as entertainment. To wit: Chigurh shoots at the crow while crossing the bridge, the fun and games with the coin toss; Malvo antagonizes one of Hess brothers against the other with fake "lawyer" phone call. Later he cons the motel janitor kid into pissing in the owner's gas tank, then makes anonymous phone call to owner to catch kid in the act. My hat is off to FX for coming up with this magnificent replacement for the season ended "Justified". Fingers crossed that subsequent episodes are as entertaining as No. 1. P.S. - Can't wait for somebody to haul a wood chipper outta the shed!
Fargo the series is extraordinary in how convincingly it blends the ordinary with the mythological. Remarkably it makes little effort to hide its flaws and they are many when exposed to the light of rational analysis. Fargo is like a brilliant Persian rug which is so worn you can see the floor in places but the worn parts only seem to enhance the beauty of the whole. Characters are wonderfully developed; they are people you could meet on the street at any time and the acting is of such sterling quality that even movie stars like Ewan McGregor manage to convince instead of just being variations of their real personas. The women are strong; the villains are evil and complex, particularly one of the most fearful I've ever seen, M.V. Varga as played by the brilliant actor David Thewlis in season 3. Slimy Thewlis is repulsive and he knows it. He uses your disgust like a weapon. You want to wipe your hands when he's in the room and when he's gone, a stench lingers even though it's television not smellovision. He has an amazing mouth with prehensile lips. Where another actor might use his body or his hands to shape a character, Thewlis uses his lips which are not unlike the end of an elephant's trunk, always twitching, always spouting junk philosophy or dubious biblical quotes, in an accent you might find in the backroom of an East London pub. Bravo, Mr. Thewlis and if I had a bouquet I'd throw it up on the stage.All the Fargos are classics from the film through the three series of the TV show.


                
Right from the beginning I knew this would be a Fantastic TV Series. Best acting Iv'e seen in a TV show in a long time I wish that more shows would be based off of old movies. Also it was a great idea that they brought the Coen Brothers back for this show.Warning Spoiler Alert: Just some awesome attributes to this first episode. A man is seen frozen to death. A man kills another man by stabbing him in the back of the head while he's having sex. He spits up blood on the prostitute and falls on top of her. A man beats his wife to death with a hammer. This scene is sudden and intense as the first strike comes out of nowhere. She stands in shock with blood trickling down her head. He later hits her across the face and begins beating her multiple times. You later see the graphic aftermath. So there was a lot of thought put into this Series and just the best acting hands down Iv'e seen in a TV show in a long while.Thumbs up!! 10/10
Can't wait until season 4!!! Too bad it's not until 2020! <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0094>


                
It's difficult to find the proper words to describe how much I love this series. If I say it's brilliant, it feels like an understatement.The plot, the actors, the suspense, the music, the scenery ... everything is pure perfection. It's dark, but at the same time so damn inviting. Right from the first episode of each season you are drawn into an intoxicating and chilling story. You soon find out why so many people call Noah Hawley a genius (and this too feels like an understatement).The first as well as the second season are masterpieces and definitely worth watching. You won't regret it, believe me. Last week I watched the first episode of the third season and I'm already excited like a little girl to see how this season will unfold.All I can say is: just watch it and enjoy the journey!


                
Let me be frank, reviews are useless; telling, describing certain scenes and write this and that about plot or lack of it or about character development and yada yada yada: useless. One more thing: Carrie Coon is just too beautiful (in the very root sense of the word), she's like a walking painting. Now, Fargo, how this show even exists? It puzzles me. It uses the very system that despises art and critical thinking to do exactly that, albeit via comedy and images of violence (which is one of the languages of our violent hedonistic era). It have anarchist-socialist themes, radical feminist themes, justice themes, religious themes, etc.. There's evil in the world; there's evil within us; there's justice; there's accountability for one's choices; there's punishment. Cormac McCarthy, the American author, writes about all this, always, though his last screenplay and the film that resulted from it is ignored by most critics and film-goers alike. The third season of Fargo actually makes some references to Cormac McCarthy's oeuvre. This show have more artistic density and relevance than The Sopranos and The Wire put together (perhaps rivaled by Six Feet Under), and certainly a deeper understanding of humanity and its condition than the more insular American and British shows and literature in general, including the afore mentioned The Wire (though Mad Men and Six Feet Under may be so as well). All of which make me ask again, how this shows exists? If wasn't for its joke and violent sides it probably wouldn't be produce. Would be a play released in book format by some independent printing house that nobody would read (we already read so little outside the mainstream).Technology advances. Human morality not so much. Apart form some social-civil advances that took decades to achieve and when got are quickly reveal to be a crumbling façade, humans are very much the same as the dawn of the species. This is a book-length topic and as such I'll stop.Fargo is brilliant from the first scene of the first episode of the first season. This isn't a review, but an alert to people who may be thinking about watching the show. Pay close attention. There're many details in scenes and loose bits of dialogue to deepen our knowledge of ourselves and humanity in general. The understanding and the criticism of our ways is there, is not subliminal (though sometimes appears symbolically). Pay close attention and you will be surprised.
Season 2 should forever be considered among the measuring sticks of how good TV can truly be. Acting, writing, directing all converge to make a superlative story. Powerful and quirky, yet grounded.


                
This takes the Movie a step further.. I rated the movie 9... this is the first 10 I've awarded since West Wing... and to be honest.. it is better than West Wing. The writing and acting are superb.. please can we have more.. and if not why not make a series about the "Billy Bob Thornton" character I was doubtful about the casting of my fellow countryman Martin Freeman in the role but he has made it his own... brilliant timing and delivery. I love the way they manage to weave comedy into the drama.. the Bullies (Hess) two son's fighting in the background was a touch that even Charlie Chaplin would have admired. The strength in depth of each character makes you never want to miss a second. It is a long time since I really looked forward to the next episode of a series. MORE please..


                
Fargo is hilarious mix between the crime genre and the comedy one. i cannot remember me having good time watching a TV series as this, of course after breaking bad. the cast and the direction are the magical things behind this masterpiece.billy bob Thornton is the a legend. by all means, this man is a real hero when it comes to acting skills, his performance was far from being over and far from being normal. for me, i think that the golden globe he got was just normal reaction for his performance. and when it comes to martin freeman it is exactly the same. after knowing that martin is going to be in this series i just couldn't understand why they involve a man with different accent from the region.actually, after 15 minutes from the first episode i got really shocked from his way of acting. he was, for me, the best one when it comes to making comedy in the series. he makes me feel really that i could enjoy crime series with a very considerable amount of comedy that can never pull you out of the plot.lastly, this is a very rare masterpiece you really do not wanna miss. And it is more than highly recommended if you are a fan of a great acting underneath the control a spectacular director10/10


                
What a show. This is my first time ever writing something in IMD. Happy to do it for this show. I didnt take the show seriously at first, then it has become an additction. I am watching season 2 finale as I am writing this review. Just WOW


                
Fargo deserves a high score in it's first outing for originality and character development, Billy Bob Thornton and Martin Freeman are class acts here. It's very pretty, the icy beauty of the north we don't get see much of normally. It has a touch of Northern Exposure quirkiness, the accents, the weird blend of violence and comedy with a sprinkle of philosophy.


                
Regarding the other 2 seasons, they were good, but this season is in my opinion the best one yet.From the actors chosen to the story itself it's just brilliant. From the secondary characters like the Russian enforcer or the mute to the main characters everyone is simply amazing.And if you haven't seen the first two season, worry not, you can just start with this one and if you love it, just give the others a chance.


                
Fargo is a great new show. It starts slowly but the longer you watch it, the more it sucks you right in! When an episode ends, you're left there wanting more - and it does so in a completely fresh way. The beginning is pretty chilling but at the same time amusing. That's what Fargo does. It is story-telling in its truest form, sometimes you don't need words to explain something but then other times you can use words to explain something in a completely different way than everyone else does. Billy Bob Thornton does a great job with his character - he is malevolent, yet also likable. Same goes with Martin Freeman, who portrays Lester as a scared man, who was never good at anything but starts to 'take control of his life', as best as anyone could. The landscape in the show is amazing - snow everywhere so that you can feel the cold atmosphere at all times. The most amazing thing about this show is - characters that are supposed to be bad, are often likable, either for the humorous behaviour or by the things they do to help others. However cruel they might be, you always feel like they're not THAT bad, much like WW from Breaking Bad.


                
FARGO Season 3 I have a friend who hated the movie Fargo. I've also heard in the faint praise of others that they didn't quite get what all the fuss was about, but didn't want to say so. There's story about two critics being overheard coming out of the first screening the Stanley Kubrick's 2001, A Space Odyssey. One said to the other "I don't know if I've just seen the greatest film ever made or I should be asking for my money back." Coen brother films are often like that. There is a kind of betrayal of expectation that can sometimes cause us to recognize their films as art while at the same time not being sure how we should feel about them. While many people adore films like Fargo, The Big Lebowski or Raising Arizona, many others just don't get what the fuss is all about. It seems only right then that the television series of Fargo should challenge its audience in a similar way. Don't get me wrong, Fargo the TV series is immensely entertaining. It's weird and funny and violent enough to match the film that inspired it. But you're never quite sure how seriously or not seriously you're supposed to take it. Take the opening disclaimer, the same disclaimer used in the film, in which we're told everything that we're watching actually happened, that the names have been changed to protect the innocent, but the rest is being told exactly as it happened out of respect for the dead. It leads off all three seasons so far. And at some point in every season it occurs to you that there could be no way the events could have possibly unfolded, in roughly the same two States, without us having heard about it. Of course by that time, just like in the movie, you are either too enthralled to care or too confused to care. The first season with Martin Freeman of The Hobbit and Sherlock giving us a brilliantly befuddled schnook who gets caught up in a strange web of crime and Billy Bob Thornton as one of the weirdest and most wonderful assassins you are ever likely to see, shares the film's repressed and impotent humour and its cold dark fire. It is not written by or directed by the Coen brothers, but it sure manages to feel like it is. The second season, while very good, does not quite match the wonderful oddness of that first season. This third and most recent season hearkens much more to the film in that it gives the leading roles back to women who men continually underestimate. Ewan McGregor is wonderful as the two brothers whose feud spurs the events and David Thewlis gives one of his finest performances since Naked. He is creepy and bizarre and hilariously disgusting. But the season really belongs to Carrie Coon as the charmingly understated cop who cannot let things go and Mary Elizabeth Winstead as the younger brother's ex con girlfriend who is far stronger and smarter than the men around her ever seem to realize. Coon has that same wonderful sweetness that belies and sharp determined core that Frances McDormand brought to her role in the film. And Winstead manages to be sexy, adorable and stronger than any steel girder. It is no denigration to the male actors to say that the third season belongs to these two women. There is even a very funny nod to The Big Lebowski and to one of the previous seasons. The show is superbly written and even manages to match the film for cinematography and its subtle acting. It draws you in and surprises you and it makes you laugh and gasp. The show, particularly the first and third seasons, is so good that it can bear comparison to the wonderful film that has the same name. It exhibits the same great earmarks of the very best Coen brothers films. But some of you, like my friend and the film, won't like it. Some of you might only pretend to get it or to like it. But if you loved the film, or many of the other Coen bother films, then you need to watch all three seasons of Fargo, the television series. It won't always give you exactly what you want. It will never give you exactly what you expect. But I can promise you that you will not confuse Fargo, the television series with any other show out there. I can promise you that there will be moments that you will never forget. And that for me, is no faint praise. It is great praise indeed.


                
I have just recently watched the eighth episode of Season 2 of Fargo and have decided to finally write a review of the entire series, because I think it deserves all the praise under the sun. It is truly gripping drama, and despite to different character's between seasons, the show has stood fast and actually matured in the genre with more grueling scenarios and intense exchanges.Noah Hawley's first adaption from the film in Season 1 was spectacular, exhibiting confident persona for its many characters and pushing them to the very edge of their emotions until they become genuine human beings. To envision that, you had Billy Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman and Alison Tolman acting their socks off with superb conviction, so much so that they fell into their characters like naturals, each with their own defining personality. Whilst depicting these striking events and how it effects the town of Bemidji, sails to highs above many other television series, not just in its genre, but further afield too. It's witty, it's dark and above all triumphant for not being afraid of pushing the boundaries.Now, in Season 2, I've reached the point where I haven't got enough energy to praise the entire spectacle that is Fargo. The cast is outstanding, ranging from downright hilarious to bloody terrifying (I'm referring to Nick Offerman and Zahn MzClarnon, who aren't even the main characters by the way). The direction is unique and experimental (my favourite kind), with the new method of splitting the screen to allow different perspectives for all the characters. Lastly, the writing is genius, with witty one-liners and unpredictable developments. One minute we're laughing at the best joke in the world, and then crying at the loss of our favourite character (even if he is the bad guy).If there's any TV show that deserves an Emmy this year, it's Fargo (and I don't just mean one). Absolutely stunning to watch - and I've still got two more episodes to watch.
I could have easily given a 10. When I first heard of this, I thought they were going to ruin one of my favorite movies. When I watched the first few minutes of the first episode I thought "oh no, they're ripping off the movie". By the 10 minute mark, I was fully engrossed and knew this is brilliant. I've never thought much of people in my office who rave about a television series. Now, I'm one of them. FX has it's biggest winner, in my opinion. What fascinates me even more is that it's based on a true story from 2006(?). Billy Bob Thornton reveals insight to everyday murder with some hard to deny reasoning and a wicked sense of humor. Martin Freeman's role reminds me the most of the original. He does a fine job. Allison Tollman didn't quite replicate the movie character, and that's OK. She didn't need to. She made it her own. I have never been captivated by a television series, until now. I'll change it to a 10.


                
While it's fresh in my mind I figure I would weigh in. I almost wish I didn't see the movie...Perhaps then, I could appreciate the darkness of this show better.If you want to see a documentary on the mundane, then this is the show for you. But, it seems that is reaching for something the whole time...I mean, a show should be unique in design, message and characterizations. I have seen the main characters before...They are the embodiment of the Fargo Movies' characters. So why am I watching it? Or better still, why are you? It is entertaining in essence, that I will grant! If you want to kill an hour with something that makes you shrug your shoulders or you only enjoy mild stimulation, intellectually, then by all means...Have at it...Just my opinion...UPDATE; 6/27 Boy what a noodnick I was...I stayed with the show and Boy am I glad I did...It is impossible not to like it...So, Basically, I was an idiot and Billy Bob should scorn me personally...: D Great show! Derp!.


                
I can go on and on about this show and I think I will and it will sound like one run on sentence. Fargo is perfect, Fargo looks great, Fargo has the best actors and Ewan Mcgregor and Michael Stuhlbarg had great chemistry as well as Ewan with Mary Elizabeth. Each director did something different and I think the whole look of the show is beautiful! Fargo has great music, Fargo has great cinematography. Fargo had a great villain in David Thewlis Varga was a chilling and gross character and David deserves an Emmy for this role. Fargo needs to win every award possible! If you haven't watched Fargo you are missing out on the best television show in history! I love Fargo!
