Leyla and Mecnun is a Turkish television comedy series. The series is a surreal and absurd comedy that revolves around the fictional love story between Leyla and Mecnun. I think the best comedy series made in Turkey. I think that really deserve 9 points. I wish I had more. When finished series I felt the lack in my life. Really I miss this series. It was a memorable series for me. My favorite character white beard grandfather and Ismail. Dede is a fictional character from Turkish folk tales, and he appears in people's dreams to give them directions and foresight. Burak Aksak really successful a writer. You should definitely watch this series. I would say at least a look... 10/10


                
It's been a long time since i became an IMDb user and for the first time i couldn't help myself but write a review! I personally volunteer to write English subtitles for this wonderful most amazing TV show I have ever seen in decades.Coz this show has it all.. It's so cleverly written, acting is amazing and very well directed. It captures you and makes you wanna be a part of it just within a few episodes and you start feeling like these characters are your friends, their problems are your problems and their joys are yours as well. Each and every character has real dept and originality. It's also unique in a way that it can catch the young audiences' attention like no Turkish series could ever catch before. I'm thankful for all of the cast and crew for introducing this absurd comedy which is full of clever references, sarcasm and intelligence. Very well done. Two thumbs up, what the hell i'll just trow in a standing ovation as well. Keep up the good work.


                
This TV-series have a great sense-of-hum-our. Very smart jokes and excellent script also casting is well.But some jokes may makes no-sense for non-Turkish people.You should have some knowledge about recent Turkish news and some knowledge from the past.As I said, jokes are quite smart so sometimes it is hard to understand also but when you understand you are having a great pleasure.If you are planning to watch with sub-titles you should look for some information about this cases.You can also watch this by satellite receiver from TRT (Turkish Radio and Television).Also you can watch live from the web page of TRT.


                
This is the most attractive TV series that I have ever seen. The quality of acting and the logic of the writing affect like a magician all of the watchers. I hope it could be infinite! I know quantity of the expenses are really minimal, but also the the pleasure of spending time with watching that movie can not be defined as well as true. Everybody should watch this unique cliffhanger if they are ready to watch a real absurd life.Here we can see the main actors/actresses of this series: Ali Atay, Melis Birkan, Ezgi Asaroglu, Ahmet Mümtaz Taylan, Köksal Engür, Serkan Keskin, Osman Sonant, Ushan Çakir, Asuman Dabak.


                
This is a most interesting and exciting TV series in Turkey right now. Even if Ezgi Asaroglu left the show, still it didn't lose much from itself and it is still popular TV series in Turkey. The topic that it handles is more like absurd comedy. But it contains laugh, love, and tears. But it has lots of comedy that involves with Turkish language. So if you don't know Turkish, you probably miss the most of the jokes. Ali Atay, Koksal Engur, Cengiz Bozkurt, Mumtaz Taylan, Osman Sonant, Serkan Keskin are great actors, and they plays in cinema and theaters too. However, it has some directing troubles. Especially if Onur Unlu didn't direct the episode, some glitches may stand out in your eyes.


                
This is an absurd, surreal comedy which makes you die with laughter. In the opening episode, Gandalf-like white-bearded grandfather who reigns in the realm of dreams descends into the real world to help Majnun (Madman) in his pursue to get to Layla. In the series, every time they get together something comes up and they break up. Ismail Abi (Bigbrother)and Erdal Bakkal(Grocery) are the funniest characters. Ismail Abi is an orphan who was abandoned by his mother, raised by his father. He always wears colorful suits because his father told him his mum left them because they had not have a colorful life. This lonely, affectionate man is the most positive character. Erdal Bakkal is the anti-hero character in the series. He always makes contradictory comments on anything. He is the Debbie Downer of the series. There are villains who try to prevent Majnun from getting to Layla. They are also funny in their own rights. It is funny The major villain is a maniac of chess but always loses his matches.
It tastes like the sugars from your childhood, and it makes you feel like a child with the sugar in the hand with a smiling face, always ready to cry but feels safe. It is unique, characters, the mood,theme.. it is the shining example of post-modernism in TV series. Think you are watching an ordinary man loves an ordinary woman, suddenly turns into the biggest love of this universe. They can even go to space and kiss each other for the first time in the space, but it seems normal, you don't even bother how they overrated the story. You are just watching and wishing " god, please don't let the series end " While comparing with the famous TV Series, it becomes something different. Others are all " funny " But this is something really out of this world.
It is very nice how they present the meaning of love in this serial. You can easily fall in love by the help of this serial. I would like to thank all Leyla ile Mecnun's team so that they have created such an excellent serial. Subtitled girl is a product of excellent creation of scenarist. I recommend this serial everyone who wants to have fun and drama at the same time using the real elements from life by this serial. Every scenario is well thought. In my opinion, the best part is 38. part. I have watched it many times. You will feel some parts in each character from yourself. and also Ismail abi is the one who is desired by everyone to have such a big-brother who can share and join your feelings sincerely.


                
it is the best comedy TV series i have ever watched. It mirrors Turkish daily life and street culture. Relations between neighbours and their behaviors are natural. Main characters's brains work as a child. Characters in this TV series are anti-hero. Even if all scenario is fantastic, it is like just usual and you don't think they piffle. Actors are great and they love their characters. Other characters are also created very smartly, they are really funny. Ismail Abi is the most popular one and he is pure. although everything in TV series was bad, I would watch just for Ismail Abi.Everyone should watch from first episode to the last one. thanks for reading


                
It is been one of the most popular TV series after they shared some scenes with other popular TV series Behzat C. However, L&M has already dominated the other TV series popularity with its absurd and sincere scenes. Although, there were not sufficient ads about the program, internet users made it very popular with not only funny videos also song scenes. Each actor has many talents and most of them have made the program very insightful. I want to also mention Ismail abi, who is the most sincere character in the scenes. He does not only make u laugh but also make u cry with its purity. I adore these people in the program. Although most of the people thought it will get worse after the chaos among some stars, they overcome and made their program even more popular. I respect their effort. That is why, I thought that it is my responsibility to write this portal.
I never felt like before while watching a TV series. It makes you wanna laugh while you feel so sad at the same time. Character's joy and sadness are so pure that you feel these feelings inside yourself altogether, like a childhood memory.It is like a laughter when you see some friend falling accidentally or it is like a sadness when your ice cream slip away from its cone. "Leyla ile Mecnun" is totally surreal and absurd but it is so natural as well.The bad thing about the series is that some jokes or situations are very local in their content so that they can not be translated fully.


                
The most beautiful Turkish series..Fun,sadness,love and everything..thank you very much Onur Unlu..thank you very much MECNUN,ISMAIL,YAVUZ etc.You are just watching and wishing " god, please don't let the series end " so long a series of high-quality been done. exhibits a truly great actor brother Ismail...and series selected best series in 2011..I want to also mention Ismail , who is the most sincere character in the scenes. He does not only make u laugh but also make u cry with its purity. I adore these people in the program.
A lot better of the American Coupling TV series, quality close to British coupling. The best Turkish TV series ever made. I prefer watching this , instead of classical Nbc TV series like How I Met Your Mother. I hope the quality goes on. The series start with a flashback , where we see two babies, who are meant to be together forever , a classical oriental far/middle east story. The background is the Bosphorus and Istanbul.Mecnun is in her mid twenties , still trying to graduate from high school and Leyla is in university, living in a mansion.Arda is the ex boyfriend of Leyla, whose father is doing business with Leyla's father and Leyla's father is in huge depth. He tries to convince his daughter to marry to Arda.Because it is an absurd comedy, you can see Mecnun in space , sometimes Leyla on an island after a plane crash (Oceanic Airways :) ), sometimes a friend of them trying to survive 147 hours on a mountain :)... The series created a huge fan group and still groving .


                
Series is highly anticipated by an audience who is active in the Internet and social media with relatively "sophisticated" taste. The audience is highly active in social media (especially eksisozluk.com users) try to find the references which are in given in a very high range. From Oz to House, Lost, Godfather, Eternal sunshine on a spotless mind, modern Turkish literature there are lots of references or 80's or 90's popular culture references. The show became very popular and "cult" in a short period of time.Series are not in the high ranks of rating lists however fans of the show support in every possible way to promote, Monday evening in twitter hashtag with the name of the show becomes trending topic. Director Onur Ünlü definitely has a distinguished taste and you can easily recognise his style and vision. Script writer Burak Aksak has a absurd comedy sense with dialogues in a situational comedy sense which is not something Turkish shows witness.Most of the actors have theater school background and the show gives them to develop their characters easily and gives more than enough room for improvisations. They perform utterly sensational and the audience feel they love the work the cast performing. Especially Ali Atay, Ahmet Mumtaz Taylan, Serkan Keskin, Osman Sonant, Koksal Engur and Cengiz Bozkurt's performances are top notch. Yet length of the show is too long which sometimes has negative effect over the tempo. Too much references sometimes could be tiring.Although a substantial portion of the show is aiming Turkish watchers there are very good parts which can be easily understood and laughed by a "foreigner". This is a "must see" show with high taste.


                
There are a lot of series in Turkey but this one absolutely different. In my opinion, this is the funniest series I have ever seen. The series has its joking and talking style which are really absurd that you can die with laugh.It is partly romantic because of the history of Leyla and Mecnun characters.As its series type, it is partly fantastic that makes the series comic. I like it so much because it makes me laugh uncontrollably and I believe that spectators of the series will not get bored.At first you can't accept it and maybe you can't laugh but if you give some patient, it will definitely prove itself.Everyone must start to watch it.They should publish 2 episodes in a week because I can't wait one week to see new episode!!!!


                
Words are not enough to describe this show. It's more emotional than it's funny. You can watch this show to laugh or cry or not to feel alone.This show will be like your family after 6 episodes or such a number like that. This show is the best Turkish show you might possibly even watch and i think it can compete with most of the Hollywood made up TV-series. I hope they will get a movie soon or at least publish 2 more episodes so that we can see how it really ends.


                
Leyla ile Mecnun is similar to Zaz-style absurd comedies. Beyond the characters, another successful side of the series is criticizing Turkish media through funny references. They criticize many things even it's own TV channel. The story goes on a parallel universe that there is fruit replacements for cigarettes, alcohol etc. Also there is some replacement for bad words like At(horse). In addition, some disgusting things may be used for bad words. For understand the series completely, Turkish media culture needed. Otherwise, you may not catch cliché about Turkish culture, which another enjoying side of the series. Nevertheless, you still able to understand some scenes. There is some references from Hollywood too. For ex; Mayan Calendar & 2012 Phenomena - Back to the future - Indiana Jones - Godfather - Adams Family - Prince of Persia
We can say a lot of things about Leyla Ile Mecnun.Great script?of course Great acting? no doubt but Leyla Ile Mecnun did a thing to nobody's done.You can't surprise anything in Leyla Ile Mecnun.Time traveling?done.Travel to the space?done.Because of a comedy series you don't surprise that like lost's finale.About the script i can't go away saying just great.Burak Aksak really great writer,sometimes there's been a joke on Leyla Ile Mecnun.First of all you can't understand it but later you realize there's a quote behind it(Big Lebowski,Incir Receli....in my case)Leyla Ile Mecnun has a big lost like Arda,Leyla(i miss her a lot in the show by the way) but Sirin,Sirin's brother and Sedef really made a fresh breath on the show because of that the show still one of the greatest.Last one, i realize Leyla Ile Mecnun's American votes are low.I should say that there's a lot of local joke on the show.I hate to say that but if you vote 4 or 5 to Leyla Ile Mecnun you don't understand it.


                
Gelmis geçmis en güzel dizi. Mutlaka izlenmesi gerekli.


                
Criticisms Set to publish since the beginning of the social media positive reviews to get started. Turkish social media is important sources of the participant dictionaries sees with the interest of the popular writing over time, has become a phenomenon glister.Zamanla lived with the success of the national media attention in the series, published in Turkey absurd comedy in the style of arrays an important part in his, and He is the best for someone that can be interpreted as.The Turkish series in the making, yet also to different countries pazarlanmamasina although foreign-sharing sites, with English subtitles monitored.Number of the 51st from chapter every week on the same day and within an hour by the publisher via Twitter opened chat with issues of the world's most widely spoken to the list of topics.


                
Leyla and Mecnun is the best TV series ever, in Turkey. They make absurd comedy, that's hard to achieve. All the characters have different skills and it's very enjoyable to watch them. Although this is a comedy series, sometimes it can make people cry, just after laughing, due to it's concept and skillful cast. Leyla and Mecnun created a new type of comedy in Turkey. They still lead the concept and other series try to create similar performances. Leyla and Mecnun deserves a good cinema film with their high performance and it's no doubt, the film will be watched by large numbers of people in cinemas. The worst thing about the series was the leave of Ezgi Asaroglu. She was the first "Leyla" and the series was much better with her.


                
This series is awesome, it looks as if it is a nonsensical story, yes right but the point of awesomeness is that. You laughs and even you do not search a realistic event, as this movie does not let you run after realism. However it doesn't mean that it is stupidly, on the contrary understanding the witty humors is required an intelligence. The first time when I heard the concept of this series, I thought how can people watch it, it is stupidly, because there is a wise old man in a dream of mecnun and he tells him the numbers of lotto, then the old man realizes that this is not right guy who I should tell the numbers, he doesn't search a lottery numbers so how can I help this guy, then he understands that the aim of this guy is reaching his lovely, whose name is Leyla, and he needs help. After this dream, the old man exists in real life. But after I watched the first episode, even I didn't think how an old man comes to real life from a dream.


                
Very funny sophisticated serial. It really turned into phenomenon in short period. Now, its 3rd season is ongoing on TV. Having been some changes on cast, It sometimes had some rhythm loose. But still the best. As good as Mel Brooks could do. Most of the actors and actress have good theatrical background. So performances are generally good. Biggest disadvantage is that it has been quite peculiar to Turk culture. So to find Enlish subtitles is difficult. Even if you get, you may not realize the intelligent, sophisticated send-ups. I can say that it still contains very smart spoofs, aphorisms, send-ups to well known movies, personalities and most used clichés. Absolutaly pure Laugh Out Loud comedy.


                
The best Turkish TV series ever made.You can see classical Turkish family in it and daily life in any district in Turkey.Because it is an absurd comedy, you can see characters sometimes as a famous singer,sometimes as a godfather,sometimes they would be in their dreams.It also make sending sometimes most of famous domestic and foreign series and movies. Series has a big fan group and very famous in Turkey,has become a phenomenon.Each character is amazing.Brightly dressed "Ismail Abi " , grocery "Erdal " , thief "Yavuz"(he is not such a person as like :) ) , Leyla's ex-boyfriend "Arda " ... You can not control your laughter when you watch it.


                
I didn't watch A Turkish TV serial which is that much fun and dramatic at the same time. The jokes are very high on level and they are very absurd. But the emotional scenes just crash your mind and suddenly you realize how the life is. But in a second while you are realizing you begin smiling because of the jokes. That is the big difference of this love story serial 'Leyla and Mecnun'. Thanks a lot for your hard-work to all of the Leyla and Mecnun cast. And the actors and actresses are very talented. I don't know how do they do that but they are acting very well they are playing instruments well. For example the lead actor Ali Atay sings the soundtracks of the series at the same time he composes some of them. I love them all.


                
