It's difficult to know what to say about Requiem For A Dream. I first saw it in the cinema when it was released in England and I have never seen an audience react to a film like this one. The climactic sequence, where the protagonists are effectively destroyed by their addictions, seemed to trigger a bout of heavy breathing in the audience. As it was ending I heard a few people crying. My girlfriend and I didn't say a single word to each other on the bus home.I bought the film on DVD the day it came out, but it took me around six months to watch it again. And only then because a friend of mine was curious. If anything, the impact was heavier than the first time I watched it and I've vowed never to watch it ever again.Yet I have still awarded a rating of 10 on imdb and would definitely assert that it's one of the three greatest films I have ever seen. Why? The acting is just amazing. Jennifer Connolly gives the best performance of her career (not too tricky considering the movies she's been in) and remains stunningly beautiful (in a haggard sort of a way) and noble even when she's roped into a gang bang to fund her heroin habit. Jared Leto annoyed me intensely in Fight Club but he's perfect as hapless junky Harry - forever exuding an air of kindly incompetence that endears him to the audience but that will ultimately destroy him. Marlon Wayans is equally brilliant - wearing a beaming smile for the first half of the film and a compelling look of confusion and betrayal for the rest of it.As for Ellen Burstyn... never has an actress been so unfairly cheated out of an Oscar (and I've seen the atrocity that won Marcia Gay Harden that Oscar for). She is just the picture of sadness the whole film through - a heartbreaking example of what loneliness can do to vulnerable people. The scene where she complains to Harry about being old is honestly one of the most tragic things I've ever seen and it makes me want to break down just thinking about it.As such, I can only recommend this incredibly important movie with certain reservations. If your favourite film is 'You've Got Mail' steer well clear. If 'Snow Dogs' has been your most thrilling cinematic experience of this year then put this film back on the shelf. Trust me, it'll save the costs incurred by those expensive therapy sessions.However, if you believe that cinema is an important tool in helping us understand ourselves and that we will only achieve self awareness by plumbing the absolute depths of despair and self-destruction then you must watch Requiem For a Dream.
I just saw Requiem For A Dream and I have to say, I was blown away. Not since 1995's The Basketball Diaries, has a film so accurately portrayed the craving and depravity of a person dealing with(or succumbing to) addiction. It is a beautifully articulated piece of artwork, intricately presented on a silver platter. Director Darren Aronofsky shines in his brilliant direction and style, in this depiction of the downward spiral of the lives of four people, living with their respective addictions.Jared Leto, gives an excellent, solid performance as Harry Goldfarb, a man living an inch from his life, always in search of a fix. In an emotional powerhouse of a performance, he proves to audiences that he can shine through in a major role as opposed to previous smaller roles in Fight Club and American Psycho. However, it appears to be a Hollywood in-joke of sorts in that it seems he has a penchant for mutilation or at least the roles he seems to take on seem to have for him. In Fight Club, he had his face rearranged and in American Psycho, his head cut off. In Requiem however, it is the mutilation of his life, his whole character, that takes centerstage, ending in a satisfying climax of gargantuan proportions in which he gives the audience more than their money's worth in his power-packed performance.However, the real star of the film lies in the talent of Ellen Burstyn. Audiences will wonder at her appearance at the beginning of the film, not really knowing if it is, in fact, her. Her performance as a television, sugar and eventually, diet pill-addicted mother of Harry shows that she's still got it after all these years. If you want to make a comparison of her thespian skills throughout the years, watch the revived version of The Exorcist. She can only get better. She takes on the role of Sarah Goldfarb with gusto, never backing down for a second. Totally throwing herself into the role, you tend to forget how she really looks like, given only fleeting moments in the film which suggest her real appearance. I have to say, she's got guts. How many female actresses her age would dare to have a camera strapped to her person(as Aronofsky so creatively did), an inch away from her face with a wide angle lens? She definately deserves her Oscar nomination, if not, the Oscar itself, for her tour-de-force performance.The other characters themselves hold their own with the two abovementioned powerhouses. Jennifer Connelly and Marlon Wayans both realistically portray their respective roles as Marion Silver, Harry's girlfriend and rebellious suburbanite chick, who degenerates to prostitution for her fix and Tyrone C. Love, Harry's best friend and fellow pusher. Here, Wayans shows that he can lose his comic edge if needed, to portray a boy trapped in a man's body, just yearning for his mother's approval but seeking it instead, in drugs. Connelly as well, who has been taking on smaller roles and projects over the last few years, is finally given enough room to play with her character and gives a winning performance in Requiem.The cinematography of Matthew Libatique gives total light on the chracterizations of the people in habiting Aronofsky's sick world, from the sliently flickering sick-green flourescents to the exaggerated wide angle shots and the beautifully sad and haunting Coney Island picturesque of the pier which suggests a certain beauty amidst all the sadness and depravity. A Downer Picturesque, as portrayed by the photographs of Robert Frank and the Frank influenced cinematography of Darius Khondji in Seven. In my books, Matthew Libatique has just joined those ranks.Jay Rabinowitz' editing stands out as well, with in-your-face smash title cards(emphasising the downward crash of the character's lives through the seasons), as well as the close-up constructions of the drug taking process. The latter sequences, edited so tightly and seamlessly, make the moment so beautiful but so fleeting, as is the case with drugs. The sequences are almost like a drug, making you crave for more of them, a fix which you get, whenever the characters get their own fix in the film. Lots of people might misinterpret this as glamourising the drug culture but these moments are so fleeting that they're over before you even know it, and then it's back to Harry, Marion, Sarah and Tyrone's sick and depraved search for the next fix, which very accurately portrays the twisted quest of a true and sincere addiction.The film is also superbly scored by Clint Mansell and hauntingly performed by the Kronos Quartet. A series of hauntingly shocking, yet mind-numbingly beautiful pieces which linger in your head long after you've left the cinema.Lastly, the direction of Aronofsky, brilliant, beautiful, empathic. There are not enough words to describe his direction or this film and I think the best way to say it is that I am speechless. Aronofsky has shown me that, jaded by so many films, something can still prompt me to sit up and take notice. To see something that I have never seen before or learn something I don't already know. The ending, is sheer power. A masterpiece of all the elements of what filmmaking is about, mixed together in some sick souffle and thrown into your face, burning hot and scalding. The film leaves a deep impression, in fact, a huge scar. And it is a scar I am proud to wear.


                
This ranks up there as one of the three most powerful movies I have ever seen in my lifetime (Full Metal Jacket and Grave of The Fireflies being the other two).  This movie shows the brutal honest side of addiction and over-indulgence.  Not just drugs, although it heavily shows drug addiction. Also shows how one addiction can lead to another and how damaging it can be for you.  I watched this alone, and felt so stunned afterwards, I had to call a friend just to calm my nerves.  Seriously, this is a brutal (one more time)  BRUTAL film.  The acting is wonderful - Ellyn Burnstyn and Jenniffer Connely are just wonderful in this movie, and Marlon Wayons was such a shocker in a serious role.  Everyone must watch it, for it's entertainment value, and more importantly, it's educational value.  But it leaves chills down your spine for it's honesty and unforgiving lessons.


                
I had been looking forward to Aronofsky's follow-up to his critically acclaimed art-house film, Pi, of a few years back and when it did finally open in 1 theatre in Toronto, I gathered a bunch of friends to go down and see it.  Some have never even heard of Pi before.  For others, this would be their first Independent film experience.  However, coming out of the movie, we all agreed that it was one of most powerful piece of contemporary cinema that anyone has seen."Requiem for a Dream" tells the story of 4 people, connected either through blood or some kind of personal relationship, whether it be family, girlfriend, or business partner.  Although the characters lived far from what you and I would consider to be normal lifestyles, they shared something in common with each and every member of the audience; hopes, aspirations, dreams.  Sara Goldfarb (played so wonderfully by Ellen Burstyn) dreams of one day being on a TV show, and one day, gets her chance.  She fantasizes about how she could wear her favourite red dress, that she wore to her sun's graduation, on television.  However, upon trying to wear the red dress, Sara discovers that she has gained some weight over the years and tries desperately to lose her weight, eventually resorting to medication.  All of the characters have drugs (the bad kind) affect their lives, which eventually take over their lives.  The movie documents how for each of the 4 people are effected and eroded by drugs.The look of the film is extremely  stylized, but justifiably so. Aronofsky uses surreal imagery as a vehicle for realism, something that really works when done well, and done well it was.  By using a combination of slow and fast motion shots, extreme close-ups and more edits than you can shake a stick at, Aronofsky successfully brings the audience into the world and mind of someone with a drug problem.  The audience visually experiences first-hand what it is like to be 'scared' or 'high' - all this in 3rd person; all this in the comfort of the theatre chair.Of course, all of this effort would be in vain if it didn't mean anything at the end.  The film leads the audience down a spiral of addiction until the grand finale, which features a montage of graphically intense scenes and images with more edits per second than any film.  The pacing at the end, when compared to earlier parts of the movie, was so fast I started to find it hard to keep up, and literally took my breath away as the credits came up.  All in all, the effect was amazing, and something that I have not personally experienced when watching any film before.As the title indicates, "Requiem for a Dream" does not contain a happy ending.  It is in no way optimistic, and only gives the audience faint pieces of hope and happiness.  However, It does show what desperate people are willing to do, and how desperation will change someone's life to its entirety.  It is in the recognition of desperation where hope lies.
Oh my, where shall I begin? Experimental film making bursts into mainstream in this dramatic tail of 4 people who find themselves spiraling down the abyss, after experiencing a rendez-vous with the inevitable consequences attributed to drug use and the ill effect it has on its addicts. This one has no happy ending. There's no sugar coating here. Albeit this film packs a harsh, blunt, and sometimes overwhelmingly genuine depiction of the havoc drug addiction can reap on its victims. Despite the disturbing message of the film, I never the less couldn't help but remain fascinated with it's experimental/avant-guard visual style: A smooth, elaborate and languid progression of cinematic eye candy orchestrated to almost resemble a shockumentary, complemented by an impressive and well composed soundtrack. Some of the visual techniques were similar to the ones Aronofsky used in his directorial debut "Pi", such as split-screen shots and the use of body cameras filmed at varying speeds. At times, the film seemed more like an acid trip than a feature film. A cry for help is clearly felt throughout the film, from its innocent and promising start, to its hauntingly chilling conclusion. The one scene that really blew me away was the scene where Marion (played by Jennifer Connelley) had just sold her body off for a bag of heroin...As she walks out the door of the apartment, along the corridor, into the elevator, down to the street: one can't help but feel the characters disgust with herself, filthy to the core, what it must feel like at..."ZERO". The acting performances, especially by both Ellyn Burstyn and Marlon Wayans are simply breakthrough performances that earned critical acclaim across the board. Enough said. If this review alone does not compel you to experience the Film, I will just have to spell it out: PLEASE EXPERIENCE THIS FILM - it may cause an uneasy stomach, but is well worth it - YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!! 11 out of 10.
I vaguely heard a few years ago that the director of PI followed it up by making a film based on a novel featuring drug addicts called REQUIEM FOR A DREAM . It got a couple of good reviews but I couldn't help noticing it took another six years for Darren Aronofsky to make another movie entitled THE FOUNTAIN which was one of the worst pieces of pretentious nonsense I ever watched . Still however the cult of REQUIEM FOR A DREAM grew and grew over the years . It is highly rated amongst the prolific voters on this website and has received almost aggressive praise from some quarters . And yet I had serious doubts to its worth as it was ignored by most award ceremonies and only received a very limited release in cinemas . Certainly I had no real intention of watching it until it appeared on a Sky movie channel . How good was it ? Let me put it like this - 72 hours after seeing it I still can't get it out of my mind !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!! Aronofsky has made an entirely expressionist film . He expresses in visual form what the characters are feeling . This goes all the way back to almost a hundred years ago to a movement in Germany and since then we see influences in productions as diverse as the BBC serial of QUATERMASS 2 to Harvey Keitel's drunken sequence in MEAN STREETS but I can't think of anything where this technique is better suited than here where the mental as well as the physical disintegration of the characters take place . The technique may put off a potential audience but that's the point , the characters are going through a living nightmare that they will never recover fully from and Aronofsky conveys their misery totally The director also brings a subtle in joke of semiotics . In THE GODFATHER before someone is killed the colour orange is prominent . In CHILDREN OF MEN someone is peeling an orange before they're killed . It's a subliminal code used in films but one that is familiar to pretentious film students and movie geeks . When the characters enter a drugs den the audience are shown a close up of an orange being peeled and then all hell breaks loose . Expressionism and semiotics in the same movie ? Not necessarily the work of a genius , nor is it the mark of a genius for noticing this but should still be appreciated One criticism the film has is that it's rabid anti drugs propaganda . Such criticism seems to be missing the point since Sara is addicted to legally prescribed drugs - amphetamine based diet pills and barbiuates . It's not a subtle film but does make subtle points that the amphetamine has almost certainly caused Sara to become schizophrenic . Likewise much of the drug taking and destruction is fuelled entirely by self delusion such as Harry and Marion wanting to open a store funded by the money they made dealing drugs . One criticism that is possibly valid is that there's medical facts that are ignored such as electro convulsive therapy being used on a conscious patient or how limbs are amputated but Aronofsky has rightly ignored these facts in order to make a more shocking film Make no mistake that this is a truly shocking film . Compared to this TRAINSPOTTING is a cartoon for children and no other film has ever portrayed the misery and danger of drugs so potently . Nine years after its limited release the soundtrack by Clint Mansell has become legend and rightly so . However REQUIEM FOR A DREAM itself deserves to become legendary amongst a mainstream audience . It is quite simply a masterwork and a film that whilst I'm in no hurry to see again due to its harrowing content is a film I will never forget
One of the anti-drug slogans in the 80s was "Just say no," and it was given to us by not just the then First Lady, but by a slew of actors, many of them neck-deep into their own drug-induced binges fueled by too much money and a total lack of advice. If this movie had only come out then. Darren Aronofsky's powerful film REQUIEM FOR A DREAM is that ultimate slogan who never preaches its message: it just allows its presence to slowly filter itself into the images as the four people at the core of this story slowly begin to rot from the inside out as their "dreams" ultimately become replaced by the need to get high.What begins as just another story of regular people living in relative complacency in Brooklyn, NY, each of them wearing their aspirations on their sleeves -- Sara Goldfarb to go on television; her son Harry and his friend Tyrone to make it big; Harry's girlfriend Marian to become an dress designer in her own right -- starts to go sour almost immediately. Sara, a widow living a lonely life, gets a call (or imagines it as it can be interpreted) that comes as a promise for things to get better: she will be a contestant in her favorite TV show which she watches compulsively as she downs sweets and to get slim for her Big Night she decides to take some "diet pills" to fit into her Red Dress. Harry and Tyrone experiment a little with the drugs they are selling and that leads to more and more and more. Into that web Marian is pulled, maybe out of her own displacement in the world, and since drugs passively target towards the displaced and the unwanted, making it all seem better -- we are informed that she is on the outs with her family even as they have given her full use of the apartment she lives in -- she falls under its spell.One would think, though, that with drug usage things would change, perception would change. That we see Sara going through the motions not once, twice, but for hours and hours and hours on a stretch as the "diet pills" -- really speed -- take a hold over her is made more frightening when her own body starts cannibalizing itself and her own mind begins to wander. Her own security, her own privacy, literally becomes invaded one night as her own TV -- it in itself a source of addictive promises -- floods her own living room with a nightmarish game show that sends her screaming into the streets, Red Dress in tatters, a hag, still looking for her dream.That we see relationships crumble -- Marian and Harry eventually become strangers to one another and any promise they will ever see each other again is hollow; Tyrone and Harry's friendship also collapses -- is only secondary to the power of storytelling and to the degrees that these characters descend in their addictions. At times it does seem too cruel to even watch: there is a sequence involving all of the character's final destiny that takes stomach to follow, but if the rot that addiction was still contained up until now, this final sequence -- the climax of the film -- lets all the pus out and sends it relentlessly out into the audience and not once are we let a moment's breath until it's over. There is a final, haunting sequence, one involving all of the characters crawling into a fetal position, destroyed beyond repair, that is heart-rending. These, after all, were once children and were safe (as Tyrone's last vision indicates).The acting here is beyond all praise and material awards. Ellen Burstyn does what no actress yet has done in film history: push her physicality to extremes to convey an ordinary woman dehumanized by what she innocently thought were diet pills. She is a woman who could be anyone's mother, caught like a rabbit under a drug. All glamor and star ego goes out the window here -- and in doing so she single-handedly assured her Place in what is called being an Actress.The same can be said with Jennifer Connelly in a role that could have been underwritten (and at times seems so) but in a move similar to Jennifer Jason Leigh she reveals herself so nakedly I'm almost sure her Best Supporting Oscar the following year was one a "consolation" award for being overlooked here. Both Jared Leto and Marlon Wayans come through with their lost yet sympathetic roles, Wayans more so, since we get that glimpse into his past and all he dreams is of being a good son to his Momma.There is little relief but a painful compassion emerging from seeing REQUIEM FOR A DREAM. The Kronos Quartet and Clint Mansell create an equally tragic score (that has been used in promos for LORD OF THE RINGS), and contains images that already can be considered classic. Some may argue that Aronofsky goes too far with his message, but in doing so he strikes a nerve to anyone who sees this film.
Ellen Burstyn blew me away in this film! This is her best role so far!This movie is about four drug addicts. They all have dreams, but as dependence on drugs is increasing, their dreams are turning into nightmares.The acting is phenomenal. The story and how Aronofsky tells the story is just fantastic! The music is extraordinary. The cinematography is amazing! The directing is great. I also love how Aronofsky expresses his feelings without words and body language but with camera!I've almost seen a thousand of movies and no movie has ever affected me like this one! Even though this movie is amazing, I warn you: This movie will haunt you for several days!Mr.Aronofsky has done a great job, if you feel sick,depressed or got the feeling that you're not going to touch drugs, after you've seen this movie! The movie is very brutal,tragic and honest. I hope you stay off drugs after you've seen this!This is a cinematic masterpiece and a fantastic work of art! 10/10


                
My God! "Requiem for a Dream" (2000), what a movie! It's always difficult to write reviews about perfect movies but I'm going to try. First, there are three adjectives which come to my mind to describe this movie and they're the ones which everyone thinks of: powerful, harrowing and heart-breaking and certain sequences remain engraved in the memories like for example, Jared Leto's wounded arm caused by drug.To watch "Requiem for a Dream" is like being punched in the face. It's the kind of movie which can't leave indifferent. It is impossible to come out of this horrifying movie unharmed. It was made by a young director Darren Aronofsky whose previous movie "Pi" (1998) was very hailed. I must admit that I wasn't fully convinced by this indie movie but here, without a doubt, the director entirely hypnotized me and I thank him for that.The movie was made from a novel written by Hubert Selby Jr. It isn't the first time that a work from this novelist is adapted for the screen. Indeed, in 1989, Uli Edel had shot "Last Exit to Brooklyn" which developed a nightmarish and apocalyptic vision of a mankind who lived in hell. Here, the movie focuses on 4 main characters. There's Harry Goldfarb. He, his girlfriend Marion Silver and his best mate Tyrone C Love plan to become high-rolling smack dealers. In the meantime, his mother Sarah Goldfarb has got her head in the clouds. She received a call and she learned that she's going to appear on television. At the beginning of the film, the 4 characters' hopes amazingly answers the shiny weather of the summer. But as we usually say: best things have an end. Summer will go away to leave place to fall and winter. Just like the dreams will slowly but surely shatter and the 4 main protagonists will embark on an endless suffering. A vertiginous descent into hell like we have never seen one and which will reach its climax in winter in the last half-hour of the movie. From this moment, the film presents a flood of incredible pictures; they are so painful so much that they make the view unbearable. However, you watch it flabbergasted with both repulsion and fascination.Darren Aronofsky invites us to a climbing in the morbid. "Requiem for a Dream" strikes by its visual and sonorous frenzy. Through, accelerated frenetic sequences, hysterical split-screens, parallel images, the director doesn't pull his punches to describe this diving in absolute horror for the 4 characters. However, in his crazy making, there's none form of unwarranted nature. The features previously quoted may be disturbing but necessary to answer several things which aren't pleasant to hear like for example, to denounce the omnipresence of the consumer society. These abuses express themselves, here, by the crushing presence of objects, perfectly representative of this society like the television or the refrigerator. The another goals of the film: to make us share the physical and moral sufferings of a drug addict, notably through the deterioration of their visual and sonorous perceptions. But also to show us in a straight-forward and rough way, the dependence of a drug addict on his drug. Aronofsky's message is simple to understand. There's not only the drug like cocaine or amphetamines that make dependent but also simple objects apparently harmless which can become dangerous like the television or the refrigerator. They can destroy our faculties of reasoning and judgment. In a way "Requiem for a Dream" illustrates very well Brad Pitt's key cue in "Fight Club" (1999): "things you own end up owning you...". On the other hand, if we put the stress on drug, the least we can say is that the moments of shooting, the withdrawal times are showed with a realism and bluntness rarely reached. True, "Trainspotting" (1996) had already presented similar scenes but Darren Aronofsky isn't afraid to go further in daring.It would be unfair to neglect the terrific cast. Beginning with Ellen Burstyn who in all respects gives a dazzling performance. She renders very well the degeneration of her character. In the beginning, she is a normal old lady but in the end, she looks like a senseless living dead. Why didn't she get her Oscar in 2001 instead of Julia Roberts in "Erin Brockovich" (2000)? Then, concerning Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly well their sensitiveness and fragility are impressive. But the biggest surprise is Marlon Wayans. Who could have thought that he could be at ease in a comic role (Scary Movie) as well as in a dramatic role? These 4 actors make particularly harrowing the very last sequences of the film which show them forever in the depths of despair or madness where pain, humiliation and misery suffer into them. And then, during the final credits, we can hear the sea with a little of relief as if we had just made a nightmare.But what is extraordinary in Aronofsky's work is that he manages to find a little place for humor which acts in an efficient way. In conclusion, this young film-maker has shot a film with a real emotional power. I must confess that I almost shed a tear several times. "Requiem for a Dream" is a movie I highly recommend but beware! It's not a movie for everyone and for the spectators who didn't watch it, I advise you not to see it if you are in a sad mood. It demands a strong stomach and I think the people who say they weren't afraid during the projection are liars. Don't forget your handkerchief.


                
Mr. Aronofsky's Requiem for a dream definitely is unique- no other film I have seen on heroin and/or speed addiction has been filmed or acted like this. And it helps that I saw it again, because on a first viewing I looked more for the performances, and liked it, but didn't really regard the actual cinematic technique for it with as much un-equaled regard as many others have (at the time I considered it more of an MTV-styled take on a very powerful topic). But now watching it years later (2006 I mean, despite what the date of this comment says) I watch it, having gone through lots of other film-viewing experience, and I like it a lot more. In a way what's really mesmerizing and heartbreaking about the picture is that the contrivances are not based in the actual script or story- not that there isn't one or two that might be hard to not have in there- but rather a sort of fashioning of continuous cinematic contrivance. In other words, Aronofsky pushes the bounds of everything that can be done with the camera and editing in terms of subjective-viewpoints, ideas through montage, and the power of abstractions in the realm of the main theme of the film- unattainable escapism. One might be tempted to compare to Eisenstein with the montage, but unlike him Arnonofsky isn't putting forward a political message, but a societal one. While the cinematography by Matthew Libatique and the editing by Jay Rambinowitz give the viewer the whole subjective, jarring view of what it feels like in the first person to do these dangerous drugs, some of the time, all this being says, it almost goes by too quickly (if you blink you'll miss the characters actually intaking the drugs, which are done in half second cuts). Not that that's a bad thing, and in fact the techniques used here, which include fast-motion, camera-strapped-on-the-front-of-a-person shots, odd high-angle placements, and wild array of things done that I still wonder how one could think them up, are quite ingenious. Only one scene on a repeat viewing- when Sarah Goldfarb (Burtyn) is going totally off the deep-end in her apartment with the TV show spiraling around her- doesn't totally work for me.Also, it will be difficult for some people to view the characters in their dissension to demise. Bustyn, (who, if you still believe the Oscars to really be a mark of merit for true achievements, proves this to be false via her loss to the much less warranted Julia Robert) plays an old, lonely woman who dreams of getting on a game-show that she doesn't realize might not be real and decides her favorite red dress is all that matters for the show to the show. It's too small, so she goes to the doctor to get pills (uppers) and they do indeed work, but then she starts taking too, too many and ends up hallucinating that her refrigerator is moving (the first film to use a refrigerator puppeteer by the way) and then things start to spiral. This also goes for her entranged son Harry (Jared Leto) who is slipping into a descent into smack with his girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly) who sleeps with other men and then some in order to get stuff when Harry can, and his best friend Tyrone (Marlon Wayans in his best performance to date) who is also descending, but might seem to have it not as bad as the others by the time the film ends.But like I said, it is hard to view these characters falling deeper and deeper into insanity and desperation and all since it is also difficult to sympathize with these people. Yet, by the end of the film I almost felt like I was going to burst into tears not because I felt sad for the characters but more because of how powerful there journey led then to their destination. Like it or not though, this film begs for multiple viewings- and some extra years of looking at other films, which was the case with me. There is almost no room for true catharsis at the end, and nothing will ever be the same for anyone, especially as they're alive and lacking redemption (though if I had to place who's story is most compelling, and performance-wise as well, it would be Burstyn's).


                
Requiem for a Dream is a very difficult film to describe, simply because it evokes some many emotions, which says a lot about the power the film has. The power can affect the viewer in different ways, and you really need to be willing to put yourself through what is undeniably a profoundly disturbing experience - as a lot of this film is quite graphic. However, since I'm always ready for a new cinema experience, I saw this film, and when it finished, it left me speechless, I was amazed at what I'd witnessed, and glad in the same way.The director, Darren Aronofsky (of 'Pi', 1998), clearly knows the effects of certain addictions, and explores three peoples lives (that are in some way connected) from New York City, who have addictions of their own, and how these addictions cause the their simultaneous downfall. Most of them where blessed with a fairly good future in life, however this was completely destroyed after they began to rely on certain drugs to get along. These people are Harry (played by Jared Leto) and Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) are a couple of small-time drug users who get an idea to become dealers themselves. Marion (played by Oscar-winner Jennifer Connelly) is Harry's girlfriend, who gradually gets hooked on their product. Sara Goldfarb (played by Ellen Burstyn) is Harry's mother who receives a call telling her she's won a contest and will appear on a popular television game show. She becomes obsessed with losing weight to fit into an old red dress and becomes hooked on diet pills, after several other diets she experiments with fail. These four fall so far so gruesomely into misfortune, basically ruining their lives...and how this happens is shown so very explicitly, yet it has a purpose, it isn't in any way trying to be pretentious or over the top, and it effectively displays the effects their addictions have had on them.One of the many things that makes Requiem for a Dream great is its and extremely original visual style, ranging from those amazing signature looks, from rapid-fire montage editing to dizzying shots with the camera strapped to the actor's chest, to show the viewer what the actor may have been seeing during that certain scene. Another film that does a bona-fide job of holding the film up is the dazzling, emotionally powerful performances, especially from Burstyn, who received a richly deserved (!) Oscar-nomination for her performance, in fact, it may be her best performance, along with The Exorcist (1973) and The Straight Story (1999). Hers is the most touching character, the one who takes the highest fall, and the supporting performances from Leto, Connelly and Wayans, who all <U+0096> I believed <U+0096> merited Oscar nominations for their own great performances. I could honestly go on and on about what makes Requiem great, and powerful, but I really don't need to, I felt the whole movie was amazing.All up, I will said Requiem for a Dream is an amazing experience, it had a profound impact on me (but it is all worth it), and I'm sure it will on you, if you see it, which I recommend you do some time soon! Definitely suitable for the most ardent fan of drama.9.8/10 See It if You Liked: Kids (1995), Basketball Diaires (1993), Girl Interrupted (1999).-Luke Rowe
After hearing about how depressing and surreal this film is, years and years later I finally watch it. I've never been put into the state of shock I was in after watching this movie; The reality of addiction and self-destruction that is put into this film has left a distressing impact on me that no other film has ever done before. This is one of those movies that you would recommend to someone in a heartbeat but also a movie that you would advise someone to stay away from because of the emotional impact it leaves on you after; It's also a movie that you would have to watch at least once as many people have said.
Absolute masterpiece, all I can say.


                
In my opinion, the best movie that deals with the pain of drug addiction. Multiple aspects of drugs were covered, the dealer who isn't addicted, those addicted to illegal drugs, and the less emphasized in our society, addiction to prescription drugs. The 1st act introduces the characters, establishes what's going on, and introduces the conflict. Act 2 has the characters finding temporary solutions to their problems, until things get worse. Act 3 has the characters taking drastic measures to try and overcome but end up taking huge losses. The realism of the situations and excellent performances make this movie hit close to home whether you can relate or not. Having had friends who've spiraled out of control due to drug addiction, I know what can happen when people lose control to substance abuse. Ellen Burstyn's performance was was exceptional, you can feel her loneliness and angst right through the screen. The montage near the end depicting the descent to the very rock bottom for the characters was a thing of beauty. The camera work was excellent, POV shots, frame shots, hand-held, it all worked seamlessly to bring out the emotions. Definitely not a movie for the weak at heart, but a must see for anyone who likes movies that make you think and feel.
When I go to the museum, I am often awed at these still lifes from dutch painters of the 16th and 17th centuries. There were those beautiful still lifes, showing a vase of flowers down to the slightest detail. But oh, it would be the one that captured some sort of devastation or ugliness that would capture my attention. The strange thing was as devastating and grotesque one would be all the more beautiful and engrossing.What is beautiful about such a painting is the thing that makes Requiem for a Dream such a beautiful film. A true artist captures what he or she sees, lives, or feels. If the artist fails to do this, then they create a sugar coated work. It is satisfying for the moment, but ultimately fails to leave a lasting impression. Too often, "artists" compromise their work for the sake of commercial success, painting "beautiful" pictures that are often too common in the field. Requiem for a Dream defies this by painting a grotesque, gripping portrait of addiction. Not once does Darren Aronsky flinch in creating this pictures. It is at time ugly, grotesque, sick, and devastating. But like a classic still life, you can't turn away as you stare at every stark detail.What I love about this film is that you know your own in for a downhill ride when you begin the film. Jared Leto's character is taking his mother's TV to be sold to get drugs. This moment just scratches the surface of the downward spiral we are about to witness. Aronsky's characters suffer and never turn back. And nothing more need be said of Ellyn Burstyn's fantastic performance as she deals with delusion, drug addiction, and an addiction of a different sort, with the television.The film has a big finish which is one of the most classic scenes in American film. Although I imagine most pointed towards this review have seen it, I dare not spoil it. It's the final detail in the still life. The one that makes you stare and stare - not so much at its beauty, but its sheer unrelenting truth.


                
This film makes you FEEL the characters. You aren't even introduced to the characters and you feel their pain, it's very depressing. Darren Aronofsky did a excellent, and I mean EXCELLENT, job with the camera angles, the effect, the music was great, everything. This film was very hard to watch in some scenes, perhaps because the acting was great, Ellen Burstyn should have won the Oscar in my opinion. I stumbled upon it at FYE, watched it, and never wanted to see it again in my life. I wanted the DVD in the trash because it was that powerful and moving. I turned the film onto friends and family and I hear the same reaction from everyone, "Man that was sad" or "It was too depressing." I highly recommend this MUST SEE film


                
When I first heard about this movie, I thought "nothing could be more heart-wrenching when it comes to showing the dark side of drugs than Trainspotting." Man oh man, was I wrong! This film absolutely blew me away. It's one of those films that you just can't stop thinking about. The haunting images and emotions I felt during the film stay with me even at this moment.Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly had phenomenal performances in this film. Their characters were so vulnerable that I couldn't help but feel the strongest compassion for them. Jared Leto's talent really shines through in this film. He proves that he can go beyond acting in a supporting role and really knock your socks off in a leading role. In the scene where Harry and Marion are on the phone when Harry is in the prison, I have never felt more sorrow while watching a scene. I also found the scene when Harry wakes up after having his arm amputated extremely haunting. Though it is extremely short, that scene really sticks out in my memory.Ellen Burstyn steals the show in this film. I had never actually seen her in any other films, but after seeing this, I definitely want to see her more! The way she transforms from an addicted television viewer into a crazy, diet-pill addicted, ill woman was phenomenal. The music in this film really added to its intensity. The theme song played over and over was absolutely chilling and literally made the hair on my arms stand on end. This film would not have been the same without it.I could go on and on about how phenomenal this film was, but I am going to conclude with this. Requiem for a Dream is a MUST SEE. The direction and cinematography of the film was out of this world amazing and beautiful. I had never seen anything like it! It may be uncomfortable to watch, but it is an incredibly important movie. It is something everyone should watch. The story and the characters are so real that you can't help but feel pain for them. Although I do not believe doing drugs is right by any means, I was able to sympathize with the drug addicts and could actually relate to them (which I never would have imagined would be possible). All in all, this film changed my life.
As with other pieces of dark art, this is a film that only truly resonates with those have been consumed and devastated by addiction. That's not to say it wont affect people who aren't drug addicts (believe me it will); its effect just wont be quite as profound and close to home. The hopelessness and despair of Jennifer Connelly and Jared Leto's characters mirrored my own and I was amazed by how well this film captured the essence of life disintegrating into nothingness. The scene when Harry and Marion are talking on the phone knowing they will never see each other again just tears my heart out. The bittersweet music, the unspoken goodbye... it's so tragic. When the two elderly women had to hug each other after seeing Sara at the end, my eyes welled up with tears. I didn't find this film to be preachy or over the top, I think it's a brilliant example of art imitating life at its worst.
I saw this film for the first time ever just a year ago, and I was mesmerized. I've never seen actors throw themselves into roles the way the ensemble did in this film. Ellen Burstyn was simply amazing and heart-wrenching as the mother of drug user Jared Leto. She is a Brooklyn Jewish mother whose dream is to be on television, and gets it with a phone call that gives her a new-found energy for life. However, her favorite red dress no longer fits, so she turns to diets and eventually diet pills, which she becomes addicted to. Her son, along with his girlfriend (Jennifer Connelly) and best friend (Marlon Wayans), are all addicted to heroin, and become sellers to make money for their dreams. They all become more and more addicted and begin to do whatever to stay in the high.As I read the other comments about this movie, it is a stark difference in people. Some people found it to be a simply moving experience that they will never forget, while others found it unrealistic and crappy. All I have to say is here's a list of people who won't like this film: 1. People who have great health insurance and think hospitals and doctors are your friends and only want to help you no matter what; 2. Drug users (part-time or full-time) who don't think drugs are addictive and harmful (or in denial of it); 3. Sheltered people who have never done drugs in their lives and think it can't be that bad; 4. Brain-washed idiots who want happy endings and gumdrop smiles for all; and5. Rich people who don't have to make money to survive the week, and can afford luxuries like food, health care, and vacations.Anyone who knows about being poor and not having every privilege in life will at least understand the message of the film, and that is the power of addiction, loneliness and poverty, and how it can mess up your life and make you go after anything to change it, or at least to find that one little bit of happiness, a reason to get up in the morning.I won't give away what happens in the film, but just think this: don't sit there and say situations can't happen because it's impossible and no one would EVER do that because of procedures and rules, because if you can't afford to be taken care of, you won't be. That's all I'll say about it.To the haters of this film, I'm sure Hope Floats and Pretty in Pink are still waiting to be rented. Let the real people enjoy their movies in peace.
Why? Why wouldn't you wait? Why would you throw everything away for a fix? Why do you need a fix? Why is there unhappiness? Why is this only my second review in IMDb? Honestly, I don't know why postponed this movie this much. In a way, I believe there is a time for everything. May be everything happens for a reason and in the right moment. May be not. I'm curious what the opinion of this movie's protagonists would be on this matter. There are so many questions and so few answers. One of the reasons why I love Aronosfsky's films. After one and a half hours you are just left there ... speechless ... with tears in your eyes ... with questions without answer and with feelings so unbearable, you would like to scream in pain for eternity. Requiem for a Dream is something to make you feel and think. Do NOT watch this movie for entertainment. It is more of a spiritual experience. Become aware of yourself by doubting all there is. If you don't learn anything new about your existence, there was no point in losing 100 minutes of your life.


                
Connectivity and complexity of the characters are forcing us to really care (and be shocked) how will this movie end. The culmination of events is fantastic, achieving a phenomenal emphasis on loneliness and decadence of the characters. Innovation in framing the act of drugging leaves a remarkable impression on the viewer. If you ask me, this movie should be played to children in schools. In that way there would definitely be fewer drug addicts, because I do not know a better way of showing how these drugs can destroy someone's life. The music is also phenomenal, and also is the very end of the movie. This is one of those movies that will not leave you indifferent and for sure it is going to reflect on you long after seeing it. That's why this movie might not be everyone's cup of tea.


                
I first saw this when it was released on DVD when i worked at a video store and i recommended to as many people as i could. A few were amazed and many were shocked.But thats what i love in a film,something moving,gritty,shocking,grimy,confronting,and just plain different from the rest of the garbage out there. I know this has been said but the academy should be very ashamed for not awarding Ellen Burstyn HER Oscar. She was robbed. I only started watching them again this year to see Scorsese receive HIS statues (at last). Burstyns performance was just so heart wrenching I'm still amazed 7yrs later. Jared Leto showed us that he can really act, Jennifer Connelly (when she picks the right roles) can knocked you out and does so here and Marlon Wayons turns out a star making dramatic performance. Christopher Macdonald also deserves a big mention as Tappy Tibbons who i read that a lot of his lines were improvised. Nothing else to say but go watch it!


                
I have not read the novel upon that this is based upon. This has gotten very mixed reactions... is it almost criminally engaging and effective, or is it MTV-type manipulative drivel? I have to admit, I can't ignore the craftsmanship of this movie, so if you must place me in a booth, I'd be in the former of those two. The stylization is incredible and fitting. Editing and cinematography are accused of being gimmicky, with jump-cuts and this utilizing quite a few different angles and the Snorricam, but I disagree... they're part of Aronofsky's cinematic language. Whether he is a genius or a madman is open to debate. This is not easy to watch. It is rather cruel to the audience, and entirely uncompromising. It deals with addiction, in general, not only to drugs. The writing is impeccable, script, plot and dialog alike. All the characters are credible. The acting is amazing, yes, including Marlon Wayans, and Burstyn is, simply put, excellent, and utterly devastating in her performance. This has masterful music, the score is perfect and beautifully done. The one complaint that I particularly have is that, for three of the four leads, there is little to no explanation in this for how they came to use narcotics. I can imagine many viewers being deeply emotionally affected by this. The language is strong as it gets, and plentiful. While there is not a lot of violence in this, it's filled with disturbing content. There is also graphic sexuality. This is not something to watch if you aren't already relatively hardened. The DVD comes with trailers and TV spots, two of each, deleted scenes with the option of hearing Darren's thoughts on them, during them, a couple of featurettes, and lastly, a commentary track with the director, and one with Matthew Libatique. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys the medium, provided they feel they have the nerves for it. 10/10


                
I consider this movie the American version of Trainspotting without the happy ending. This film focuses on four characters, Harry, Marion, Ty and Harry's mother Sara. All four characters have a dream, Harry wants to make money so he and Marion can move out of Brooklyn and have a better life. Marion wants to become a fashion designer and own her own shop. Ty also wants to become someone big and ends up working with local gangsters. Sara has the chance to be on TV and just wants to look her best and loose weight to fit in her red dress.Harry, Marion and Ty were already using heroin, whilst Sara became addicted to diet pills. In the summer Harry and Ty sold drugs for local gangsters and made a lot of money out of it. Harry and Marion becomes stronger and Ty raises through the ranks of the local gangster mob. When Sara finds out she was going to be TV she becomes the most popular woman in her building and the other women were only too willing to help. As the movie progresses the lives of all four characters breaks down and all their lives end up being destroyed. I felt the most sorry for Sara because it was not all her own fault like the others.This film has some brilliant acting. All four performances were great, Jennifer Connelly has always been an actress I liked and this is her strongest performance; Jared Leto shows get potential as an actor in this film and Ellen Burstyn was really good in the film. Darren Aronofsky's direction was really key to the film. He got the mood just right, getting the best out his actors, getting a good mix of realism and surrealism, good casting and some brilliant shots and good music. He was from Brooklyn himself so knew the area and therefore got good locations. A shot really liked from the film was when Marion left her shrink's apartment and the camera focuses on her all the way to the outside of the building.A word of warning about this film is that it is not for the faint-hearted, having some graphic scenes and this movie is a very depressing experience, don't expend an uplifting experience. You need to be in the right mood to watch this film, but it is well worth watching and it's message is very clear.
Some of the mainstream reviews I had read about this movie prior to watching it didn't describe this movie favourably. Many of the criticisms were that this was just another 'drug movie', just another tale of hopelessness and despair. Some said that the story of addiction told here was 'unrealistic', some even suggested that this movie and it's approach were glorifying drug use.After watching this I wondered if these reviewers had just watched the same film I had?? This has to be the most harrowing, unsettling, and yet utterly compelling film dealing with the issue of drug use, and the effects it has on those involved I have ever seen. This is, and I state for the record, in no way glorifying, sensationalising, or condoning drug use in any way.It tells of the plight of 4 individuals, their respective descent into drug dependency, the effects this has on their relationships with each other, and the eventual lengths they will go to feed their addiction. On the contrary to the reviews I had read earlier, it occurs to me the depiction here is perhaps a little too 'realistic' for recreational viewing. Though this movie is certainly not 'easy going' it is a rewarding experience in the end.The film benefits from first rate performances (particularly Ellen Burstyn - an acting tour de force), superb cinematography and solid directing. The jump cuts and fast editing work really well here too, setting a suitable tone for the movie, conveying the character's disjointed and erratic perceptions of reality to the viewer effectively. Lastly the haunting musical score composed by Clint Mansell and the Kronos Quartet is as striking as it is original, complementing the mood of the movie perfectly.There is always a danger when making a movie dealing with issues such as these that the end result may appear contrived or over-sentimental, that the overall message become muddled; conflicting. This isn't the case with 'Reqiuem for a Dream', thanks to faultless execution in all aspects this movie is nothing short of excellent - 10/10.


                
I am in shock. Shock should be the word to describe this movie. It's truly a work of art. The colors, the images , all about this movie relates to art. It's a masterpiece. Darren Aronofsky put's you're mind in situations you couldn't imagine , the characters are extraordinary , the acting outstanding ,the music also is perfect ... i don't know , maybe Requim of a Dream relates somehow to Stanley Kubrick's " A Clockwork Orange " , it's that kind of quality that is very rare in the cinema industry that should put this movie in my opinion in a top 10 all time films. Maybe i am being subjective but you will have to sea this movie to understand what i really mean by that.


                
