Talk about a let down. I had heard nothing but raves about this one in the genre of "drug films", but when I finally saw it I realized that the raves were from raving lunatics. You might want to head to a fallout shelter if you're planning to watch this bomb. It only shows that a populace raised on the current standard of unrealistic "reality t.v.", will buy anything. Right off the top, the acting is reminiscent of an over-dramatized silent movie. Not easy to do when you have experienced actors like Jennifer Connelly and Marlon Wayons (whose performances while very good, become almost comical as a result of the script and the director's efforts). While Ellen Bursten does a great job of portraying Harry's rapidly deteriorating and lonely mother, for a film that tries to take itself and it's subject matter so seriously, the comedic aspect of her scenes seem very out of place.The film's hysteria and sensationalism reach ridiculous heights. It's overloaded, absurd and unconvincing. Camera angles that would serve better in a music video make up most of the "substance" of this very gimmicky film. And don't get me started on some of the worst New York accents I've heard since I visited Kentucky.If there's one positive thing I can say about this movie it's that it is very likely to dissuade the type of impressionable NAIVE young minds that could fall victim to the very real perils of serious drug use (most of which is grossly exaggerated in this farcical film). However those same impressionable minds are undoubtedly the ones that will believe this film paints a "stark and real" picture of what happens to everyone who uses drugs, without exception.Overall, if you have never had a drug problem, known anyone in your entire life who has had one, ever used drugs, or heard anyone talk realistically about drugs, then maybe this is the movie for you. An MTV version of the "real world" from a junkie's perspective. It's not even amusing as the joke it ends up being. In the genre of drug movies this one should be filed under "oregano".


                
I tend to enjoy movies that depict reality, no matter the extremes. However, this movie was way off base. At the start, I was entertained by the cinematography. Enjoyment soon gave way to utter disbelief and disgust. If the message was "just say no", this was the epitome of overkill. Never have I seen a movie containing such degrading graphic images of women. Even the fancy drug-using scenes became predictable. I would recommend this flick to no one.


                
first off, this movie is a bit repetitive, which is of course on par with the idea of showing people being addicted. (mother likes her chocolates a bit too much first (later on she turns to diet pills), her son and his friends are into harddrugs of various kinds) and all are constantly on the outlook for more of the same kind. the problem with movies about drug-addicts is that however alien their situation may be to a person watching it, the person still needs to feel compassion or have similar feelings towards them in order for the movie to 'succeed'. alas, no such thing here. the main characters (apart from the great acting mother) all look like the lousy but oh so trendy 'actors' you see in commercials or videoclips (there are plenty of references to both, but i can't think of a single one right now that wasn't a cliché or that wouldn't be beaten senselessly by the overall sublimeness of 'magnolia' or the freshness 'trainspotting' had at the time). so, the movie's protagonists are mostly 20+ year olds with nothing on their hands but trying to score and use drugs (and screwing even that simple given up). the characters just don't come alive for me and the obligatory postmodernistic/ nihilistic/ apocalyptic downward spiral which sets in is boring as hell to watch through even though (or just because) the whole thing is cut up much like a flashy videoclip. obviously so to hide the lack of insight on behalf of the makers (though i have to say here i absolutely loved 'Pi', aranofsky's debut which i rate very highly). the crappy finale was partly stolen from kubrick's overrated 'eyes wide shut' and it almost made me laugh because it was so unbelievably unbelievable to see the various plots develop as they did. on a more positive note, the soundtrack is great though, as was Pi's (nevertheless aphex twin would eat mansell any day of the week, kronos quartet or no, but the soundtrack is without a doubt the most intriguing facet to this otherwise one-dimensional fiasco) - go see terry gilliam's 'fear and loathing in las vegas' instead if you want a 'bad trip'. at least gilliam doesn't solely rely on clichés or gimmickry and even when he does, it always shows somehow that he doesn't take himself too seriously or that he uses the right amount of irony / cynicism, something mr aranofsky obviously has yet to master).


                
I saw this last and thought it was total and utter crap.  The plot seemed entirely unoriginal, as if the screen writer thought that he could just borrow themes that had been presented in previous movies and novels(which had something to say about society not just a bunch of worthless junkies) and throw them over a bunch of rather unlikeable characters and boom, you've got an art house classic.  To throw the viewer off from this we have a bunch of fun and new camera tricks, some of which are also heavily borrowed from other films(Trainspotting and Pulp Fiction for example), but these eventually seem to get boring and repetitive, how many times do we have to watch a closeup of drug preparation, method of ingestion, dialated pupil. As for the performances Jared Leto can't compare to the better written and more likeable characters that are presented by Ewen McGreggor in Trainspotting and Leonardo DiCaprio in The Basketball Diaries.  The other characters are convincing enough but that really doesn't matter because by the end of the film I wanted all of them to put a gun in their mouth and end their wasted lives, especially during the way to long climactic montage of them all hitting rock bottom.  All in all, if you want to see a movie that says something more than just:junkies are losers, go rent Trainspotting or the Basketball Diaries.  If you want to see what a hour and a half long music video looks like check this one out.


                
This film looks like something that could have been commissioned by Nancy Reagan's "just say no to drugs" people. Simplistic and heavy handed, this is the sort of moralistic tripe you'd expect from a police visit to your high school classroom.SPOILER Read this paragraph only if you've seen the movie:Synopsis (just to remind you how stupid this is) "Innocent fun among "normal kids" leaves a guy crippled, his buddy in jail, his girlfriend a crack whore and his mom lobotomized. It's all because of ... gasp ... DRUGS. Drugs are bad, mmmmkay?" /SPOILERJesus, do Americans know nothing about making a movie with some SUBTLETY?It's time for a "drugs are mystical and great when used with care" movie get rid of the bad taste this movie leaves behind.
After watching the above movie again, I was reminded of how much Requiem for a Dream resembles it (from Requiem's initial scene of the television theft, to the more general theme of hopeless drug addictions).  And yet it also became more apparent to me how poorly Requiem compares to the British masterpiece, particularly in the method of direction by Darren Aronofsky. To me, his style in this film was reminiscent of the early commercial for DVD players -- catchy, yet in a choppy/gimmicky/dizzying way.  Nowhere near worthy of its high rating.  3/10.


                
SPOILERSI was told this movie is really depressing, but in order for that to be true I would've had to watch a movie with engaging characters.  Guess what? I couldn't empathize with any of these losers, because they were flat, one-dimensional and pathetic.  Most stories of drug addiction give us some glimpse of a character's potential for success--their charm, their attractiveness, their intelligence, a successful career or academic promise--and then show it all going down the drain.  Or maybe we'll see why they turned to drugs, what their problems were, what they need to escape. Here we get none of that.  In this movie they start as loser/addicts and end as loser/addicts.  Everyone gets what he and she deserves.  Some initially neat camera and editing work that gets old very quickly--would've been cool in a music video, but that's about it.  Why does Hubert Selby Jr. have to end all his movies with women whoring themselves in especially degrading ways (cf. Last Exit to Brooklyn)?  3/10
Slow motion, fast motion, slow motion with fast motion, spins, split screens.  How many trick camera shots can a director fit into a feature film?  If your Darren Aronofsky, you can fit in about 17 million.  At least that is how many I thought I saw in Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream.I was excited to see Requiem for a Dream.  I somewhat enjoyed Aronofsky's previous film Pi.  I thought that if the guy that made Pi had more money he might really be able to do something. Requiem is something all right.Requiem for a Dream has two main story lines.  One follows Sara (Ellen Burstyn), a loving mother of a bum son, through her quest to loose weight so she can fit into a special red dress to live out her dream to be on television.  The other follows her son Harry (Jared Leto), his girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly), and his friend Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) on their quest to live out their dream of making a really big drug score.Both stories are dark.  All of the characters, including the Sara, the loving mother, take the pathetic, downward spiraling road of drug addiction.  The film follows their stories to the absolute bottom, and then leaves it there.  There is no redemption.  There is no hope.Requiem tries too hard.  It wears "artsy-fartsy" as a badge.  Just because a movie is really dark, doesn't mean it is relevant.  Just because something has a very distinctive style, doesn't mean it is a good style. I didn't hate Requiem.  Burstyn's performance was amazing.  Leto wasn't bad either.  I wanted to like it.  I wanted to be in the group of people that "get" this sort of film.  I don't want to be some bumpkin. I don't want it to be over my head.I didn't like it though, and I don't think that I'm being a bumpkin.  I "got" this movie, more like a disease than an understanding.  I don't think that it was over my head, more like it bashed me over the head.I give Requiem for a Dream 3 out of 10 stars.


                
I was pretty enthusiastic about both Pi and its soundtrack, and was pleased to see another movie from the same fellow.However, whereas Pi had an interesting plot and occasional moments of brightness, this movie was almost exclusively about suffering, and the last half of the movie almost gratuitously dwelt on that.  My biggest beef was with the plot, which became a contrivance to abuse the characters, again in the last half.  Whenever chance would have it that the protagonists could have several possible futures ranging from fortunate to dismal, the plot always chose the worst possible future.  After a while, the suffering was completely artificial, loaded with graphic, ugly images; high-strung and irritating music, and a disregard for reality that had hitherto remained intact.The acting was well-done, the direction had style, the music, save for the grating violins when things were really getting bad (which I suppose were meant to invoke pathos), was interesting and well-suited, but I have to ask myself -- why did I watch the movie if it was completely unpleasant, if I didn't learn anything save for the depths of pain and disgust to which a movie can go?  I am all for intelligent independent movies, but there has to be some spark of enjoyment in it instead of a kaleidoscopic barrage of suffering.  I regret watching this film.


                
While it is possible to see why some viewers like this movie, I have to side with those who do not. There are some fine filmic/technical aspects to the movie, and some moments of good acting, too. But the lack of imagination and nuance is numbing. All the actions and motivations are predictable, and everything the film does hits the audience with a ton of bricks, and then another ton and another and another. Only a very sheltered grade school kid could not see the plot coming for miles and miles. In the end, there was no art here, just a black hole, perhaps instructive for some, but not for others.


                
Really, Nancy Reagan would be so proud. I was expecting to see Mr T at any moment telling the viewer to say in school FOO!No really, that's the whole movie, a bunch of people doing drugs, then bad stuff happens to them because of their heavy addictions. That's it, that's the whole movie, no gray area here, nothing to discuss or evaluate. People doing drugs = people suffering from drug abuse. If you're looking for character development or a deep and complex story look somewhere else. There's just one thing to get from this movie, drugs are bad, like really really really bad. Nothing more, nothing less.


                
I don't really know how to explain this film, so maybe it will come to me in this review.The film is shown from the perspective of 4 drug users as they spiral into a mental dystopia. All seeking a better life, aided by drugs, they fall into a state of insanity, demonstrated by a great use of film techniques.Despite the sophisticated film work, I found watching 'Requiem for a Dream' about as pleasurable as having a pigeon with diarrhoea land on my face. The story... goes nowhere. I spent a good 97 minutes wondering when something was going to happen. There was quite a few 'look at the clock' moments. And as the film progressed I found myself feeling increasingly uncomfortable. The finale was so painful, I was dying for the film to finish, as i was bombarded with obnoxious noise, and a montage of obscene nasty outcomes for each character. I could sense the other people in the room feeling the same, but perhaps slightly less tolerant than me. I was really hoping they didn't think I was enjoying myself.There was a large portion of the film spent of character development, and were supposed to appeal to different members of the audience as an attempt to cause a bigger impact as you watch their lives deteriorate, however, the characters were so dis-likable i didn't want to even look at them.The whole thing was basically an hour and a half of saying "Drugs are bad", which i think they made quite clear. The film may have been more effective if it had been condensed into about 10 minutes and placed between a plot.You can tell that it's supposed leave you in a state of amazement, feeling disturbed and changed by the images you have just witnessed, which in many cases probably worked, explaining the amount of credibility it received. However, I have imagined things 10 times more horrible, and I can't think of a reason why i would want to share them with the general public.In summary: Very well executed, but i do believe in the saying "You can't polish a turd"The only thing i got out of it was the ability to read clocks in the dark.


                
I need not recapitulate the several reasons for many viewers' disappointment in this film, reasons which have already been noted by other users. In my case, having decided to see the movie after reading rave reviews by trusted critics, it was one of those unfortunate let-downs.One of the film's weak points is its clear-cut division of characters into ordinary folks (going through great suffering), and evil-doers (aware of that suffering and blithely indifferent to it).  Life is more complicated. I also find fault with the film in that it suggests there is something especially degrading about a middle-class Euro-US young woman being sexually exploited by an Afro-American man.  When a film cues viewers to experience revulsion at certain sexual acts in certain circumstances, I prefer this to be done without gratuitously pushing the buttons of race/class prejudice. Call me PC if you like.Finally, I am not at all 'pro-drugs', but I can't help wondering if this movie will be ridiculed in years to come, just as the anti-hash film 'Reefer Madness' (1936) is ridiculed now.  The subject, I am afraid, calls for a film that delivers more than technical flourishes and some fine acting.


                
Well I finally got round to watching this. I have to say it's rather overrated, and that's putting it mildly. It reminded me of 'Traffic' or any other overblown TV-movie-esquire morality tale over which I've wasted my time in the past. Just because a film is photographed really well (this certainly is) does not make it worth all these 10/10 ratings. I've read in the discussion comments that some people have shown this film to 6-9 year olds - I hope some day they feel as ashamed as they should. Scaring kids with this kind of sub-'Reefer Madness' paranoia-fest is going to ultimately have precisely the opposite effect that you think it should.Some others here have pointed out some of the frankly unrealistic depictions of drug culture in this film. Here's just a few that I noticed - the mass drug distribution scene in a supermarket storeroom (give me a break!), not being able to score drugs in BROOKLYN (err... hello?), the fact that all the characters look straight out of a glossy teen magazine all the time (there's an easy way out of your money problems guys... join a modelling agency). One of the few traces of snot came with Harry's mom's legal-amphetamine disaster.. oh wait, it's because she's (whisper) 'ooold'.Can I find anything good to say about this film? OK, it sets out the fact that addictions are bad (who ever tried to argue otherwise?), and that sometimes the most horrible addictions are legal ones (although not as bad as skag because it can make you into a hoe or lose an arm). And it does this powerfully. However the story is, at best, a horrific worst-case nightmare scenario, the likes of which only the truly vulnerable and lost are going to fall prey to - that or the criminally stupid. If this is the case, sooner or later something is going to destroy your life anyway... it's just a matter of what you have access to. Judging by the ratings, I thought this film was going to offer something more real, perhaps something about what causes people to do this to themselves (aside from maternal issues... sigh..). The real tragedy of this movie is that it does not.Hmm so anything else good about this movie? The acting is at least functional, worthy of the best TV-movies. The photography and general production is, as already mentioned, unarguably great. The thing is, if anyone could be bothered to research such stuff, I think they'd be able to trace the sheer lack of any creative progression in modern western cinema back to the time that jumped-up music video and TV advert directors were first allowed onto a feature film set. That and too much cocaine. If anything this film proves that the film industry definitely needs a whole lot less cocaine.The director here clearly is fascinated by paranoia/terror and representing it with twitchy jump edits. Technically good and initially arresting but it doesn't make a watchable film, and loses its intensity when it's done as much as it is here. To be honest the director comes across as a pretty negative guy, who prefers to apathetically wallow in tragedy and gloom rather than offer some real positive answers. His first film, Pi, was similar, and similarly over-rated. It seemed to me that he had an unhealthy fascination with the humiliation of the girl.. maybe the only option was to be more extreme than anyone else because this storyline has been done about 5818948923 times? Overall it looks like the director realised that by far the most profitable demographic for DVDs is angst-filled teenagers who thrive on spending their student loans on banquets of melancholy like this.Sorry to be so brutal but really, there are far, far better films out there about this kind of subject matter which won't try and pummel you into a state of feeble submission ('Trainspotting' is a good example). I guess I'm just annoyed that I wasted my time... seriously, what is the point of sitting for 1.5 hours to be shattered by horrible tragedy that doesn't actually bear any resemblance to the real world, and doesn't offer any answers as to WHY this kind of thing actually happens sometimes? Maybe the thing that really bothers me is that most modern American films, even the so-called 'independents', seem to be so utterly empty and binary in their subtlety - there is no room for anything at all between vacuous air-headed garbage and morose doom-fests. As long as you dress it up with some slick photography and editing, and throw in some beautiful looking people, audiences will lap it up and ask for more.
(Spoilers ahead)What a perfectly happy and appropriate ending!  I haven't been so satisfied at the end of a film since Commodus bought it at the end of Gladiator! Here in "Requiem for a Dream", we have 4 pathetic losers with no redeeming qualities whatsoever-- 4 totally worthless, naive, pitiful, one-dimensional druggies-- that totally get what they deserve at the end!!!  One get's his arm hacked off, another get's humiliated in some live porn spectacle, another gets hit with electrical convulsions and the last gets thrown in jail (he got off easy in my book) -- oh the satisfaction!  I was chortling at the end of this one folks!The moral of this masterpiece?  Drugs are bad.  Yes truly, this is basically what this film boils down to.  This point is driven home as bluntly and with as much condescension and predictability as your average afterschool special (but with less character development).  It's basically an over-stylized 90 minute anti-drug advertisement.At the end of the film I felt indescribable sadness... after realizing I had wasted an hour and a half of my life sitting through such a useless movie. As a service to everyone, I have created a condensed version, which will give you in 2 seconds what this film takes 90 minutes to establish:
Drugs --> Addiction --> Bad Consequences.
While I agree that this movie was very well executed, I do not believe that makes it good. More specifically, I do not understand how someone could be better off having seen this movie. It is a horrific story that only serves to frighten, disgust, and mortify, without pointing to more than a shred of the positive forces of life.Is it entertaining and gripping? You bet, but it's not the kind of entertainment I like to imbibe in large doses. It is off the scale in shock value but does not even attempt to balance itself with optimism. I just don't like to wallow in negative emotions for so long. Ick.p.s.: I was not able to sit through to the very end. Be warned that it is very graphic.


                
This movie kept making me think of the guy from south park.  "Drugs are bad, Ok"  The movie just went nowhere you didn't really like any of the caracters so you didn't feel bad about what was happening to them.  It was like ok your a bunch of junkies and your lives just keep getting worse.  I did not enjoy the movie it didn't make me think.  Maybe made me worry more about the state of this country I didn't need that.


                
Well, i saw this movie and was rather disappointed.  In my opinion, it was gruesomely over-edited with that snappy "MTV-style" (i hate the way MTV does it too) editing, flashing all about.  It really makes me think my attention span was too long for this movie... I understand why he (when I use he, I'm referring to the director) was doing it like this, to create a feeling of anxiety and intensity, but like many things, its WAY overdone.  He certainly had good intentions, "drugs are bad" and all that, but the way he did it kind of felt blunt and cold like a drugs class at school. I couldn't really relate personally with the sorrows of the main characters, and most of the arguments he presents seem to argue more for legalization of drugs than not doing them.  It seems that most of their problems would have been solved merely by a more accepting open-minded societal outlook towards drugs, and just not being stupid.  (trying not to point out any spoilers...) For example, the lady taking drugs to lose weight? was she out of her mind? not to mention her gradually stepping up the dosage.  As with what happens to her son, i knew what they problem was the minute i saw it, and knew the consequences if he soon didnt get it fixed from that point early in the movie.  The one good point I'd really like to point out is how they dont really distinguish between legal and illegal drugs, as with the lady popping pills that her doctor gave her, anything in moderation wont hurt you, and anything abused will, despite whether or not your doctor recommends it to you.  I've known some people in my time who have become pretty messed up on perfectly legal drugs, and they dont even really exceed the dosage (to my knowledge).  There's not a miracle pill cure for everything, but our society seems to think there is, so pop the pill and everything will be better...Anyways, I'm off track, point is, the motives were clear, the message wasn't, and the editing gave me a headache, i gave it a 3/10.
It's a powerful, technically brilliant film, but to me it plays more like a graphic afterschool special than a poignant work of art. I understand the message of showing the negative affects of drugs on the human body, but the film makes everything so extreme that it goes to the point of unrealism and almost humor about how graphic and morbid it has to make these people's lives in order to try to get it's message across. I would have understood that drugs are bad without seeing Leto's arm chopped off, Connelly made into a pathetic lowly whore getting screamed at by old men to shove a dildo in her ass while gyrating the other end with another young lady, Burstyn going clinically insane and being electroshocked (a technique that hasn't been used since the 80s) graphically and Wayans experiencing racism while stirring some potatoes. It just takes everything way too far into the extreme for me to appreciate it anymore. In terms of comparing it to the book, it suffers the same flaw that Fight Club does. It puts all of it's attention on one subject matter (the negative affects of drug use) and leaves the rest virtually nonexistent (the beautiful relationship between Harry and Marion turned into bitter hatred on the surface but remaining deep love internally, the strong connection of Harry and Tyrone turned into a distant mutual understanding of being around each other just so they can get another score, pretty much the entire story with Tyrone and his mother, etc. etc.) It puts little touches on these things, but brings them up and then jumps right back into the anti-drug message for 95% of the duration.


                
I echo most of the negative comments, but the main problem I had with the film was my continual questioning of events as the story progressed. Drugs are bad, and that is fine, but they are NOT that hard to find. In essence, the problems faced by half of the cast was a result of the scarcity of narcotics in NEW YORK CITY. Should I find this scenario credible? One can manage heroin addiction using prescription painkillers (which is what folks like this would have resorted to), rather than driving 600 miles away or engaging in an uncomfortable orgy. They could have scored some dilaudid, hydrocodone, oxycontin, or even methadone to get them through the dry streak. Two thousand dollars in hand, and not an idea about what to do? Actors all did fine. The characters were unsympathetic. The story is depressing but simultaneously leaves one reticent for the fact that there are not many redeeming qualities exhibited by the users. Tyrone and Marion did not have shocking denouements...their path is standard for many users. Emotionally manipulating...visuals were fair...story was simple-minded. I was underwhelmed, and I do not find this film to be particularly artsy, though I will grant that it is daring in some sense.
One of the only reasons i rented this movie was because i saw it at #36 in the top 250 movies as voted by users. It was ranked ahead of movie classics such as "Saving Private Ryan" and "The Wizard of Oz". So my expectations were pretty high. Thus, I was really disappointed when i finally saw this movie. It was well acted and gave a realistic portrayal of addiction, but it was just too one dimensional. The characters had no depth and it was really hard to give a damn about them. The only things you saw was their addictions. It was just downright depressing even with the normally funny Marlon Wayans.There was really nothing that set this movie apart from other movies depicting drug abuse. I've seen "Drugstore Cowboy" and "Basketball Diaries" and they were far more entertaining.  So don't let the high user rating fool you. It must have been rigged or something. This movie doesn't belong anywhere near the top 250. I would give it a 5/10 rating.


                
I was thinking a lot about this movie after having watched it. some people say this is what a good movie has to be like. well, I don't.this movie is completely nonsensical. honestly, every single action, even the introduction makes no sense at all if you think just a little bit about it.this movie is not about drugs. because its to stupid to be able to show you what drugs actually do. the only goal of this movie is to make its viewer feel bad. and it succeeds greatly in this. thus my 2 points out of 10.there are two possible reasons for the rating on IMDb:1) I guess there are lots of people who just want to feel bad. I can come over and slap you in the face to make you feel even worse.2) its all just a prank, like the "adobe air" prank in the google play store for androidtwo small examples of the nonsense:a) introduction: son (who his mother is afraid of in the beginning but happy as f* to see him next time she sees him) steals mothers television to sell it. mother knows exactly where he will sell it (it is always the same dealer miles away, as the son is doing this regularly) and gets there to buy it back. --> think a little bit about this. the whole setting is stupid.b) end: the two boys get in Jail for, well, taking drugs and having the intention to buy more. nothing more. I'm not from the states, but I think having taken drugs and wanting to buy drugs is not a reason to be put in Jail (without a trail and while dying from an injury of course, as this has to be as realistic as possible)well and everything that happens in between is nonsensical as well.


                
When I read everyone reviews on this film I thought I definitely had to watch it. I have an open mind about films but I really didn't understand the hype about this at all. People saying they were left "stunned, shocked, speechless" , these people must have had the most sheltered upbringing ever, did they grow up in fairyland? There isn't 1 shocking bit in the whole film, the acting was poor at times and the editing is so repetitive it gets boring.If you want to see a drug movie, train-spotting or a scanner darkly are much better films. This for me just was not shocking in the slightest and was a waste of a night.


                
Don't get me wrong! Darren Aronofsky is a talented man. I adored The Wrestler and admired the squandered philosophising of The Fountain but this film, which was also my first contact with Aronofsky, is a train wreck.It's a film that I can best describe as the cinematic equivalent to losing your soul. While some of the performances are admirable (particularly Ellen Burstyn and Marlon Wayans, who I had previously written off as the most untalented man in Hollywood) and some of the technical flourishes Aronofsky employs are impressive the problem is that there's too much flashing before your eyes to care about the characters.One scene stays in my mind that I can't help but admire. A simple quiet scene between Mother and Son, with Aronofsky actually letting his cast do something that resembles a dramatic scene, but either side of it are just 100 minutes of untrained focus. Nothing is really given any weight or rather the weight of the message is diluted by technical trickery.Watch Trainspotting instead with characters you care about, a story that is by turns tragic and equally hilarious, a brilliant script and performances that undeniably unique.This is the US cutting-edge version of Danny Boyle's film - and guess what - its dull and ultimately depressing.


                
This was THE most depressing movie I've ever seen! Don't get me wrong, some wonderful performances, but geez, such a downer of a film!
I watched the whole thing, confident that, at the end, at least one of the main characters would have climbed out of the muck that was their lives. I was wrong!
It was nice to see Louise Lasser again, but other than that, just a tremendous waste of talent. I was ready for the shock treatment by the end of the movie!
3 stars for the fine performances, but zero for everything else!
