I took my Little Brother to see this movie when it was re-released in the theatres. We were both hoping to see an intense, psychological horror film. Instead, what we saw was a dull, tediously cloying film. The only way in which this film works at all is if you know beforehand that Linda Blair is possessed by the devil, otherwise, apart from the overbearing menacing soundtrack, there is almost no suspense. There's next to no explanation as to why Blair is possessed, I had no feeling of warmth for any of the characters, and it feels like the director didn't either. Its an intensely ugly movie and I felt cheated by it.I suppose that since it was one of the first movie's of this kind, then theatre-goers at the time viewed it very differently, but it really doesn't stand the test of time, and these days it seems like just an attempt by Hollywood to cash in on the commercial success of "Rosemary's Baby."


                
Purists may enthuse about the lack of modern day special effects but what they fail to mention is that without these, The Exorcist captures all the excitement of an insurance seminar without an interlude.  To dispute with the purists, not all supernatural movies are spoilt with the dabbling of special effects.  With a premise not entirely different from The Exorcist, Poltergeist succeeded in enthralling an audience with the discerning use of "garish" effects and yet still managed to work up searing tension in the quieter moments.Not that any amount of editing would have brought this decaying carcass to life but the movie would have been better served missing the entire prologue, where we were treated to Max Von Sydow ambling along dusty passageways whilst looking horrified at finding some cheap bauble from a Christmas cracker.Without doubt, this so called masterpiece has surpassed all others in exploiting the "event movie".  It seems that by succeeding in getting a film withdrawn on it's initial release, in time it can become regarded as a classic - however underwhelming it may be. Simply by throwing in a few blasphemous expletives by a minor, this movie has been hailed as an icon of the horror genre.  Classic status should only be awarded to pictures which have stood the test of time.  Judging by the laughter from the audience at my screening, The Exorcist has not been able to sustain any fear factor 25 years later - if it ever did at all!  For those salivating over their first screening of this horror behemoth, prepare yourself for the fact that it plays about as frightening as an episode of Scooby Doo. In the case of The Exorcist (re-issue), the event is undoubtedly bigger than the movie.Please don't consider these views solely a ranting from an upstart of the MTV generation.  There are many horror movies made in the pre-Wes Craven era which have maintained classic status through the test of time and are still capable of terrifying today's audience - not just those who saw it way-back-then and still harbour fond memories.  With that in mind, special message to Gus van Sant:  You didn't need to waste your talents on a shot-for-shot remake of Psycho.  If you really wanted to challenge yourself, you could have concentrated on creating something resembling an effective chiller from this overhyped pap.


                
Is the exorcist scary. Not very. Is it shocking Yes but so what anybody can shock you by having a little girl grab a psychiatrist in the private parts and then show a close up camera shot of the man's face as he writhes in agony. or doing unmentionable things with a crucifix or swearing about Jesus. Does it make any sense. Not really. Why would the devil enter the body of a little girl who is then strapped to a bed and has holy water thrown at her to torture her. If I was the devil I'd enter the body of someone with more power or the son/daughter of someone with power not the teenage girl of some old movie actress and I would hope that they'd make a better movie about my possession than this one. If someone's head rotated 360 degrees then they would be dead. It make for interesting shocking effect but it doesn't make any sense. Peasoup vomit. Please. I would give this movie 1 out of 10 and that only for it's shock value. Go see The b&w version of the Haunting if you want to be really scared. Even Damien is a more interesting well told story than this one. The only scary bit for me was when the priest listened to what Linda Blair was saying on the recording and it turned out to be in English but backwards. "Dimmy why you do this to me". And the first 10 minutes or so was about the most boring 10 minutes I've ever spent watching a video. The clock that stopped ticking for no reason was the only strange and interesting bit for the first 1/2 hour is this boring overrated overhyped movie.


                
Honestly, this was never a good film, it sucked in the 1970's when it was made, and it still sucks today when it is worshipped. How it ever passed for a good film is beyond me, but somehow millions of people still flock to screenings of this stinker while the Catholic Church continues to be outraged for some reason. The honest truth of this film is simple: it is not a great film, and it shouldn't be a controversial film. Its portrayal of the Church is if anything rational and progressive; "What do you mean your little girl is possessed, what are you, stupid? This is the 20th century." Face it people, the emperor is naked. There's barely anything passing itself off as a plot, just a series of sad, scary and sometimes silly scenarios that are largely unrelated to each other and a rather ridiculous premise when you actually examine it. Not to mention the lamest portrayal of a character in film history; that of the Devil. It is established that young and unfortunate little Regan is possessed not just by a demon, but (oooh insert scary music) the Devil himself . . . because she played with Ouija board . . . Right . . . Honestly, this is the best the Devil can do? His major forays into the world of mortals consist of puking green slime and making lewd remarks? When did the devil become little more than a drunken frat boy at a kegger? I mean sure when it's a little girl doing it, it's kind of odd, but throw a backwards hat on her and a baggy Lakers Jersey and she'd fit right in at the next Kappa Beta Gama pledge night. Why didn't he do something creative and take over the president and start a nuclear war, or take over a Georgia Prosecutor and then get her to leave law after a string of misconducts only to start her own lousy talk show? If I was Father Merrin I'd be relieved that this is the worst thing the Devil could come up with, pull up a chair next to the bed, throw on a Cheech and Chong movie and have some laughs, and then wonder if the reason Lucifer was actually cast out of heaven was for being obnoxious and lighting his own farts while everyone was trying to watch UFC.Meanwhile all of the other supporting characters have an emotional range that spans the vast gulf of human expression ranging from "concerned" to "disturbed", oh there's a few party scenes but those get spoiled too and everyone goes back to "concerned". There's a sort of half-assed side plot involving a priest losing his faith because his mother dies, a half assed side plot involving a movie actress, and another of a sort of wandering exorcist priest wandering through poor countries looking to cast out demons (apparently demons don't hang around in country clubs or boardrooms, but only in those Sally Struthers countries). The widest range of emotions come from Regan/Satan who goes from looking uncomfortable while being probed by doctors to grinning like an idiot while she grosses everyone out with her cooky demonic antics.If you're going to watch this film for the first time, watch it objectively. Ask yourself what exactly is scary about the premise for this movie. Ask yourself why the devil couldn't come up with anything better than freaking some people out and making a big mess of a little girl's room. Then after you've done this, go and pick up a copy of the only good Friedken movie: The French Connection.
How then to judge a film? That's a question I found myself asking after reluctantly deciding the Exorcist was worthy of a "7".I know of people that would downgrade works despite their aesthetic and artistic merit if they include, for example, violence. Though I feel in assessing a film or any other piece of art then one must judge it objectively. And so we get to the Exorcist. Well-acted, by Jason Miller and Linda Blair especially, it cannot be faulted in terms of direction. Though light and shade contrast beautifully in the Georgetown sequences, it is the cinematic vision of Iraq in the prologue that deserves special praise. On a technical basis, the film is not quite as good, particularly the scene where Blair has an obviously artificial stomach with "help me" written on it.This is a film that was banned for fifteen years in England until 1999. While I would stand against censorship and welcome the release of "A Clockwork Orange" next year (if only to discuss how good it is in this country without fear of being arrested) part of me wishes The Exorcist had stayed banned.Fans of the movie protest its psychological, and maybe it would have been if the director hadn't removed huge chunks of scenes between Regan and her mother at the beginning. (And what kind of mother would play a game of ouija board with her daughter?) It's supporters also protest that the film is religious, though again maybe this would be the case if a dialogue scene between the two priests hadn't been excised from the final cut. What remains is a depiction of the Devil that demonstrates it's wickedness by defiling a young girl. This is where the film <U+0096> nicely shot and acted though it may be <U+0096> falls down.I do not call a girl's head spinning 180 degrees, spitting pea soup or badly lip-synching to a demon's voice psychological. Creaking in the attic IS psychological. A cherubic young girl lousily miming to someone saying the "f" word is not. Take away the choreography and it's a schlock-horror film just like any other, but with fancy trimmings. Seeing a priest punch a girl three times in the face is not horror but gratuity. In order to show the evil, Regan (Blair) attempts to force her mother (Ellen Burstyn, Oscar-nominated but largely one-note) to perform oral sex on her. Before this happens we have Regan soaked in blood after masturbating with a crucifix. And there lies the crux of my argument. I don't like minors (Regan is identified as just 12 in the script) being placed into scenes with sexual content or connotation. Seeing a nude girl being scrubbed in a bath or having her top pulled down to be examined is content that would be used for titillation with a much older woman. Lastly we see Regan (actually a 22-year-old body double, but still presented on film as a 12 year old) inserting the metal object inside herself. Think about that for a moment. If you met someone who claimed to have seen a film where a minor is made to appear to be masturbating with metal object and conducting sexual relations with her own mother <U+0096> faked or not <U+0096> you'd have them arrested for indecency.Yet hype tells us we have to regard what really is just a tacky piece of filmmaking as classic modern cinema. The Exorcist <U+0096> 0/10.


                
I think it really depends on who you are and what your beliefs are in regards to religion/demonic possession etc. How easily you're offended or scared by obscene language/shocking or disgusting visuals. The major themes, the idea of pure evil corrupting the innocence of a child, struggling with faith and sacrifice etc. Then you might find this movie shocking/scaryI dunno, I know that when this was released in the early 70's all of the things I listed above were much more controversial topics, and feel that to a certain extent they were kind of floating around in society and in the minds of people attempting to individually grapple with these kind of issues in their own ways. To have all of this stuff thrown at you, would have been at the very least jarring and possibly horrifying, and at the worst personally terrifyingIf you're an atheist, that laughs at the superstitious/moralistic sensibilities of traditional society being offended, have grown up seeing truly disturbing stuff online and in books etc. Then chances are you're just gonna end up either bored, or laughing.The only thing I found even slightly creepy was the few glimpses of Pazuzu (the white faced devil) that you get when he flashes on the screen for a second or two.Good special effects, fine acting, decent direction, but if you're unable to connect with the subject matter then none of that will matter. It's like somebody making a horror movie about a jar of pickles; If you don't have an irrational phobia regarding pickles you won't find it frightening/shocking in the least.


                
I don't know the answer to the title of this comment - I really don't.  I went to the Cinema to see this "Masterpiece" of Horror and came out wondering where the last couple of hours had went.  Cinematicaly the film is good, the acting good but nothing out of the ordinary but the most important thing is...... IT WASN'T SCARY! Now, You may think I've nurtured on Horrors but I'm terrified of the things - Ghostbuster still scares me!  It just isn't scary.  There is nothing in the movie that terrifies the soul or even made me flinch.  A friend of mine that saw the movie with me laughed most of the way through!!  A good film if your after a pop-corn muncher but that is all.


                
I watched this a couple of years ago so i may not remember every scene. I rented this and some other movies in hopes of a good ol horror night. I have never been so disappointed and mistaken. This movie is equal to sitting and staring into a wall for like 2 hours. Absolutely nothing happens,no scares at all. The possessed girl looks retarded. The plot is horrible,acting is horrible,i guess you could say that everything about this movie is horrible. I can absolutely not understand why everyone says this is such a good movie,as it has absolutely zero to offer the viewer. People who call this horror must be really easy scared and i suppose they get nightmares from watching Mickey Mouse and Donald duck as well. Its about as scary as that.


                
Being a huge horror fan who was born some time after the era of classic releases, I have been systematically working my way down the classics over time. To my fresh eyes, some of them have aged very well: The Shining, Psycho, Alien, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre even, while others sadly haven't held up:The movie, as most probably know by now, is about a little girl who gets possessed by a demon (via playing with a Ouija Board of all things), her mother thinks it's mental illness, and then when it's pretty clear it's not they get in contact with an exorcist, along with a side story about a priest struggling with his faith in the wake of his mother's sickness and death but ending up agreeing to help with the exorcism in the end. Not a bad setup for a frightening movie rooted in religious imagery, however the issue here is how it's structured more like a drama film with some scary bits here and there rather than a full horror film.The movie is 2 hours long but could probably be cut down to 1 hour easily as it is padded with long stretches of nothing happening. One might argue this is to build atmosphere and suspense, and yeah if that is what it actually did then it would have been fine with the slow pace, the problem however is that it really fails to deliver on any sort of tension.What we get is everyday dialogue in the vein of a soap opera, interluded with shots of dark hallways, flickering lights, doctor visits and flash cuts of spooky faces. This is not good building of atmosphere, this is a director trying to convey horror but not actually knowing how to get under the skin of audiences psychologically by using old tired tropes that I can't imagine were all that fresh even if the 70's. There is also an attempt to show the little girl gradually going from innocent child to pawn of Satan, though due to poor editing and a oddly put story structure we don't get to actually know her much, and there is long stretches of side plot in between her scenes which ruins any sort of personal connection the audience might feel to her beyond "she is a innocent little girl"Which brings us to the other part of the movie: torture! Now movies like Saw and Texas Chainsaw Massacre are often labeled as meaningless torture due to their sadistic betrayals of human suffering, but at least there they have a purpose. It shows character and how they deal with being put through hell, it builds the universe, it gives an intensity to scenes as you feel the terror of the character being forced onto you in a powerful way. The Exorcist on the other hand falls more into the camp of Eli Roth's Hostel: torture for tortures sake.There is no reason to show everything that is being done to the little girl at the hand of the demon; everything from self mutilation, defiling a cross, assaulting her own mother and using language you would expect a internet troll to use to rile people up. It practically reeks of indulgence in shock imagery and trying to tick people off on the part of the director and writer, especially when considering how violently and inhumane they treated their actors, making Rob Zombie seem like a Nobel Peace Price winner in comparisonNow all of this, all of it could have been okay if the characters and deeper meanings of the film had been good enough, but... there really isn't much character to go around. Reagan is "the girl", her mother is "the screaming lady", the priest and exorcist are "the knights in shining armor" and the demon is "the dragon", and it all boils down to a Saturday cartoon good vs. evil all in all. Their motivation is that they are good, and demons are presumably evil, and therefor they have to get rid of the evil thing. The mentioned side plot of the priest who assists in the exorcism don't really add up to anything other than the demon using his feelings about his mother against him to try and weaken him, it's really no deeper than a wrestling villain trying to rile up his opponent all in all. The simple black and white dichotomy along with the constant swearing and attempts to shock rather than trying to make the audience think makes it all sorta come off as rather juvenileAnd that is the reason I feel this movie doesn't hold up: it just doesn't have a strong foundation to it. It's all style, iconography and shocking moments to tell your friends about and no heart, no soul, no humanity to ground it with. It uses it's human components as pawns in a game rather than characters to be knownAs a drama it doesn't hold up due to the flat characters, as a horror it is not scary, as an exploitation special effect fest it has too many boring parts in between the gore, and as a religious film it doesn't work due to how vulgar it is. All in all it is a confused movie that wants to do too many things at once and ends up doing very little at all. Not recommended unless you just want to know the historical context of the piece and study the special effect use at play
There's basically two premises at work in this movie:1) Satan is alive and well: suck on that, you 'sophisticated' yuppies; cower in fear, lapsed Catholics; know that your worst fears are confirmed, Southern Baptists.  And for no obvious reason, he might just possess your daughter!  Yes, _your_ daughter, you skeptic in the back.  Scary, eh?2) Nothing- no, nothing at all- is more utterly disturbing that seeing a young girl commit various acts of blasphemy, unless its perhaps seeing her exercise some of her bodily functions.  Satan's special effects team can even make your daughter look like her head's spinning around!  Scary, eh?Personally, I'm not buying what they're selling.  The movie's extremely well-made, especially for a horror flick, but at the very bottom of things, it's about as unsophisticated as they come.  Satan's a bit of an idiot in this one, or at least he's not given much of a character beyond taunting the protagonists (i.e., the audience- yes, YOU- by proxy).  Its main point of interest, to me anyway, is the cultural phenomenon surrounding it.  More interesting horror movies have been made, but this one seems to push the right buttons for many.


                
This movie is downright boring and not scary at all. What's the use of the opening sequence when it has nothing to do with the rest of the story except introduce the priest. That is already a waste of time and film.
Secondly I though the Demon would be very powerful and instead, the possessed Regan is easily confined in a room. C'mon you can do better than spit, curse, levitate the bed and the rest of those petty tricks. All the special effect is not disturbing at all, although the neck sequence is fairly amusing. Thirdly, many of the scenes don't fit into the overall plot at all. I can't believe it is still on the Top 250 list. If I have it my way, I'll reclassify this as a soap drama. Truly, The Exorcist didn't stand the test of time.I whole heartedly recommend other much higher quality horror films like Ringu, The Shining, Alien, and The Thing than this crap. A ZERO out of ten in my book.


                
A weak story that relies heavily on special effects and shock to hold the viewers' attention. For a film to be regarded as 'great' it needs: i) a story that gives us depth of character, ii) strong motivation for the lead character/s iii) themes that lie at the heart of the viewers' values iv) film techniques that draw us in to the story v) believability within the context of the film's story The Exorcist has none of these elements. It has achieved its fame through manufactured controversy (often thanks to religious zealots) and the use of 'horror' just for the sake of it rather than for a purpose. For examples of horror that works consider The Cabinet of Dr, Caligari, the original Frankenstein and Dracula, Don't Look Now, Rosemary's Baby, all of which draw the viewer into caring about the characters, empathising with them, questioning the antagonist's motives, allowing us to enter the world of the film rather than stopping us at the screen by reminding us of the filmic process through special effects and inappropriate spectacular visuals. Even the low budget, simple Blair Witch Project provides horror through enabling us to imagine being in a similar situation. Even the comedic Scream provides some occasions of horror through scenarios we can briefly relate to. But The Exorcist? No, it provides none of this. It's a third rate, unpleasant, unimaginative film lacking any subtlety and ends up abusing the medium of film. Tao902.


                
Having waited 30 years to see this film and having suffered some of the hype, my overall feeling is that this has to be one of the poorest films of all time.It is poorly characterised, there is no story, none of the performances stand out, none of the characters appear to have any great motivation the effects are weak and dated, and there wasn't one moment where I felt even remotely scared. It's not only that not a great deal happens, I could not relate to any of the characters, they were so bland, that I just didn't care about what happened.This film has no redeeming features, that I am left amazed at the reactions it has had over the years. Despite its controversial subject, the only awards that this film should have received would be ones that consigned it to permanent B-list status.


                
Horror Movie Fail.The FIRST time I ever watched this matza ball of a film, I was alone in a darkened house, pausing the film so I could walk through dark adjoining rooms to get myself another cup of hot milk. This movie was lame from the start. Director Freedken did a lousy job of trying to scare the audience with his sorry attempts at flashing skulls and effigies on the screen like some eleventh-rate videographer.As for the cast, Ellen Burstin was pathetic and annoying while Jasom Miller must have been the caterer's brother or something to have gotten this role... the slob cannot act worth kosher beans. Linda Blair and Lee J. Cobb were very good.Watch this once to see what all the 'hoopla' was about. Nothing here, except hype. If you can't get a copy with the added scenes, don't worry about it - virtually nothing was 'added' except a couple of extra swear words.1 star out of 10 for Linda Blair.
I watched this movie with great anticipation because everyone told me it was rilly scary but when I got through about 20 minutes of the film I got bored out of my mind.  It wasn't scary at all.  Most of the movie was just the woman talking to a doctor or a priest.  And women talking to doctors and priests isn't scary.  When I see a woman talking to a doctor or a priest, I don't run out of the room screaming.  You know why?  Because it's not scary! It's boring.  And so was this movie.


                
THIS HAS TO BE ONE OF THE MOST PATHETIC FILMS I HAVE EVER SEEN!!!!!!!!!! This was`nt scary apart from the part that only few people have seen because it was deleted, the so-called spider walk scene, and the "bit" with the crucifix . This was a disgusting and hilarious film, it did not scare me or play on my mind like it was supposed to!!!Who would write a movie about a girl being possesed by the devil - well lots of people! But would anyone really give the devil such attitude!!! I think that the part with your mother sucks c***s in hell was way over the top . The devil/deamon thing should have been more solemn clever and sneeky and not so ,in your face .


                
Take a timid soap opera, punctuate it with a self-mutilating contortionist complete with a nasty idiolect, rendered, I might add, in exquisite 'Bronx' (Don't mind the worst lip-syncing this side of Milli Vanilli) and voilà!!! The greatest horror flick of all time? I don't think so...I found nothing frightening at the visceral-level when viewed at age twelve (immediatly following the film's release -- well, OK! The 'rolling' sound in the attic was kind of creepy) --- Neither do I presently descry a shred of psychological 'intrigue' at 45...Moreover I regard plots featuring minors in explicit prurient roles as inappropriate (at best) --- Artistic license be dammed!!! --- Granted, ugly subjects must, at times, for the benefit of the aggrieved, be brought home to the public in the starkest possible manner --- However The Exorcist is no PSA --- Rather it's an artistic void 'garnished' with a smattering of gratuitous 'kiddie porn' -- all guised in 'cinematic integrity'...My rating: (NEGITIVE Aleph[0]) Sincerely Dan Sarandon
Yes, I had never seen this movie before!! Until yesterday... I got so pumped after reading reviews like "This will never get out of your mind.., You won't be able to sleep..blah blah.."That I decided to watch it last night. Here is my take on it. First 45 minutes, nothing happens!! Barely any dialogue, which could sometimes cast magic spell in movies, but here it was horrible.I was actually laughing while watching this idiotic movie. If anything, this movie is full of expletives and swearing coming out of that girl, who is possessed. It is amazing to see how sometimes movies like this can acquire space among classics. Utter disappointment. I can't think of any actor who stood out. Screenplay was splattered all over. I am disappointed to say that there was NOTHING scary in this movie. Nothing that would make you cover your eyes, no sounds, no story, nothing.If you want to watch a true horror classic, watch Gregory Peck's, THE OMEN.


                
Honestly, I don't understand how ANYONE could be scared by this movie. I saw it for the first time When I was 9, and I laughed my head off when it was over. I watched it again several years later, and laughed even harder. There is literally NO PLOT whatsoever. The actors are TERRIBLE. The story was incredibly LAME and POINTLESS (just a bunch of random "boo" scenes and badly-composed drama). The effects SUCKED - don't get me wrong, I'm all for the original stuff (CGI should go to hell) but the whole head spinning thing and the crawling down the stairs and the horrible makeup was just PATHETIC! Question 1: The all powerful Devil possessed the little girl's body, right? So how come all he did was mess up the bedroom and crawl down the stairs backward once he was inside her?Question 2: Why is it called "The Exorcist"? The exorcist himself isn't even in it until the very very end of the movie... Seriously, don't see this movie. It is awful and does not deserve all the fame and hype it is currently receiving.
Back in the day, the Omen and the Exorcist were the most talked-about horror flicks that even kids had to see somehow, even though I didn't get to see this one until much later.However, as an adult, I cannot imagine how idiotic it is to call a child the devil because bad things are happening around him or caused by him.We know nowadays that there are normal youngsters as well as those who are challenged, who are capable of bad things, even things so bad we may call them ''evil''. Now come on, if I saw a tween girl even commit murder, I would say that she's definitely in need of help. Something's going on for her to have so much anger and confusion inside. She's either under a tremendous amount of stress or in need of psychiatric intervention. If Father Karas had held his ground, we may have had a totally different and more intelligent film, rather like Exorcism of Emily Rose.Yes, I know that this is a supernatural film and has nothing to do with reality. Nevertheless, the viewer cannot really enjoy the film unless she or he finds the plot somehow plausible, at least a little. If you do not believe in a girl capable of being possessed, you would never enjoy this film.The success of this film, the Omen and such feed on the ignorance of many, unfortunately. How do you know that after watching this film, a parent may not take her to a 'which doctor' rather than a real one or associate things like use of profanities or sudden change of character (nornal for that age by the way) to being possessed? Many films are based on similar situations in real life, except in horror movies many mundane issues are often given a supernatural explanation. I enjoy spooky films, even those which I know are unintelligent (like a curtain moving may be caused by some unseen hand!), but I cannot stand seeing a child being considered the devil which much be destroyed or harmed. That makes me afraid for the consequences of watching this film.I'm not religiously affiliated, fortunately. I also understand that many people are not directly affected and will not make life choices based on a horror film. However, this film teaches that a child can be evil, rather than stressed, mentally ill, in need of help, or maybe simply innocent.Please do NOT watch it, don't let your kids watch it, and don't let any religious people watch it. The last thing we need in this day and age is more people embarking on a crusade against children who have problems.p.s. What's with the devil being seen in Iraq? Am I imagining things or has it been an effort to symbolically represent the Middle East as evil?
The quintessential horror film, or the archetypal horrific film. My bowels frequently produce better films than this. It just goes to show, if you want a film to be considered 'great' simply get it banned, then release it again 20 years later. I fell asleep 563 times during the first 5 minutes.


                
I just saw this movie last night, and I think it is safe to say it was one of the worst ones I have ever seen.  Half the people in the theater agreed.. after the first hour, people started leaving and continued to leave even up until the very end of the movie.  I would have left but I went with a date and felt bad because he paid for it, although he said he would not have minded leaving.  Anyway, it was gross, disgusting, and extremely perverted. There was nothing about this movie that I even remotely enjoyed.  I found myself with my eyes closed during more of the movie than they were open. My advice is do not waste your time or your money, and definitely do not bring the kids.


                
Okay why does everyone think that this stupid movie is a classic. THere is no point what so ever to this movie at all. It is about a girl who goes from a nice, sweet person to this awful looking murderous monster. I particularly feel bad for Linda Blair considering the bad reputation this movie gave her. A quote from her was " When I was young and would meet someone they would generally seem to be afraid of me. They couldn't separate me from the monster I became in the movie. You wouldn't believe how many people have asked me to spill my head around". I thought that this movie was scary, but the special effects didn't convince me enough to think that Linda Blair could actually make her head spin. I saw the DVD where there were extra scenes, including the famous spider walk where Linda Blair walks down the stairs in a back bend. This was one of the most disgusting things I ever saw. And to top it off the second Exorcist movie was even worse than the first. But I must say if you are a thrill seeker, wanting to see a movie that will get a few jumps out of you, then what the heck watch it. But if you are a person with a weak stomach I recommend that you do not see this movie


                
The Exorcist. Whenever you ask anyone about it, they go on saying how scary it is. *WRONG!* To be honest, I really don't see what all the fuss is about. I'm Quite Young, And before i watched it my Mum warned me that It would be too "scary" for me and that she was frightened watching it. I was Totally Surprised, It wasn't Scary At All. It Takes A Lot to scare me, But my 9-year old brother was rolling around the floor Laughing. How can ANYONE call this Film " The Scariest Film Ever Made " ? I just Don't Understand it. The Acting Wasn't Much Special, And the Storyline was Rather Simple. A Good Horror Film Needs Suspense, Excitement And a Chill running through your spine. I'd Give this film a 1/10 Because It was COMPLETE and UTTER RUBBISH. At The Start, It was Very boring, I Couldn't Help But Fall Asleep. During the Supposedly Scarier Parts I Was in a Fit of Laughter. Honestly. If you want a REAL fright, Watch The Grudge, Creep Or My Favourite horror movie ever ; The Shining. To Put All Of That Very Briefly, All I Can Say Is.. DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME WATCHING IT!


                
The Exorcist (1973) Review: Once again, this movie topped the most scary movies list. How? Do people who get the survey get paid to say that? This is possibly one of the most unintentionally funniest movies ever. How on earth did this get voted best horror movie ever? This movie had me on the floor laughing so hard I was in convulsions! Seriously, what is the big deal? Do people follow the leader and say this is pure horror in order to keep their popularity, or do they really think this is scary? I am aiming to the former. This is actually funnier than "Repossesed", a movie with Linda Blair and Leslie Nielsen that was labeled a comedy.The Last Word: Stop it. 100 years from now, our descendants will look in the history books and see that in 2007 that this was the top horror film. They will then say, "Wow, our ancestors were such babies." Well, I didn't even flinch.


                
