In late 1973 and early 1974, women and men were lined up for blocks. People were known to become ill watching it. Some fainted. Some ran out of the theater in tears. There were reports of people having to be institutionalized, and at least one miscarriage was attributed to viewing it. No, it wasn't a Rolling Stones Concert. It was a film called The Exorcist.The first time I had heard of something called The Exorcist was on late night television when the author, William Peter Blatty, was a guest on The Tonight Show. The conversation centered around how horrible some of the things in the book were. I had also seen the novel listed on The New York Times Bestseller List, and it seemed as if it would remain there forever. After having been on the waiting list for what seemed like an eternity at the local library, I was finally able to obtain a copy. It was the first book I had read in one sitting since probably Nancy Drew and The Hidden Staircase quite a few years earlier. And yes, for it's time it was filled with gut wrenching details of what happens when for some unexplained reason; an innocent girl is possessed by Satan. While reading the book I was sure that if it ever made its way to film, most of the details would certainly be either `cleaned up' or omitted altogether. As you know the film was made and it spared the movie going public absolutely nothing in the way of details.Certainly many of the people who lined up to see The Exorcist did so to watch some of the more gruesome scenes, the worst of which involved Regan's masturbation with a crucifix. Yet, the hysteria went well beyond the fact that such scenes were so vividly depicted. I think one needs to look no further than Mel Gibson's The Passion to find the answer as to why. I'm sure most of you have read the story of people leaving Mel's film in tears, some to the point of being hysterical. From most articles I have read, it seems that the majority of the audience that was moved were those people of strong religious beliefs. For many others, the depiction of the brutality in The Passion may have been uncomfortable to sit through, but weren't emotionally effected to any degree. Much of this same feeling can explain the hysteria surrounding The Exorcist. Those who had a definitive belief in Heaven and Hell, of Good and Evil, of Jesus as The Savior and Satan as the epitome of pure evil were affected by The Exorcist far more than those who were agnostic or just never had a strong belief in spiritual matters. There is no doubt though that much in the way The Passion did, The Exorcist caused many to reconsider how they felt about their faith. The Exorcist made the prospect of Satan being alive and well and a life of eternal damnation a very uncomfortable prospect. The fact that Blatty claims his book and screenplay were based on a true story seemed to give the film even more credibility.For me, The Exorcist has always been more about the never ending conflict between pure evil and pure innocence than about being an average horror story. There are many more levels to this film than what initially meets the eye. There is no doubt that while the main story revolves around an innocent young girl, Regan McNeil (Linda Blair), being inhabited by Satan himself, Blatty enhances it greatly by adding different characters in various stages of conflict. Regan's mother, Chris McNeil (Ellen Burstyn) obviously cares deeply for her daughter. Yet she is not beyond reproach. In one scene when Reagan's father hasn't called on Regan's birthday, we see her desperately on the phone doing battle with an overseas operator. The problem is not how vicious the phone call is, but that she does it within ear shot of her daughter as if to drive the point home to Regan how worthless her father is. When, she finally does seek the aid of Father Damian Karras, we don't feel that she believes in exorcism anymore than he does, but is desperate enough to accept the fact that it is possible and will take any and all measures to save her daughter.Father Karras (Jason Miller) is a priest torn by conflict. He is ridden by overwhelming guilt for having abandoned his mother to enter the priesthood. He is torn spiritually by the confessions of those priests who seek his help as a psychiatrist, so much so that he now questions his own faith. When he states to the Bishop that `Regan's case meets all the criteria,' we know that even more than Chris, he doesn't really believe in the power of Satan to inhabit a living being in the manner that it has taken over Regan. Yet, he will do what is required of him as a priest concerned about the health of a child.Jack McGowran gives a terrific performance as the alcoholic director filming Chris's latest film in Georgetown. Kitty Winn is Sharon Spencer, the secretary who works for Chris and always seems to be in the line of fire when Chris is angry. She is always there but for all the horror she witnesses, Winn appears too bland and emotionless and her performance is probably the weakest in the film.Max Von Sydow as Father Lancester Merrin is a no nonsense aging priest. He has done battle with evil before and he shows us its effect in every scene he occupies. One could pass it off to being just good make-up but it is so much more than that as Sydow demonstrates all the nuances that brings to life a man who has faced Satan and lived to tell about it. He knows what he is up against, understands he must do it again and the consequences of what that battle may be.If I have a small complaint with The Exorcist it is in regards to the character of Lt. Kinderman (Lee J. Cobb). I have never been able to buy into the character. It is not the fault of Cobb who is his usual stalwart self in the role. The whole character should at best have only been necessary for a few brief scenes yet; he has several that go on way too long and do not add anything to the story. Even in his scenes with Chris or Damian, Kinderman is so odd that he distracts us too much from their characters and it is Chris and Damian's reactions that are more important to us, not his investigation. For all you trivia buffs out there, Blatty once sued the producers of Columbo, stating they based Peter Falk's character on Kinderman. If memory serves me correctly Blatty lost that one.As for Director William Friedken, although he won the best director award for The French Connection, for me The Exorcist will always remain his defining film. The Final half hour of The Exorcist are still as dynamic today as they were 31 years ago, French Connection car chase be damned.It seems that to many of the younger movie audiences of today, The Exorcist has become more of a joke than anything else. That's not surprising considering how many times it has been lampooned, even by Linda Blair herself in Repossessed. Yet, if they were to view the film in a more serious vein, not as just another creature feature, they may just find that there really is more to this film than a little girl spewing pea soup and spinning her head around 360 degrees. It is the ultimate battle between Heaven and Hell and Good and Evil. It is the story of the complete and total degradation of innocence. It is a study in character, and whether a man torn by the forces surrounding him, can regain his faith and his belief in God and mankind to save the life of a little girl, caught up in forces beyond her control.Call it a horror film, call it a religious film, call it what you want. For me, The Exorcist is and will always remain a classic in every sense of the word. And if I regard you as a classic of any kind I have no choice but to leave you with my grade, which for The Exorcist is an A.


                
There is a reason for the hysteria and mystique surrounding THE EXORCIST. And it's called genius.Never have I seen a film matched in shock, terror, writing, or performances. This isn't a horror movie.  The film itself is both a moving and terrifying drama that takes a realistic look at what would actually happen if a young girl were possessed in modern America.  William Peter Blatty's script is amazing, bringing depth to the characters, and presenting the mystery of faith that they all deal with.  Is Regan possessed?  Is she insane?  And most importantly, Is there a God?  In the course of two hours, we see a sweet and innocent young girl become a cross masturbating, head spinning, murderous, creature.  We see a successful actress overcome skepticism to save her daughter, and we see a brilliant psychiatrist struggle with his devotion to God as a priest.Friedkin's direction is marvelous, with wonderful uses of light, dark, and color throughout the film.  Jason Miller (as Damien Karras) is beautifully subtle in his first film acting role.  Max Von Sydow and Lee J. Cobb provide engaging supporting performances as the experienced priest who senses his impending doom, and a detective who senses something sinister is at work. Ellen Burstyn gives a brutally honest performance as a grief stricken woman trying to save her daughter.  And most of all, a 12-year-old Linda Blair gives one of the most terrifying, convincing, and beautiful performances ever shown on film.  Her range of emotion and connection to Regan are astonishing.  She deserved that Oscar!THE EXORCIST presents to us the mystery of faith in it's most raw form--the battle of good and evil.  It is an incomparable masterpiece of film, done without the aid of computers and special effects.  It relies on story and performances to give us a marvelous and terrifying piece of work.  In the end, it makes us ask ourselves what we believe, and keeps us wondering and shuddering at exactally what might be out there.


                
The Exorcist is one of the best movies to come out of the 70's and deserves better than slowly descending down the top 250. It's one of those essential films you have to see in order to understand what a movie truly is and this is more than a horror film. Unfortunately there are so many people who are saying they got bored, I think because they expected a terrifying movie, people! This isn't a slasher movie, this isn't some scary Michael Myers that you can shoot, this is a story about normal people in a normal house and upstairs there is a little girl who happens to be possessed by "The devil himself". Faith is so strong and when it's shaken, anything in your imagination can run wild.First off the actors: Ellen Burstyn plays Chris McNeil, an actress working in Washington, D.C. on a film. She is the mother of Regan, the little girl who is possessed. I felt such sorrow for Chris, when she begs Father Karras to help her with Regan, I almost cried for her. Her daughter is not sick, this is nothing she can give Regan a pill and she'll be better. Her speech to Father Karras later on in the film: "You show me Regan's double, same face, same voice, everything. And I'd know it wasn't Regan. I'd know in my gut. Now, I want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there's nothing wrong with my daughter, except in her mind. You tell me for a fact that an exorcism wouldn't do any good! You tell me that!" sent shivers down my spine, this woman knows what Regan needs and will do whatever she can.We have Linda Blair who plays Regan and she was so great for a 12 year old actress. This little apple faced girl became one of the most frightening images of the 70's and still to this day. She's not scary because she's swearing, this little innocent girl has been taken over by forces that she shouldn't even know about. Jason Miller as Father Karras, for a man who had never acted professionally before, he was quite amazing as a priest who just lost his mother and his faith has been shaken up. Max Von Sydow as Father Merrin was so strong and he was like in his 20's playing a man in his 90's. He was robbed of an Oscar, he was so believable and just amazing during the exorcism scene.The effects? People! This was the 70's and they made a bed float! They turned this little angel's face into a hideous creature! If you watch the documentary "Fear of God: The Making of the Exorcist", Ellen Burstyn gets slapped by Regan in the film and she had kind of a rope tied around her waist. When the stunt man pulled her back, Billy the director told the guy to let her have it and he YANKED her back hard causing real pain in Ellen's back and that was an actual scream in the movie. They froze the room to the point as were moisture got into the set and there was a layer of snow in the morning they were shooting. There was no CGI, this was the real deal and I believe could truly help the actors. Linda Blair was being thrashed up and down during one of the possessed scenes where the bracing came loose and caused slamming of metal to her back repeatedly and her screams were also very real and bone chilling.William Freidkin is the director of The Exorcist, and there was no better choice. This guy took this picture seriously, so far as to shoot a gun offstage or scream obscenities to get an actor's shocked reaction on film. He slapped almost punched Reverend William O'Malley who played Father Dyer to get him to shake during his reciting the Last Rites to Father Karras. He almost would have killed to make this picture and anyone doing it.Weither or not the set of The Exorcist was truly cursed with a total of 9 deaths linked to the film, a fire on the set with no apparent reason, and the total feeling of evil around the room, we'll never know. But The Exorcist is a true motion picture never to missed or deserve no more than the true compliments it should get! This is the film that should be shown to any aspiring film makers. It's a masterpiece of a film that's more than a mere horror flick.10/10


                
Many people complain that this movie's too slow but those are the kind of folks who only like 80-minute splatter films with characters so dumb and one-sided, you pray for the bad guy to kill them.  This monster of a drama is both beautiful and bold.  It has CHARACTERS and not simply LAMEBRAINS lined up for slaughter.  It has class and purpose.  It takes the audience into the darkest recesses of humankind and then brings them back through a message of hope and self-sacrifice.  The movie is NOT anti-religion, it's anti-evil.  Anyone who likes smart, clever, meaningful horror-drama should see this film at least twice.  It is surprisingly touching and amazingly powerful.That said, the cast deserves a hand for their wonderful performances.  Ellen Burstyn perfectly conveys the tension of a mother of the cusp of tragedy; Max von Sydow is hauntingly perfect as the story's ray of light;   Jason Miller embodies the sadness of a defeated man; and Linda Blair is far above average even at her young age.Once again, see this movie.  You won't forget it.


                
"The scariest movie of all time". Some movie goers agree and some disagree. I belong to the former group, though I would like to rephrase it to "One of the scariest movies of all time". For those of you who have been living in a cave for the past twenty two years, the story is of a pre-pubescent girl, Regan (Linda Blair), possessed by a demon whom purports to be the Devil himself ("Now kindly undo these straps!").In this day and age of schlock fest horror films being relentlessly released (or spewed out for want of a better term) by the big wig studios on a quest to cash in on the latest teenage trend, this premise for a horror story may not seem so scary to most. However, it's the road we take to arrive at this supposition that makes this film stand out from the rest.The seeds of dread and fear are planted early with screen legend Max Von Sydow's Father Merrin receiving disturbing and familiar Omens of what is to come during an archaeological dig in Northern Iraq.We're then taken to the setting where the real horror will begin in the Georgetown home of Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn), a successful divorcée film actress living with her daughter Regan. We're initially presented with a Regan who loves horses, has a close and loving relationship with her mother, is uncomfortable with the strained relationship between her parents and has the innocent demeanour and narrow vocabulary of every normal young girl.The carefully crafted and ever so gradual change in Regan's personality, the strange drawings and figurines she creates, the emergence of Captain Howdy (Regan's imaginary friend) and strange outbursts ("You're gonna die up there") and so called physical convulsions force Chris to turn to doctors and eventually psychiatrists to try and get to the bottom of Regan's ever worsening behaviour. Her vocabulary becomes quite extensive with spine chilling, sudden maturity and her outbursts more terrifyingly violent. After exhausting all the "somatic" possibilities for Regan's troubles Chris desperately seeks help from world weary Jesuit Psychiatrist Priest Father Karras (Jason Miller) requesting an exorcism.By the time Karras meets Regan, any semblance of the innocent young girl has completely vanished. Karras is grappling with his faith and subsequently doubts she is truly 'possessed'. Finally convinced that an exorcism is the way to go, he seeks permission from the Catholic Church, who grant him with the condition that he perform it with the help of the experienced Father Merrin.Merrin arrives like a knight in shining armour for the ultimate showdown! A great screenplay by William Peter Blatty (based on his book), intelligent directing from William Friedken and outstanding performances from all the cast, particularly Ellen Burstyn as the traumatised mother make for a classic piece of horror that will stand the test of time. 10/10


                
For as long as I can recall, I've always possessed (no pun intended) an innate feeling that there exists outside the realm of our established dogma things that defy conventional logic. When I was in the sixth grade, I read the book, "The Exorcist," which scared me senseless. The idea that the Devil could infiltrate the delicate core of one's being called a soul absolutely terrified me at such a young age. After seeing the movie, I was speechless. Have been ever since. William Friedkin's transformation of the book to the movie was superb, in my opinion. (Not all adaptations are.) Dick Smith's special effects, in contrast to today's make-up advancements in the film industry, are still able to stand the test of time. The acting was splendid, from Lee J. Cobb & Jason Miller, to Ellen Burstyn and Max von Sydow's limited appearance in the piece. Friedkin's slice-of-life direction enhances the essence of the fear-factor in an oddly subtle fashion, as though the viewer were actually alongside the characters in the film. Lending to the creepiness of the film is the fact that there exists a minimal musical score (Mike Oldfield's "Tubular Bells" does accompany two nuns strolling gingerly down a Georgetown street in autumn, their robes billowing slightly in the wind). The palpability of what happens to a young Linda Blair has astounded me for over three decades. Having been so taken with the notion that inhuman entities DO stalk the earth and have never existed in human form, I've written a couple of novels on the subject matter, myself. I liken the new version that had been released a few years ago to the last nail in the proverbial coffin of effectiveness, making this one of the best horror-genre films of all time. Simply put: I've never seen any film that remotely comes close to what this movie has done to me (in terms of frightening me senseless). Linda Blair's cute Regan MacNeil is utterly transformed into a beast which is flat-out disturbing to behold. The movie has moved me ever since I had seen it at age fourteen, and I suspect will always. Put simply, at age forty-three I still have a difficult time watching it on my own. Great job, Mr. Friedkin and crew!


                
The Exorcist is simply a masterpiece. Great Cinematography darkens the atmosphere and a superb screenplay enhances the dialog. There is plenty of excellent actors in this film as well. Loads of great performances from actors such as: Linda Blair, Ellen Burstyn, Jason Miller, Max von Sydow. I pressure you to see the re-edited one. Trust me, it's not a remake. It's a better editing of sound and picture, and even some NEW footage that is of the same quality.If you enjoy horror movies of any kind, and/or like a good drama, this film is for you. A Head-spinning performance from Linda Blair makes it even more horrific, seeing a little innocent child getting possessed by a horrid demon. Ellen Burstyn give another great performance, as a mother going through shock and worry about what is happening to her daughter. This acting is all together very powerful, realistic and leaves for a better cinematic experience overall. Other great notable parts of the movie, are the satisfying amount of good dialog, quotes, and scenes. Gut-wrenching horror conjoins with gritty drama in this absolutely awe-inspiring movie. See it for yourself if you haven't yet, you must; because it is definitely a memorable film.4 of 4 Stars


                
I've never really been much of a fan of horror films because I've never been able to suspend my belief long enough to let a monster scare me. To me psychological demons are much more effective than overdone makeup jobs. I prefer The Haunting with Claire Bloom, or The Shining with Jack Nicholson. But the all-time classic has got to be The Exorcist. One of the reasons The Exorcist always scares the bejesus out of me is because it treats an epistemological subject very seriously, even when the one character you'd expect to step forth willingly, young priest Father Karras (Jason Miller), does his best to dissuade Ellen Burstyn that her daughter is possessed by a demon. Of course, by that time Karras has already confessed to a fellow priest that he's started to lose his own faith because he realizes that the problems he has to deal with of his congregation are too much for one man, especially a man who keeps neglecting his own mother during the last days of her life. I think one of the reasons this is such a successful film is that the concept of a demon is treated as intangibly as our imagination's reach: How WOULD the devil deal with us if confronted? By reading each of our souls, finding whatever carefully hidden secrets there are and spewing them back in our faces as spiritual ammunition. Not only that, but when you see Regan (Linda Blair) in the opening scenes gently horseplaying around with her mother and her sister, the charm and goodness she radiates leaves you completely floored when she finally does become possessed and turns into a creature so horrible that you forget all about Regan. The lynchpin is having Max von Sydow cast as the aging priest who comes to finish off the work that Father Karras has started. Von Sydow who has been Ingmar Bergman's spiritual warrior for so many of his films dealing with the epistemological nature of the universe. And credit must go to Mercedes McCambridge for supplying the voice of the demon.I think The Exorcist is one of the best "lit" and photographed films of all time. The use of shadow is brilliant; very low key (simple things like showing a lit hall, yet having the far stairway at the END of the hall not lit...very subtly eerie stuff) yet incredibly evocative. I mean, the shadows damn near have colors. Director of Photography Owen Roizman, whose work can be seen in "The Addams Family" and "Grand Canyon," shot "The Exorcist." Roizman's credits include such famous titles as "The French Connection," "Network," "Tootsie," "Three Days of the Condor," "The Electric Horseman" and "Havana." In a movie that took 180 days to make (three times the average), the exorcism alone took three months-and on some of those days the crew felt lucky to get one shot. That was because director William Friedkin wanted to make it visually clear that the satanic spirit inside the possessed girl had made the room unbearably cold. A refrigerated set representing her bedroom was constructed on a sound stage, and air conditioners worked all night to lower its temperature to 40 degrees below zero. "When we set up the lights in the morning, that would raise the temperature to around zero, which was necessary if we were going to be able to see the frost on the actor's breath," Roizman explained. "We also kept the humidity very high. It was an unbelievably uncomfortable way to work."Look closely using stop-action laserdisc to reveal the flash-frames of Satan's face, which Friedkin inserted almost subliminally at two places, and to reveal a subtle double-exposure in which the evil spirit seems to peer out through Blair's eyes. There are semi-subliminal single-frame shots in this film: when the priest is dreaming of his mother coming up out of the subway, there is a single frame shot of a face (Eileen Dietz), painted black and white, grimacing. There are two other places where this image is supposedly displayed: when Regan, lying on the bed, turns to look at Father Merrin and Father Karras, and just after the head-turning scene. Do not watch this alone.
What scares us more than anything? The answers are multiple : the dark, the evil, a mysterious presence, death ultimately; in fact, anything incontrollable. And when you think about it, all these elements have something in common: they refer to an unknown force whose presence is palpable. Indeed, the unknown scares, because it can't be seen, can't be controlled, therefore, can't be fought.These are the primitives fears that tortured the life of people since the dawn of humanity, and we inherited this fears in the same unconscious way our children will. We're aware of our mortal nature, and each of our fears is driven by this awareness, which is due to the biggest fear, the fear of the unknown. And the genius of "The Exorcist" is that it perfectly plays on these primitive instincts of ours, to provide the greatest Horror film ever made, a thrilling masterpiece of realism that'll haunt cinematic memories for ever. As soon as the Tubular bells start ringing, the film is inhabited by an atmosphere that will never desert it, a fearsome and gloomy ambiance absorbing any place we're watching the film in. Everything is directed with such confidence and meticulousness, the thrills almost come precociously. Indeed, before anything happens, we feel something WILL happen, but we don't know what. It seems like a cinematic trick, but not any director has the guts to let you wait more than almost half an hour before the oddities happen. The set-up is slow paced in "The Exorcist" because it's a movie that respects our intelligence, and doesn't try to provide cheap thrills. William Friedkin who had just made another realistic masterpiece, the Best Picture Winner "The French Connection" is so confident he gives us enough time to discover the characters, to get into their daily life, patiently waiting for the pivotal point that will join their fates. The direction, the writing are all in subtlety, and work because even though nothing happens yet, we keep our guard up, we know there's an evil presence somewhere, we can feel it.This is an old cinematic device started by directors who hadn't enough money to portray credible monster-type villains: they understood that sometimes, the scare is more efficient from the suggestion of a presence than its explicit depiction. When you see, you know, and if you know, you can control, but in "The Exorcist", the villain is here, but we never see him, he's like the shark from "Jaws" or "Alien", with a slight difference, he's not visible because he controls the body of a poor little girl. Linda Blair, as the demonically possessed Regan MacNeil , is so convincing, it broke my heart to see how the evil can have so devastating effects on a pure little soul. And the tragedy of Regan is the torment of her mother, Chris, Ellen Burstyn, perfect as a totally helpless woman, incapable of saving her little girl. And this is the fascinating aspect of the film, more than a horror drama, it also works as a thrilling mystery. A mystery where the Lieutenant Detective Kinderman, Lee J. Cobb in one of his great last roles, is the one who investigates about the strange phenomena that occurred and acts as a bridge between the victims and the priests.So many questions are raised in the beginning, we understand that sooner or later, we'll have an exorcism. Well, it's the title, isn't it? But the set-up is necessary. The parallel stories where we're transported into the universes of Father Damien Karras, portrayed by Jason Miller, and the iconic Father Merryl, Max Von Sydow, challenge our patience: we can't wait for the exorcism ... but without the build-up, the climax would be worthless. It's a movie where any flaws can be caused by an impatience from the director, an eagerness to distract the masses with thrilling moments, but a big impatience could have ruined such a magnificent and ambitious project. And "The Exorcist" would never have been the masterpiece it is without this patience. However, this would never have been such an iconic horror masterpiece without the few horrifying moments that punctuate the movie between the set-up and the climax. And by horrifying, I won't give any clues, let's just say it works on every level: visual, sounds, atmosphere, cinematography, dialogs, special effects, and of course, timing, since all these effects come at the least expected moments, provoking reactions in total symbiosis with the characters. We feel and fear for them, as the realism implies that it could even happen to us. This is no Hollywood, this is true horror.Lately, the American Film institute listed the Top 100 movies and I must admit I was shocked not to see "The Exorcist" in the list... it's a classic, probably the most horrifying horror film ever made. It has everything, a dazzling cinematography incarnated by the iconic shot of Father Merryl's shadowy silhouette coming from the mist, an unforgettable villain, and of course shocking moments where the make-up, the visual and sound effects prove how vital they are for such a genre that relies so much on realism. But this realism would have been nothing without the genius of the script and the masterful direction, that could finally let the film exude all its greatness in the last act, one of the most unforgettable climactic sequences ever, putting "The Exorcist" among those films that transcends the simple act of watching, becoming more of experiences.And this is why I waited for years and years before finally getting to watch "The Exorcist", one of the few movies that scared me even before watching it. And all I can say is that it met my expectations. And watching it at night (with someone, I would recommend) gets more hypnotic and absorbing after each viewing <U+0085> "The Exorcist" is a must-see and ... be careful, any second, it can surprise you, really <U+0085>


                
When I reflect back on the movies of the 1970's, I'm struck by how many of them helped reinvigorate their respective genres. There was "Star Wars" for fantasy, "Alien" for sci-fi, and "Jaws" for the shark crowd, though I don't think that's really a genre. For horror fans, "The Exorcist" was the one that had everyone talking in 1973, and not only talking, but lining up around the block to get a chance to see it. In fact, the first time I tried, the person directly in front of me in line was the last one allowed in for that showing.When I finally did get to see it, the experience left a marked impression. It was fascinating, horrific, sensational and scary all at the same time. Having read the book, I wondered how much liberty would be taken with the story, but it was pretty much all there. At the time, hands down, it was the most frightening film I'd ever seen.The movie played last night as part of AMC's Halloween Fest, and though largely sanitized for TV, the impact of the film is still alive and well. It's a movie that plants a nagging seed of doubt in one's mind - what would happen if Satan himself could take over the body and soul of an innocent young girl? The gradual unfolding of the parallel stories in "The Exorcist" are built on credible real life situations, so that by the time Linda Blair's demon face appears on screen, you're ready to grab the holy water and say a prayer.Now if you're a younger viewer born of a more recent era, I'll grant that the film might not have the same effect. Though Blair's possession makeup was visually stunning at the time, special effects since then have far surpassed that effort. But it had to start somewhere, and as a precursor to virtually everything that followed, this was the one to top. And when Regan's head spins, yikes!, but I thought mine would too. For 1973, that was an incredible piece of work, with visuals that stay with you long after the film is over.
I was influenced into watching this film after maybe the 100th listen to Mike Oldfield's masterpiece "Tubular Bells" (the full, 48-minute album, not the 4-minute edit!), which was used in this movie's soundtrack. I wasn't exactly frightened or scared by the movie. I was expecting something gory and gruesome in this movie, but oh, was I wrong. And that's good, because I don't like movies that are gratuitously gory and gruesome. This movie is anything but gratuitous. I wasn't scared, but I was amazed and fascinated by the atmosphere, intelligent story and masterful filmmaking. It feels really genuine, and there are maybe 2 or 3 movies I have seen that felt genuine. It's a beautiful story about faith, and deals with the "good vs. evil" scheme in an unusual way. There are so many layers to the story, it's difficult to discuss them all in one or two paragraphs. Suffice to say, all of those different elements come together seamlessly. The story is beautiful. The build up of tension is truly gripping. It is not scary, it's disturbing. Those looking for gory scarefests should look somewhere else. I was truly intrigued by the movie, and the glorious resolution was both shocking and uplifting. Did good defeat evil, after all? That's up for the viewers to decide.A haunting movie, this is - especially for Mr. Oldfield, whose "Tubular Bells" would haunt him for 30 years.


                
One of my all time favorites! This is a classic horror film, from the content, to the lighting, editing, sounds, and special effects. The lighting is that of a classic horror film using lack of lighting and shadows as a trademark. Other lighting effects were used as well to add to the overall feel of the movie. The editing was flawless helping to add to the overall content of the film. The sounds were amazing! The sound effects used during the "demon" scenes make the film believable. While the special effects and editing used again during the "demon" scenes seemed effortless, making the film as a whole truly convincing. What an overall amazing classic horror film!


                
The Exorcist is one of the scariest films of all time and in 1973 it was a smash hit and now it is a movie that people even today are talking about and you can't call your self a horror fan unless you have seen this classic. the plot follows two priests who attemt to stop a demonic presence in a 12 year old girl and one of the younger priests questions his faith and must trust in his faith to stop this demon.
the cast includes Ellen Burstyn,Max von Sydow,Lee J. Cobb,Kitty Winn,Jack MacGowran,Jason Miller and Linda Blair it's a great cast and they work so well together and Linda Blair gives a amazing preformace as the possesed girl.
Personally I love the exorcist and I think that it is one of the best horror films of the 70s and all time and it was before any of the horror movie cliché's of horrror movies from the 80s which uses cliché's quite a bit so overall it was a ground breaking film and will always be amazing.


                
The Exorcist was a movie that I had been interested in seeing since i was in middle school. I was rather intrigued about what is considered to be the scariest movie of all time. Having recently seen it for the first time, I can say that it's probably not exactly scary in terms of modern horror movies, but I knew that going into it. Older horror movies favored slow build-up and dread over jump scares. They work better for repeat viewings, versus getting jump scared once and not even flinching on the second viewing. Despite the creepy elements, what really stood out to me about the movie was the sheer craftsmanship of the whole thing. This is one of the best made movies I have ever seen. The acting is phenomenal, particularly from Linda Blair as Regan. The make-up done on her is iconic. The effects still hold up for the most part. The atmosphere is top notch, you always feel that something is off,even in the calmer moments. The only issue I feel worth mentioning for someone who hasn't seen it is there are quite a few slow scenes of people talking, but even then the actors are giving such good performances it hardly matter.The Exorcist is considered by many to be the scariest movie of all time, and if it's not quite that, it definitely stands as one of the best made scary movies ever.


                
I always cringe a little when I read some people's review of the 1973 classic the Exorcist. There is simply no second place movie in the horror genre that even comes close to this ultimate classic. The Omen?, Rosemary's Baby? The Amityville Horror? the Blair Witch Project? The Exorcism of Emily Rose? Psycho? The Rite? Not even the sequels Exorcist II, III, Exorcist The Beginning 2004 hold up to the original. There is nothing currently even close in second place!!! I have often thought how modern computer technology in 2011 could improve the 1973 classic. Other than inserting additional subliminal images, it might be close to impossible to improve on what was depicted in the 1973 movie for the following reason: What an audience member saw in the 1973 movie ACTUALLY HAPPENED. William Peter Blatty and William Friedkin physically created what the audience saw. It would be difficult to improve on reality. I admit, the head spinning 360 degrees might be improved upon slightly. This is really *only* part of the 1973 film that could stand some minor improvement; the movement looks a little 'mechanical'.Again, I ask: What is in close second place to the 1973 Exorcist? A better question is: What has surpassed the 1973 classic? In almost 40 years, there is nothing to even come close to surpassing the original Exorcist. Without belaboring the point, I respectfully rest my case. Purchase the BluRay release and turn off all the lights and turn up the sound... This movie is simply a brilliancy without peer at this time in movie history.
Almost 40 years has passed since "The Exorcist" was released and it still is a haunting, exciting, thrilling and frightening horror movie. Lists after lists are made to elect the best horror movie of all time and this film always manage to get to the Top of almost every single list. Not only that: it's also an very complex dramatic film with a compelling story. A story of a devoted mother to save her teen daughter of a strange possession.After finishing the filming of a movie the actress Chris McNeil (Ellen Burstyn) finds herself with an awkward situation after her adorable daughter Regan (Linda Blair) starts to behave differently. She is taken to all the best doctors but nothing is found and doctors suspicion is that the kid may have a brain tumor. But after all the medical treatment fails and when Regan's starts to move frantically Chris is told to get a bigger help: a priest to exorcise what possessed her daughter. Father Karras (Jason Miller, incredible acting in his film debut) is called, but he himself is a tormented man, who has recently loss his elderly mother, almost faithless and with few skills to perform an exorcism. Even with all that he agrees to see the girl who has increasingly gone worst. She vomits, masturbates with a crucifix and says countless bad words and profanation. Karras's verdict: she's possessed by Pazuzu, a mysterious and powerful demon. But this demon has a weakness and this weakness is Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow in a very aged makeup), or better saying The Exorcist. Father Merrin knows everything about exorcisms and demons and he knows how to fight it. Even with all this knowledge (as it is showed in the beginning of the movie when he's in Iraq investigating an occurrence) you can feel that he has some fears, (his hands shaking) but he'll do everything to kill the demon and save the poor girl. The last 40 minutes with Karras and Merrin together performing the exorcism in that freezing and haunting bedroom is priceless, scary and the best horror moment of the 1970's. I must salute director William Friedkin for his efforts on present us a movie greater in its genre different of everything seen before. He was mean with actors to create realism but he get what he wanted and the audience was terrified by those images (Ellen Burstyn's face when she was thrown to the floor; Jason Miller's face after the vomit comes right into his face which wasn't supposed to happen). On the technical side of "The Exorcist" an interesting thing must be noticed: all the horror moments are shown without music. This works really great, it's not a manipulated movie where a soundtrack must be added to create tension. And without the music it was much more scarier and fun to watch, listening to all the strange sounds created by the sound group (Won Oscar). Makeup effects and visual effects are stunning and many of it it's not dated or old-fashioned. Impressive! About the screenplay: William Peter Blatty writer of the original book and the film's writer created a whole new thing here. The drama, the horror and even some humor are perfect. Although I think that some scenes, characters and clues aren't well explained, there's too much mystery. For example, we heard that the film director (Jack McGowran) died on the long stairs. This scene isn't showed and if it was it would be too frightening and unforgettable. After that the movie lover detective Kinderman (Lee J. Cobb, very good and funny) starts a investigation about the event. Then he gets some clues about many things he didn't even saw. The public may wonder how did he get to that evidence or clue. Two moments I would like to see or questions to be answered: Who puts the crucifix under Regan's bed? And what happened to Father Merrin in that bedroom after he leaves Karras and exorcise the girl alone? Not only the technical team worked well. All the actors have fantastic performances: Burstyn, Cobb, Miller, Sydow, Blair, even not professional actor the Reverend William O'Malley has a great performance here, and at last Mercedes McCambridge who plays the devil's voice (one thing I hated in the Portuguese dubbing version is that her voice was made by a man). Even being the biggest blockbuster of 1973 it only won 2 Academy Awards (Adapted Screenplay and Sound), and it deserved the award of Best Picture cause it was greater than "The Sting". And it must get a higher rating on IMDb's Top 250 list. This movie is awesome, one of the very few horror movies to still shock me, to not be dated or cheesy. If you haven't watched yet or didn't find time to watch it run and buy it if you can. The power of this film compels you to watch it now and over again. Must see film for horror fans and for movie lovers just like Lt. Kinderman. 10/10
This is still one of the most disturbing and scariest horror films out there, and hasn't lost a bit of it's impact, with incredible performances all around!. All the characters are wonderful, and the story is extremely gripping, plus Ellen Burstyn,Max Von Sydow,Jason Miller and Linda Blair are all simply incredible in this!. The Scoe is one of the best ever, and there are plenty of creepy images as well, plus that spider walk just gives me the chills every time i see it!. There is lots of suspense and scares, and i must say Linda Blair gives one of the most frightening performances ever!, plus i was rooting for Miller, Von Sydow, Burstyn and Blair all the way!. It's extremely well written and made, and the opening is very memorable and disturbing, plus the finale is one of the most chilling ever!. The possession scenes remain the best in all of the genre, and i thought the dialog was simply wonderful!, plus i felt sorry for Father Karras's character, as he was a wonderful man!. A lot of the scenes truly disturbed me, and happened to enjoy the old ending and the new ending on the re edition, plus i thought it was so cool that Reverend William O'Malley was a priest in real life!.A lot of people think this has aged badly, i have to completely disagree, as it's still scarier then a lot of horror films out there today!, plus the character development is top notch!. all the characters are extremely likable, and i thought Burstyn and Blair had great chemistry together as the mother and daughter!, plus even at 132 minutes it never gets old. It's very emotional at times, and i thought that Lee J. Cobb was simply hilarious in his role as the Liutenant!, plus i love the constant creepy and scary atmosphere it has throughout!.The scenes with Father Karras and his mother really moved me, and the film still manages to shock me, plus William Friedkin did an incredible job of directing this!. This is still one of the most disturbing and scariest Horror films out there,and hasn't lost a bit of it's impact with incredible performances all around, and if you haven't seen it, where the hell have you been? Do so immediately you won't regret it!.The Direction is incredible!. William Friedkin does an incredible job here, with stunning camera work, wonderful angles,great use of that smoke machine, constantly adding creepy and scary atmosphere, creating lots of creepy images, and lots of other amazing shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely engrossing pace!.There is a lot of blood and gore, but it's all very disturbing and not fun to watch, so i'm not going to spoil it for you, one thing is for sure though, you will be disturbed by it.The Acting is Oscar worthy!.Ellen Burstyn is incredible here, she is just full of emotion, and you really will root for her character all the way, since she is so likable, and a wonderful caring mother, she also had wonderful chemistry with Linda Blair, i simply adored her performance she deserved Oscar Consideration in my opinion! (Burstyn rules!!).Max Von Sydow is wonderful as Father Merrin, and while he didn't say much, he had an extremely likable character, and his dialog said it all!, i just wished he had more screen time, because i loved him. Jason Miller is incredible as Father Karras, he is a haunted man with a haunted past, and you will be rooting for him all the way, he had some memorable lines, and had some wonderful scenes with Vasiliki Maliaros, he was incredible!, and his performance will be remembered for years to come!. Linda Blair is astounding as the Daughter, she seriously gave me the creeps and gives, one of the most chilling performances of all time in my opinion!. Lee J. Cobb is very funny as the Lt., i really liked him wished he had more screen time though. Reverend William O'Malley is fantastic as Father Dyer, and was extremely convincing, and i found it so cool that he is actually a priest in real life!. Kitty Winn and Vasiliki Maliaros both do what they have to do very well. rest of the cast are fine.Overall if you haven't seen it where the hell have you been? do so immediately you won't regret it!. ***** out of 5
What's remarkable about The Exorcist, especially when you compare it to other horror films, is its patience. It takes the time to calmly develop the ordinary home life of a modern postnuclear family, letting you get comfortable in the setting, and then things slowly get stranger and stranger, until eventually everything you knew has been upset or overturned.There's a fear of the future here, of a new deviancy that the older generation can neither understand or control, which very much positions The Exorcist in the social battles of its age, possibly even as a backlash against the youth revolt of the 1960s. But there's also a more universal fear here -- the fears of parenthood, and the unshakable notion that your child might turn out to be a monster and you would be responsible.More than this social commentary, what stands out is the excellence of execution -- the note-perfect direction, pacing, cinematography, and acting. None of this is very flashy, but it all has a kind of technical skill that makes The Exorcist a terrific movie, and one of those rare gems that can be admired for both ideas and craftsmanship. It's considered a classic for a reason, and should absolutely be included in the canons of not only the horror genre but the New Hollywood era of major studio art films.


                
Oddly, it's sometimes the repulsiveness of imagery that surpasses "horror," becoming captivating in its revoltingness. This contrary advantage of primeval effect is the core of Friedkin's vision. Regan's thrashings are ugly, ferocious, but they've such effect on us since it's seen: Friedkin directs the viewpoint of these moments from the point-of-view of those seeing.And each setting's especially natural. This is also what made Jaws so exciting. No Transylvanian mansion with thunder, lightning. Throughout the whole scene between Burstyn and Cobb's detective, there's a deathlike silence. Just their voices, the sporadic tinkle of a cup. This amplifies our sensations. Burstyn's agitation becomes ours. Seconds after Cobb departs, Friedkin stuns the tautness with a piercing clatter and Regan's shouts. Burstyn dashes inside the room to terrified astonishment as books, papers, records, toys orbit hysterically.Visually plot items are realized with that contrary entertainment. Friedkin augments the authenticity of these scenes by not underscoring them. The dialogue, sounds, images bring the effect. And Friedkin knows how to develop to that dreadful pragmatism. Firstly, Regan says her bed shakes. We glimpse a black-and-white photograph of her, adding plain uneasiness to her pose. When she urinates on the floor at the party, the abnormality becomes visual. Seeing's believing.Friedkin intensifies each new shock, culminating in the masturbation, surely the most powerful moment due to the degree of debasement. We're constrained to watch, as Friedkin's wicked advantage is the lure of unspecified dread brought alive. Friedkin creates apprehension with his first image, black-and-white sunrise dissolving to an overwhelming orange. One practically feels the gleaming surges of heat. At the archaeological site, picks strike soil, sounds intensifying, shriller still when Von Sydow trembles finding the talisman.Apprehension becomes conflict. Von Sydow informs the keeper that he must leave. Then, he's almost run down by a black horse and carriage, a malevolent forewarning. Friedkin visually achieves a sensation that something horrific's impending. Von Sydow searches through the ruins, and faces Pazuzu's massive, menacing statue. Dogs fight ferociously, the effigy rigid versus the wailing winds while Von Sydow's bowed figure stands in bold resolve, action illuminating character.The feeling of dread and fear lives not just in the shadows but in broad daylight. Friedkin dissolves to barking neighborhood dogs in the damp gray over Georgetown, the bedroom of Burstyn, who hears bizarre scraping from her attic. Friedkin's taken us to a climax, a fearsome, unrestrained world, then deposits like a ride, gets underway again to the next climax. In illustrating the bizarre but accurate, the biological and cognitive potential justify the possession, also utilized to exciting, vile effect.As each medical option's reduced, the tension mounts as we see the possession intensify, causing Friedkin's attaining our surrender, agreement. Burstyn's sure Regan necessitates a priest. Burstyn's portrayed, basically, as an atheist, though her passion in this situation persuades us that she's certain her daughter's definitely possessed. The horrors begin in ordinary settings. Once we behold the cross masturbation, Friedkin's taken us from leg-pullers like attic scratchings to Regan's vicious, outlandish doings.Screams intensify tension, topping scenes emotionally. Friedkin employs sound as character. We're pacified fleetingly by silence, then the scream shocks. The distinction from tranquility to disorder in the dream sequence has the upshot of thrashing us instantaneously from relative comfort to a animal anxiety.Moreover, the handling of light contrasts is effective for its paradoxes. As in the dream, silver medal strikes black rock, cut to Regan in a vibrantly lit examination room, an icon of righteousness descending onto blackness, contrasted with Regan's hideous exploit in the barren luminosity. Familiarities such as tennis-playing students juxtaposed with Inspector consulting Miller about church defilements and McGowran's bizarre demise. Even in the daytime terror of the masturbation a gloomily shadowed image crowns the moment before the subsequent luster. Friedkin's most dazzling paradoxical disparity's in Von Sydow's re-emergence, a black outline in the lone gleam, wearing all black, invigorating the impression of wickedness Friedkin's founded, handsome visualizations assuming threatening connotations.The possession's cruelty is directly counter to Miller's vulnerability-become-power-via-selflessness. When he's introduced, he's visiting his mother in a dilapidated apartment. Her delight at seeing him is unadulterated, but he's swarming with self-reproach. He advises other priests but thinks he's losing his faith. When his mother dies, his remorse crushes. Nevertheless, despite private difficulty and misgiving, he does battle for a stranger. While he's not swayed it's a possession, Miller acquires the bishop's consent to do an exorcism. To Miller's disenchantment, Bishop thinks it best to have a man with practice: Von Sydow exorcized a demon years ago in Africa. Friedkin again expresses that Von Sydow and the demon are deep-rooted enemies, from their confrontation in the ruins to Regan's manifestation intensifying with Von Sydow's entrance.Friedkin advocates no principles, just illustrates the dismay defeated via fierce eradication. Nevertheless, it's the majestic shock of Miller's ultimate revelation and sacrifice that outdoes "horror," becoming enlivening. It's all the power of a twilight sky observed through a nihilistic lens.


                
The Exorcist is widely regarded to be the scariest movie of all time. Personally, I would put it a little differently. Instead of calling it the scariest movie of all time, I think that it would be more accurate to say that it's the best horror movie of all time. These may be just two different ways of saying the same thing, but I think that there is a notable difference. I just watched The Exorcist again, and I experienced the nervousness and tension and fear that it was meant to cause and I jumped a few times, but I've watched several other horror movies that have caused those same feelings <U+0096> The Shining, Pet Sematary, The Sixth Sense to a certain extent, even the remake of The House on Haunted Hill had a few quality scares. But I think that the thing that sets The Exorcist apart is that everything was just done right. The acting was great, the story was unique and well presented, the gruesome special effects were skillfully crafted, even the gore and the sickening profanity were put into the film with good reason and with good results. It's so rare to see a horror movie come along (and it gets rarer and rarer as time goes on) that is actually worth watching, and when one comes along that is absolutely ground-breaking, like The Exorcist, then it's a huge cinematic event. The Exorcist is just as timeless as horror films get, and it should be noted for its style and its effectiveness.  There have been so many imitations of this film that have popped up over the years (which is to be expected, because it created so many possibilities), but none of them, not even any of the sequels, even come close to the greatness of the original. Not only is it original and unique, but it also contained some stunning performances, particularly on the part of Linda Blair as Regan, the 12-year-old girl who was the subject of the exorcism. There were some frankly shocking things that she did for the film, and the brilliant special effects and make-up added to that to make Regan's possession amazingly realistic, which is probably the most remarkable thing about the film. Another thing that was done especially well in The Exorcist was the sound effects. Probably one of the main reasons that the movie is so scary is because it is so unexpected and therefore so unsettling to hear some of those noises come from a little girl. William Friedkin's skillful but relentless directing style clearly played a large part in the convincingness of the final outcome, which stands as one of the definitive films in cinematic history.


                
William Friedkin has a reputation in Hollywood as one of its great directors of fast-paced "chase movies." "The French Connection" (1971), the controversial "Cruising" (1980), and "To Live and Die in L.A." (1985) come to mind. "The Exorcist," his 1973 masterpiece of horror, is a chase movie in that regard, albeit a rather "contained" one, in that the "chases" all occur in one place, and don't involve cars, guns, or explosions."The Exorcist" has a reputation as the scariest movie of all time. I'm inclined to agree. I've never seen such horrific imagery from a movie in my life. Much of the ghastly imagery and scenery in "The Exorcist" still remains fresh in my mind. On top of that, I've never been so thoroughly unsettled by a horror film before. Before watching this movie, I knew (knew is italicized) that "The Exorcist" was the scariest movie of all time; I just needed to confirm it with my own eyes, and ears.The chase elements in this movie come into play in its second half, when Father Damien Karras (Jason Miller) and Father Merrin (Max von Sydow) work together to save Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair) from possession by the Devil, and to "chase" it back to Hell. Regan is the daughter of actress Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn), who at first thinks her daughter is suffering from some sort of strange mental disorder, but is forced to face the horror herself in that fact that her daughter is possessed by unholy forces intent on dragging her kicking & screaming into the darkest depths of the demonic underworld.Based on the controversial novel of the same name by William Peter Blatty (who also wrote the screenplay), "The Exorcist" is THE horror film, and essential viewing for any true fan of the genre. Some will agree, some will disagree, but I don't think that lessens the film's impact. I've never been so thoroughly shocked by a motion picture before; all the warnings I've received beforehand proved out to be true. The film relies on realistic performances, Friedkin's precision direction, innovative and ground-breaking special effects, mood, horrific imagery, and disturbing bits & pieces of dialogue for its effects on the viewer (basically anything uttered by then-14-year-old Linda Blair while under the effects of demonic possession).I don't expect many of today's younger viewers to probably understand the significance of this picture, and its lasting effect on horror movie-making. They're too accustomed to gore and special effects. I should know, I'm one of them; I'm only 24, but I know powerful film-making when I see it. "The Exorcist" is the scariest horror movie I've ever seen. Don't believe me? Just watch it for yourself.10/10


                
This one has lost none of its power to shock or terrify.You've heard of the head spinning round, the green vomit, probably even the crucifix masturbation scene.That doesn't prepare you.It's not the material itself that makes it so shocking, although, over forty years later, even the language retains an edge. I've still never heard that variation of the c-word in any other movie, I don't think. It's the direction, which always takes you by surprise, which lulls you into a state of security it punctures again and again until finally letting the horror take over like a bad dream you can't wake up from.It's the screenplay, too. This is a movie about people. About people suffering an unspeakable trauma. About people driven to the edge where the supernatural meets them.It's not about special effects or shocking violence.The characters live and breathe, you feel what they feel, even the disbelief.The Exorcist carries you along. It takes you to places you don't want to go, working its magic in ways you can never fully understand.And it remains shocking and terrifying.
The Exorcist (1973): Dir: William Friedkin / Cast: Ellen Burstyn, Linda Blair, Jason Miller, Max Von Sydow, Lee J. Cobb: Terrifying masterpiece based on the book by William Peter Blatty. There are many Biblical accounts where Jesus himself drove demons out of people, so an exorcist is obviously someone who rids what doesn't belong. Ellen Burstyn stars as an actress whose daughter is possessed by demonic forces. After the shocking image of her daughter screaming atop a shaking bed, she seeks professional help. When doctors fail in finding answers it is suggested that a Priest see the girl. Intelligent, shocking with a sense of insight where Burstyn asks the right questions regarding exorcism. Quite an accomplishment for director William Friedkin who previously made another masterpiece in The French Connection. Burstyn brilliantly mirrors frustration mixed with fear. Linda Blair is both sympathetic and commanding as the possessed victim. Jason Miller plays a troubled Priest whom questions his faith after his mother's death. Lee J. Cobb steals moments as a police inspector. Then there is Max Von Sydow is compelling as the exorcist who sensed the demonic force in the film's opening and ultimately understands the standoff he will eventually face. A masterpiece in horror with excellent makeup and spellbinding measures of faith. Score: 10 / 10
This has to be one of the most well-known horror films, one of the highest-rated, and obviously a classic."The Exorcist" is exactly what the title implies. A demon has possessed a young girl in Georgetown, and two priests are set with the job of exorcising her after experiencing the horrifying proof of the demonic presence in the young girl, Ragen McMeil. (Linda Blair)This has got to be one of the most dramatic and saddening horror films that I've ever seen, and it's got to be one of the very best. In the religious area of horror style, it probably IS the very best, and is likely to be for years to come.


                
The Exorcist (1973) was one of the greatest horror films ever made. It scared the nation and the people wanted more! The movie made a lot of money and it launched William Friedkin's career beyond the stratosphere (he was already a big name thanks to the French Connection). William Peter Blatty's novel was already a big seller when it was optioned for a silver screen adaptation. The conflicts between the two over how it would be presented as a film could make a movie by it's own right. There was as much action behind the scenes as there was in front of the camera.The story is about a priest who's at an ancient Sumerian archaeological excavation site. Father Merrin has been following the presence of an ancient evil deity named Pazul. He confronted it some time ago and is still haunted by it. At the same time, a young adolescent Georgetown resident is communicating with someone named Captain Howdy. Is their a connection? Meanwhile a middle aged priest is having disturbing dreams and doubts about his chosen profession of living a life of poverty as a priest. Are all these stories in some way connected? One must find out when watching The Exorcist!I am a fan of this classic. The behind the scenes tensions made this movie. The cast was excellent and William Friedkin was on the ball (Unlike most of his films after this one). The creepy "Tubular Bells" was an appropriate choice for the film's soundtrack. The Exorcist revived the career of Max Von Sydow and made a star out of Linda Blair. Watch it and you'll find out why it scared so many and stirred up a lot of emotions from the religious right and the moral majority. A true classic!Highly recommended!Like all successful films that came out of Hollywood, the Italians and a lot of lower tier American studios couldn't resist and cloned this movie to death. Some are good and others are pretty atrocious. The Italian film industry was saved by making knockoffs and parodies of this movie. I guess the so called "spaghetti westerns" were dead.


                
