I suppose the special effects were state-of-the-art at the time.  Yay. Linda Blair's head spins around, the bed does the Mashed Potato, etc., etc., and it's all very lovely.  Too bad it doesn't make up for a jumpy storyline which really doesn't flow well.The Iraq sequence is pretty to look at, I admit; but it is in no way relevant to the rest of the story.  The only connection I found was the image of that fertility statue appearing in a particularly poor special effect.  I guess we're supposed to draw the conclusion that the evil fertility god possessed Regan.  That fifteen minutes wasted on Iraq could have been much better used to develop Regan's possession, perhaps making Captain Howdy more than a sideline?Overall, I was singularly unimpressed by this film.  I realize that, in the early 70s, many things done/said by Regan were shocking . . . but nowadays, if I want to see someone masturbate with a crucifix, I'll watch a Madonna video.


                
Channel 4 screened the Exorcist last night, after 30 years of its banning. I've seen this film before, a few weeks after it was released from its ban in 1998, and wasn't too amazed by it. But maybe I missed something. This so-called `classic' is undoubtedly the most hyped up horror in movie history. The daunting thing is, they screened the `making of' documentary two years before anybody was allowed to see the actual film.
I couldn't help but chuckle at the warning before the film started: `Warning: this film is strictly for adults, and contains scenes of horror, strong violence, demonic possession, and very strong language.'
The start of the film is absolutely incredible. People are digging in the sand, and discover some strange items beneath, jewellery, and small demonic statues. The imagery conjured up here is powerful and sets the mind racing of what is to come. The scene where the exorcist looks at the huge demonic statue in the blazing sun, with dogs fighting in the distance, is a beautiful piece of film. Unfortunately, the setting changes to an North American home where a mother and her delightful daughter Regan are visited by the devil via a ouija board. Regan is the victim of a rather unique `illness' which causes her to speak in different voices, have flaky skin, and enables her to turn her head 360 degrees at will. Regan is demonically possessed. What's more, she's possessed by Satan, the devil himself. Ooer! That just took the biscuit I'm afraid. Whereas I've been brought up to believe the devil is one mean mother, you would have thought he'd be capable of a bit more than squirting pea soup and screaming schoolboy obscenities. What, the devil has an Yorkshire accent? `Did you see what she did, your c***ing daughter?' Quite laughable really. Why not just a demon? Another problem with this film is the dubbing. As the devil, you would have thought his voice was a little more terrifying. When his voice comes from the girls mouth, it appears to come from all directions <U+0096> did he install some speakers in the room? And what wattage were they?
As a mother, she really must do more to help her child. In one scene she opens her daughters bedroom door to find the window open, gale-force winds blowing through, the room at sub-zero temperatures. Does she do the right thing and help her warm up in front of the fire to stop her freezing to death? No, she just closes the windows and pulls her blanket up. Also, what was the purpose of the demonic items that were found? Satan was supposed to have been summoned up from a ouija board, so why were they ever introduced? One of the characters finds one at the bottom of the steps, but there is no explanation as to how the evil managed to find its way into Regan.
As for all the profanity in this film, coming from a non-so peaceful area myself, I hear worse `mother' jokes coming from peoples mouths every single day. I have seen more shocking things then the cunnilingus scene. Look around the Internet and you will see far more sicker things today, people who take pleasure in killing animals, torture, self-harm, mutilations, suicide. And those are REAL. Of course, I highly object to all of these things, but it certainly would have made this film more grotesque and disturbing. Animal cruelty always disturbs the audience. In Hellraiser we saw a man eating crickets, and rats being hammered to the walls by nails through their heads. This was far more shocking then any of the things I saw in the Exorcist. Bless my heart, I really did try to be scared by this film. I tried to put myself in the mothers shoes: `What if it was my daughter that did those things?' Is it just the religious types that are scared by this? Why are they offended by a four-letter word rhyming with `puck'? Why are they offended by sex? To me and you, religion is man-made and was only used by people to take care of their tribes. But the imagery of the devil in a small child was too unbelievable to be taken seriously. I want Satan to do something truly terrifying. Here he did nothing but open and close a few drawers. Yes, ever done anything that scared anyone before? Hell, during the exorcism everyone seemed fearless, as if they could take the devil lying down. But at least one person died due to the devils work, but we don't actually get to see how. We could have had the devil actually appearing and having everyone scarper. We didn't get that either. Don't get me wrong, I think this could have been THE most terrifying movie of all time. It has the atmosphere there, it builds it up, but in the end, I was left thinking `Is that it?' It really does make me laugh when I hear people talking as if the Exorcist is the best horror movie ever made. It is not. These people have not seen enough horror movies, because there are certainly more terrifying pieces of  work out there. This is strictly average viewing if you are not taken in by the hype.


                
Now I know that I first saw this film in November 1998. But going of the old cliché 'once a good movie always a good movie' I expected something amazing.What I got was dated and, I have to say, boring film. The scenes of gore that were supposed to send people home, with visions that would haunt them forever were no longer significant as today's TV made them look less sickening than an episode of the Simpsons' sub-series Itchy and Scratchy.


                
The Exorcist was banned from general release in the UK until 1998, where people watched the film for the very first time at home. After seeing various clips on documentaries about the film, I was gobsmacked by the terror the trailer registered. It looked absolutely shocking. Horrifying. You hear all the hype about people fainting when they first saw this film <U+0096> it couldn't really be that terrifying, could it?I was 16 when I first watched the film from start to finish. After the video ended, I was shocked. But this time I was not shocked at how terrifying the film was <U+0096> I was shocked at how such an over-hyped snooze-fest could be labelled as the scariest film ever.All this film represented is a few memorable images <U+0096> the exorcist in black, looking up at the window, and the grotesque possessed child. Shame then, that the actual film itself does not justify the attention it got. It takes more then a few turning heads and pea-soup hurling to get me scared. All the cursing and profanity adds nothing, this is nothing but a mediocre horror flick.I don't think I could sit through the whole film again. I didn't miss anything on my first watch, and I don't think I'll be rushing to Blockbusters to rent it again. >


                
The Exorcist is always ranked amongst the best horror films ever made. I was bored to death by the whole thing. I don't have even the slightest belief in the devil or the Easter bunny for that matter, so I thought that Regan(Linda Blair) spitting out pea soup while her head spun around in a circus like manner was just downright silly. Blair, along with Max Von Sydow, Ellen Burstyn, Jason Miller, and Lee J Cobb are all very good but I thought that Rosemary's Baby and The Devil's Advocate are better movies in this genre than The Exorcist. William Friedkin directed and stayed loyal to the book with a cold and dark atmosphere but the two hour running time seems longer as the run up to the climactic battle between Father Karras and the prince of darkness was too much build up. I remain unimpressed.


                
I've seen this movie I'd say roughly five times now, all of which being the director's cut, annnnnnnnnnnnnnnnd.... eh... I don't really understand what gets people so freaked out about this movie. I've never really understood the hype about this movie since the first time I saw it in 2004. I had heard that there are disturbing moments (such as Linda Blair masturbating with the crucifix), and the image of the demon on her bedroom wall when her mother leaves the room, but beyond that it isn't really something that I find scary. It's easy to see why most people with probably a weak stomach may be turned by it but to tell you the truth this movie is actually funnier than it is scary. Someone's head spinning and them giggling maniacally, isn't scary unless you're just an idiot who's never seen a horror movie before.I feel saturated by false hype.The Exorcist : 3/10.


                
This was one of the dullest movie's I have seen in a long time. The only part that was good was the beginning. After that I thought it was a comedy film. Even if you do take into account the limits of the special effects of the day it still was a letdown. Personally if you want a scary film I recommend Rosemary's Baby or any other Roman Polanski movie, if you have seen some of his films you know what I'm talking about. This movie was a serious let down and for me a waste of money. Rent the movie first before you buy, you may end up regretting it if you do buy it first.


                
Midnight.  I head to the family room in the chilly basement, turn ALL the lights off.  Pop in 'The Exorcist: The Version You Haven't Seen' (or whatever the hekk it's officially called; I could care less).  What do I see?  An intrigueing look at demon possession.  "What?!," you say.  "Not a scary movie?  Not a horror movie?"  Can't say I did.I can pinpoint exactly two points in the movie that were in any way creepy. The first, when the demon's actual face (not the girl's)suddenly pops up out of nowhere (such as on the door to the room) - which actually happens a couple times, if I recall correctly.  The second, is the added footage everyone sees in the commercials where she crawls down the stairs backwards.Said scenes were creepy, not scary.  The movie as a whole was neither creepy nor scary.If you're renting this film to see something that hasn't been rehashed in a million ripoffs since its theatrical release in the '70s, i.e. something that's unique from other movies, then please do, it's worth it.If, on the other hand, you're renting this because it's supposedly scary - don't.  Just don't.  It's a waste of your time.


                
Like many others on here, I recently saw this on its first UK network showing on channel 4.I have to say, there's nothing like banning or hyping a film to utterly distort the audience's expectations.Yes, there are definitely controversial images on screen, such as the girl stabbing herself with the crucifix, but on the whole they seem to rely upon simply combining religious and horrific elements in a fairly simplistic way. There doesn't seem to be any logic behind it except throwing one special effect at the audience after another. The effects aren't always good either. Did audiences ever really find an obviously fake head spinning around anything other than laughable?The excellent opening scenes in Iraq are no guide at all to the rest of the film. The girl is possessed in her bedroom, her parents and various professionals go in to look at her, she swears and vomits at them and they leave the room. Then a few minutes later a different combination of adults go back in and repeat the process. Even the actual exorcism takes this format of endless repetition supposedly enlivened by the odd touch of levitation, cursing or glowing light.Ultimately, there doesn't seem to be any kind of driving force behind the events. Instead of the action peaking at any point, we have a dramatic plateau, reached within the first 20 minutes. At least other non-eventful horror films like The Shining and The Omen had a situation steadily getting worse, or a threat to the protagonists slowly getting closer.If this isn't a horror film, what is it? Some have noted that it was intended as an affirmation of religious belief, that if there was demonic possession, then there must be angelic salvation, but little more than angst-filled lip service is paid to any of the complexities behind faith and spirituality in this film. The hamfisted dismissal of medical science by an anxious mother in the face of moving drawers and levitating beds is not anything like a reason to become more interested in the higher purposes of life.Perhaps this could have been a brilliant psychological thriller, if they hadn't kicked all scientific explanation in the teeth through obviously supernatural special effects early on. Some disturbed people *do* exhibit symptoms of possession and multiple personalities. Hollywood always opting for the supernatural explanation over the more frightening possibility that the girl's mind (or brain) had created the demon within her doesn't help society's understanding of mental health.Moody, well shot and well acted, but plotwise of little more value than an episode of the X-Files. Sorry.


                
A few short little clips and an intense ending.  So what; you have 2 more hours to wade through to see those parts that are far more shocking than scary.  There is no question she's possessed, there is no suspense other than who might die by the end of the movie; but quite simply who cares, I knew so little about the characters from weak acting and story that they could all, or none of them, die.A title that quickly comes up in discussions of scary movies but simply doesn't deliver if you actually watch it.


                
I went into this film with tons of hype, as everyone of later generations, but before you start thinking this is just a biased view of over-expectations gone awry; I am talking mad, "scariest movie of all-time", "I couldn't watch during some scenes" type hype, and it wasn't just a couple of people, it was the entire internet and a pool of varied, different people in real life. Still, I just went into this apparently quintessential horror classic of classics, which I knew had deeply influenced pop-culture and the way people look at the horror film forever, with a fair man's mindset expecting at least something solid. What we get here is the most predictable story and development, with no discernible subtlety or particularity - just the most bland version you could POSSIBLY think up reading this review right now knowing however little you know this moment. The dullest, least dynamic, flat overdose of vivid and boring obviousness in all its early 70's splendor. This film was obviously a complete hoax. It just knew it had something big: a (for the time) graphic depiction of a possessed girl, the satanic/possession theme, with a film studio trick or two (the upside down stairs gallop, the twisting head.. today, just cheap), a mixture of gross and taboo made for shock value pestilence, glorified by the morbid fascination of the bored and willing masses. I swear the "the power of Christ compels you" scene is the longest; you might literally find yourself staring at your watch with the most jaded, defeated expression on your face. There is nothing remotely redeeming about it, no interesting development, morality, point of argument...nothing. You could basically watch a one-scene-parody of it, and that would really, actually do it justice. And that's a really, really, really bad perspective for a film, and I don't believe this is out of line at all.


                
I went to this movie, hoping to see what I have been told was one of the scariest movies ever made. The only thing scary about this film is it's success. A demon possessing a young girl-Scary. A young girl who is possessed shaking, vomiting, and masturbating-not scary, simply a cheap attempt to gross out viewers.When I watch a horror film, I want to be frightened. I'm not into cheap gross out attempts. To be honest, this movie succeeded in drawing me in with it's really tense atmosphere. But then the gross outs started and it made me snap right out of the movie, and right back into my seat, where I was wondering what was so frightening about this film.If I wanted to see a bunch of uninteresting grossouts, I would have rented a slasher film. But I didn't. I went to the theater to be frightened. Maybe disturbed. I wanted to see an evil spirit tormenting this young girl, not trying to make the audience gag. No, I do not get grossed out easily, I am simply talking about it's attempt at grossing people out.They have a good story, great atmosphere, and ruin it by going for shock value.


                
This is one of the most awful film I've ever seen! As a Christian, I can't accept all the dirty words and languages that are so humiliating and blasphemous to our God Jesus Christ! Whatever others say about this, I really don't consider any part of this movie to be good at all! A real piece of trash and blasphemy! And don't wish to say anything further about it! One of most awful film ever!


                
Some of you might get mad at my review, but hear me out.If I saw it if I was younger, I might have been scared by the movie. I was only three years old at the time the movie came out. I got a chance to see this much later in life. I'm 36. At this point, I am completely desensitized to most horror movies.As the title of my article stated, I had a great time ripping on this horror movie. The logic behind the story is completely messed up. It starts out as a Christian concept, and then it turns Pagan at the last 20 minutes of the of the movie. I turned out to be a Mesopotamian deity, called Pazuzu, which was actually worshiped in Ancient times. I know this, because I studied folklore and mythology in college.Other than that, the moments that most people considered scary were just flat out ridiculous. The dialogue to me was corny. The things they did were so cheesy, I laughed until my stomach hurt. I loved the parts where Regan's head spun 360 degrees and ralphed split pea soup on the priest. Political statement, a definite possibility.I told you that you might get offended.
