Having looked over the other user comments, I see there are some definite patterns in how people react to this movie. Religious people think it is horrifying, agnostic people think it is creepy, and atheist people think it is hilarious. But I really can't figure out the people who say it's scary because of its "subtlety." How on earth is vomiting, head twisting, levitation, and masturbation subtle? This movie is intended to shock and offend, not scare. I mean, a "subtle" possession movie would have the demon murmuring in a low, unearthly voice, not shrieking like the Incredible Hulk. Everything is just too over-the-top.There are parts that are pretty sick and twisted, but nothing really scary. It didn't take me long to figure out that this is nothing but shock schlock. I didn't find it as funny as some people do (although the pea soup vomit was rather amusing), but I did find it disappointing, insulting, and irritating.4/10 stars.


                
I remember when THE EXORCIST was first released in Britain , I was 7 years old at the time and living in Edinburgh and a neighbour called Ann Lyon was just back from the cinema telling my parents how the movie lived up to the hype and what a truly shocking , gut wrenching experience THE EXORCIST was . My parents went to see it a few days later ( In 1973 this was the ONLY movie people were talking about ) and their verdict was that it was a bloody stupid film unworthy of all the fuss . I don`t know if that prejudiced my view in later life but I also found THE EXORCIST a bloody stupid film unworthy of the hype , but I will give it credit where it`s due - It`s also an extremely funny film too I congratulate everyone for this classic comedy , the tears of laughter ran down my cheeks watching it . A young girl called Regan is possessed by a demonic force that causes her skin to turn blue , turn her head 360 degrees , float in mid air , speak in a booming voice and spit out large amounts of chocolate fudge . I bet David Blaine is cursing his luck about being overlooked by Satan . This is funny enough but it`s the words coming out of Regan`s mouth that caused me to split my sides , you`ll understand that I`m paraphrasing here " Go stick your toffee apple up his bottom you naughty priest " and " Your mother sucks toffee apples in hell " Be honest girls , does that second qoute seem like a fate worse than death ?  
I do concede that this is a well made movie but this only adds to the unintentional laughs as the cast give genuinely shocked expressions as the profanity keeps spilling out of the mouth of young Regan . This is what I describe as " THE EXORCIST factor " ie the more the cast and crew try and convince the audience that all this is sickeningly horrible the more laughably ludicrous it all becomes . That`s why horror spoofs like REPOSSESSED an SCARY MOVIE 2 fail to out do THE EXORCIST as a comedy
As a footnote I mentioned that many people in Edinburgh saw this at their local  cinemas as did a great many people in British cities in 1973 , but one exception was Glasgow where the local council banned the film from cinema chains in the city . Other films Glasgow city council have banned since then include THE LIFE OF BRIAN and ROMPER STOMPER


                
I can't understand that how this movie got sucha a good rating !


                
I felt proud of myself after I watched the Exorcist. The reason why is because I resisted the overwhelming urge to throw up. I feel anyone that does resist this urge should receive a pat on the back. This horror movie does not deserve a bit of the praise that people give it. It is one of the best grossout films of all time. That was not a compliment. Some people claim that it is better than any other scary movie. This is a joke, Psycho kicks the Exorcist in the butt. No movie has ever made me laugh more than the Exorcist, especially when the girl starts slamming the cross in her unmentionables. I still laugh to this day whenever I think about it. I don't think the point of the movie was to make me laugh.
25 years ago this may have been a good movie, but now it looks very old and not in a classic way ether. The special effects that were once so shocking are now just funny, some films last for ever and some just get old and I'm sorry to say this has aged very badly. To sum up if you are under 30 years old and you grew up with "A nightmare on elm street" and "Candyman" just to name a couple of the more modern horror films, you will find this as scary as an episode of "home and away" not a film i will watch again.


                
I had heard terribly frightening things about this film, so out of intense curiousity I rented it one night, sat on the ground in the complete dark with my teddy bear at my side and started to watch it.  Within 20 minutes I was laughing my head off and I didn't stop until the end of the movie. This is supposed to be scary?  Maybe I'm just jaded, or maybe it's because I'm an atheist, but this a terribly pathetic movie.  The only amusing thing about it is how hard it tries to be scary, but it just ends up making a fool of itself.  One of the weakest films I've ever seen, and serves more shock value than actual horror film storytelling.


                
It's not worth a view, nowadays, and everyone calls it's a legendary horror film, much like The Shining (1980). I'm sorry folks, the truth is, back in the 70s and 80s, a slow-paced movie was common. Nowadays, we need shock, scares and fast-moving horror films with tender moments now and then.This film goes very slow and while back in the day, I got scared psychologically, this movie doesn't give me the chills one bit. It's a false legend because it's nothing special. In fact, is builds no suspense as the cast is short-list and the best part is the end. It doesn't come quick enough and feels even longer with all the anticipation they try to build up.Doctors back in the time it's set seemed to be brain-dead and unbelievable. I can't believe I sat through this movie, once again, thinking it was terrifying when all it was, was a bunch of ADR's of someone doing dark and disturbing voice-overs to make the "possessed" seem scary.No cheap tactics, no scares at all, just a bunch of profanities and some make-up and you got The Exorcist. I wonder how this movie is so praised when it took no talent to make it. Pass!


                
The natural world scares me enough, so I am not exactly dying for the supernatural stuff of horror flicks. I watched The Exorcist all the same because the director did some movies I really like (The French Connection, To Live and Die in L.A.) and there are some very good actors in it. But, frankly, I was not very impressed.The Exorcist tries to scare people the same way a house of horrors does in a fun fare. The story somehow very much remains on the surface. I mean, It does not seriously explore fear and its source, it does not offer any explanation for what is going on and leaves the viewer stunned and with many questions (is it the specific location or the little girl that was the prime target? what has Iraq got to do with it? whatever happened to the movie director - why did he enter Regan's room? etc. etc.) What remains is a bunch of special effects that are pretty ridiculous, not unlike The Gremlins. Val Lewton must have turned in his grave! Somehow I feel that The Exorcist represents a chance missed. It tampers with serious matter. Exorcism actually is a used practice even today (in <U+0084>private circles", with disastrous results), it is really not a good method for a surefire American success story, as presented here. I was bemused by the character played by Ellen Burstyn, Regan's mother (took me quite some time to find out what her profession was and long assumed the Max von Sydow character was Regan's father). To me she represents the American pioneer spirit. There is a problem that has to be solved, so you find a solution - period! On the positive side, director Friedkin really has a great talent for capturing the feel of specific locations. Northen Iraq as well as the Georgetown are filmed in a way, almost like a documentary, that will stick in your mind for a long time (that's what I like about Friedkin's afore mentioned movies).And one thing I know now: Never ask the devil what your mother's maiden name is. He doesn't like it.


                
I just finished a screening of this slow-moving, ponderous and uninvolving "horror" film.  The opening sequences in Iraq, which drag on interminably, have nothing to do with what comes after.  When we finally arrive at the locale of the action, a lot of nothing ensues very slowly and to no frightening effect.  It's hard to see what it was about this film that scared so many; perhaps it was simply the shock of the sacrilegious comments coming from a little girl's mouth.  Truly, "The Exorcist" commits the worst two sins a horror film can; it bores and it fails to frighten.  That said, it is still a well-made film with intelligence and a nice visual style; it just fails totally as a horror film.


                
Although The Exorcist is considered a classic and very well deserves it, there is a very big degree of unnecesary character use. The story is good but is told in a very slow, overdrawn detail. The movie could have been a lot better if it was cut shorter and told more to the point. Nonetheless, there was some very good dark humor with the confrontation between the possesed girl and the priests.


                
Having recently been able to see The Exorcist for the first time due to it being banned in the UK, I was prepared to watch the scariest film, the most stomach-churningly horrific film ever made.I was terribly, terribly disappointed. In my opinion, this is the most over-hyped film I know of. Its main aim, to scare and shock, fails utterly. Most of the time the supposedly horrible events are actually rather amusing, due to the stupidity of the characters or the rather lame and over-ambitious effects.Despite some good moments, such as the final moments of the exorcism itself, this film is simply *boring*.


                
Ok i can understand why this film caused all that controversy on its initial release, but come on, SCARIEST FILM EVER! Its not in the least bit scary now, the only bit that affected me in the slightest was the head rotating bit(i havent seen the spider walk version so cannot comment on that). The actings nothing special, the film is so slow that the suspense just dissolves into thin air. I find myself watching it for a few laughs now. The crucifix bits bloody funny, as is the bit where she pee's herself! The confrontation between her and the priests is equally laughable, 'your mother sucks co*ks in hell'?!? Thats not scary, just silly!This is coming from a fan of the horror genre, and despite all this i guess the Exorcist did influence many of the supernatural thrillers of today, most notably 'Stigmata' (which i think is much better film, almost a remake of the exorcist, and had 'The Exorcist' been made now im sure it would have been as good as Stigmata).


                
Out of all movies I think horror movies date the most. Horror films just don't have the same impact they had when they first released. Two movies that come to mind are Carrie and the Exorcist. When released they were heavily praised and were hits.I watched it a couple of years ago and I was unimpressed. I had such huge expectations but I was severely let down. Just because it was disturbing does not make it a good horror movie. It would have worked as a psychological drama but not as horror. The theme tune however is memorable and chilling. Im sorry if I have offended fans of this movie,it may have appealed to you but I was disappointed. Maybe I should give it another go to see if I enjoy it second time around.


                
i thought that this was a waste as a horror movie.although it is beyond disturbing and flat out sick i just think that the acting was terrible and it was a boring horror movie not worth two hours if you want a horror movie a "Fun" one do not rent or buy this i swear it is not worth it even though it has it creeps in it it was not fun for me it is not fun to watch even though it scared the living stuff out of me do not rent buy or borrow from anyone i do not say that it is a good movie it takes a hour and a half to get into the really creepy stuff it is a waste of time trust me but do not get it if you want a horror movie get the omen or something better like scream misery or the shining but do not get the exorcist terrible movie.


                
In my opinion this is one of the most over-rated movies of all time. Scary, yeah in your dream. The Exorcist is one of the earlier horror movies that used graphic depictions of the devil and those type of things but in the 90's this movie stinks!! Wow, a girl possesed by the devil, lying in bed looking all wicked, spinning her head around and vomiting, SCARY STUFF. The Exorcist is a slow and boring watch and I wouldn't recommend you watching this movie. There are no scary parts, no suspenseful moments, no terrifying parts, no disgusting parts absolutely nothing that makes it a good horror movie.


                
I want to start by telling something - I love horror movies. I love to get scared. After all; what scares us, fascinates us. But I am a hard person to scare. Only at very few times, horror movies works for me. But to give you examples: I love horror movies like Poltergeist, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Alien. While those are movies that makes me get scared, there are movies people consider scary I only laugh at - The Shining is a good example. One so-called "scary" moment there is when we see the boy sit in bed and shake his head. Personally, it's THE most funny moment I have ever seen in my entire life. I laughed so hard, I had to pause the movie for five minutes. How could I get scared of a movie that makes me laugh? That's the same problem I have with The Exorcist. It's considered the most scary movie of all time. I heard of these before I watched it, and therefor thought it would really be scary. So I sat down to watch it, and... I seriously still have a hard time to convince myself it was not a comedy. A girl cursing, doing awkward stuff, looking butt-ugly, sounding like a person getting choked and tries to impersonate Gollum at the same time... what's scary in all of this? It's so over-the-top, I can't keep a straight face. The girl is possessed by the devil, who's a nutty perv! And at one time, she pukes big time on the priest... oh help, I'm SO scared. And what's up with when she crawls down the stairs upside down? It makes no sense, is a little confusing and disturbing - but scary? Not according to me, anyway. This movie is nothing more for me than a unaware comedy. It's entertaining to watch, though. If it was intended to be a comedy, I'd probably give it 8 of 10.


                
I've seen "The Exorcist" for the first time for this new release and I've been quite frightened. But I have to say that after 30 years this isn't anymore the most terrific movie on earth. I don't want to say that I've been bored because it's still a fantastic opera. The scenes with the devil are very effective and the performances of the actors (especially by the tormented Jason Miller and the newcomer and astonishing good Linda Blair) are very very good. The scenes I liked much more are the beginning in Iraq with Max Von Sydow, who begins to fear that there's something strange, the arrival of the already possessed Regan at the party in her house and the final fight against evil with the sudden and brave decision of Father Karras. William Friedkin does a very good job in directing with a lot of subliminal frames of the devil and also compliments to Rick Baker for the make up, Mike Oldfield for the famous music and Owen Roizman for the livid photography.


                
For me this was a hard one to mark out of 10.A classic but, after watching it I don't think for the right reasons.I was picturing the film to be scary and even a bit disturbing and spent a lot of time getting my self excited watching the horrified audience reaction and seeing scenes of it. I was incredibly let down as there was not one scene that scared me at all. Without knowing anything about this film before hand I would of thought It was a spoof as there was some terribly hardcore scenes. Some of which left me embarrassed.The things that the girl said and did on a regular basis was utterly outragous.As the girl is possessed by what turns out to be the devil (not a plot spoiler or twist there) you seriously think the devil is some kind or perverted, drunken, cruel and rudely un-acceptable some kind of drug abuser. This film really was a let down for the scary side of things and the crude scenes really didn't impress me. Besides those scenes was a gripping plot with brilliant characters which could have been made so much better.It starts with a terribly slow start and th whole ,what felt like, 25-35 minutes could had been totally left out. The first plot in iraq seemed completely irrelevant.While watching the film it was a let down but, afterwards you do think about how much you did enjoy it. (6.5/10) I would say the film was good verging down to OK. But even now as i ramble on it really did bring entertainment. NOT A FILM TO SEE WITH SENSITIVE FAMILY AND NOT ONE IF YOU WANT A HORROR. seriously not scary at all, just twisted and as i said before- perverted.The theme tune is amazing though, brilliant! one to s but, don't bother it on halloween as it Will disappoint. Not great but glad i saw it!


                
I saw this movie a few months ago on TV and I was not scared once, I didnt see what the fuss about it was. This is without a doubt one of the worst 'horror' movies I have seen. Well, it was made 28 years ago. The acting was OK if not bland. Good Points: Hmmm...no good pointsBad Points: Acting Not Scary Hardly a classic 4/10


                
There's no polite way to say it, really.  _The Exorcist_ simply isn't *that* good a movie.  It really had too much buildup and not enough of a conclusion.  What was really the point of the beginning scene in Iraq? The significance was never really explained.  Early on Father Karras mentions a lack of faith.  This was never resolved either.  Later, there is also a scene involving his recently deceased mother.  What about this?  The first half of the movie is way too long and slow when you consider that the scenes bring up too many issues that are never really resolved.  Although the possession scenes are well done, I don't think this movie is way more scarier than any other run-of-the-mill fright flick.  The ending is way too brief and I was left wondering, "is that it?"  I also wasn't very scared. Seeing the child possessed was scary at first, but I soon became used to it. I also didn't feel the so-called eternal struggle of good vs. evil was highlighted enough, especially in the conclusion.  Although this is by no means the epic, frightening masterpiece many make it out to be, it has some entertainment value if you can handle it.  The lack of a good conclusion really diminished my enjoyment of a film that had a great deal of potential.


                
Some people say that this is perhaps one of the scariest horror-movies ever made. But, without rambling on about this film, I don't agree. Actually, I didn't find it scary. Some perhaps disturbing scenes, but not really scary. But then again, I've never been much for older horror movies. In my opinion there's only one horror movie from the 70's that is actually scary, and that's "Jaws".


                
Story... okay. Acting... okay. Scariest film of all time and nothing can ever beat it... not at all. I thought the best part of the whole movie was Linda Blair's acting. The worst part was the grossness throughout the whole film. I think that is why people rave that The Exorcist is the scariest film ever made, but in my opinion, I think it is one of the grossest films ever made. If you are in for a good scare don't see this movie it's two and a half hours of boringness that isn't worth wasting your time on. I thought some parts were really funny because of what the devil was saying but that and Linda Blair's acting was it. Ellen Burstyn did not so good. Don't see this movie.


                
The fist time I got to see this film I thought: This is a joke,right? How is this supposed to be frightening? Sorry, I just don't get it.I was too busy laughing my a.. off to be scared.OH NO... look a 12 year old girl possessed by the Devil.No cookies and milk for you.Not when you use such foul language,and do rude things with a cross.It could be because I'd seen so many horror films by the time I got to this one the shock value was over.The writer of this film (William Peter Blatty)was a comedy writer,and it really shows.If you have a sick since of humor, you'll find this side splitting funny.If you are a horror film fan looking for a good fright,look elsewhere.


                
So,I love horror movies and I'm always trying to found a great horror movie to scare me very good and most of the horror movies that I've seen had scared me a little but this one didn't scared me at all.I started to watch this movie by searching on Google the scariest horror movies of all time and this one was the scariest horror movie and I really didn't knew why some people considered this movie to be the best horror movie because for me,this movie was more disturbing and kinda hard to watch rather than very scary and interesting.The thing is that this movie is so great because it's not from the 21st Century,it's one of the classic horror movies from the 20th century like Jaws,Friday The 13th,The Texas Chainsaw Massacre,Evil Dead, A Nightmare on Elm Street,etc,but unlike those great horror movies,this one isn't scary and it doesn't have a great story at all.Now,I don't want to be rude or something,I'm sure that back then,this movie was really scary but for the people from that time.For us it isn't at all scary and even though the story is based on true events it isn't too great,it's just good.Again,I watched this movie because I ran out of horror movies to see and when I saw that this movie is the scariest horror film then I knew I needed to seen it to see how scary it is.For me,the scariest horror films are The Conjuring 1 and maybe the 2nd movie form the franchise and Get Out.Overall,The Exorcist is,in my opinion,definitely not the scariest movie ever and not even too scary,it's full with pointless scenes and disturbing as well as gore scenes that are hard to watch and with some actors who played their roles kinda bad.The same goes for the director of the movie.
What means, I wasn't that scared during the movie as i supposed too, since it is a horror. But than again, horror movies aren't really my type of genre, that's why i was more focused on play and movie effects. Sadly, none of them were that special to call this one the best horror movie of all time. A girl gets possessed by devil. She got save by the priest. Plus some vomiting effetcs and bed moving. And that pretty much covers the action. On the other hand, this movie provides some unusual scenes. such as the one in hospital, some interesting dialogs and "strong" language, which wasn't so frequent in seventies. Most of this praise goes to the director of this movie.  Maybe this movie was way ahead when it was made, but since it didn't make me fall from chair when the scary scenes were played, I can only rate it by
4 out of 10,


                
