For those who watched this film on the big screen when it was re-released and thought it was 'comical, funny, not disturbing nor scary' are  just do not understand the complexity that surrounds this movie. Back in '73, no one was expecting a film of this kind, and I know it has been said many times but it WAS way ahead of its time. A time where cinema was in its infancy, religion was practiced on a larger scale than today and showing such violent, graphic and disturbing scenes was not thought of as being possible, one can understand why it has been banned for so many years.I recently watched this movie (at night, before bedtime) and it really left me thinking of how such horrifying scenes could be shown and portrayed in such a way. There were many scenes that would not get out of my head (for those who have seen the movie would know what scenes they are). I could not sleep that night and that hasn't happened since I saw Nightmare On Elm Street Part 1 when I was 6!What makes things worse is that there are well known cases where  people have been possessed by the devil or a supernatural being, which leads them in doing evil deeds.When you mix a horror movie with religion on such a large magnitude, things can heat up and become very unpleasant.


                
In the documentary on the DVD, von Sydow says that if you are open to it, this film will scare you and perhaps affect you spiritually. Certainly true. Why this and not the many other similar films? Keep in mind that essentially all the rest of Friedkin's work is mundane, worthless.A large part of the question, I think, is that the creators of the film have stumbled into a rich field of archetypal conflicts, stuff deeper than just a sweet kid cursing and masturbating.The film is set in a Jesuit University. Even today, if you go there, you find a very strange vibe. The notion of authoritarian faith being crammed down from above certainly has a place in society, but such a brotherhood running an academy of open inquiry is a puzzling, disturbing mix. And that's underscored and mirrored by a similar (though less militant) conflict around psychiatry. Here we have the priests of `medicine' torturing this little girl to confirm their theories.The priest is the center of the film, and embodies all this: Arcane `faith' versus modern inquiry; Taking direction blindly rather than acting on knowledge; Understanding the mind versus understanding the soul; Serving the weak (his mother) versus battling powerful evil. Friedkin increased these ambiguities wherever he found them, usually against the positivist stance of Blatty.Interesting in this context are two tricks, one conscious, the other I suspect not.The conscious one is the self-referential wrapper. This is film about a film star, making a film. What triggers the possession are the visits by the director who probably had some deviant intent or action. He is the first victim. Thus, Friedkin places himself in the action and himself openly exploits Linda Blair. Meanwhile the actor playing the director dies in real life.The unconscious one is the Persian reference. Best scholarship has Judaism coming from Zoroastrianism flavored by Egyptian superficialities. A lower form of Zoroastrianism devolved into the much more widely adopted Mithraism, characterized by the warring of good and evil. This is sort of the professional wrestling of religious belief, both in style and substance, and continues today to be the root of `fundamentalism.' So in a very real way, Satan was invented in northern Iran, and any student of religion will end up `digging' around there.How sad and strange that this film seems to have bolstered the Catholic church.


                
The Demon: "Your mother sucks c''ks in hell!".The film is about a little girl is possessed by a demon. Can the Catholic church save her.This movie is pure creepy and pure gross. That image of the demon that you see not a lot, that face is just so freaky and it makes me jump every time I see it. The movie left a scary and a chilling in me after I finished watching it. The movie has its problems like the film at times does slow down a little bit. But overall The Exorcist is a horror movie that sticks with you after it's over. Leaving a uneasy feeling on you that a lot of people had back in 70's.


                
There are certain scenes in "The Exorcist" that have a great power to them (the exorcism itself is a masterful set-piece) and others that are a bit shaky (including the drunk, unfunny director cracking Nazi jokes in the presence of a German butler); but overall, it is a film that mines genuine fear from a pervasive sense of vulnerability. In dealing with the possession of a young girl (Linda Blair) by an unseen, inexplicable force, we feel as if nothing is safe, therefore making the potential of horror that much greater. I suppose the story is probably the most familiar in the annals of horror at this point, but to recap: actress Chris MacNeil's (Ellen Burstyn) daughter, Regan (Blair) comes under the spell of a vile, vulgar demon (at one point implied to be the Devil itself), and when the most well-paid psychiatrists and doctors come up clueless, the Catholic ritual of exorcism is suggested. While the performances of Burstyn and Blair aren't revelatory (Chris often seems like an overly dramatic starlet in need of a Xanax, and Regan is confined to heavy make-up), the thread of plot dealing with Damien Karras (the Gabriel Byrne-ish Jason Miller), a priest who suffers the death of his mother and is afraid he's losing his faith, adds a believable, consequential depth to the tale--the visible doubt he conveys during the exorcism finale (alongside the brilliant Max von Sydow) makes the tension resonate on a higher level. "The Exorcist" is cerebral, plausible, and compelling...in my book, it may not be 'the scariest movie of all time,' but it unlocks an undeniably gripping fear.


                
Adapted for the screen by William Peter Blatty from his bestselling book about a young girl possessed by a demon, and directed by William Friedkin, The Exorcist is perhaps one of the most infamous scary movies of all time. When first released in the 70s, the film caused hysteria with people fainting in the theatres and requiring medical attention (the makers were accused of manipulating the audience with subliminal imagery). In the 80s, it was caught up in the 'Video Nasty' phenomenon, and when submitted for classification, was refused a release.The late 90s saw the film released uncut on DVD, and several versions have since been released, including 'The Exorcist: The Version You've Never Seen'. which saw the movie given a digital makeover, and 11 minutes of footage (excised from the film's original release) reinstated.But is the film worthy of its reputation as 'the scariest film of all time'? Well, Friedkin's movie is, without a doubt, an intense viewing experience<U+0097>but only in places. Linda Blair's portrayal of Regan, the girl who must undergo an exorcism after she shows all the signs of possession, is simply breathtaking and her scenes are truly amazing. Her disturbing transformation from sweet little girl to foul-mouthed, puke-spitting blasphemer is one of horror's defining moments and still has the power to shock.Dick Smith's wonderful make-up and Marcel Vercoutere's mechanical effects make Regan's possession seem only too real; they include the now-famous revolving head scene, the levitating body and, in 'The Version You've Never Seen', the amazingly creepy 'spiderwalk'.However, between these compelling 'shock' scenes, the film tends to drag and certain issues in the film are left unresolved. The prologue in Iraq, which adds very little to the story, lasts way too long. How or why Regan comes to be possessed, and exactly how this is connected to the opening moments, is vague at best. Scenes involving the desecration of a church, a silver necklace and a small clay statue require further explanation to be understood.The Exorcist is a film that any self-respecting horror fan should see. It is a classy production, with solid performances and lovely cinematography. The film's influence on horror cinema has ensured it has a well deserved place in movie history. Whether or not it deserves the all of the praise that has been heaped upon it is another matter.


                
This horror film about a girl possessed by the devil became a box office blockbuster. The acting is pretty good and Friedkin creates a chilling atmosphere. However, the story is quite silly. It is not so much a horror film as an exercise in gross effects, with pea soup playing a prominent role. In fact, some of Blair's antics are more comical than scary. The expository scenes are not very interesting, and the prologue in Iraq, while well filmed, does not fit in with the rest of the film. The plot has some holes, and even if one accepts the premise of possession, there is no logic to someone turning her head 360 degrees without dying. It's simply cheap thrills.


                
Well, after all these year, I finally got around to seeing this picture, to see what all the fuss was about.What I found was, it was a pretty good horror movie, but nothing all that outstanding. There was a lot of good stuff, but some pretty bad flaws too. There seemed to be an *awful* lot of extraneous stuff in the movie that should've been just left out, to make a tighter story. For instance, what was up with that whole opening scene in Iraq? What did that have to do with *anything*? Yeah, it provided a little exposition on the exorcist character, but not really that much, and by the time the dogs are barking and the weird guy is staring at him, the whole thing starts to make no sense and asks more questions than it answers. Or the prolonged story about the shrink-priest's mother, that seemed to be done in vastly more detail than was warranted for its importance to the story. Or, really, the *entire* character of the cop, which ends up going nowhere. And I'm still scratching my head trying to figure out the relevance of the drunk guy making Nazi accusations.There's also a fundamental problem here of motive. What on *earth* was the demon trying to accomplish by possessing the girl? With the power that the demon clearly possessed, you'd think it could've found better ways to cause havoc or do evil or whatever the heck its goal was, than just by tormenting a little girl and her family. That thing could've caused trouble on a vastly larger scale than that! And I still can't really find any method to its madness. First clanking around in the attic, what did that accomplish? Then taking a LONG time to possess the little girl, why the painfully slow approach, when he was able to take over the priest instantaneously? (yeah, the priest invited him in, but still. The girl was pretty much helpless to resist) In short, the demon's character is very badly contrived; it conveniently does whatever will lead to a gradual build-up of suspense and shock in the film for the convenience of the director, rather than having any logical or consistent motive for what it was doing.Still, while rather slow in developing, it did hold my interest, and I did care about the outcome, and it was pretty creepy, if not exactly terrifying. Again, a pretty good horror flick, but no great masterpiece.
Finally, I watched this movie in it entirety.  This movie made me think about what is evil?  Evil is vile, upsetting, and destructive. The movie showed this.  The ending could have more than what it did.  Not much bothers me, after what I have seen; Working at the post office I have seen vile, upsetting, and destructive behavior.  I wonder if some of that behavior could be the results of demonic influence?  Evil must be the free will choice of good.  The viewer sees the absences of good in this movie.  Hate and hate for God, I have seen too much of these destructive habit and this movie portrays evils attack on good in its true nature. 7/10


                
The main thing I really liked about this film was how different it was from many of today's horror films. It wasn't just your classic slaughter movie with the worst actors or just completely dumb characters who you almost want to route against, but instead was interesting with characters who actually had purpose in the movie other than to just be butchered. I would call this movie a horror but it may also be a drama as well. It takes a great look at what would actually happen if a young child were to become possessed in 1973, and I believe that's why so many people became so afraid of this movie or of the idea because of how realistically sounding this was. This movies impact reminds me a lot of like the movie JAWS. Once that movie came out and people heard if shark attacks being reported their was a mass hysteria which just added to the intensity of the movie and same with THE EXORCISM. The movie is one of the few horror movies where it actually has meaning and life to it instead of it just becoming a slaughter house halfway through.


                
I have seen this movie two times. The first time six years ago when I was sixteen years old. I had nightmares for a week. I had only heard that it was scary and didn't know anything else about it (being Swedish, I of course knew that Max von Sydow had a part in it), so it *did* scare me. It isn't scary in the special effects 'body-parts are flying'-kind of way or anything, it's scary on a psychological level which is a thing I don't think people who say that this isn't a scary movie can see. They obviously wants more blood and maimed bodies. This is horror with *class*. More of a Silence of the Lambs-"scariness".However, I have now seen it a second time and I have to say that I don't find it as scary as I did when I was sixteen. But it is still a great movie and didn't William Peter Blatty say that he based his book on an article he had read as a student about an exorcism that the Catholic church *had* allowed for a young boy. I don't know if that's true, but if the Catholic church allows an exorcism then it must be... serious.Great and intense movie. I give it 7/10.


                
Young daughter of a famous actress demonstrates such strange, violently self-inflicted behavior that her mother is eventually told about the Catholic practice of Exorcism. Some audiences start giggling during "The Exorcist" right about the time Linda Blair's bed starts shaking, an understandable response since the film's shocks are occasionally outlandish, and the possessed girl's mother curses as much as the demon! The film is intense (sometimes glumly or heavily so) and also very scary (battering the viewer with graphic obscenities), yet there is art in the way director William Friedkin shaped William Peter Blatty's story, and many scenes are now classics: a haunting shot of Regan's scarred face overlapping the arrival of Father Merrin; Regan being promised a nice day out on her birthday, instead overhearing her mom on the phone trying to contact the estranged father, telling the secretary, "He doesn't give a s**t!" "The Exorcist" is definitely a horror movie, but it's also a psychological suspense story; if viewers do laugh at the freaky moments, that's because the shocks are engineered mechanically--they provoke either fright or nervous laughter (and in a crowded movie-house, reactions can go either way). The extra scenes included on "The Version You've Never Seen" were long overdue, however they do not add nor detract from the original product (although I found the "ghostly apparitions" a distraction). The expanded ending is fun for those who know the original by heart, but for the uninitiated viewer I would stick with the '73 goods. *** from ****


                
I am a not of fan of horror movies so this was not the easiest movie to watch.It was a very disturbing movie for its time and still is pretty disturbing now.I feel like it had to do a lot with the questions of god vs. evil and god vs. Satan and it completely opened the world eyes to what exorcism and if it is or isn't real.I think its one of the truly greatest horror films because it pushed the envelope of what is a horror movie. It is constantly tests your mind and tampers with your thoughts to try and make you see what they want you to see. It also brings about the question of whether there is a god or divine power out there and I find that very fascinating because I tend to question that all the time. The score at the end of the movie when the demon possesses the little girl and then the priest was intense and disturbing and showed a new side of horror never seen before.Overall, it was just a really disturbing and scary movie.
I sat down , 18 years of after i first watched the exorcist not really knowing what i was going to think of , was it going to be dated was i still gonna be scared out of my wits like the first time i watched it? well the exorcist HAS dated but not to badly, its still horrific in its own way ( i still think" THE OMEN" is the better film) and i can see how it was banned in the UK for so many years , not the i agree with banning or censorship in any shape or form. For someone seeing the Exorcist for the first time they might come away being dissapointed but what they must realise is this film was made in 1973 and nothing had ever been seen like it.The first 40 minutes are very slow but after that things hot up! 7 out of 10


                
This is an incredibly disturbing film about a possessed child and an exorcism. Definitely beats modern remakes and very disturbing indeed


                
The ExorcistFriedkin's medicinal procedure is a masterpiece on paper and an arguably a decent one on screen. But this can easily be excused by the limitations of technology and the cheesiness of 70's. Having said that, it doesn't suggest that the concept is a mere old testament read from an infamous book. The concept that it attempts to achieve is ahead of its time, since despite of the horror being animated for the most part of the film, the sinister ideology of it that keeps you at the brisk of your seat, is thought provoking. The various tactics it uses to push the characters surrounding the protagonist to a cornered position is a smart-smart act. The entirety of the sequences brimmed with awe struck violence is the last bit of shock that impresses you, a girl at such an age crossing line on social margin is what amps up the charge.The literal head spinning remedies that the protagonist's caretakers bring in and the counterargument that she has, feels like a flat out brutal war weaved out with meticulous eye. As anticipated the mythological aspect that denses characters' perspective may feel mechanical but in its latter stages punches its way out with a knockout. Personally, Blair seemed much more convincing in a brutal antagonist's cape than an illuminating adolescent teenage girl.The irony of her pulling off a grin like a leader of an outlaw group is enough to give you the chills. Von Sydow in his brief period as a supporter elevates the momentum much more than Burstyn, Cobb or Miller ever could. There are few weak moments where the makers do take things too far that shucks away the integrity and raises questions. But, all in all, The Exorcist Friedkin, conjures over the horror genre with a large margin than it does on drama.


                
Ok, I didn't love it. I think it's one of those movies that I waited so long to see it that it's become such an ingrained piece of our culture that even though I had not seen it, it felt like I had seen it. But at least I can say I did it!
It's a well made movie for sure and I can totally respect that at the time it did something that no other movie had really done before. There's certainly some shock value to several of the scenes. I can also acknowledge that it changed the genre of horror films by becoming so pivotal. It was a huge success and everyone wanted to emulate that success. The acting is good and the special effects hold up reasonably well.


                
The reputation of "The Exorcist" film was such, that I wasn't quite sure what to expect when I first saw this when the ban on the film had been lifted. I saw the film at the cinema in 1998 and I enjoyed it but it hasn't dated too well. The special effects for their time may have been pretty good but nowadays, they wouldn't satisfy most audiences. What still works about "The Exorcist," is the way it is written, directed and acted. It is in one sense, a good old fashioned story about Good vs Evil. Ellen Burstyn, Max Von Sydow, Jason Miller and Linda Blair take the acting honours between them. The making of the film was just as eventful as anything that occurred in the film itself. About 9 people who were directly or indirectly associated with the film, met with sudden deaths. It makes one wonder if the film set was cursed! It was a long time in the making - over a year altogether but it was worth it. The screenplay is one of the best I have come across for a horror film. The script avoids all the usual clichés by being more subtle, insightful and creative. Not much happens in the way of horror for about the first hour but that is a good thing. Watch this with the lights off!


                
Apparently I'm on a Blatty kick with my previous review of The Ninth Configuration and then doing a throwback to The Exorcist, but how can you blame me? The man is a legend. The Exorcist was based on Blatty's novel of the same name (published in 1971), which itself was based on the 1949 exorcism of Roland Doe (a pseudonym), a 14-year-old boy who was the victim of demonic possession.It has achieved massive acclaim since its release: it earned ten Academy Award nominations (won two), became one of the highest grossing films in history (over $441 million worldwide in the aftermath of various re-releases), and is widely regarded as one of the best horror films ever made.The overt religious themes and subtle creepiness start right at the beginning, with Father Merrin (Max von Sydow) on an archaeological dig in Iraq. He finds an amulet that chills him<U+0085> the scene where the scholar he is talking with mentions "evil against evil" and the pendulum of the clock abruptly stops<U+0085> understated and yet awesome.We then switch to a happy home in Georgetown, a neighborhood in Washington, D.C., with actress Chris (the always fantastic Ellen Burstyn) and her young daughter Regan (Linda Blair). It doesn't take long before Regan finds a mysterious ouija board — which she apparently uses to contact someone she calls "Captain Howdy" — and things start to descend from there, with Regan becoming more and more overtaken by some kind of mysterious, evil force.Firstly, the music is all great, but "Tubular Bells" by Mike Oldfield — what is now considered the "theme from The Exorcist" — is fantastic. I feel like you'd know it if you heard it, likely even if you hadn't seen the movie before. (It may also remind you of the Halloween theme song, like it does for me.)The movie is known, undoubtedly, for its more extreme scenes — Linda Blair projectile vomiting her pea soup bile into Father Karras's face, her crab walk on the stairs, violating herself with a crucifix — but there's so much subtle horror to be had as well, not to mention the deep symbolism and the obvious struggle to hold onto one's faith, something that seemingly everyone is grappling with.Not least of which is Chris's frustration over the doctors' inability to diagnose her daughter. We see her slowly but surely going mad and losing her ability to hold it together as she is faced with the same answers (or lack thereof), the same brush offs, the seeming lack of caring or passion to get to the bottom of what is a pretty dramatic mystery. Burstyn does such a fantastic job in this role — she gives you chills on more than one occasion with her raw emotion.There's also Father Karras's guilt-laden relationship with his mother, made even more intense when she passes away, all but forgotten in her home for days before she's found. His faith is shaken to the core for reasons even beyond this, and yet he can't break loose from his obligations and his morals as a priest.Ultimately, this movie made such a shocking impression for its more provocative moments — Regan's head spinning around WAS pretty cool — but it's worth sticking around for the characterizations.The shot of Father Merrin arriving at their home all silhouetted in fog is just<U+0085> killer. It's such a well known shot for a reason — again, even if you've never seen the movie, it's likely you've seen that one screenshot — and it is just brilliant. The mist surrounding him adds such an appropriately otherworldly feel, the house is ominous as it looms over him, and his brief hesitation to continue walking in<U+0085> perfection.I was surprised during the exorcism scene — again, the classic portion of the whole movie — of how little I was impressed by the oft-mentioned head spinning, but how much I LOVED when Regan's eyes went white before she levitated. SO GOOD. The repetition of "the power of Christ compels you!" is full of so much intensity<U+0085> these two men are wanting this exorcism to work for so many different reasons, and yet so many of the same ones. They are literally fighting against evil, hoping they have what it takes to draw it out and make it cower in fear while they are both still so unsure. The demon inside of her is using everything it can — particularly Father Karras's very recent, raw pain concerning his mother — and the scene with his ghostly white mother sitting on the bed is chilling to say the least. And the ending<U+0085> gah. Perfect.Seriously, while The Exorcist may not be MY favorite horror movie of all time, it's pretty fantastic and worth a watch (or two).
just my opinion but i thought it was kind of funny. going in, i thought it was gonna be a creepy horror fest but i was a bit disappointed. its definitely a must watch, especially if your a horror movie fan. but i was too desensitized to this kind of thing. it all just looked silly to me. if you want a good scare and don't willingly look up the most horrifying things the internet has to offer this movie is for you. if you've have seen the worst side of the web than this is a pretty good laugh. i will admit i was a bit confused. i am not entirely sure what the cannon for the supernatural world here is. the demon that posses the girl is apparently Babylonian... which is separate from Christianity, definitely modern Christianity. probably the point, not knowing.
Where should I start?There are many things that make The Exorcist a truly unique film. A movie like this hadn't been made before when it came out, and it took everyone who saw it by surprise.Many things shown in this were past the lines that people thought had been drawn in movie-making: The girl's head spinning 360 degrees, the multiple obscenities spoken by the possessed throughout the film, need I mention the crucifix scene? Before The Exorcist, the only popular religion-based horror movie that I know of was Rosemarie's Baby, and in comparison, that wasn't even edgy.However, I personally think this movie relies on its shocks more than its actual scares. I find this movie more shocking and disgusting (green projectile vomit, anyone?) than scary. The actual scary scenes I saw in this were the spider-crawl down the stairs, and, of course, the crucifix scene. Other than that, it's mostly profanity and green vomit.I guess you do have to see this movie at least once in your life, though, because it has a GREAT soundtrack (Tubular Bells), and you will never find another movie like it.3/4


                
Having seen 'The Exorcist' recently, and knowing beforehand how horrific it was supposed to be, I have to confess that I laughed all the way through. It has aged terribly in the last twenty-five years.  It is slow, loosely plotted and far too "seventies" for a nineties audience to really appreciate.  I'm sure that, at the time, it was a mould-breaking horror. Now it's just a relic that illustrates the sensibilities of a seventies audience and the censors.  Sorry to all those fifty-somethings who saw it and screamed the first time round - I just don't see what there is to scream about.


                
After all the hype, all the newspaper comments on the film "This film has been banned for at least 10 years", "Sick", "Scary", even "The Best movie ever made", "Audiences were vomiting after the film"I had to go and see it. And I was disappointed.  A bit.  It's very good, but not scary at all.  Sick in places, but not scary.  The first half of the film is incredibly boring, only picking up in the last third.  If you don't believe me, then note this point, throughout the film, the audience were laughing at key points. Laughing?!?!  That says it all!!


                
It does have it's moments of genuine fear and suspense. But taken as a whole The Exorcist really needs a laugh track. Spinning heads and pea soup vomiting is just a bit much! I worked in a hospital casualty on the film release, the number of hysterical admissions following the film was amazing.


                
Just saw the re-release with the restored footage.  Having only seen the original version once, and that was 20 years ago, it was hard for me to spot the new scenes.  I wasn't as terrified as I recall I was on seeing it the first time, but it's still a great movie!


                
The Exorcist is an impressive film for the reasons one might least expect. The effects now appear antiquated; heads on poles, doddering wardrobes, grotesque make-up, organic spinach soup for vomit etc. Meredith McCambridge's growling echoes childhood nightmares of <U+0091>things that go bump in the night', teamed with the rumblings of a disgruntled stomach. The exorcism scene is a transparent attempt at fulfilling all fifteenth century documented accounts of such spooky goings-on. The swearing is the laughable stuff of eighteen certificate Manga cartoons. So, why the uproar?Why the dear? Why the fainting, puking and spontaneous flooding of churches? Because, this film plays on our <U+0091>What If?' insecurities. What if this is all more than pure cinema and exploitative publicity? And if so, what does this imply? Forces of good and evil form the basis for all cinematic classics - just watch come Disney or Lucas - but in such abstracted ways that theory seldom eclipses theatre. The reason the Exorcist still speaks to an audience now familiar with the power of computer generated fear, is that one always has this question mark of spirituality hanging over their dusty halos or polished horns. The fact remains that the Exorcist will remain disturbing for as long as the majority of us remain unsure. Ellen Burstyn (the mother) agreed to appear in the film, only on the condition that her line <U+0091>I believe in the Devil' would be cut. Think about it. Accepting the existence and/or possibility of an omnipotent dark force invading your merry little quiet life requires not only courage but also belief. Shock tactics involving bloody crucifixes and four-letter words fail when their likelihood in reality equals zero. That is why <U+0091>The Exorcist' is so terrifying. Special effects means nothing when your belief is suspended<U+0085>.


                
