This known story concerns about a mother (Ellen Burstyn) and her daughter (Linda Blair), the latter is possessed and two Fathers , Karras (Jason Miller) and Merrin (Max Von Sidow) attempt to free Regan MacNeil from possession by the devil . Meanwhile , a Police Inspector (Lee J. Cobb) is investigating the weird events . And the priests suffering incredible risks trying to unravel mystery of demon living inside Regan .This is a fairly suspenseful and horrifying story, based on a supposedly true flick . The movie begins well and grows more and more until the scary and eerie finale . Top-notch picture, thanks to fine acting , tight pacing , well mounted edition and skillful special effects with magnificent make-up by Dick Smith . Creepy acting by Linda Blair , due to death threats against Linda Blair from religious zealots who believed the film "glorified Satan", Warner Bros had bodyguards protecting her for six months after the film's release . On the first day of filming the exorcism sequence, Linda Blair's delivery of her foul-mouthed dialogue so disturbed the gentlemanly Max Von Sydow that he actually forgot his lines . The script is awesome , the acting excellent and the direction by William Friedkin plenty of good pace and conviction . Enjoyable secondary cast such as Lee J Cobb , Kitty Winn and Jack McGowran who died at the time finished the movie and added a legend about Exorcist's curse . Dark cinematography in sinister and mysterious atmosphere by Owen Roitzman and frightening musical score adding Mike Oldfield's soundtrack ¨Tubular bells¨ . The tale is rated ¨R¨ for graphic violence and profanity but contains gore and guts . Reiussed in 2000 by means of a special edition by director with ten minutes approximately additional footage with new amazing scenes as Regan downing stairs .Followed by two sequels and numerous imitations , in 1977 ¨the Heretic¨ by John Borman with Richard Burton , deemed awful and in 1990 titled ¨The Exorcist III¨ by William Peter Blatty with George C Scott, Brad Dourif , Ed Flanders and Nicol Williamson . Furthermore, spawned two prequels starred by a young Father Merrin , Stellan Skarsgard , and set in Africa , both of them directed by Paul Schrader and Renny Harlin .


                
More than thirty years on, The Exorcist remains a very powerful film and was a cinematographic milestone in 1973. Repeated duplication of the genre has, no doubt, 'desensitized' a new generation of movie-watchers, though it remains an unnerving masterpiece. It is not difficult to understand why the film generated such a seismic global impact all those years ago, since it imposed an unprecedented sensory attack on the viewer. Regan's vile physical appearance, combined with her vile language and blasphemous diatribe sent a shock wave around the world. Moreover, many people seemed to believe the claims that the film was based on a true story and could therefore actually happen to them. Electricity consumption must have soared for several months in 1973 as people who had seen the film slept with their lights on! It is still not a film I would feel comfortable watching before going to bed. On another level, I found parts of it profoundly moving and actually cried at the end when Regan was finally released from her possessor and wept in the arms of her mother and Father Damien, having lunged himself through a window and down a precipitous flight of steps, managed to find just enough life in himself to indicate that he had retained his faith and repented of his sins by motioning his fingers in the sign of penitence when comforted by a distraught colleague. Possibly the only thing that lets the film down if one really sits and thinks about it is the underpinning concept that an ancient demon which had existed since the dawn of time should wish to possess the body of a twelve year old child and emit a string of juvenile profanities. But then the film was designed to shock all along!


                
This is a very highly rated horror movie for a good reason, when it was realised it broke the mould of everything that preceded it, and set the standard for the horror genre for decades to come; because of this it should retain its place Movie history forever.The sheer terror this movie instilled in people, during the year of its release is even today unmatched by anything. Time, however has altered its effect on its audience, we simply are not as easily shocked as we used to be.For anyone who hasn't seen this movie yet, my advice is this, approach it with an open mind, and remember when it was made, this is the only way you will appreciate it for what it is.Difficult for new audiences to appreciate, but it is still a classic, time won't change that.8/10


                
I'll keep this brief - most every horror fan has seen The Exorcist and all of them have an opinion of it. While many people would most certainly list The Exorcist as THE scariest movie ever made, there seems to be a growing number of fans who find humor where it was not intended. I don't get it. Maybe it's a generational thing, but The Exorcist remains as effective today as it was in 1973. If the story of a young, helpless girl being turned into a snarling creature isn't horror enough, add to that the desecration of sacred religious symbols and you've got something quite shocking. Beyond the story, the strong performances by a good cast really help put The Exorcist over the top. Max von Sydow was never better. And the performance of an incredibly young and inexperienced Linda Blair is nothing short of remarkable. Add to that the excellent lighting, sound, cinematography, and special effects, and you've got not just a scary movie, but a very well made movie as well.
Everyone has watched the exorcist at some point and its so well know that franchises like Scary Movie have ripped it off so well that its difficult not to raise a smile when scenes which were lampooned show up in the first few mins of the exorcist. Or so I thought.
It doesnt take long for the creeping dread of this movie to make you forget Scary Movie ever existed.
Theres no real need to explain the plot as its so well know.
Having watched this when I was much younger what I recalled were the possession scenes and the exorcism itself, however that isnt where the magic lies.
What stands out re-watching this as an adult was the sinister and creepy build up towards the exorcism.
What seems to be forgotten is that in this movie the possession is never really confirmed until the final third of the movie, a host of psychiatrist use the crude science available at the time in order to try and explain away the behaviour of the possessed girl. Watching the mother try to come to terms with whats happening and the ordeal the girl experiences at the hands of the medics is also harrowing.
The reason this is regarded as one of the best movies ever made are the human relationships and trials as an adult which are tested by the devil. Its aim is to drive a wedge between families and exploit the guilt families may feel towards each other. It is also authentic and was aided in production by the church who ensured it treated the matter seriously.
Sure some of the effects may look dated but its still effective. Or it was when I watched it this halloween in a freezing, dusty and decaying cinema. The environment certainly added to atmosphere of the movie.
I have heard reviews that some younger audiences have found this funny and cannot take it seriously, I doubt that will be the case when they grow up and watch this with the eyes of an adult. Its much more than one of the best horrors, its one of the best movies ever made. Period.


                
Stunning visuals, effects and overall horror for 1973. The characters are very strongly portrayed and the feeling of hopelessness is ever-present throughout the movie. Even though some scenes are outright shocking and provocative, there is also a strong element of the uncanny present. This is a very haunting movie that still shocks, amazes and intrigues after all these years.


                
A classic among horror movies. Clever, well-planned plot. Solid direction by William Friedkin. Friedkin builds the tension masterfully. Incredible suspense and a very sinister and eerie feeling. Great shock value tooThe result is a very scary movie, and one which reminds you that horror movies don't have to be b-grade schlock, they can be works of art.Good performances all round. Three of the cast got Oscar nominations: Ellen Bustyn (leading actress), Linda Blair (supporting actress) and Jason Miller (supporting actor). No nomination for Max von Sydow but his performance is spot-on and the movie made his career.


                
The Exorcist has often been called the greatest horror movie ever made, and for a good reason. It was revolutionary during its release and the passage of decades has not dulled its impact in the slightest. It's still an uneasy film in the best possible meaning of the word, tapping into several sources of fear simultaneously, while still telling a coherent, captivating story. You get the creepy atmosphere right from the start as we follow an old priest in the desert and find out with him that something wrong has slipped through the cracks into the world of man. Something old and ancient, something that does not belong.But we've seen many creepy films since then and if that was all the movie had, if it was all promise and no payout, it wouldn't have earned its reputation. Luckily, the film is more rounded than that. Many "horror" movies nowadays rely on jump scares, easy wrights that momentarily spike our adrenaline levels without scaring the mind. It's physical, instinctive and ultimately leaves no impact. This movie and other films like it, however, do utilize shock value as a mean to create horror, but the imagery they use goes deeper than something that merely looks scary or unsettling. The sight of Regan (Linda Blair) being slowly corrupted by a demon is jarring on an emotional level. It touches the nurturing side within us. It's wrong, it's taboo and because of that it's something we will remember, something we automatically oppose. It's adult fear, to use the technical term, something quite different from being afraid of the monster under the bed.Furthermore, it's a film that shines in execution as well. All the actors do a magnificent job of portraying ordinary people that have to face the unthinkable, the impossible. The movie doesn't shy away from reality in order to make the story seem more plausible. Rather it freely acknowledges the implausibility of the situation, contradictorily making it a more believable film. Add in brilliant sound design, masterful use of music to create atmosphere, stunningly effective practical effects and great lighting and you have a film that quite effortlessly convinces you that yes, a small girl can become possessed, easily in fact.I don't think it's out of line to say you're not a true fan of horror before you've seen this film. It does so many things right and gets so little wrong that it's no wonder people still flock into theaters to see reruns of it, that people still talk about it, discuss it, lose sleep over it. Greatest horror movie of all time? Quite possibly. At the very least it's right up there at the top.


                
This movie defines the meaning of being possessed, where teenage girl Regan (Linda Blair) is being controlled by a mysterious supernatural being. As a result, her mother, Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn) desperately seeks the help of two priests to save her daughter.This is an iconic and great piece of horror cinema with a lot of tension and thrills, from Regan acting bizarre and displaying out-of-character behavior to her being fully controlled by the demon, while her mother watches helplessly. The scenes where the priests, in a fit of frenzy and determination, try to save the uncontrollable Regan from the unholy creature will give you a frightening, yet edge-of-your-seat excitement.Filled with great acting, spectacular make-up, and a good dose of horror mixed in with tense, spiritual drama, this is a must-see for any horror movie fans.Grade B+


                
"Now, I want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there's nothing wrong with my daughter, except in her mind. You tell me for a fact that an exorcism wouldn't do any good. You tell me that!"Definitely one of the most well-crafted horror movies that I've seen. Lots of time is given to developing the characters and atmosphere, which leads to a pretty fantastic payoff in the end. There's a clear sense of expert care taken with every aspect of the movie; there are no slapdash efforts or cut corners, from the script to the acting to the music. This story of young girl who may be possessed by a demonic entity is full of shocking imagery, but never once feels exploitative. The themes of doubt, faith, and sacrifice are clear, but not the least bit heavy-handed. The practical special effects are still impressive today, so I can only imagine the impact they had back in 1973. Frightening, disturbing, and ultimately, even a bit uplifting. The Exorcist is one of those classic movies that's still just as good today, and that every horror buff should see. 


                
This ground breaking, starkly filmed thriller stands for many as one of the most terrifying films of all time.  (Conversely, a faction of agnostic viewers are left with a less jolting experience, sometimes even finding the film funny!)  Quite explicit for its time, it raised the bar in film-making for gore and realism and adult horror and has been emulated many times. However, it is set apart by its well-written (Oscar-winning, in fact) script and realistic performances.  Burstyn is an actress who begins to sense unusual behavior in her preteen daughter (Blair.)  The bizarre symptoms (open sores, violent thrashing, etc...) escalate as Burstyn seeks help from all conventional avenues.  Finally, she determines that Blair is possessed by Satan and must be exorcised.  Miller is a troubled priest whose own problems pale in comparison with the dilemma facing Burstyn.  When things get worse instead of better, it is up to legendary priest Von Sydow to attempt to rid the child of the demons inside her.  The sense of fear and dread is aided by the cold, claustrophobic settings and the use of the music 'Tubular Bells' during key moments.  The visuals are primitive by today's standards, but still provide jolts, notably Blair's explosive green vomit. Her celebrated 360 degree head turning has lost it's punch now.  The film is packed with gross-out moments and shockingly blasphemous episodes which work to upset and disarm the viewer.  Mercedes McCambridge helped provide the raspy, vulgar voice of the possessed Blair.  A disastrous and heavily panned sequel "The Exorcist II:  The Heretic" starred an older Blair and Richard Burton.


                
The Exorcist. The cult 1973 movie is the mother of all movies made over the same subject over the years. Why it stands apart? I think because it treats its subject and characters with utmost sincerity and care. All characters ranging from the possessed girl, the helpless mother, the saviour priests and even the demon himself have been sketched with high level of detailing and given the back stories so that you care for them. Scenes involving demon torturing the possessed girl are terrifying and leaves you haunted. The conversations between devil and the priest are delicious to listen. The movie talks about possession and exorcism in so much detail as if you are watching documentary on this subject. Acting by all lead actors is top notch. The movie requires your patience in first half an hour but then there is no letting back as unpredictability takes center stage and you are glued to the screen to know how it will end. Movie succeeds in ending the horror in satisfactory manner. For all horror movie lovers, don't miss it!!


                
William Friedkin's "The Exorcist" is disturbing, scary and ultimately haunting at the same time. Viewing it now, in 2003, it seems a bit dated in some areas--but the film's gruesome depictions of possession are still as horrifying as then.Part of the fear, I think, is because it's so real. Let's face it, as scary as Norman Bates (or Freddy Krueger, for newer generations) may be, the chances of him walking into your house and repeatedly stabbing you are slim. But if you believe in any sort of religion, obviously you believe in God, Satan, demons, or some of the above. And, if you want to take it a step further, the Bible itself says demons are all around us, invisible to the eye and some, almost definitely, incarnate. Scary, huh?
Stories of demons, ghosts, and so on go back thousands of years. They've always given me the creeps, mainly because the supernatural is a whole other universe. There are no human boundaries for those from the parallel universe, if you believe in such things. I come from a Christian upbringing. Whether you have religion or not, it's still disturbing--but if you do have faith it's all the more terrifying. I don't know if you do, but watching "The Exorcist" with faith sure will scare the bejeezes out of you.Chris MacNeil (Ellen Burstyn) is a struggling actress raising her twelve-year-old daughter, Regan (Linda Blair), all by herself. Her husband has left her and refuses to speak with Regan, even on her 12th birthday. Regan has been experiencing some mild disturbances lately, ranging from her bed shaking to speaking evil and/or hurtful sentences to close friends and family.And so the realization finally hits that a demon has possessed Regan. Satan himself, supposedly, though it could just be a demon claiming to be Satan. He terrorizes the girl's body and inflicts harm. Regan turns into a beast--she has no idea what she's saying or doing. Her soul is still in the body somewhere...but the demon has completely taken control.And so an exorcism takes place, held by two priests, one of whom (Jason Miller) has recently started to lose his faith after the death of his elderly mother, and one of whom is a sort of legendary figure (Max Von Sydow). Will they be able to rid the demon from Regan's body?When "The Exorcist" came out in 1973, it scared everyone. Audiences held their breath. There are reports of movie-goers passing out in their seats. One man is rumored to have sued Warner Bros. because the film caused him to faint and hit his head on the edge of the seat in front of him. All this because of one horrifying film.Even stranger are the rumors of deaths on and off the set--the character of Burke Dennings, played by the famous Irish actor, died on location during filming, and so the author of the novel and script, William Peter Blatty, had to go back and make revisions. He and director William Friedkin eventually decided that the best thing to do would be killing off his character early on. It worked, and it only added a more evil overtone to the movie, and it really let the audience know that the demon wasn't just mean--it was homicidal.Other such rumors have been reported on the Steven Spielberg produced "Poltergeist." Many of the cast members later died in odd cases. Perhaps it's a subtle message that we're not dealing with something to be taken lightly.Luckily, no one watching the movie did. "The Exorcist" has dated in its past thirty years, yes, but the horrific possession scenes are still as gut-wrenchingly disturbing as they were back in '73. Hard to imagine that a film so gory and sickening was made prior to some of the teen flicks available on the market nowadays.But, if there's one thing you can credit "The Exorcist" for, it's that it isn't another teen slasher movie. This is an intelligent and surprisingly disturbing horror film. Some films, specifically those that are set in an unspecified year, date very well. "The Exorcist," in my opinion, hasn't dated quite as well as one would hope. But the scenes that everyone remembers, the scenes that really scare people, are just as terrifying as they were thirty years ago. And so, in that sense, the film hasn't dated at all.4.5/5 stars.John Ulmer


                
Someone once wrote that "The Exorcist" was an advertisement for the Roman Catholic Church, and I guess it is partly. I don't see anything necessarily wrong with that. Every story is an advertisement for one or another belief system. A man must stick to his guns and do what he believes is right, even against public opposition. ("High Noon," "The Fountainhead", and God knows how many others.) Or it's wrong to push ahead in the face of public opinion. ("Citizen Kane", etc.) Some belief systems are better than others but even the obviously malignant messages can be well framed. ("Triumph of the Will.") "The Exorcist," taken for what it is, is a well-constructed and thoroughly spooky film, better than the novel it was based on. Promoting Holy Mother Church may have been necessary in order to enlist the aid of the authorities in filming the story on the campus of Georgetown University. Some of the minor characters are played by real priests. William Friedkin, the director, tells us practically nothing of the back story in his least-informative audio commentary.It hardly seems worthwhile to describe in any detail the narrative itself. A normal young girl (Linda Blair) is possessed by some kind of demon and after many gruesome medical tests is turned over by her terrified mother (Ellen Burstyn) to two priests (Jason Miller and Max Von Sydow) to be exorcised. The clerics get the job done but it costs them their lives.The special effects were superb for their time. The performances are equally good, especially Lee J. Cobb as Lieutenant Kinderman, the cop who is investigating a death associated with the possession. He's been excellent before but never better than here, with his soothing, childlike, and perspicacious presence. Jason Miller is as taut as a 40-pound bow string. Even Linda Blair, who went on to do some awful trash, is thoroughly convincing.The director steps wrong once or twice, revealing a passion not for spiritual enlightenment but commercial success. Having a candle flame flare up and then blow out in a darkened room is a cheap shot but it works. So does a shot in which Jason Miller is hunched over tensely, a ringing phone explodes the silence, and he shouts "Huh?" and jerks upward. Bob Hope could have done that. But these minor intrusions, though they remind us that what we're watching is "just a movie," don't detract from the aplomb with which the rest of the film is handled.It really IS scary!
In 1973, a comedy writer and a car-chase director got together to tell a psychological mystery, based on an actual incident the writer heard of when he was in divinity school.Yeah, sounds like a real thrill-a-minute.Every studio passed. When Warner finally gave in, the writer/producer seemed to go out of his way to do everything wrong. He hired priests to play themselves. He hired a 40-year-old to be an 80-year-old. The female lead went to a virtual unknown, and the male lead was given to a Pulitzer Prize winning playwright who originally thought he was being hired to write the script. The professionally composed score was literally thrown out the window, and replaced by bits and pieces of obscure music. A maniacal director was allowed to torture and terrorize the cast. A barefoot illiterate peasant was hired to do the sound effects.During the first showing, the producers were certain they'd blown it when a large part of the audience walked out.They debated whether to release the film at all, and some studio chiefs considered it an obscene embarrassment. But as they left the theater, they noticed something odd.Every single member of the audience, including the walk- outs, was still in the parking lot. Not one person had driven home. They were gathered in a huge mob, discussing and debating and arguing about what they'd just seen.In the following months, the results were unprecedented. In New York, the joke was that you had to get in line in New Jersey. Today, we would call them "Star Wars" crowds.But "The Exorcist" came first.Like "Citizen Kane" or "2001: A Space Odyssey", it is one of those rare moments in film history when someone does something totally different, yet somehow, by luck or sixth sense or divine guidance, seems to know exactly what to do.Right from the start, the off-rhythm pounding of the Iraqi blacksmiths gets under our skin, a beautifully subtle way of suggesting something is not right with the world's heartbeat.The indecipherable right-to-left Arabic writing also plays a role here, a relatively strange sight to American audiences, and a prelude to the backwards speech, backwards heads, and backwards nature in scenes to come. Reversal and conflict are constantly reinforced thematically, through juxtapositions of incompatible images: the sacred and the profane, the light and the dark, the natural and the unnatural. But it's not all subtlety. The prologue sequence ends with a heroic shot straight out of High Noon, as the exorcist suddenly finds himself face to face with the statue of a grinning, reptilian demon. Human flesh against indestructible stone.Then a marvelous transition. Old to new. From Iraq to Georgetown. A movie actress switches on a light in a dark bedroom. And the sound of rats in the attic, even though the home's caretaker insists quite believably, "No rats." Scampering rats. Shrieking gulls. Lions devouring prey.All the sound effects are chosen with a merciless attention to human instinctive psychology. They set the stage for evil.Science alongside superstition. As a young girl becomes progressively sicker, her behavior ever more bizarre, there seems little difference between a medical laboratory, with its bloodletting and its whirling x-ray machines, and the rituals of a witchdoctor. We meet our young hero, the suffering priest/psychiatrist, further blurring the line between magic and reality. And he brings in yet another paradoxical combination: faith, and the loss of faith. By the way, his name is Karass, which is Greek for "cross". At least I think it is. Anyway, it should be.The film's most powerful oxymoron is undoubtedly the most shocking, most horrible scene in the history of cinema. It makes one inescapable point. This is not a disease. This is not a dream. This is not even a lower-echelon evil spirit from some haunted house movie. Only the Devil can do this.An interesting sidebar. During this scene, Ellen Burstyn is supposed to be sent flying by a vicious backhand blow. Of course, this was before the era of digital wizardry, so she had to be physically strapped into a harness and then pulled across the room. As the rehearsals wore on, she warned director Friedkin that she was starting to get hurt. Friedkin agreed that the next take would be more gentle. He lied.He covertly instructed the special effects designer to "let her have it." She went flying like a rag doll, screaming in agony as she thudded to the hard wooden floor. And Friedkin, the consummate artist, dollied in to get that last close-up, before calling the paramedics. Now that's what movies are all about.This movie is what movies are all about.


                
This is an exceptionally made movie. I got to see it theaters too, which only made it better. The film might be a tad slow in the beginning, but it picks up quickly once Reagan gets possessed and starts doing weird things. During the scenes where Reagan is flipping out, the special effects are incredible, especially for the time. They'll have things flying across the room, the entire bed shaking furiously, and of course, the projectile vomit. All of those look extremely realistic and they add to the super creepy atmosphere this film has. The voice they gave the possessed Reagan is perfect. If I had to choose a voice for the devil, it would have been that one. It really gets to you and makes every scene that has it way more frightening. The movie does have issues though. In the very beginning, they have this backstory about this little sculpture of the devil being found and I found it to be both unnecessary and kind of confusing. It isn't really clear if the devil got released because of that statue or what. I couldn't find a correlation between that statue and Regan either. Only other problem I have is the devil being very picky about how he uses his power. I don't understand why he just didn't break the straps and leave. I know they tried to explain it, but it doesn't really make any sense. Damien Karrass asked him that and he responded with "that would be a display of too much power" or something like that. He says that, yet he'll throw stuff all over the place and throw up on people, and even kill people. How is breaking some straps too much power? I call bs on that explanation. Other than those 2 problems, fantastic horror movie.


                
I hate horror films. I don't generally get scared that easily, and true enough I did not think The Exorcist was scary while watching it, but when you're alone at night in the dark trying to sleep, it's a whole different story. I had to sleep with a light on the first night after watching this, because all I think about when I try not to think about it is the film and the ugly demon's face and whatnot. Even now I'm dreading writing this review. But putting the horror aside, this film was very well made.The acting once I think about it, is actually really good. Ellen Burstyn as the mother has really great expressions and her reactions are on point. I'm not actually sure how Linda Blair as Regan acted as the demon, but if that was her then she did a really good job too. (I try not to stare at them ugly horror faces, but the expressions and actions did seem demonic) Karras was another main character in this and he played the part of a distraught son and priest really well, torn between his duty and the loss of someone he loved.The effects is also very good for its time. Made in the 70's, the shaking of the bed to the make-up and telekinesis of objects seemed pretty real. Except for the vomit which just looked like green goo from Nickelodeon.The mood of the whole film was also very well established with the beginning scene in Iraq/Israel? It laid the foundation for something ancient and kind of supernatural to come into the film. Also, Regan's room is constantly cold and getting colder, I read somewhere that there was actually a layer of frost in the room due to them filming in real conditions.And of course, let's talk about gender. The daughter has to be the one invaded because 'girls' are vulnerable and open to penetration, and to being invaded. The demon entering her body is, if you think about it, kind of like rape. And the mother is a single parent who can't do anything, and needs the help of men to save her daughter and her family.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
The first time I watched this movie a couple of years ago I had to turn it off because I crapped my pants, but now i've watched it I can now admire it but at the same time fear it. Winner of 2 Oscars and has been called the Godfather of all Horror movies this is truly one of the scariest and greatest movies of all time. The acting is fantastic and the storyline of the movie is just pitch perfect. I couldn't believe my eyes watching some of the brilliant special effects, even though it was made 40 years ago. Let's face it a lot of great movies came out in the 70s and the effects weren't as good as they are today, but they some how amazingly the effects were fantastic and one of the highlights of the movie. It has been called the scariest movie of all time and to be honest I can see why because I don't scare easily. A lot of jump scares and lasting scares (which I explained about in my review of The Conjuring 2013)and the scares are well timed and made out brilliantly. Now hear me out DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE ALONE or you will be sleeping with the lights on your the rest of your life.'scream out loud' scares and shocks at times when you expect and least-expect it.


                
Classics have always been boring, if you try to watch them in this YOLO generation. But, The Exorcist is one classic horror you will not be disappointed of.It starts off with something indirect. The climax is related to the beginning. And, the story between them is entailing. Stricken by an invisible spirit, daughter of a popular actress, becomes possessed, the plot of which fails to mention why. The performance of the girl is splendid. The editing is average. And the make-up, I should say, is very genuine. You see, in horror flicks, the make-up has to be authentic and not superfluous. The Exoricst gets an 8.2/10 for this. And the music. "Tubular Bells" creates a bloodcurdling mood. Fantastic.It chills you; the dialogs being funny sometimes, they mostly haunt you. Although, the plot is a tad feeble, the narration quite gets a nod. Cast performance is good. Direction is good and the background murder story is the perfect correlation.BOTTOM LINE: Highly recommended for horror genre lovers. This is truly a classic.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOProfanity: Critical | Vulgarity: Very Strong | Nudity: Very Mild | Sex/Foreplay: No | Smoking: Mediocre | Drugs: Very Mild | Alcohol: Mediocre | Violence: Strong | Gore: Strong | Traumatizing Quotient: High


                
This is one of the best horror films ever made it was so ahead of its time for special effects acting and just pure horror factor. I saw this movie first when I was young and it still creeps me out. They really don't make them like this anymore.This movie is about a young girl who one day starts acting strange. She starts acting stranger and stranger so her mother takes her into a doctor to see if anything is wrong. The doctor cant find anything so soon as the girl gets worse the mother considers the extreme and has an exorcism.This movie was really good and very creepy. The special effects were great for the year and it really is just an entertaining movie. If your horror fan you must see it.


                
I had a "fright night" a few months back where me and my girlfriend would watch a bunch of scary movies. So neither of us had seen The Exorcist and watched it. Wow, very raw and gritty, even for today so I can't imagine how they took it back in the 70s. When she started masterbating with the cross, I think I said "holy crap" out loud. The special effects were good. It seemed a bit slow at times and I really didn't quite grasp the opening desert scene, but fairly solid movie. Not a fan of tragic or unexplained endings, and this one had both, but still a good movie and would recommend it to anyone else having a fright night of their own.
In The Exorcist, director William Friedkin weaves you down a tense and terrifying path of trauma; resilience; suffering; grief; the questioning of faith and, ultimately, evil. By the time the film had bedded down into this, rather literally, one on one scenario between the powers of good and evil, locked away within the confinement of a young girl's bedroom, I was worn out in all the right ways and there was still much more to come. The film fascinatingly and meticulously balances the plight of a handful of characters caught up with one another whilst on the front-line of a case involving the possession of a young girl by a demon. It details the agony and confusion at what might be wrong with her, by those close to her, right the way through to the plight of a police detective wanting to solve the cases of a handful of murders perpetrated by said spirit; all of it wonderfully well and without ever over tilting the emphasis on any one story.The film will begin in The Middle East, specifically Iraq, and an archaeologist is undergoing a large dig with dozens of locals in searching for something which is eventually found. The sense that the archaeologist has been there for a fair while, in attempting to find what it was he was looking for, is put across by way of his arriving at some ancient ruins before having some armed guards retreat upon seeing whom it actually is that has hared up to their entrance in a jeep. His time away from home and in this location suggests a great importance surrounding the item he's searching for, an importance that we feel has seen this elderly man sacrifice most of his later years in looking for it. What he finds appears to be more than a mere physical item, the apparent fever that follows his uncovering of a small fist sized trinket having him suddenly become aware of all the relatively uncanny iconography in the form of gargoyles and such when around the ancient ruins he clearly frequents often enough. If, for all that time, the said items did not all that much bother him as they tower over the general locale, then we most certainly feel something must be inherently wrong for him to be affected, scared even, by them now.Friedkin fools us into thinking this is a film about this archaeologist whom uncovered more than he thought he would in the desert. In cutting to a quaint American suburb in the town of Georgetown, Washington; the director executes his first effective gear change in tone, study and general content as the lives of an American actress in Chris MacNeil (Burstyn) and her daughter Regan (Blair) are focused on. They dwell in a large, detached house; have a healthy family relationship with one another and the domestic bliss that is this cushy American suburban existence in a really pleasant area seems too good to be true. Another major player in proceedings is young priest Damien Karras (Miller), somebody whose faith to his profession is itself under threat and whose mother is elderly and frail. The boxing trophies, his photographs and the general mise-en-scene of his small apartment in a rough neighbourhood suggests he was once a fighter, a scrapper and apparently quite good at it. A glance at his exterior surroundings and the sorts of people whom inhabit it on the career paths they are twinned with a gradual revealing of the kindhearted manner he exudes suggests a resilience through adversity; an ability to become a priest over a thief or criminal and that he may have fought a fair few battles in his time thus nicely setting things up for later duels.The inclusion of Karras is another element Friedkin introduces still without revealing a discernible pattern to proceedings nor in which the direction the film is heading. We are challenged to form a correlation between the three parties, left hanging on the fate of the early archaeologist and left questioning whose story it is. As things unravel Regan becomes ill and the doctor discerns it as an interior problem of a scientific nature which can be treated despite Regan's claims and pleas. In providing us with a 'sick' character during the opening and wonderfully establishing the extent as to which the illness affected him before cutting away without much resolution, the rendering of Regan as unwell has us wonder as to the extent it will affect her and her ability as this young girl to deal with something that it's been previously established has a powerful affect on people.In years gone by, it might have been crude to ruin what it is that forces Regan to become as ill as she does; needless to say in case you're unaware, the issue is less so a scientific one than it is one of a theological nature. As the rest of the characters are left guessing, police Lieutenant William Kinderman (Cobb) is introduced to the text, Friedkin shooting one of his exchanges with Karras beside a tennis court after previously having them get along rather nicely; the use of the court in the background and link to tennis has us think of a tennis match, specifically a one on one match of gamesmanship unfolding on top of all this other activity as Karras and Kinderman clash over the investigating of the death of a British film-maker linked to Chris. The final act sees Friedkin go for the kill, cracking on ahead with a terrifying series of scenes which work gloriously and round off a wonderful directorial job. The film, essentially a battle between good and evil, is rich in disturbing imagery without being exploitative and high drama covering a number of strands and arcs, all of which work. The Exorcist is a superb thriller, running on controversial subject matter and the brilliant direction required to hit levels of this ilk.


                
Regularly labelled as the scariest film of all time, and considered by many to be the best, the infamous stories surrounding the release of The Exorcist and the reactions of its audiences ensure an impressive reputation precedes the viewing of this classic.Concerning 12 year old Regan MacNeil, the film details her possession at the hands of the demon Pazuzu. After the subsequent psychiatric and medical treatments prove useless, her mother arranges an exorcism, hiring two priests to drive the demon from her daughter's body.With such a reputation, I was either going to be disappointed, or discover a film I would love. Sadly, the former was the case. Good performances compliment the film, an interesting concept and storyline give it a solid foundation, but it just turned out to be overrated. It features an interesting and compelling theme, and one I see most effectively in the character of Father Karras. His was the plot line I was most interested in, and one which I feel was particularly well developed, Jason Miller giving a wonderfully stoic depth of emotion to his character. In the end, I certainly enjoyed the film, but it was nothing to the reputation it enjoys. Certain scenes seemed rather unnecessarily violent and inappropriate and included simply for the shock value, detracting from the film's effect and making me question its true intentions. It may be the case that the film has not aged particularly well, and I do wish I had seen it on its initial release, but as I did see it, it did little for me beyond a standard quantity of entertainment.The Exorcist supports itself for its running time, its thematic shadow lingering throughout. Father Karras is the film's best facet, but he's not enough in himself, leaving the film somewhat unbalanced. In short, it's fine, but far from brilliant.


                
That film was a turning point in horror films, in a way. For sure it did not concern some kind of mythical being or character. It was centered on a real person, living next door or up the street. That's the really new element, and even so, there had been some antecedents. The second new element here is the strongly Catholic context, and it is not clear at all that the Catholic Church is not used as a justification, a stamp of truth posted on the film, in other words an alibi. I find that slightly embarrassing today for the Catholic Church and all Catholics in the world. Many Catholics consider that demons, and daemons, and so on along that line, are nothing but a pagan heritage in the Christian approach of the world. The last point is not new at all. It is the close association of these demons to something found in some archaeological site in North Iraq, in other words in Moslem territory. This can be seen today as an anti-Moslem bias and it is absolutely unacceptable. On that point, like on the previous one, the film has aged tremendously. Apart from that the film was well made and still is well made. The suspense and the progression of the plot are quite clear. We understand more or less that the demon takes possession of the younger exorcist and that this priest prefers killing himself to being possessed. There are though several points that remain unanswered and difficult to accept. Why did that demon take possession of a priest? Wasn't it more comfortable to be in a young girl? And how can the priest justify his suicide in any way? If God enables a demon to take possession of one of his priests, that priest has to wait for God to liberate him, and committing suicide is not that kind of a liberation. That's why I will classify this film among the films that played an important role when they came out and even accumulated some fame because of it, but that have today aged tremendously and lost most of their appeal. The list of those is long.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
I don't believe I've ever watched the original cut, only the "version you've never seen before", of this. You will have to look elsewhere for comparisons; from what I understand, not all of the new is positive, however. I guess the big question that anyone who has not yet caught this is: Is it true? Meaning: Is this really the *scariest film ever*? And the answer must be "it depends". Because if you do not believe in what this depicts, and even worse, if you take this completely out of its chronological context(translation: If you don't consider that this was made in the early 70's, since some norms have changed since then), frankly, several of the things can inspire laughter rather than fear(!). And with that said... this is quite well-made, and for such a potentially sensationalistic subject, it respects cinematic language and contains proper, gradual build-up, as any well-told story does. The acting is great, including Blair's performance. Plot develops nicely throughout. The characters are credible and consistent. A scene or two just... stop, ending at an exciting time instead of resolving the conflict. The direction is effective, and Friedkin does what he can to terrify us, and no matter if you think it's real or not, most of it is unsettling, to say the least. Also, there is no doubt that this inspired later horror movies. There is a lot of strong and outright explicit language, as well as bloody violence and disturbing content in this. I recommend this to any fan of thrillers, especially supernatural ones. 8/10


                
