Let's face facts: Spin-off TV shows tend to fare poorly to the original content. I was furious when I heard about the spin-off to the amazing Break Bad. Nonetheless centering around the buffoonish clown of a character Saul Goodman?! I was livid and heartbroken. I wanted Breaking bad to end on a high note and not let this potential disaster ruin it's legacy.Breaking Bad was an absolute masterpiece of a show, with an amazing story, script, cinematography; you name it, it's there. But the one thing that made Breaking Bad shine, and in my option, be one of the greatest series ever made was it's deep, deep burial into the characters that made us either absolutely love or loath them. It didn't rely on special effects and had no fat to it whatsoever. No other show encapsulated a slow unfurling of characters so well that it was as if we were getting to know them in our real lives.I finally decided to give Better Call Saul a shot after hating it's first episode on release. I figured, maybe I could eventually forget about the fact that it was attached to my favorite TV show, and when everybody who watches it is telling you it's amazing, there must be something there.. right?Boy, were they right. Better Call Saul is just as good as it's predecessor. It maintains it's very high standard to every aspect of the production, and most of all, character development, motivation and relationships are centerfold once more. It is easy to find Better Call Saul even better than Breaking Bad, although I would chalk this up to it being more current and therefore more in the forefront of our minds in the Breaking Bad universe. If you, like me, have hesitated to give this show a shot for the same reasons, stop it. Let yourself feel uncomfortable for the 1st half of the first season, and then let it get it's clutches into you.I'm so, so very happy I finally decided to give Better Call Saul a shot again 4 years later. With no hesitation, 10/10.


                
Those people who are rating the last season 4 low are too shallow. This show is just not for them. If you feel the show original vibe you will feel this season like one of the best. The final episodes are also very interesting. I've read many complaints about the storyline about the german thing and that was actually really interesting because it somehow connects to BB and you can actually see what is the background. Also I think this season focuses a lot on the mental state of Jimmy and how he degrades to be finally Saul, and that's very deep. I think that the people who dropped their rating on season 4 is because they were used to some more emotion in adrenaline or something. This is all about Jimmy emotional state evolving and they are just not connecting with him. If I would not connect with him and see how his changing right in front of my eyes, this might be boring for me as well too. In few words, this season is more close to "Saul" transformation than any other season! 10/10 this show is brilliant in every way. I can't even watch standard TV shows because they now feel too shallow for me..


                
I loved every second of the first two episodes of Better Call Saul. We are beginning the season with many strings left untied but I have complete faith in all questions being answered. If you loved Breaking bad for all the reasons I did including the cinematography, music, scenery, characters and most of all the story line, then you will love this. I apologize for going slightly off topic but in looking back at the breaking bad episode with the fly in the lab, some people found that they did not enjoy this episode, I on the other hand loved it. I appreciate the pure genius of the directing that goes behind every minute of the show. I understand and respect that people are entitled to their own opinion but after reading the negative reviews given here about "Better Call Saul" all I can say is that they don't get it, and that is OK. It is worth a watch because if you end up enjoying the show you wont just like it, you will love it. This is the next life changing show that will become something you look forward to for many years. I am truly excited for what's to come.


                
Let's retire Better Call Saul's 'spin-off' label. Sure, in it's nature, that's what the show is. But unlike other TV spin-off's that are just 'extra' episodes that degrade the original show, Better Call Saul has significant promise as a standalone series that could come to rival it's predecessor.From the very beginning, the show returned me to the universe of Breaking Bad. Not in the obvious ways of reviving characters and settings, but through the subtle cinematography and script writing of Vince Gilligan. The camera focus changes and the interesting angled shots are quite unique to Gilligan's shows. This artistic and cinematic experience that begun with Breaking Bad is now continuing with Better Call Saul, once again proving that television can be as good, if not better than films.The acting in the series is incredible. I don't think anyone will be able to top Cranston's portrayal of Walter White, but Odenkirk forms far more depth in the character of Saul Goodman than we ever see in Breaking Bad. Moving away from just comic relief, Saul is now a darker version of his false identity, and Odenkirk finds the balance between these two personas very well. Hopefully he will continue this standard to give Jimmy McGill a Walter White-like descent into the criminal world. The humor in Better Call Saul is really well done. The show isn't a comedy, but the occasional funny moments are quite akin to what was done in Breaking Bad. The dark, witty wordplay made me laugh quite a few times at Saul's... sorry, Jimmy's lines, with the subtlety of the script writing shining through. The music by Dave Porter once again really adds to the engrossing cinematic experience of the show. The musical choices are reminiscent of Breaking Bad, but are moulded in a very different way to form a lighter tone in some of the more comical moments. The weird and wonderful musical montage songs are back (starting in the first scene), which brings us back to Walt and Jesse's cooking (Crystal Blue Persuasion, anyone?).Gilligan and Gould start the story with quite a lot of missing context surrounding Jimmy's brother Chuck and his law firm. Although this may be confusing in the beginning, I later realized this was intentional. Instead of just spitting out the back story in unnatural ways, the writers make you think about the situations, and gradually piece together what happened before the events of the show. This widens the whole show's time-frame, instead of just being self-contained. The brief flash forward to the fragmented Saul Goodman after Breaking Bad was amazing. I really hope that the writers continue to play around with time, shifting between past and future guises of Saul Goodman.Better Call Saul has a lot of promise to extend itself beyond its Breaking Bad spin-off status. The show feels individual, but also leaves enough Breaking Bad in there to keep us from leaving the world of Albuquerque that we have grown to love.


                
To be honest, I didn't know what to expect with this, following on after one of the best series of all time, on a character who seemed to be a bit of comic relief in an otherwise brutal and dark show, I did have my doubts. Now that two episodes have been released however, any concerns should be put aside by anyone interested, because this is fantastic.Gilligan's camera work is masterful and similarly creative to that of Breaking Bad, and Saul as a character or should I say 'Jimmy McGill', is not as vacuous as I once thought, and whilst it was obvious Saul Goodman was a facade, to see his other side in the flesh is great. The acting is fantastic, with very powerful scenes already in the first two episodes, and the tone is dark, but often quite humorous with plenty of laughs throughout.Basically to sum up in two words: watch this.


                
Better Call Saul might be my favorite show off all time because of three reasons, it is slow but never drags, it jumps between different genres without being inconstant and it has that Breaking Bad feel but it doesn't lean too much on it. In my eyes it is the one of the few perfect TV shows ever, and that is why it gets the perfect score of 10/10 from me


                
Just watched the first episodes and I feel completely lyrical. There is definitely a Breaking Bad kind of feel to it. It also offers a lot of candy for all the hardcore Breaking Bad fans. Still, they don't overdo anything. Everything feels thought out. The mix between comedy and drama is just right. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that if the show continues on this path, it will be a huge success. I would recommend this to anyone regardless if you're a fan of Breaking Bad or not. I think we're all in for a treat and I believe this show will have no trouble standing on it's own. Thank you for this, Vince Gilligan! I never doubted you.


                
Six episodes in to Better Call Saul now - and like Breaking Bad did - it just gets better and better. Tonights episode was something really special IMOI look forward to Tuesdays like never beforeTerrific plots - writing - acting - direction - cinematography etc etc etc in short a really great story very well told by all the cast and crewHow brave of everyone involved to take this project on after the HUGE success of Breaking Bad - knowing so many eyes would be on them - comparing and judging from the very first episode !!! Better Call Saul hit the road running though and has never disappointed me (and it would seem the vast majority of other viewers) The hopes and expectations of so many people were in their hands and EVERYONE involved with Better Call Saul has done us proud Bob Odenkirk is doing a fantastic job as the main character - in recent years he has been wonderful in Breaking Bad, Fargo and now BCS - not a bad catalogue of work to put in your resume !!!Got the DVD ordered already


                
The show was a long wait to come; since BB I've been craving more Vince Gilligan & Peter Gould's masterminds to bring something else to the table; they have done it. I had to realize this is Better Call Saul & separate it from BB; yes it's Saul & Mike but in totally different roles. I have made the transition exceptionally well; my husband and I both are anxiously waiting; reminders are constantly set now; as to not miss an episode. It has left similar reactions as to the other series; it's definitely made me want more & more. I like how its fitting the characters together and all, I feel that there is going to be more & more excitement as this amazing series continues. It's Great; we Like it a lot; we are patiently, as possible, waiting to see what's next for Jimmy; I can only imagine; there will be a lot more excitement. "It'saul Good".


                
OK, i appreciate it's hard to judge any new series after just one episode, but with Better Call Saul, we already have the benefit of what went before with Breaking Bad & we can instantly relate to the protagonist. As far as opening episodes go, this ticked all the boxes, it gave us just enough information to make us want to see more, & introduced Saul brilliantly.From start to finish, we get to see how the shady lawyer from Breaking Bad came to be, from dodgy deals, to creating stress for himself, it's always been in a days work for him it seems.Anyway for an opening episode this gets an 8 from me, but going forwards, the show looks to have enough promise to put it alongside some of the best.Sausage1


                
Jimmy McGill, a man that's always down, tries to win. That is the show.But, the depth to which this premise is explored is what makes Better Call Saul an elite dramatic television show-- in league with the Breaking Bad's, the Game of Thrones's, and the True Detective's of contemporary TV.The brilliance of Saul is in the nuance of each performance, the emotion through detail, and (most importantly) the implication of each individual moment. Through the inclusion of a bowl of cereal in a scene usually geared toward a character breakdown, we understand the layered dynamic between three characters: Kim Wexler, Jimmy McGill, and Chuck McGill. Without any explosion or grand monologue, the audience clearly sees Jimmy as a man with a confusedly apathetic core, Kim as a woman of heartbroken sympathy for Jimmy's inability to mourn, and Chuck, a prideful man with a mangled love from the grave. All of this information is gleaned through of a bowl of cereal.Better Call Saul isn't a show of moments, but a show of grand character arcs, darkly comedic situations, and a slow burn. But, when those moments do arrive, the show shocks, thrills, heartbreaks, and immediately changes course of the show as a whole. Episodes like Chicanery, Lantern, Wiedersehen, and (finally) Winner stand as some of the best individual television episodes of all time. The actors bring forth such grandeur, emotion, and rawness that carries the audience to every emotional extreme. Rhea Seehorn, Michael McKean, and Bob Odenkirk are deserving of piles of trophies and accolades-- despite being perpetually snubbed at the Emmys and Golden Globes.The arc of from Slippin' Jimmy to Jimmy McGill to Saul Goodman to Gene is hilarious, heartbreaking, tragic, and deeply moving. By utilizing a non-linear structure (flashbacks and flash-forwards), Jimmy's struggle is shown as both profitable and futile, glorious and empty, confident and desperate, and winning and losing. The descent is juxtaposed with the ascent-- which makes the audience question if Jimmy's journey is even worth it. But, despite this internal debate and Jimmy's slippery moral compass, you will find yourself cheering for him at every scam.The show also stays fresh by rarely relying upon the Breaking Bad lore as a crutch to entertain. Sure, Tio Salamanca's reception of the infamous bell is awfully satisfying to a Breaking Bad superfan, but it also is demonstrative of the growth and power-hungry character that is Tio Salamanca within the world of Better Call Saul. Each token (Saul's business cards, Gustavo's underground lab, and that delicious looking Pollos Hermanos meal) can be enjoyed as an easter-eggy explanation for future events, but more importantly as a means to further the independently riveting storyline of Saul. The show will satisfy those with RVs as their desktop backgrounds and those who don't even know who it is that knocks. Mike, Gus, Jimmy and other Breaking Bad side characters are given deep characterization, enriching both BB and BCS.Despite the always energetic camera movement, the inspired cinematography, the hilarious editing, and the smooth direction, Better Call Saul soars with its writing. If there ever was a perfect character study television dramedy, it would be Better Call Saul. The lines are taut, the dialogue is grounded, and the insults are sharp. Entertainment is to be had in the wit of each little jab or backhanded compliment. Also, the encyclopedic knowledge of lawyering, drug peddling, and cartel lingo creates an immersive experience.To be fair, the first two seasons of BCS are great, but a tad too slow for my tastes. The third and fourth seasons, however, capitalize on the building tension of multiple storylines-- creating a massively cathartic sense of satisfaction. The build is worth it.Better Call Saul explores sincerity, ambition, legacy, power, and what it means to be a Winner. The direction is deft. The characters are complex. The writing is hilariously tragic. In other words; it's all good, man.S1-9
S2-9
S3-10
S4- 10 (one of the greatest television seasons of the last decade)
Overall: 9.5
Just watched S04e01. Mike Ehrmentraut as the Health and Safety Officer from Hell is utterly hilarious, counterpoint to the morbidity and solemnity going on elsewhere with Chuck's suicide. And who doesn't want one of those buggies? 
B-rilliant.BCS is doing something that NOBODY else in TV is doing. Inventing real characters in a horrible - but plausible - situation, and being completely faithful to their natures, wherever it leads. That's why you might watch the credits and recognise all the actors as their names come up, instead of thinking they sound like US accountancy firms. This is the complete opposite of melodrama, which is what 96% of the other stuff does. Buy, beg, steal or borrow Better Call Saul because your grandchildren will want to know why you missed it, and will want your copy.Original review:Jimmy McGill tries to do the right thing but it always goes wrong.Heard of Emile Zola and Honoré de Balzac? 19th century French novelists who each wrote a series of novels that used the same characters from one novel to the next; in one they would be lead character, in another a support. Am I comparing BCS and Breaking Bad to classic French novels? Well yes; even the delivery format of modern 'cable' series is similar to the monthly publications of novels in the 1800s. Vince Gilligan and his team are certainly the front runners by far in the modern quality pop culture stakes. And in both BB and BCS, as with those writers, we have an uncompromising background of modern urban life.It helps to have watched 'Breaking Bad' - in that series, the suspense was perfect; no-one knew what would happen, and no character apart from Walter White seemed indispensable - Jesse was to have been written out in series 1, after all. In 'Better Call Saul', you again have the teaser at the beginning, where Saul is flipping burgers in a shopping mall eaterie in Nebraska, paranoid about being recognised. If you've seen BB, you might suspect that this is only a partial teaser, Vince Gilligan setting you a trap. If you haven't, BCS looks like a flashback of 'how Jimmy McGill got to middle-aged mall misery', which probably doesn't provide the dramatic suspense that Walter White's cancer diagnosis did. But then, Breaking Bad started with a crazy Winniebago chase as well. Better Call Saul is more in the 'Chinatown' groove than Breaking Bad's surreality - so far.That qualification aside, BCS is written, produced and performed to the same excellent standard of Breaking Bad, and Bob Odenkirk has no complaints from me on the acting chops. His is a sad, solitary character, his only foils being his sick brother Chuck, and Jonathan Banks as the parking attendant from Middle Earth, so you don't get the crackling dynamic that Walter and Jesse had. But it's early days, I'm on Ep03 and if there's one thing you can count on, it's that Vince Gilligan will play with and exceed your expectations. It's not whether it's 'as good' or 'better' than BB. It's just as good. It's just that the lead character is less sympathetic, and doesn't have as far to go. Or does he?°°°°°°°° °°°°°°°°°° °°°°°°°°° °°°°°°° °°°°°°°° °°°°°°°°° °°°°°°°°° °°°°°And so, a year or so later, we're into season II. I feel sorry for those who have not learned to trust Vince G. and Peter G.'s storytelling, and are therefore bored by the mental work involved in enjoying BCS. Don't you see, people? Slippin' Jimmy's 'proper' lawyer brother styles himself as the supremely professional, ethical one, but he stitches up his (caring, earnest) brother with the callousness of a Roman emperor - JUST LIKE REAL PEOPLE DO.Jimmy's girlfriend depends on him to make life interesting, but expects him to remain in control of the chaos he creates - JUST LIKE REAL PEOPLE DO. Mike the enforcer wants to be a genial grandpa, but gets his beloved granddaughter to help him make a 'stinger' to stop a drug truck that directly results in the death of a good Samaritan, while telling his dead son's wife that it's a soaker for the rhododendrons - JUST LIKE - you get it.Oh, the nuances. If you're missing them, you would benefit from an introductory course in scriptwriting. Better Call Saul is streets ahead of anything else and will be savoured and appreciated long into the future. It's so good, it makes the awesome, revolutionary, phenomenal 'Breaking Bad' look like a soap opera.The TV equivalent of Shakespeare + Tolstoy + Dostoyevsky at their best. "Your review contains a very long word which is not allowed". I take that as a compliment. Oh, I see, it was the divider.
Reading the reviews on here (and looking at the helpful votes as well) it's very obvious that there's a slew of BB fans that are so emotionally attached to their favorite show (it's my favorite show too, but my emotional attachment is quite different) that they can't allow any prequel/sequel come anywhere close to it. Those are the ones writing the insanely hyper-critical reviews on here. They want BCS to match it in every aspect in order for it to receive more than 5 stars on. And it's absolutely absurd. This show is it's own show. It's not a carbon copy, and whoever said it should be was dumb. It stands on its own, as it deserves to... just like BB did during its time.Call it slow as much as you want, but those resorting to that adjective have little depth. Any scene, any shot... and song... anything shown to the viewer in this show is layered with meaning. That is why it's a beast. If you only want blood and action, fine. Go watch something else. But if you have depth and seek a show that delivers in meaningfully depicting characters struggling to adapt to their real life (in a way all of us can relate to) then this show won't fail. It's action is scarce in comparison to the stakes BB had most of the time. But in visual storytelling and relateability, this show exceeds BB in those respects, in my humble opinion. It's Gilligan and Gould, so what else do we expect. And to consider how amazing this show is as a prequel to probably the greatest show ever made (maybe the hardest task any show could have) it's an incredible feat. Hopefully this review will inform potential viewers on whether it's a show for them. Cause I don't believe every show is for everyone. But also hopefully clarify why so many reviews on here are skewed one way or the other. I believe most people who are emotionally attached to BB are the ones taking the time to even write a review of BCS on IMDB, because fans like me who appreciate both for what they each are feel no need to. We just enjoy it, and assume everyone else will feel the same way. But after reading the many absurd takes on Better Call Saul here... I felt something needed to be said. This isn't a simple continuation of Breaking Bad. It's its own show, and kills at what it does. Whether you enjoy visual storytelling, character development, and provocative drama filled with common meaning we all can touch, that's really up to you. In summary, BCS is layered with depth, and is as brave an effort by the writers and directors as any show I've ever seen on TV. Hopefully that helps everyone.


                
Ignore the naysayers on this one!This show isn't intended to be the action orientated, thrilling ride BB became but is an example of excellent character driven writing, performed by extremely talented character actors.All the events in BCS eventually mould the naive Jimmy McGill into the wise guy Saul Goodman of BB fame and I for one am enjoying this ride too.I particularly enjoy the nods to BB i.e Tuco, Mike and even the douche bag banker (Ken?) in Season 2, Ep. 1 - I remember when WW blew up his car in BB, which would obviously been at a later date than the scam pulled in this episode.Priceless TV!
I can't properly express how pleased I am that this show turned out as well as it did. It's is extremely well shot, well written, and well acted. The show may disappoint some due to it not being as eventful as breaking bad, but, this show has retained a lot of the quality of breaking bad and it manages to work well as a stand alone and separate series. The first season alone gave us great incite and further development of the already great character Mike, set up the basis for the transformation of Jimmy McGill.I loved this show even in its un eventful somewhat filler moments, such as in the beginning of the 5th episode, Jimmy goes from house to house to get new clients and it offers some hilarious moments (personal favorite tony the toilet buddy). Even in its un eventful slower moments the show still managed to keep me interested. The show hasn't quite made Jimmy's full transformation to criminal lawyer Saul but it's set up the characters track to it. Not everyone will he as captivated or pleased as I am, however, if you still have the void left by Breaking Bad better call Saul fills it thanks to the great performances by the cast (Bob Odenkirk, Johnathan Banks, Michael Mckean, and more), the great writing (by Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould), and the cinematography is a standout as well.In conclusion I hope this show continues to grow in further seasons. Some may have been disappointed by the season finale but I've grown to like it personally. Personally I love the show, it may not be on BrBa's level (yet) but it is still easily one of the best shows I've seen on TV currently. I hope this is useful, thanks for reading and enjoy the show.


                
When entering the world of "Better Call Saul", your first taste is reminiscent of "Breaking Bad". The direction, the score, and (of course) the actors. This alone does not make the show great, but simply puts a smile on one's face.It's the story. Before Breaking Bad and before the man we know as Saul, we see him as Jimmy McGill. A lawyer who's so poor he can be an ambulance chaser as he's sh*tty car would never allow him or his conscience, for that mater.From here we start and I can only predict from the first 3 episodes that the directing, acting, and story will provide plenty to feast on a Monday Night for many seasons to come.


                
Better call Saul was a incredibly good television show. Better Call Saul did the right thing as a spin-of, by establishing early on that this was its own show. The tone is different, the character are different, the motivations are different, whilst at the same time, there's a sense of familiarity thanks to the setting, cinematography and way the show is made. As a spin off from Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul has proved itself to be a worthy successor to the beloved series. Darkly comic, Better Call Saul may not always please the fans but the transition of genre may attract young bloods. It was very good and could not be made any better expect if they had a couple cameos.


                
I actually had fairly low expectations for this show. I liked the character of Saul Goodman in Breaking Bad but I was dubious that a show could be built around him. I have been pleasantly surprised to discover that it could be done. Most people don't realize how few law school graduates are ultimately able to make a living as attorneys.What a struggling lawyer has to go through to find a niche offers a host of interesting plot possibilities. This show further has the added bonus in that it provides an opportunity to fill in the stuff that Breaking Bad left out. I have two great hopes for this show: 1. Please bring in Gus Frang and fill in his back story to an extent that Breaking Bad never really did. 2. Finish the first scene in Pilot.
Do you know those intelligence tests that say A is to B as C is to what? Well, "Better Call Saul" is to "Breaking Bad" as Odyssey is to Iliad. Chronologically the relationship is reversed, so what the hell am I talking about?The Iliad is like an action packed blockbuster, with scores of less than perfect heroes doing legendary things. The Odyssey is a more mature, introspective story about the long journey home. Only, in Jimmy's case, we know from the first scene that the hero doesn't get to go home and the journey doesn't seem to have satisfied him very much. The reduced emphasis on sensational story elements is probably what caused most of the negative reviews here. People probably expected the tour de force through the criminal world that Breaking Bad provided and were disappointed when they didn't immediately get it. I'm certain there will be plenty of episodes to satisfy the lust for gore, there are plenty of deaths in the Odyssey as well. However, don't expect this to be more of the same, unless the ratings go south. The creators' vision becomes immediately clear and most of the interesting action is in the words that come out of Jimmy's mouth and demonstrate his thought processes. The first 5 episodes of Better call Saul seem to build a deeper main character than all 5 seasons of Breaking Bad.


                
For lush mustache and uniform with a cap of one famous confectionery hard to find out Saul Goodman, a lawyer, once extravagant representing the interests of the biggest criminals in the southern United States.Now Saul is forced to go into hiding, because we remember what ended his collaboration with Walter White. But where it all began? As a public defender, almost has no experience and absolutely not able to conclude a deal, became an Assistant to the mafia? To understand the way Saul Goodman on his first contacts with criminals Albuquerque to counter cafeteria "Cinnabon",we have to get acquainted with Jimmy McGill, the man who broke the law for the protection of the law... So who is this Saul Goodman? We literally meet again, seemingly obvious hero, because in the pilot of "Better Call Saul" of the main character's name is even otherwise-Jimmy McGill.Jim is not the most lucky lawyer, first shown us cause it with a bang, it fails fails and become a family lawyer for upstart millionaires.Jimmy had no sensible Office, he huddled in the closet, his machine beauty salon barely hobbling along the road, and any touch money issue causes fury.Obviously why McGill angry, his career could evolve differently, probejsâ it through the cordon of cold corporate lawyers in the company of his brother, but fate, that practice smarter Jimmy does not get. On top of all the ills of the hero can even lose their own name! There is no reason not to impose on himself.However, as we remember, the ingenuity of Gudmanu was not to take, and it was his ability to get into scrapes future Sol decides to use closer to the final, the pilot instantly breaks. For strong start Vince Gilligana can only praise and knowing thoroughly his work on the story, you can be confident that Saul will show more and force yourself to call.


                
I'm literally amazed at how good this is turning out to be. For the first season, at least, they've managed to catch that elusive lightning in a bottle. It has heart, chemistry, and drool-inducing intrigue. Thus far, I actually like it better than "Breaking Bad" because it's a little lighter, less cynical, and more to my tastes. The "black humor" can be hilarious and has not deteriorated rapidly into train-wreck and tragedy as it did in BB ... at least, not yet. By the way, IMDb, you numb and vacuous flakes, do away with the "minimum 10 lines" for a review. Didn't anybody ever tell you of the merits of brevity? For crying out loud, it's a rare day you see an Internet media site pushing for more bombast.


                
This WILL win Emmy awards or I'll eat my shorts and film it to view on you tube. I have this much faith in this show that I'm willing to embarrass myself for all the world to see. Mark my words that this show out paces and rates breaking bad by a factor of 2, and I absolutely love breaking bad. Finally a show I can't wait for the entire week to pass by till the next episode. Wow wow wow! And wow again. Such good writing and acting I'm speechless. Your and absolute idiot if you don't like this show. The last episode # 9 just broke my heart. BCS just has a way of reeling you in and then just smash your heart all over the floor with a dash of humor and wit that just isn't seen in other shows. Can't wait for the next episode and dreading the final episode when I'll need to wait another 9-10 months before I see BCS again. 11 stars out of 10 **********


                
Vince Gilligan is one of those geniuses that knows how to make the villain into a hero, as he did in Breaking Bad. By the time you realize the main character is a villain, you are too invested in him to want to see him come to his demise. Although he takes it to extremes, one identifies with the antagonist because the "it could happen to me" thought occasionally manifests itself while watching the character muddle through life.Like Walter White in Breaking Bad, Jimmy is trying to survive against mounting odds. For Walter it is cancer, and for Jimmy it is the seedy underbelly of legal world, where some criminals wear tailored suits, others bake cookies for their families, and others slit throats to make their points. It comes down to survival, and doing the right thing ofter proves futile in a world where hacking off your pound of flesh seems to work better, and nobody seems to mind anyway.I am thoroughly enjoying watching Jimmy in his struggle as he morphs into Saul, who seems to be the persona that both represents him, and that he can detach himself from long enough to return to the more sane person he truly wants to be...but cannot be.The bottom line is that I love this series, and eagerly wait in anticipation for the next episode as the weeks go by.


                
This show is indeed turning out to be a great prequel to Breaking Bad and the writing on the show has not skipped a beat from the BB days. Episode 3 is a foreshadowing greatness! Perfect. This has really put the lawyer genre in its place as I know first hand most lawyers eek out a living by court appointments and down and dirty wheeling and dealing. It's not a sure bet that being a lawyer=$millions which we see as is the underlying theme to Saul. Fortunately, we get a glimpse inside the mind of Saul, Not James every episode so when the completion of Jimmy's metamorphosis into Saul's we will be in a position to empathize more with each side of each character.Again, Perfect


                
This show requires some serious patience and appreciation for the subtleties in it. It is easily the slowest paced show I've watched. Painfully slow if you don't appreciate the acting and drama fully. It has genuinely hilarious moments that if fully grasped are some of the best written humor I have seen.Bob Odenkirk is simply a genius in this show with his comedic timing and delivery.If you enjoy incredible acting (literally the best I have ever seen in a show), a great story, amazing writing, perfect cinematography for the style and a deeply dramatic experience then you will love this. If you haven't seen Breaking Bad you will not appreciate this show fully. It will be like watching a show only know 80% of the backstory.I have watched the first 3 seasons 6 times and every time I catch new things. It is chock full of Breaking Bad Easter eggs so that helps for appreciating it fully when you know Breaking Bad. Now onto Season 4 and it has only gotten better.


                
