I've watched every episode. I desperately want things to get moving, but it's the slowest, most boring series I have ever watched. The cast are great. I mean Saul is a great character, as is Mike, and it was breaking bad that got most of us here. But it's averaging 9/10, and I'm left wondering how .... it's quite dull.I'll continue to watch, purely because I'm sure it will get good, but entire episodes pass without incident, I get the feeling it's not that good but people are rating it higher purely because of the character they liked from a better show. But this is 'Joey' to breaking bads 'friends' rather than what Frasier is to cheers.


                
*MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*I'm mad that I was forced to give this amazing team and production a 4-star review. Sigh....okay deep breaths. As with most of you, I had high, HIGH hopes for Better Call Saul. I was this show's biggest fan - telling all my friends to watch, I caught all the interviews online of show creators and actors. And I subscribed to the extra e-mail features. When it finally aired I was glued to the screen. I couldn't wait for each new episode.Until 4 episodes in. That's when the first twinge of mild panic crept in. But after having stayed faithfully with this show up to S2 Ep 9: "Nailed", the show I had hoped for has yet to arrive. In the immortal words of one Abraham from another popular AMC show all I can say is: B#tchnuts.This show managed to deliver shards of brilliance here and there - a smattering of the old Breaking Bad days, but we fans expected better from the producers and writers. It feels like we've been thrown out into the wasteland of sub-par TV...we fans have been left feeling betrayed, like pepperoni's on so much roof pizza. It blows super chunks to have to write a review that's not of the glowing variety. Though it pains me, I do so with the hopes that somehow this review might fall under the tired eyeballs of Bob, Vince, Peter and crew. We die-hard fans are waiting on the sidelines of this laborious cross-country race cheering you on - cups of water in hand, hoping against bloody hope that the NEXT episode will herald the triumphant victory we've been promised.But how can a show be revived when it's already collapsed in a broken heap before it's reached the finish line?There were several 'Summary Titles' I had thought of in writing this review, some that stood out for me were: "TIME FOR A STUNT!!", "BCS Goes Off The Rails", "Street Pizza", "BETTER CALL...For Backup", "Throwing Bricks at the TV". You get the picture. C'mon guys. You were given the keys to a kingdom that we fans gave you with Breaking Bad, and all you had to do was turn the key and let us into a new corner of the BB Universe. But nooooo. YOU chose instead to let artistic license get the better of you, trendy social ideals, and other un-fun themes, crafting a show unworthy of your time and certainly ours.Specifics: Okay so, I really REALLY wanted to like the Kim Wexler character. But, just no. There's no 'there' there. I thought to myself: (damn, yet ANOTHER powerful, in control woman--YAWN) who dictates terms to the men in her personal life...and the men are expected to fall in line or risk seeing her walk. To which I say: WALK already. If that character were to meet an unsavory end, it sucks that I won't miss the Kim character none too much at all....sorry to say. Likewise for Chuck, even though he is a superb actor, I'm struggling to give a rip about him...or even to hate him.There was another title that a lady pal of mine came up with that may sum up where BCS 'went off the rails'. She is a recovering feminist and said how about this for a title: " "Feminism Rears it's Ugly Head". After seeing all the male-shaming Jimmy received at the hands of the always in control, always powerful Kim Wexler character, I had to agree. My lady pal was alarmed to see the typical 'bad-ass girl' trope seeping into the writing and expressed through the dialogue between Jimmy & Kim. At one point she exclaimed: "When in the hell did BCS become The Kim Wexler Show...?Copious amounts of screen time for Kim, and a bumbling Jimmy lacking confidence and forever seeking the approval of Kim got old real quick.If I had to choose between the boring vibe or the male bashing Jimmy endured through most of this second season, it wouldn't matter -they both did us in. We want to see the devil-may-care confident SAUL GOODMAN, not what's been showing up since S1E1.It's a damn shame that the producers felt the need to explore feminist themes in a show that is supposed to be fun and interesting - two qualities feminism is known for, said no one ever.Please get back to the magic of SG.And for god's sake Vince: give us more MIKE, more TUCO, and for the love of fried chicken, get Gus Fring and Jesse back into the BCS universe. I know you said you don't want to feature BB characters if it feels like a stunt, but at this point it might be the only thing that saves this show for another season. Water held high, I'm still cheering this show on.


                
BETTER CALL SAUL could and should have been much better, at least the first two seasons. Hard to feel for any of the main characters as they have no redeeming characteristics. At least in BREAKING BAD there were some characters you cared about, but in SAUL, not one person can one relate to or care about. Even Kim, who seems to be the nicest of the main characters, has major flaws and is downright stupid. Too bad.Another problem with this series is that there doesn't seem to be a point to it all. Just long, boring scenes that sometimes do not make sense, especially some of the openings. SPOILER ALERT: At the beginning of season two there is an opening of a man who works at Cinnabun at some mall. He gets locked in a garbage bin area for a while until someone opens the door. THAT'S IT. Throughout the rest of the season that scene is never referred to again. WHAT???? To what purpose did that prove or others like it. Also, what's thee thinking behind Mikes making havoc on the road for the truck that he overthrows by blowing out the tires. It's an open road where anyone can drive by either way and see it all. He ties the driver up, lies him on the road, slashes the tires and gets the money out. All of this would take several minutes or more. No cars other traffic? How does Mike know no one would be on the road during this whole time. Ludicrous . That's POOR WRITING INDEED. So many other improbable situations make this hard to take. Do not care what happens in season three as I am done with BETTER CALL SAUL. Only some of the acting is worthwhile, but not enough to continue with this pretty dreadful and slow moving series.
I could not finish it. Although Bob Odenkirk's performance is quite good I think the plot is not really interesting and the story was moving forward too slow.


                
I wanted to love this series. After Breaking Bad I thought it a great idea to focus on Jimmy and Mike in this prequel. Well, it wasn't. The TWO seasons I've watched were agonizingly slow. The plot could easily have been condensed into one 8 episode season. Now I love the characters as well as Odenkirk's writing and acting but still ... The production values are A plus. Michael McKean as Jimmy's brother becomes annoying (and he shouldn't be). The character Mike becomes increasingly sad. On a positive note Jimmy's love interest makes the second season almost watchable. But the operative word here is ALMOST. It is slow. With a capital 'S';.


                
Was expecting a lot from this show but it can't seem to find its feet.As a Comedy it just can't seem to get the laughs.The first few episodes were spent waiting for a story to unfold but what seems to be unfolding is a series devoid of drama. emotion, pathos, humor etc all the basics of a good story. In fact so far its been a series of non funny comedy sketches. I cannot see the lead Bob Odenkirk holding this show together for even one season.Compared to Breaking bad it is a non event other than the cinematography. Honestly the ratings at the moment of 9.3 cannot be believed. I've found that generally the ratings and reviews on IMDb are pretty reliable but in this instance they are way of the mark and i think time will show this to be true.


                
the most bizarre thing about the show is that it's received so many just thrilled with it reviews- before it aired; nicely orchestrated campaign, and, frankly, surprised with all the safeguards to sign in here, the tedious spelling rules, that IMDb let those raves about a show not on air yet go through; i tried watching twice based on the links to breaking bad, but while Saul worked as a minor character, a nice venal, snarky counterpoint to dreary Jesse and big brain Walt, he can't carry a show; and the re-branding of characters from b'bad undercuts the show even more because you know them as they appeared; worst, while b'bad was twisty, often unexpected, Saul is very predictable, i.e. you knew the skateboard dummies would screw up so all the planning was silly ahead of time; not often that a minor, compartmentalized character transitions well to his or her own show, including this one


                
IMO Theres no denying here that given that this show came out on its own without Breaking Bad in our rear view that it wouldve been probabily canceled quickly. A show about some lawyer with Insanely slow pacing, no movement of storyline that we also have no idea where it would be going with every shot that is always 10 times longer than necessary is just a general FU to anyone who likes to be immersed and intrigued by intelligent dialogues and condensed progressive action.
But because we know/love Jimmy and Mike and everyone from BB, we are waiting to see how it evolves(ed) and came to be. 
Dont get me wrong, the production quality is excellent, the actors great, its a great technical product. However as Breaking Bad it has the same 3 to 1 episode dillema, where 3 episodes could easily be made one. But Breaking Bad had a lot more story and was a lot more immersive because of that. Despite bubblegum panning shots and boomerang storylines.
I will still watch it, I like the characters and like I said, appreciate the production but man it is sometimes difficult to watch. Best to watch all the episodes together, much more enjoyable that way.


                
I love breaking bad. My fav show. All I can say is ill give it another try next season for the sake it was by the same people who wrote breaking bad. They need to eventually get to where Saul is representing all the drug dealers and show scenes from breaking bad we never seen like make new ones describing things not on bb. Anyhow better call Saul was a big disappointment. It can be great but we will c. Well let me c the review has to be ten lines so this show really blows. Only watching in hopes it will get better. Gee this is bad why do I hav to write ten lines I don't have anything else to say. What the heck this is bad too need to change it to five lines u don't need ten lines to say something is bad.


                
I write this after watching the first episode only. As a huge fan of BB (Sopranos, Wire and Fargo) -- and based on pre-release pumping -- I was expecting great things. What a disappointment. At the heart of the letdown is the lead character/actor. While Odenkirk (and his character) was stupendous in BB, he falls flat as the lead character in BCS. He appears, so far, to lack the acting ability and gravitas to pull this lead role off. His character, instead of being quirky and lovable, is sad, listless and predictable. More generally, there are no truly interesting, lovable characters here, so far. The writing is flat. The plot is tedious and predictable. Yes, BB fans may get a fix by the reappearances of other BB actors -- but, frankly, and so far mind you, they too fail to shine as they did in BB. I prey that things get better. If it weren't for the parentage of this series, I wouldn't be sticking around to find out.


                
awful ending S02, no plot,mike story is better then Saul this show just sucks don't waste your time guys , or just watch first 3 episodes CZ apart from that everything is plain bogus rotted f comedy .Also f you chuck , worst character creation ever , cheers ! PS - big fan of Vince but sorry u just don't score home run on every pitch


                
Watched season after season of this and I'm totally bored of this show so so so slow seems every episode you don't learn much just left unsatisfied I loved breaking bad so much I've watched it back to back 3 times this show I only watch hoping I'll get the same feeling but it's never gonna happen a spin off made to make money buy someone a nicer life . If you have not watched it yet avoid or be bored to tears


                
