I absolutely loved Breaking Bad. So when I finished binging it about 2 years ago, I started watching Better Call Saul immediately afterwards. Hoping to latch onto it as a way to keep Breaking Bad alive. In some ways, the show succeeds in doing that, but it is very much it's own thing too. Focusing on the story of how Saul Goodman came to be.To be honest, spinoffs almost never work well. To give one example, The Walking Dead's spin-off, FTWD, was a decent show, that never lived up to its potential. That changed in season 4, as the reboot breathed new life into it, but the point remains, it started as a relative failure. I was nervous BCS would end up being the same, but was I wrong. Better Call Saul I find to be an actual good spinoff. This is rare. That being said, the show is still not of Breaking Bad quality. That is an unrealistic expectation, however, because spinoffs *never* live up to or exceed the original. Going back to my example of TWD and FTWD, or the Star Wars OT and the Sequel Trilogy, etc. This will even likely be the case for the MCU after Avengers 4. To get back on topic, even though it isn't equal to Breaking Bad, the show is still definitely worthwhile. If you loved Breaking Bad, you should at the very least be able to find something to like about this show.The main problem I find with this series is the pacing. This is one of the slowest paced shows that I have ever watched. Slow pace is not always a bad thing, in fact I advocate for it because it gives us more time to connect with the characters, such as when it's used in the parent program, or TWD, etc. Better Call Saul lays it on a little too thick I feel. Sometimes, because of this slow pace, the show might feel a little aimless. If you can get past that, it tells a compelling story about the descent of a man. As well as offering interesting hints as to what happens to Saul after the events of Breaking Bad.Bob Odenkirk portrays Jimmy McGill's descent to Saul Goodman spectacularly. It really is a treat to watch. All of the other main actors are great as well. And it's enjoyable to spot Breaking Bad Easter eggs, as well as to see characters from the show brought onto this one. Such as Mike, Gus, Hector, etc.Overall, BCS is a good show that can stand on its own. But it is made even better if you watch Breaking Bad first.My Rating: 8.5/10


                
Breaking Bad in my opinion is the perfect show and is my all-time favourite and Walter White's seedy lawyer Saul Goodman has always been one of my favourite characters of the show. The second i found out he would be getting his own spin off i was excited and Better Call Saul has been one of the most hotly anticipated releases of 2015. I have to say based on the 2 episodes that have aired so far I have to say it has not disappointed and if the show continues to be this good then I will have another perfect show in my watchlist.It has been great to see Saul Goodman (Jimmy McGill as he is known here) back to his roots, here we see a very different version of the character as a down on his luck lawyer as opposed to the criminal lawyer who handed Jesse Pinkman bags of dollars without a care in the world, yet his charm and his cocky persona and sometimes hilarious one liners stay exactly where we want them. The tone also feels very different to breaking bad. We get to see a much more lighthearted approach to this series.We also get glimpses of Mike Ermantraut (Jonathan Banks) which was great and whilst so far we haven't seen a lot of him i am certain we will get a lot more interaction between the two (he is second billed in the titles afterall). I was also surprised to see another fan favourite although i wont spoil this for those who don't know.As the series goes on i will post about my opinions more but i feel this show is great and will continue to go up and be on par with Breaking Bad. Vince Gilligan has proved himself as a force to be reckoned with. Better Call Saul is not only awesome as a spin off, but in its own right as a show also. Better Call Saul is undeniably awesome


                
This prequel set around the backstory of Jimmy "Saul" McGill is a gripping, emotional, serious spin off to AMC's hit show. When starting this out, keep an open mind, don't compare with breaking bad as you may be disappointed, breaking bad is one of the greatest series ever made. Keep an open mind and you'll be hooked quicker than the original, due to the fact that we know the characters, the area, the personalities. This isn't just a spinoff, this could be seen as a stand alone show and would not disappoint.


                
Better call Saul is one of the most intelligent spinoffs ever made. Even though diehard Breaking Bad fans tend to connect Saul with Walter White, this show stands its own merit and if you're the type to equip unpredictability with ingenuity then this is a show for you.All the characters such as Kim, Saul's uberexaggerated, neurotic elder brother are closer to real life than the overtly smart characters you'll find in other glossy, ' we know the legal world ' type of series which are more on the superficial side. This series is the antithesis of the latter and painstakingly relatable but still twisted funny.


                
(Updated after Season 4).Introducing Jimmy McGill (played by Bob Odenkirk). You may know him better as Saul Goodman, Walter White's slippery, resourceful lawyer in Breaking Bad. When first we meet him it is a few years before he meets Walter White. He is a struggling lawyer in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He mostly defends small-time crooks and represents people in civil liability claims (much of which amounts to nothing more than ambulance chasing). His brother, Charles "Chuck" McGill (Michael McKean), is a senior partner at a prestigious Albuquerque law firm but hasn't left his house for several months due to a strange affliction. Jimmy is supporting him through bringing him groceries and the like. Jimmy has a dark, pre-lawyer past, being a small-time fraudster in Chicago before moving to Albuquerque to start over and work with at his brother's firm. We also meet Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks), ex-cop now working as a toll booth attendant at the courthouse parking lot. We see how Jimmy and Mike's stories converge and how Jimmy slowly becomes the Saul Goodman we know from Breaking Bad.Good drama series: engaging with some interesting episode-specific stories and solid season/series-wide stories. Great character depth - we see how Jimmy got to where he is and what makes him tick. Decent depth to secondary characters too.Not as compelling a watch as Breaking Bad though, especially during Season 1. Part of the problem is you know how Jimmy/Saul is going to end up, and you want him to get there as soon as possible. Saul Goodman was a wonderfully colourful character in Breaking Bad - funny, very resourceful and not above underhanded means to achieve ends. Jimmy McGill (in Season 1, at least) isn't even a shadow of Saul Goodman. So the longer the Jimmy part is drawn out and the Saul part delayed, the more impatient you get.In Season 2 this is far less of an issue, as the sub-plots are good enough to stand on their own, without even knowing that Breaking Bad even exists.Only other negative is that I find the character of Chuck quite irritating and always tend to feel anything involving him is a sideshow and a distraction from the main events. This is not the case in Season 3 though...Season 3 is where it all starts to come together. Jimmy uses the name Saul Goodman for the first time and things with Chuck reach a breaking point, the fall-out from which pushes the series in a different, more interesting direction. On Mike's front, a face familiar to Breaking Bad viewers appears and makes a profound impact. This additional link with Breaking Bad helps to make you think the two stories are at last converging.Season 4 is the best season to date. The Breaking Bad storyline is definitely in view, with more characters from that series appearing...and a memorable structure. More a crime drama than a domestic drama, at last.Season 1 - 8/10, S2 - 9/10, S3 - 9/10, S4 - 10/10


                
You must have seen Breaking Bad, i mean who hasn't because it is one of the best series in history, so you remember the character Saul. Now when i saw Breaking Bad and the character Saul Goodman in it i never thought that he could be the central character if a Breaking Bad spin-off is made. But when it was announced, day by day my expectation from the show went up by one step. Now I've seen the first season and it is more than what i wanted. It contains a kind, helping, somewhat frustrated from his life Jimmy McGill. That's what i like about this show. It has characters which are extremely ordinary and yet creates a story for themselves which is entirely extraordinary. According to me, Better Call Saul season 1 was amazing and i got the feeling that this one is also going to make history.


                
Sorry to quote Tony Montana but within about 10 seconds of Better Call Saul you know you are back in familiar territory. This is the Breaking Bad world and Better Call Saul is part of a Sum of all parts. Yes it is that good.The hype has been intense regarding Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould's new venture. Everyone expected that the only way to cater to everyones expectations is imitation but this is not the case. BCS stands tall on its own legs. The story is very different and it asks for your investment unlike Breaking Bad which grabbed you instantly.I don't know how this would play out if it was a stand alone but Vince Gilligan gambled and did not stray from the path he set 5 years ago which works to the point of brilliance. The camera work made famous by Breaking Bad is back creating this vibrant familiar world. Bob OdinKirk replacing Brian Cranston is amazing as he was in Fargo. We have a way to go with the story and I won't say anything here regarding this but sign on...We are back in New Mexico.


                
People who write off this movie as not being as engaging as Breaking Bad are forgetting the premise of this movie is very different.Where Breaking Bad is about a guy who's got nothing left to lose going berserk, Better Call Saul is about how Jim turned into Saul Goodman.It's a slow cook show because it's completely character driven. It's all about how Saul slowly and surely crosses the line more and more often, and while doing so kills parts of himself. He turns evil just like Walter, except that here's they don't show it through his actions but his reactions to certain big emotional events.And this is where the story shines. Don't expect explosions and lots of drugs. That's not what this is about. This show is all about the characters themselves and if you expect that you're still in for one hell of a ride.


                
This show certainly deserves a flat 10/10.I put a 9 to make my review seem more credible. I might have put a 10 if there were more episodes in the season.. I sure loved every minute of every scene...Just as brilliant as Breaking Bad was.. every moment in the series builds up more excitement for the next episode. Then before you know it, more seasons are finished and the show is over.Just want to point out that the producer & director have done a very good job.. their shows are more unique than others on AMC, HBO, or any other host.I'm very much looking forward to the next season.


                
Better Call Saul takes place 6 years before Breaking Bad. The main character is Jimmy McGill aka Saul Goodman in BB. So far the show is brilliant. Most of the writers are from BB, like Gilligan and Gould, so you know what you are up for with BCS. The camera work is masterful, great cinematography every single episode. The show is a bit slow but you won't regret watching it. It changes pace from episode to episode. What I like most from it is that it is both drama and comedy. Bob Odenkirk is the perfect actor to mix those two. I love the fact that I either love or hate a character. Should you watch it? Absolutely!


                
I was watching this last night when it dawned on me that this show had done a very interesting thing to me. I was rooting for Jimmy (Saul) when really, he was the bad guy. He had done some pretty shady things to someone who was close to him and they had found out, were going after him legally for it, and I was keeping my fingers crossed that Jimmy would win in court.
Why? Because this series allowed me to care about a sleazy lawyer as it explores his psyche and I watched him rise only to get kicked down again time after time. A part of me knows that I would likely do the same things he is doing if I were in his situation and capable of the same skill set. I believe (or suspect?) that, if he were to finally crawl out of his morally corrupt hole, he would stay out of there. Unless hes at a bar, and see an asshole who he thinks he can vindictively con. :P


                
If I'm honest, I hadn't really intended to watch Better call Saul, I felt like Breaking Bad had set a standard that was too high, and I felt a spin-off would just never live up to the original.This show has become one of my favorite shows and I don't even think of it as a spin-off at all, it is extremely well written!It's nothing like what I thought it would be at all, I had kind of expected a series following the adventures of Saul Goodman, but instead found a very in-depth character study of Jimmy McGill and the events and experiences that formed the character we all came to know in Breaking Bad.He and his brothers relationship, and how Jimmy handles his brothers struggle with OCD / Mental Illness based on a phobia around electricity, as well as the history between them which is brought to light through the series is very realistic and complex, some of the most complex characters I have seen in a while, probably since Walter White really. 
After reading some of the other reviews I thought I'd add, it's no "slower" than Breaking Bad.


                
This particular review is based exclusively on the first season. I will come back and update it as I keep watching.I was caught between three specific aspects that I wanted to write about, because that is how good I think this show is. I could have written about Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould's writing. I could have even talked about their directing. Both of those elements of the show are fantastic. However, I wanted to talk about Bob Odenkirk's performance as James McGill.Odenkirk's performance is wonderful for both its at times boisterous nature and at other times quiet nature. Odenkirk moves between these two seamlessly. There is a particular scene late in the first season during a confrontation that Odenkirk manages to do both in the same scene. Typically, it's the direction in a scene where I notice what they do to build tension, in the particular scene I am referencing, it's Odenkirk's acting itself that builds the tension. You can see it on his face as soon as the scene starts. He starts to talk a little faster and lean more forward. He raises his voice a tad. He becomes more argumentative. He then slumps back in seeming exhaustion and as the viewer, I felt every single one of the emotions as he portrayed them. It was in that moment that when I wrote this review, I had to write it about Odenkirk's performance.


                
It's a popular credence that spin offs are often underwhelming. I thought it's a bad move by Vince Gilligan to spin off our beloved Saul from Breaking Bad. But he proved it all wrong by delivering 5 great episodes so far.Nostalgia.. The streets, Mike Ehrmantraut as car park attendant, the house where Heisenberg lived, the heat wave, and of course, Saul make the whole show nostalgic to Breaking Bad audience. The show is a reminiscent of Breaking Bad (in a good way)This show is also a for audience who haven't watched Breaking Bad. It's calm and well paced. I've observed the sandwich of fast and slow episodes in breaking bad, but not in this show that has consistent pace.Action, Fun, Sentiment, Comedy bind the script.It's hard to rate a TV series just for 5 episodes, but I will give this a 9, for the script, acting, direction and potential it comes with.


                
An absolute recommendation for the new series "Better Call Saul" from AMC. The spin-off to the award winning series "Breaking Bad" has me absolutely hooked with creative camera work, a visually interesting style and a perfect fitting soundtrack. That's to be expected from the team around creator Vince Gilligan - but from the first few minutes the series manages to give us a likable main character, portrayed perfectly by Bob Odenkirk, presented as much deeper and more credible than he ever was in Breaking Bad. Saul Goodman is a minor character in the predecessor, almost a comic relief, but in "Better Call Saul" he offers real development opportunities for the plot. And although the audience knows that he will develop from James Morgan McGill to the known Saul Goodman during the series, the authors succeed in making the viewer curious how it will happen. In Germany you'll probably will again have to wait for a long time in vain to watch it in any form - Netflix initially remains the only option. At Berlinale 2015 film festival, the series was presented with great success to a live audience.
From the creators of one of the most successful series ever, Breaking Bad, comes the spin-off, Better Call Saul. Which is another huge success!The new TV series is set before the time of it's sequel (Breaking Bad) and shows the life of lawyer, Saul Goodman, leading up to the establishing of his law office. With Saul living at home with his brother, Chuck, that is suffering from electromagnetic hypersensitivity (which later revealed isn't genuine), is a hard and rough life for both.We also came to see familiar faces along the way in Season 1. Such as, the appearances of Tuco, Nacho and especially Mike, an character with much (background) story in Better Call Saul.With Gilligan's exceptional great way of storytelling, the first season of the prequel is a stunner. Better Call Saul will deeply remind you of Breaking Bad. With it's rare way of filming, particularly humorous scenes and even episodes were sometimes nothing really happens, but still very much character development contains, is this TV series a must watch for every Breaking Bad fan.The first Season is great and it's additionally a utterly joyful series to watch. It hadn't a single notable flaw nor plot hole. I was never frustrated or in the "trashcan kicking" mood at any moment by the story lines Gilligan and Gould portrayed of the series characters.Better Call Saul has the same ingredients Breaking Bad had, except it's a different, but still fantastic meal. It's a perfect spin-off of a perfect series.
As most viewers of "Saul" are well aware, it is the prequel to one of the best drama shows of all time, "Breaking Bad". And one of the things I find interesting about "Saul" is it is entirely possible to watch every episode without spoiling the latter show. There is much foreshadowing of BB, of course - but nothing really ever gets spoiled about BB no matter what happens. If you were a fan of BB, but are still undecided about whether you want to watch "Saul" - if nothing else, I find the most interesting scenes involve how the story handles the introduction of the various characters and unfortunately not too much else. And for that alone, I find it worth watching just to see the old (meth) gang again to see what the story will do with them. Mike Ehrmentraut, (a huge fan-favorite in BB) ,Gus Fring, Hector "Ding Ding" Salamanca, Lydia-Rodart Quayle, Tuco, Victor, Tyrus, et. al., all make appearances and seeing a favorite character again is truly the best part of this show for me. But - if I hadn't seen (and loved every minute of) "Breaking Bad" I would literally have no interest in watching "Saul". And this has nothing to do with comparing BB to its prequel, and inevitably finding the latter show wanting. I realize that "Breaking Bad" is (possibly) the best TV drama of all time and it would be next to impossible to follow such perfection no matter how good "Saul" turned out to be. And from the get-go I assumed "Saul" would necessarily be anti-climactic for that reason. So no, it's not my own expectations that make this show a bit of a let-down but the show itself. It is somehwat interesting to see Jimmy McGill slowly mutating into Saul Goodman (exactly like Walter White's metamorphosis (from straight-laced high school teacher to meth kingpin in "Breaking Bad"). And like Walter White, Jimmy's transformation into Saul is caused by a series of traumatic events, that are the inevitable by-product of the characters' doing what he feels he is forced to do in order to survive. But what is so often discouraging about this show, is that it doesn't make the most of the strong characters it has. The rest of the characters seem to spend too much of each episode mucking about, in scenes that are too often obviously drawn out, and saying and doing things that neither reveal anything interesting about them nor add much to the story. And at that, I have to compare it to the tight and taut story of "Breaking Bad" - there's not a wasted or gratuitous scene in any of the 62 episodes. The issue I have with "Better Call Saul" is that so much of each episode is obvious filler...you get the idea each episode could lose half the scenes without seriously impairing the story. And that, to me, is what makes "Saul" a decent show compared to a great one. Nevertheless I will keep watching.. i want to see what Gus, Mike, Hector and the rest of the "Breaking Bad" gang are going to do - and that's all I want or expect at this point. "Saul" is a good show that might become a great one (but I won't expect it).
Many keep comparing this to Breaking Bad, and keep hoping Jimmy will turn "into" Saul, but are failing to realize how great the slow build up of drama,seeing a man slowly get beat down and realize he is not happy.The acting is top notch, and very nuanced. The story line is slow, but extremely interesting. I think some are simply wanting to see Breaking Bad part 2, and that would never work. I see this show as having basically nothing to do with Breaking Bad, other than it takes place in the same area and world. Jimmy's story is actually more believable in some ways, and more interesting.


                
I love to watch TV shows. Simply adore them. And the thing is once in a blue moon a show comes that changes your perception of what a good TV shows' elements should be like, what the direction should be like, what the flow of the story should be like. Breaking Bad made you realize that TV shows aren't all about leaving you at cliffhangers or spicing things up for the heck of it. The simple things in life are the most beautiful and the way Vince Gilligan directs his shows makes you realize that amidst all the other shows out there which are trying to make you stay glued to the TV, this show doesn't even have to try. If you are a fan of Breaking Bad (who isn't?), you are going to be teleported back to the good old days where the story moves at a pace which leaves you reeling and wanting for more every time.This show is great, Saul Goodman, attorney at law, in a dog eat dog world, how does he reach to the level where everybody including you and I go - "Damn, I'm in trouble, better call Saul". It takes you a little back to how the dynamics of Albuquerque work w.r.t law, police, mobsters while subtly infusing characters from the Breaking Bad series as well like the gangster Tuco or Mike who will give you more cause to watch and keep you wondering how this all leads to the Breaking Bad story we know. I wouldn't be surprised if we end up seeing Jesse or the DEA brother-in-law of Walter either.Bottomline: Whether you've watched Breaking Bad or not, don't miss this!


                
Regardless of it's status as a "prequel" to Breaking Bad this is a show that stands alone on it's own two feet and is worthy of your precious viewing time. Bob Odenkirk's performance is supremely nuanced and provides an unfettered glimpse into that part of Saul Goodman's personality, the majority portion of the 'iceberg' (if you will) that lay beneath the water's surface, which to be frank was at best two- dimensional in Breaking Bad. The inclusion of some of the more minor players in the parent series is welcome, but in no way overwhelms the stories told here. I truly look forward to every new episode and this is one of maybe two or three things programmed into my PVR. Can't say enough good things; AMC hits another home run.


                
I will keep this review completely spoiler-free. So far just the first four episodes have aired (and I have wrote reviews for all of them individually) but I can already tell this is going to go down in history as one of the best TV shows of the 21st century, just like Breaking Bad did. It's been a painful year and-a-bit without BB, and finally we have something that can fill the gap, and boy does Better Call Saul do it well. With that said, do bear in mind that while this show does possess a Breaking Bad vibe, it will not bother you (if that's not what you want), and it is very much it's own thing and would most likely be successful with or without BB existing beforehand.The acting is just top notch. Bob Odenkirk (Jimmy/Saul) pulls it off every episode with a spot on balance of comedy and solemnity. There are some first-class side characters also, such as Jonathan Banks (Mike) who hasn't really been involved too much as of yet but when he has he's been great. Michael McKean (Chuck) has been very impressive. Rhea Seehorn (Kim) is doing a splendid job of establishing herself as the main female character in the show. Patrick Fabian and Michael Mando are both very good as well.The cinematography is just stunning so far. The show really is beautiful to look at. The lighting is always spot on. From the vibrant desert scenes in 'Mijo' to the dark, stylish shots in 'Hero', the cinematography never ceases to amaze me.The music and original score - wow. The songs are extremely well picked, and I can see a lot of thought definitely went into the selecting of them. The original score is also excellent, and does an exceptional job of setting the atmosphere and the mood of the show, matching perfectly with the cinematography. Overall, this show is pretty damn good so far, and I'm definitely looking forward to the rest of the series. I can't wait to see what it brings us. Great job Gilligan, Gould, and the cast and crew.


                
Better Call Saul is a little more different than Breaking Bad. It's dark but lighter in tone, leaning more to the comedy side of the spectrum. From Breaking Bad we came to know Saul Goodman as a person who only cared about money and himself and often sexually harassing his receptionist. He was basically depicted as a contemptible lawyer. Better Call Saul centers around the story of Jimmy McGill (Goodman) prior Breaking Bad. turning him into a more complex character than he was on BB. The cinematography is beautiful and similar to BB and the appearance of former characters provide a sense of familiarity. So far it is an intriguing show with great filming and writing and the show is further elevated by powerful performances from the actors, especially in regards to Odenkirk.


                
First of all, this show had a very rough panorama since start. It was almost common agreement that the expectations on "Better Call Saul" were impossible to attain; it was just futile to compete with "Breaking Bad", arguably the most praised and critical acclaimed show on television history. However, it was a very nice surprise watch the very first 5 minutes from the show: it was pure cinematographic beauty, the acting of Bob Odenkirk was, little to say, outstanding (and showed us the sheer complexity of his character, more than he did in 4 seasons of the original show); it had all the elements we used to love of "Breaking Bad", but with their own identity. The musical selection was top notch, as usual with the work of Thomas Golubic, the musical supervisor of both shows. And then, the brilliantly written script made it feel the whole thing as a show that doesn't live in the shadows of their predecessor, but rather a show with their own mood and rhythm, a separate program that you can easily watch even if you haven't heard or know a thing about "Breaking Bad". The dialogues are super funny and clever, and with lots of references. I have seen the first 4 episodes and all i can say is that this show is, at the very least, amazingly consistent and it really lives up on the expectations of the original show. I gave it 9 stars for now only because i know the best stuff this show has to offer has yet to come. Superb television. Watch it.


                
This show is about a criminal lawyer but it is nothing like the umpteen other pieces of entertainment about the legal industry created for consumption throughout the decades. It is a testament to a depth of vision for the human condition which reinforces for us that Breaking Bad was not an anomalous success resulting from the efforts of one monkey in an infinite array of monkeys at typewriters. This is a product of genius where the human soul is plumbed to its depths.Viewers of Breaking Bad will be familiar with the lead in Saul Goodman; albeit after his initial growing pains as an attorney and well into his questionable ethics. We meet Saul here, at the beginning of his journey into the legal profession and learn how and why he chose this route in life.Although the series is entitled "Better Call Saul" and the main character as we were introduced to him in "Breaking Bad" is named "Saul Goodman"; here we are introduced to him during his humble beginning as a newly minted attorney named "Jimmy McGill". We meet his highly successful but even more eccentric older brother Chuck who, along with the dire straits his base aspirations have led him toward in life, inspires him to change his ways. Jimmy attempts to follow in his brother's footsteps while hoping he can eventually stand beside him and be viewed as a professional colleague whose success he aspires to emulate.Jimmy's talents and history in the art of the con however introduce unforeseen barriers which force him into rely on those skills to carve out a similar but divergent career path for himself. As a viewer, one cannot help but to empathize with his various challenges; many of which are unwarranted difficulties faced due to his history. One cares for Jimmy because we see him struggling to make honourable decisions for himself while doggedly working and sacrificing to carve a career for himself. We see Jimmy rely on his established skills to accomplish goals and on his insight and ingenuity while ferreting out a career changing suit which benefits pension aged victims being exploited by an unethical service provider.Throughout his investigation, we see Jimmy not only tirelessly working toward helping the victims he acts as a saviour for, he also contributes toward his brother's return to psychological well-being. Jimmy demonstrates care for his brother in a manner that siblings are due each other not only in reciprocation for assistance he received, but also because he genuinely loves and admires him. He faithfully cares for his brother's needs while demonstrating sensitivity to his brother's unique medical condition. His naturally scheming mind concocts a situation to coax his brother into recovering his health without being overt in the effort to help. Jimmy's sole desire for the devotion demonstrated toward his brother is to be regarded as someone whom although may have made flawed choices in past, was sincerely committed to becoming a better person. He unfortunately discovers his selflessness neither recognized nor reciprocated with any measure of consideration for his efforts; and as a viewer, one feels his pain when stung by betrayal.Nevertheless, Jimmy soldiers on in his new career, even after temporarily "falling off the wagon" and revisiting his old life to remind him of what he could no longer be. Jimmy makes choices throughout this first season which has him questioning the value of adopting honourable ethics at the cost of creating economic hardship for himself. As viewers, we are left pondering if we would have made the same decisions ourselves, given the same opportunity and foresight for their consequences. As Vince Gill accomplished so well in "Breaking Bad" we are witness to life altering choices people make when faced with unique circumstances; and we are put into a position of questioning whether or not we would have made an honourable or self-serving choice. In this case of Jimmy McGill's life, the boundary between right and wrong is not quite so stark as the line crossed by Walter White in "Breaking Bad".The genius of a series which serves as a prequel to another series rife with rich characters is the ability to resurrect them in their earlier forms as well. Fans of "Breaking Bad" will be delighted to see familiar faces in the form of his investigative partner as they first become acquainted, and in the form of radically psychopathic criminals like Tuco Salamanca.Each of the characters we are introduced to in this first season offer equal measures of engaging uniqueness and emotional depth as the characters created for "Breaking Bad". In this case however, we are given greater insight into depths only hinted at within their subsequent adventures. We learned to like his investigator friend Mike for instance, but here we are given reasons why. We are introduced to him as a human being whom has also endured great pain and great change in his life while developing an appreciation and respect for his own unique talents. We are introduced to Mike's history and the means by which he and Saul become acquainted in at first an almost adversarial relationship that evolves from aloofness displayed by Mike to someone who learns to see the good qualities within Jimmy struggling to assert them in a world which beats those qualities out of people who struggle to merely survive. Having compromised on his own ethics as a police officer and witnessing the devastating effects his own choices had on his family, Mike evolve an ethic transcending the letter of the law while violating it. As viewers, we cheer for him as he reclaims justice on behalf a system corrupted by those who betray it.If this show is given the same latitude as its creator's predecessor, it stands to become as much of a phenomenon worth every moment spent watching it.


                
I absolutely love this guy. I was like a lot of others out there. No way, no how will a Breaking Bad spin off about Saul Goodman be worth a watch. I'm here to tell you that I was wrong. The internal struggle between right and wrong balanced with the desire to succeed rather than fail is something that we all share at the most basic level. Bob Odenkirk is surrounded by one heck of a supporting cast of characters in a way that the show makes me completely forget Walter White even existed. It is such a rare treat to identify with the characters I see on television and I have no doubt that I am not alone. One of the best shows on television.


                
