Time for your OWL marks Mr. Yates and Kloves! No- don't bite your fingers; You don't get a Troll nor a Dreadful either- you have just managed yourself a resounding Poor though. Hmmm, better luck next time!- not for you but for HP fans who may want to see someone else re-doing the entire series in future. Death Hallows Pt 2, for some time to come, will remain as the foremost example of a movie that could had been a classic if not for the grand opportunity missed, or rather wasted by the director and the crew. It had every resource at command- a very talented set of actors, latest 3D and computer technologies, and a 10 years old legacy to guide its way to greatness. But quite inexplicably it refused to even say 'accio' to these sources, and instead, after running impressively through half the way to summit, it wandered, stumbled, and then jumped off the path into same abyss where Harry is made to throw the Elder wand at end. The movie starts convincingly from part 1, and holds itself really well until the time the trio of H.R.H enters into Hogwarts. The scene in vault where artifacts start to multiply or the flight of dragon are superlatively done, there is no question to it. But once inside the castle, the fizz suddenly goes off the movie. Yates wanted to rush towards boom boom explosions with such haste that it let the thing implode on itself. And so the second half becomes a rubble of montages and frozen frames crashed in a monumental heap where Harry Potter fans like me are still trying to find some meaningful pieces together. To put it another words, the entire second half of the movie is just arranged together- there is no feeling introduced, no association built with the characters, no bridges created (but blown away certainly). It just compilation of images one after another. Pretty, no doubt, but Mr. Yates, ought to know that in wizarding world people in images also have soul; and the second half had not a shred of soul in it. And therefore, I did not feel any personal sense of loss when Hogwarts shook and crumbled, when Fred, Lupin , Tonks and so many others died, and quidditch ground burned to ashes. Damn you David Yates- I had loved Hogwarts more than my own school, had ROFLed at Fred's quips and jeers, followed wizard quidditch more than Ron, and had made friends with Harry's batchmates. You dehumanized the entire saga, and left me with not even a feeling of mourning at these losses and worse-- neither one of jubilation at Harry's triumph. And this is my principle discontent. In the movie, the climatic fight between Harry and Voldi occurs completely isolated and away from everyone. There is no one to watch watch this epic struggle which was building since last 7 years of the movie chronology. It was absurd and spoiled the movie for me. I had never liked the 7th book much, but still the conversation between Voledomort and Harry at the end was thrilling and enthralling – equally moving was Harry's conversation with Dumbledore's portrait. Yate's machination constructed an altogether different and vastly inferior ending.As a foot-note, this is still a tolerable movie- and certainly not 'OMG-worst-movie-i-ever-saw' kind of stuff. Pity is that, it could had been much much much better.
I found other comments from boards and posts around the net, I found that I agree with all of them. I'm a fan of the books and Yates ruined the franchise. He sucked out all of the magic and unnecessarily changed key parts of the story or left them out all together.Other HP fans on the film: "I think that the film missed too many points of the books.If Voldemort could feel the horcruxes being destroyed, he would have changed their location in book 6.Things Just Happen: for example when Harry gets Resurrection stone, he doesn't turn it three times. The spirits just appear.People were laughing in the cinema for many many things, not because they were funny, but because there was bad acting, bad lines, bad effects. Imagine most of the theater laughing for the mauled Voldemort in Harry's dream.Unnecessary changes. Why every wizard can fly without brooms? It was supposed to be Voldemort's specialty. That sucked big time.Making exciting moments of the books so boring or omitting them totally. In the book it was so exciting to have Harry wonder in the castle with his cloak.Blowing up a bridge with 100 death eaters on it <U+0085> wait? There was a bridge in Hogwarts? Wait, at the end there is another bridge on top of some bottomless valley.Voldemort's death, final battle, watch 8 movies and at the end Voldemort dies with bad CGI effect. There was no dynamics. The book's version was million times better with Harry telling things and what he had understood. And Bellatrix didn't blow up in bits and pieces. It seems to me that killing people with CGI effects is OK to show to kids. Killing people as it would happen in "real life" isn't. Yates decided that the movie had to be shot from his personal point of view, as a director, pitiful fight scenes, saw little action the whole movie and if you did they were short. 1. It failed to create a satisfactory ending for all characters. Where was Neville being surrounded by admirers? Where was Kreacher in the battle of Hogwarts? How was Percy suddenly reunited with his family? etc.2. It left out the whole Dumbledore and Grindelwald plot which i thought was great in the book. It started it in part 1 but never really finished it. There was no possible reason i can think off to remove this from the film other than stupidity.3. The final battle was neither as epic or as dark as was promised. It never created that sense of peril that it should of done or the sense of finale that it also should of done.4. It never explained why Harry survived Voldemort's killing curse. Dumbledore wanders on and tells the audience the one thing that they already bloody knew (which was that harry was a horcrux) failing to explain anything else.5. It differed far to much from the book which was amazing. I can't understand the logic of taking something amazing and changing it so that its not.6. The snake lasted longer than Bellatrix Lestrange in a fight. Plus Bellatrix blew up for some reason. Went for comedy rather than epicness.7. The final conversation between Harry and Voldemort was cut out. Plus Voldemort died without anyone watching and by somehow evaporating.8. Where was Grawp and Hagrid in the battle. In fact where was everyone. The battle scenes were surprisingly short.1) Scenes were awkward and dragged out<U+0085> 2) Shell cottage was on a cliff on a beach<U+0085>not just on straight up sand 3)Bill's face was hardly maimed 4) If you hadn't read the book you'd have no idea how Hermione became Bellatrix or for what cause<U+0085> 5) Nothing is explained"Everyone else said it for me. I hate Yates for ruining Harry Potter, but at least we have the books.
-CONTAINS SPOILERS-The Bad Sides: 1. Lacked emotions. Seriously HP-7 lacked friendship, love everything. In one scene, when Harry walks to the Forbidden Forest to sacrifice himself...after ALL these times of being together, fighting together,..Hermione just cried and gave him a hug and did NOTHING. Ron was just standing there, saying nothing. What kind of friendship is this? They were supposed to be best friends! It got way away from the book.2. No real jokes.3. In one scene when Dumbledore's brother asked Harry where is Dobby, Harry answers so bluntly and quickly as if it doesn't matter at all - "He's dead".4. There were loop holes all around the place, no history about Ariana, Dumbledore, Horcruxes, and most horrible thing is that Harry breaks the elder wand whereas it was to be used to fix his real wand! And....etc.5. In the last scene, the boy who acted as Albus Severus...is a stupid child...they all sounded like ROBOTS. And no freaking jokes or punchlines! They totally ruined the ending.6. After killing Voldemort, OMG, no cheering no nothing? I was puzzled for a second if anybody knew that he really died or not...! It's awful.7. After Harry's 'dead' body was carried to the Hogwarts, except for Ginny everyone took it simply, I mean what the hell? You guys are all wooden characters!The only good side of this movie was when Harry got into Snape's memory, I cried again for Snape. :'(I'm really disappointed because Harry Potter series is my most favorite book series! I expected better.
This Harry Potter series which spanned over a decade ended with the worst kind of writing offense an author can commit - Deus Ex Machina.Throughout the series, fans were wondering how will Harry Potter and friends defeat the all powerful dark wizard Voldemort? What clever way is the author devising? What grand plan is she setting us up for? Well, it turns out that the author, Rowling, had NO plan. Just out of the blue she throws in an "all powerful one wand" which defeats the all powerful evil in the end. This "one wand" that was not so much as mentioned in the previous books or movies (Not including part one, it's the same movie from the same book even though they charge you twice); not a hint, not a whisper. This is shameful writing. The fans deserve better.A truly lazy effort. I feel really sorry for the fans that had grown up through childhood with this story and get such a lackadaisical ending. Poor writing, poor storytelling.PS - IMDb don't indiscriminately delete this review again. Just because the review is unpopular with Fanboys, studios, and the writer, does not mean it should be deleted. The points in the review are fair and valid. Or do only reviews that cater to the mindless herd mentality deserve to be posted?
I'm taking no reserves by telling this film is awful. By far the worst film I've seen this year, and that wouldn't be if there hadn't been so much hype about it.Every critic and every website praise this film, however I can't begin to understand how can they praise such a poor production. An irregular, cyclic, inconsistent and plot-hole-filled script, a lousy direction incapable of maintaining an action sequence long enough to have a good time and an edition work to be embarrassed (with a tighter edition you could reduce both parts into a single film). If part 1 was bad, this one kicks the bucket big time!Acting doesn't improve too much, we still get all the wooden performances we're used to and the same plot line is filled with clichés and things we've seen over and over again. It's to admire the ability of J.K. Rowling to develop intriguing situations and by the same time her incapability to resolve them with wit and style.The action sequences just pass by, the plot line is pitiful, the final battle doesn't leave a mark and the epilogue is completely unnecessary. Maybe I'm insane, and maybe everyone will think I'm out of line by giving this film 1 star out of 10, but when you grow up admiring the greatest fantasy and sci-fi sagas ever made (either in the film or book industry) like Star Wars, Lord of the Rings, Dune, Blade Runner and the Neverending Story, you'll know Harry Potter just doesn't have enough to be in the same rank as them.


                
I was looking forward to seeing the finale of the potter series, as the other films have been quite well presented. The latest 3 movies however have cutout vital bits of the story and the finale is just a joke. The film started off quite fast relative to the book, the whole breaking into Gringots scence was poorly adapted from the book. The final chapters of the book where 100 times better than the final parts of the film. When harry looks through Snape's memories it is way to brief, in the book a lot of emotion was shown as Snape saw the downfall to the relationship to himself and Harry potters mother. The battle between harry and Voldemort was truly disappointing as the director changed the engagement into battle between the two (and other main factors that I will not spoil for people reading this review). The positioning of Hagrid's whereabouts in the film pretty much show how poorly adapted the book was. They didn't even put in the line about Neville becoming a professor at the end.In conclusion I found the film very disappointing, I don't know why cinemas are showing it in 3D as it barely uses any 3d effects. 4*/10* A huge disappointment.


                
I really wanted to like this movie. While the Harry Potter film franchise has never fully convinced me that it is capable of producing movies with any true lasting value, it has at least always spawned reasonably good films that, despite their missteps, are mostly enjoyable and entertaining on an initial viewing. However, the unbelievably excellent reviews for this movie really had me expecting something more this time. I was hoping to finally see a Harry Potter film that wasn't just serviceable and entertaining, but was truly a great film in terms of storytelling, pacing, craft, and execution. Sadly, I feel the final Harry Potter film falls victim to the exact same missteps that have plagued the series throughout its production. Sure, there are a number of things that this film does very well. The special effects are absolutely through the roof, the atmosphere and camera-work are suitably dark and ominous, and there a few very emotionally potent scenes, such as Snape's death and the discovery that Harry makes about his past soon after. Yet the core elements necessary for the foundation of the film are simply lacking, almost absent in certain cases. The interplay between the characters, all of whom we are supposed to be emotionally invested in and cheering for, seems oddly muted. There is a distinct lack of emotional interplay between characters at times when these emotions seem like they should be at their greatest. The moment where Ron and Hermione realize that Harry has decided to sacrifice himself to Voldemort feels extremely underplayed. They barely even try to stop him and seem extremely ready and willing to make peace with the fact that their best friend of 7 years has decided he must die. Also, when Harry magically resurrects himself from the dead (still trying to figure that one out.. the way it is presented in the film is quite confusing), he doesn't receive the reception that you would assume he would. His companions respond almost as if they expected him to come back to life all long. However, I feel the biggest and most damning issue with the film is the pacing and storytelling technique, especially in the latter portion after Harry is killed. The movie seems to speed hastily through the moments that require the most attention and should be the most emotionally resonant, while dwelling on and extending other scenes beyond their welcome. This absolutely kills the narrative drive of the movie, pulling you out of the action and lessening the scale and the potential emotional impact of the proceedings. The scene after Harry dies and where he meets Dumbledore is obviously a pivotal scene, but the length that it extends through coupled with its positioning squarely at the climax of the movie detracts from the flow and suspense. On the other hand, the scene that this entire decade's worth of movies has been building to where Harry and Voldemort finally clash is treated in an almost business-like fashion. The fight itself feels a bit hasty, but the real problem is that there is no emotional resolution after Voldemort is finally killed. None of the characters even mention or react to what has transpired. This is an absolutely unforgivable misstep because it undermines the entire event, as well as the 7 previous movies that have led to it. There is no emotional culmination and/or resolution with any of the characters after the evil they have been fighting for so long has finally been vanquished. Instead, we are led straight to the epilogue in less than 10 minutes with hardly a line of dialogue from anyone other than Harry, Ron, or Hermione, none of whom have anything to discuss except for details concerning the Elder Wand. The sense of accomplishment, gratification, resolution, or relief seems entirely absent.At the end of the day though, this is not a horrible movie. It certainly has a number of entertaining scenes and, like the films that came before it, is mostly entertaining and relatively solid. However, it falls victim to the same narrative-driven problems that the other films suffer from and, in this case, the missteps are particularly unforgivable given that this film is the final installment and the one where emotional resonance and correct pacing is the most vital. For that reason, although it is probably one of the better films in the series, I can't give it more than 2 stars. Admittedly, it feels a tad low, but the flaws are simply too significant to be overlooked and they fatally wound what could've been a satisfying conclusion to a relatively solid franchise.
The movie only passingly reflected the second half of the book Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Corners were cut and a masterpiece of a book was turned into a misshapen and expensive failure. Oh, it may be a financial success, but because of what remains of the magic and greatness of the book.In the book it was lies, hate, and abuse that separated one side from the other. Harry Potter's side was one of inclusion, of giving people choice and showing mercy. In the movie, both sides are vicious and stupid. The beautiful details and realism found in the fantasy of the book was cheapened and abbreviated in the movie. Where as the earliest movies also abbreviated from the book, as essentially all movies will, it was done in such a way that the true magic grown in the reading of the books could still be found in the movies.I came into this movie with high hopes. I saw the high rating and I knew the last book really picked up in the second half. The makers of the movie had more time with which to delve into the details since they'd split the single book into two movies. Yet scene after scene in which I wanted to see and hear the mystery and beauty I imagined while reading the book, each scene was ultimately unsatisfying, unfaithful, and mediocre.


                
It was an amazing title for an amazing book. Even though I was a fan of the "Lord of the Rings" and I never was actually into "Harry Potter", I believed in the power of this author and this masterpiece; after reading the book. Extra-ordinary work of character development, relations and creativity. Extra-ordinary work of humour , fantasy and imagination. The power of mankind in terms of how different could it be from other creatures in expansion of such beautiful art-works was observable within this book. Oh, Should I write about the Movie here? Well I have to confess like this: It was just the best way of spoiling such an amazing novel.


                
I'm so glad the last Potter film is finally over with and there will be no more of these big budget, boring movies. There was nothing in this sequel that I liked; no memorable moments or funny scenes. It was all bland, and that is such a shame since the books were so good. The Potter movies just got worse as it went along. And in this movie there wasn't even good special effects. Like in the beginning, Harry, Hermione, and Ron use magic to disguise themselves to break into a vault at the goblin bank. That's already been done in the series. It just wasn't interesting.Plus, I've never any of the actors in these movies have been very good.FINAL VERDICT: I'm so glad it's over and no more Potter films.


                
It is a truly sad reflection on the film industry that, with the commercial success of this film practically guaranteed, HP8 was not far better; especially with amount of CGI thrown at it. If you have read the book, then, most likely, you will find HP8 a rather pedestrian stroll through the main scenes, nothing more. Where there are changes, these detract from the book and some are positively dreadful! Potter fans beware. As for the final scenes with HP versus Voldemort, what an awful distortion of the book. I am astonished that JKR allowed such a travesty. The exploding bodies and snake were laughable. A scene that more closely followed the book would have really lifted the film but I guess the people behind the camera realised (if they had not had this horrible realisation ages ago) that Radcliffe simply could not have pulled it off. It is such a pity he was chosen the role he is far too wooden. That said, Radcliffe does perform slightly better in this one though, sadly that is saying very little. The final scene – 19 years later – should be cut, it was pathetic. I watched the 3D version and it added nothing so save your money and go and see the 2D one. The stand out performer of the series is Alan Rickman. It is a pity that Richard Harris died he was a far superior Dumbledore. I have given the film a very kind rating of 5.
