Overall, it may be said that the movie was good. The direction, cinematography & the special effects were brilliantly executed. The acting was good too. The children have grown so much.But, this isn't the way The Harry Potter saga was meant to end. A movie which is supposed to mark the End of an Era could have been much better. With the expectations I had, I was a little disappointed. It DID NOT have the depth and the emotional impact WASN'T nearly as good as the book. I was pleased with Part 1 because it stuck very well to the book. That's what I was expecting with this too. But no... they had to spoil it. What's the use of making the movie in two parts if they can't do justice to the book? They should have made it a Trilogy (as all great movies are made, like 'The Godfather Trilogy', 'The LOTR Trilogy', original 'Star Wars Trilogy', The Bourne Trilogy', etc.) or they should have increased the length of the 2 parts. Who forced them to fit the whole thing within 2hrs.15mins. each. ??(Every part of LOTR is over 3&1/2 hrs. long. No one had an issue with it). . *** SPOILERS **THE GOOD :Snape's and Voldemort's characters were played quite well.Throughout the series, Snape has been rather emotionless and monotonous. But, in the pensieve, we see a refreshingly new emotional side of him.Gringott's scene was nicely shown.They added the scene where Hermione & Ron destroy Hufflepuff's cup.They show the future (19 years later) scene. I thought it would be cut.THE BAD : (I have to mention these because I was disappointed as hell)My Biggest Disappointment - Snape's Memories. They showed the whole thing within a minute. They're some of the most interesting & touching scenes of the story. They just rushed through it, even excluding many of the memories. Fred's death. They don't even show it. Then later it was ridiculous to see Mrs. Weasley angry at Bellatrix when the latter was fighting Ginny.The battle was too short and didn't the magnitude and impact as in the book, with Centaurs, Goblins/Kreecher, Hagrid/Spiders, Ghosts, etc.They don't show the Common Rooms. I always imagined it while reading the books. But I badly wanted to see them in the movie.They don't show Harry using the Cruciatus Curse on the one of the Carrows.They wasted time in Nagini's chase.They don't mention about Teddy Lupin and that Harry was his Godfather. They don't mention the names of Harry's other two kids.No mention about the significance of the horcruxes.No mention of Bloody Baron and his link with Ravenclaw's diadem.No mention about how the Invisibility Cloak came into the possession of the Potters, how Harry and Voldemort are related through the Peverell brothers.They don't show how Dumbledore communicated with Snape after he died.Harry doesn't even mend is wand. He directly snaps the Elder Wand into two pieces...In the future scene, all the funny and cheerful dialogues are excluded. Everyone's just smiling and staring at each other. And moreover, none of the them seemed in their late thirties. Didn't the film-makers have enough money to hire good make-up artists.THE UGLY :Dumbledore's Story. He's my most favourite character in the book. There's nothing about him in the movie. They just say he had secrets (what secrets??). They don't even tell the story of Dumbledore sister, Ariana. They don't show him getting emotional at King's Cross.The use of ridiculous one-liners and humourless jokes when the situation is so intense and sad.Harry & Voldemort had their final fight in the middle of nowhere. No one was even around to watch it. (In the book, they were in the middle of the whole crowd.)Bellatrix and Voldemort die bursting into confetti!ALL IN ALL, it wasn't the send-off the series deserved. Someone who has grown up reading the books and watching the movies in the series will understand my woes...
After three days I'm still a little torn when thinking of the end of the Harry Potter movies.On one hand, I really liked the movie. They managed to bring the whole battle of Hogwarts on screen. But precisely because the last movie consists almost ONLY of the last battle at Hogwarts, I get the feeling that something is missing.Currently, I'm trying to come to terms with the fact that there will be no more Potter movies and therefore no chance to ever see the parts they left out on screen. One thing that will bother me forever - and almost ruined one of the greatest moments of the books for me - is the story of Teddy Lupin. In 7.1. Tonks starts to mention something that should hint at her pregnancy, but she doesn't really say anything about it and those people who haven't read the books will probably forget about that hint quickly. In 7.2. we never get told about Teddy's birth. And then, completely out of the blue, in the scene where Harry walks to his death (the most emotional scene of the books - I cried so hard during reading that!), Remus suddenly says something like "My son will one day understand what I died for". Everyone in the cinema was like WTF?! We never before - or AFTER in the epilogue - heard of Teddy. Why did they have to mention him in that scene then? Destroyed the feeling of that scene almost completely, because everyone in the cinema was just really confused and whispering about it.They could have added the part in Shell Cottage where Remus comes in and tells everyone that Tonks gave birth to a boy. That way Remus' words in the forest wouldn't have been so out of place and it would have given the movie a peaceful scene apart from the whole battle.One thing they really did brilliantly was the Prince's Tale (apart from the fact that they filmed it in a boathouse rather than the Shrieking Shack - why do they have chance something like this? I don't get it! I mean the Shrieking Shack has a deep meaning for the protagonists and is already a familiar place for the audience!). But otherwise that scene was great! Alan Rickman was brilliant in that scene! It's disappointing however that Dumbledore's tale was never fully brought on screen. It was so important in the books and so very effective in showing that Dumbledore was also only human and had a dark past. In the movie Harry simply says that he trusts Dumbledore, but in the book he gets doubts about the man and rightly so. It bothers me even more because they once again gave so many hints about his past, but nothing of importance was filmed and it leaves us hanging with the feeling that his story is not being told.That's something I feel in every Potter movie since the third movie. There are so many hints and half-told stories, but we never get the whole picture of it (except if you have read the books). I know that it is impossible to get EVERYTHING on screen that happens in the books, but I really feel like there could have been MORE. We never even hear of Voldemorts past and his parentage.Furthermore, there are a lot of little details that bother me, even though it doesn't really take away the fun in watching the movies. E.g. Harry's eye colour! In the books they are green. Just like his mother's. They even mention it in the movies that they have the same eyes. But the actors have different eye colours! Couldn't they have used contacts?? Also that Dumbledore doesn't wear his half moon glasses or that Tonks doesn't change her hair colour (except in the fifth movie) and many more little details that would have added to the simple magic of Harry Potter.It also bugs me that we never see Wormtail die. I loved that part in the books where he strangles himself with his silver hand, but we never see what happens to him in the movies.It's also a pity that Harry and Voldemort have their last showdown alone. The part where Voldemort realised that he can't hurt anyone in the castle anymore, because Harry sacrificed himself for them, was very powerful in the books.What I loved and I'm really grateful for, is the fact that Neville still got to behead Nagini. I was already scared when he got knocked out that they would change that part and let someone else do the job, but then out of nowhere Neville appeared and killed Nagini - great moment in the movie!! I love the music and love all the actors - Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, Dan Radcliffe and Tom Felton were especially brilliant here! I adore some parts of the movie, some had me left wanting more. But that was to be expected.I think it's a real pity that there wasn't someone here who loves the books so much to consider all the little details and the whole background story, like Peter Jackson did with The Lord of the Rings. That love for details and that devotion for the story is really missing in the Harry Potter movies. The style of each movie is different. A lot of the story is missing. Details are being left out which are important - especially for real fans of the books. The Harry Potter series really would have deserved to be taken on by someone like Peter Jackson! All in all, I think the movies as stand-alone are great! But as a real fan of the books you shouldn't compare it or you'll be disappointed.
It's 31 July so it's time to say it, above all it's will be the last opportunity: From now, that's it: no more movies to wait for. For this last movie, I could copy and paste my review from the previous movie: no introduction for beginners, the movie sticks to the book and it's beautifully designed with an amazing cast that we liked to see get mature.However, the final isn't really moving: my best feeling was to watch Hogwart on a big screen and on 3D. Having played the games and thus run for hours in Hogwart, it was like visiting my old school again. In addition, there are also big flaws as well: first of all, the score is a pity: Going from John Williams to Desplat makes a lot of magic disappear. The score pushes no moments and all the drama falls simply flat. Thus, either it's Yates who is a poor director, either it's the screenplay itself that is badly written. I don't know. But here are my arguments: When Harry leaves for the old forest, he has no words for Ron... When he meets there his parents, there is no effusion or great lines ... After the victory, he is like a ghost because no one pays attention to him... When he breaks the stick, he should have throw both sides of the bridge instead of using only one. And I think Voldemort was killed by himself with his spell bouncing back at him (as in his parent's killings) but watching the movie, it isn't clear. Well, my point is to say that a scene can shot on a lot of ways but with Yates, it's always the one with less emphasis that is chosen.Now, at last, i will wait the special collector DVD set to watch the entire story because I have only seen 5 movies so far (stone, chamber, goblet, and the two hallows). And maybe, in 19 years, they will shot again the ending with this same cast: HP was as much important for them than for us thus it will be an happy reunion...(But Emma had a good point: for them, before this fantastic childhood, they were like their children and in a way, this last scene was like a circle completed!)For now, if you are in need of more Potter, i recommend you the excellent HP Wizardry, a brilliantly lavished book about all those adaptations ! "All is fine"....
While following the advice of professional critics I went to the 2D viewing Of Deathly Hallows part 2. Some of the recent installments had been pretty dark and the 3D glasses were supposed to make this worse.The film seemed a little unlike the previous Potter films. Most Potter films have us seeing the story through the eyes of Harry, Hermione and Ron. Hallows 2 was a little impersonal toward our Heroes. The film seemed rushed and shortcuts were taken that eliminated the dialogue we needed to really feel the leading characters pain. Harry in the film can now 'feel' the Horcruxes when near, and sees their location through Voldemort's mind. Hard to imagine Voldemort making such a mistake, but this technique allowed the filmmakers to shorten the dialogue. This was probably a result of the story being delivered in two parts. The last real character development of Harry, Hermione and Ron was in Hallows 1. Hallows 2 it seems, was meant to be an action film. Also new to the film were efforts to create humor by throwing in one-liners from time to time.I thought the film stayed fairly close to Rowling's story, until the end at least. After the Kings Cross scene, the film began to diverge greatly from the book. I wondered if this was because better 3D possibilities were attained with these changes. I watched the movie again in 3D. It wasn't darker than the 2D version and the 3D seemed to help the film. However, I'm completely puzzled why the ending was changed the way it was. After waiting for more than a decade for the final showdown, it's unfortunate we got shorted here. The original ending by Rowling was much cleaner and presented more cinematic possibilities, and simply made a better ending for the series. The CGI for the early dragon scene was very good and I'm left wondering if they just ran out time to finish the thing correctly.I've come to believe most of the professional critics are clueless about this film. It's surely the readers and serious Potter fans that contain real insight into the series. However most people I've talked to that didn't read the book were completely happy with the film and loved all the action scenes in this movie. Many book readers of the series will be disappointed.That all being said - it was a difficult story to tell. Most of the loose ends in the series were tied up. Not too much of Dumbledore's personality was revealed, and that's probably a good thing. The final fleshing out of Snape's enigmatic character were revealed. Will Rowling pick up the pen once more to give us more Harry Potter? A lot could happen in 19 years! I certainly hope so - but not enough to give this film a rating it doesn't deserve.


                
Harry Potter has touched many lives, and has been an inspiration for millions and millions of fans around the world. As such, the last movie of the series was expected to be a titanic experience, full of action, full of that feel we've had during the past 7 Harry Potter movies (most particularly in Prisoner of Azkaban), but most important, it had to remain, in Yates' words, "fiercely loyal to the book". What we had, however, was a movie that was barely above what we can consider "good". Why, you ask? For quite a number of reasons: For one, Deathly Hallows Part 1 was the best movie of the saga, because it did its book justice for the first time in the series and, logically, we had such high hopes for Part 2. However, its "book loyalty" was only 100% accurate and evident during a handful of scenes (Snape's memories and the Room of Hidden Things), unlike its predecesor, which was almost 100% loyal to the book in almost 100% of the movie. For two, we barely had anything more than the infamous Battle of Hogwarts than some aerial scenes, and what we could watch when the trio ran by the fight, and that is NOT how you build an epic fight, Mr. Yates. For three, the only dramatic and/or tragic deaths we see are Snape's, Harry's and Voldemort's, and barely a photoshoot of Fred's, Remus' and Tonks' bodies. And last, and most important: The beauty of the book lays in the DIALOGUE, Mr. Kloves, and I think you did an astonishingly mediocre job with it. I understand it's *based* on the books, but seriously... You did a much, much, much, much, much better job on Part 1... What happened this time? Why did you decide to skip 3 seconds of dialogue on each character? Why did Harry have to remain silent at the end, instead of saying "The wand's more trouble than it's worth, and quite frankly, I've had enough trouble for a lifetime? Why didn't Ron get to say "Well, on the upside we got the horcrux, on the downside no sword"? Seriously. We expected MUCH more from this movie, but what's done is done, and there are no more chances. Sad.
Well, this is it. After fourteen years, we have reached the end of the Harry Potter saga both in print and on film. Like them or hate them, the movies were undoubtedly an entertaining experience to look forward to, and while I always preferred the books to them, I found myself feeling incredibly sad and moved as I left the theatre tonight. The end of an era, indeed.This is by no means a bad movie, but it sadly fails to deliver as much as the first part did (which, in my opinion, was easily the best Harry Potter movie). The two installments are vastly different; it has been said that the first is a road movie and the second an action movie and the direction reflects that all too well. In fact, at times I felt I was watching a film by a different director. The change wasn't unwelcome, but a little eerie nonetheless. This is the end, and the director wants us to feel this to the very core, from the missing trademark opening theme, down to the feel of this film.As with all adaptations, certain things have been changed for the transition to the big screen. Whether you enjoy them or not falls under personal preference, but the majority were welcome to me. The trailer makes this perfectly clear, so it shouldn't fall under the spoiler section, but the most noticeable change was inflicted on the very final battle. There is no crowd watching in this time, only Harry and Voldemort, both driven to the edge. The fight feels more personal. Yes, the other characters make it abundantly clear that by the end of the story everyone's lives have been affected by this war, but the burden still falls on Harry's shoulders; everyone else can only pave the way.I won't waste time waxing rhapsodic about the film's special effects. The battle of Hogwarts is an absolute thrill to watch, though I never once doubted the well-trained Hollywood crew would fails us on that aspect.Everyone gets their moment of glory in this film, be it as a character or as an actor. I had expected that Alan Rickman would steal the show this time around, and brilliant though he is, this is Daniel Radcliffe's movie through and through. Our little trio has grown up, and along with their blossoming into adults, we have witnessed them become better actors. Both Emma and Rupert do a fine job indeed --the latter thankfully not a mere comic relief- but it's Dan who truly shines. He has never embodied his role as much as he does here. The much-awaited forest scene is his crowning moment, where his performance had everyone in my vicinity in tears (or in the verge).For specific nitpicks and personal favorite moments (including spoilers), move on to the lists below. If you're interested in my conclusion, skip to the last paragraph.The Good: The opening scene The whole Gringott's scene. The Battle of Hogwarts as a visual spectacle The many shout-outs to the previous movies. From props to creatures and even a past running gag (Seamus blowing everything up), the creators of the film paid homage to the journey that led up to this, like a personal wink to the viewer. Very nice touch. The way Harry makes his presence known when in Hogwarts, signaling the start of the battle. The Prince's Tale. Understandably missing a few memories, but the way they blend into one another, and the way certain scenes seem to crop up to help the viewer place the later events during the movies made for a beautiful and touching montage. The final battleThe Bad: Voldemort's laughter when Harry's body is brought back from the forest. Never been a fan of Fiennes in this part (good actor overall, but he overacts in these films) and the laughter was just plain awkward. Neville's 'rousing' speech. Corny to the max and badly written. The many, awkward attempts for humor when it was not needed. The film has a very precarious balance here. Some one-liners are very well-timed and placed (Ron's line when the trio returns to Hogwarts comes to mind), but many will most likely induce more groans than chuckles. Dumbledore's entire backstory gone. Wasn't expecting a detailed analysis like in the book, but they could've made time for a little more. The off-screen deaths of important characters. Really hoping they end up on the director's cut or even as deleted scenes on the Blu-Ray. Voldemort and Bellatrix literally disintegrating. What? Why? The epilogue. I like that it focused on the most important part (AKA Harry's private word with one of his sons), but I always thought the essence of the epilogue lies in Harry's final thoughts as the train leaves King's Cross. Thinking of past horrors, he rubs his scar absently as Ginny tries to reassure him that everything will be fine. This wasn't really touched upon here.Overall, the end, like the saga as a whole, was a bittersweet affair. As a film it has its faults and is certainly not a movie the non-book fans will easily follow, but it's the end, and it's thrilling, it's entertaining, a non-stop ride chock full of blood, sweat and tears.All is mostly well.
I saw the movie yesterday, and decided to go see it without any expectations. Otherwise, it usually ends up being worse then you expected. All I can say is, I thought it would be better...Let me start by saying that I enjoyed part 1 a lot. It had everything I hoped for in a Harry Potter movie: the magic, the music, the acting and most of all; the loyalty to the book. I assumed that they would carry on the same as they did on part 1.The opening of the movie is good, but after that it starts to bother me. The storytelling becomes a bit messy, and the beautiful cinematography of part 1 disappeared before my eyes. The editing is also a bit awkward.. it feels unfinished. The music is good, but most of it comes from deathly hallows part 1. What I can say, most of all, is that this movie had one beautiful moment. WARNING SPOILER* The scene where Harry goes into the pensieve to see the Prince's Tale. That was beautiful put together, and it was wise to use Dumbledore's Farewell on this scene. The acting was good, everybody stays very true to its character. WARNING SPOILER* The "final battle" isn't really a battle, we see some people fighting, but that's it. It seems epic, but it isn't. A few good scenes can't make this movie.. I'm going to see it a second time, I hope my perspective will change.
Had I not read the book I probably would have loved this movie. In the beginning it follows the book well even if the pacing is kind of uneven. However, when the battle begins it starts to slowly stop using what was already well written in the book. The part that really got me upset was after Harry died. 1. He doesn't hide under the invisibility cloak and reappear later. 2. They drag out the snake killing, but thankfully Neville still kills it in the end. 3. Voldemort and Harry do not get the epic showdown in the Great Hall. Instead they fight everywhere and the Elder Wand explanation is dragged out. All in all the movie was very disappointing because of how much of the end they replaced. It's like they took the major plot points and threw the book out the window.
This movie is a lot like that Genius student we all knew in College, who could have had a 4.0 but did not study and instead got a 3.0. The fact that this movie is good is more a testament to how great the story is. If you read the book you know some of the most important parts were either; excluded, rushed or just done badly. But in the end the overall story is so amazing that even a stripped down version is satisfying. Still the most disappointing part is that by splitting the book into 2 movies they had enough time to cover everything decently well. Instead they wasted time on irrelevant added scenes instead of showing the main fight/ending the way it should have been. In the end Harry and Voldemort circle each other as EVERYONE watched and Harry explained to Voldemort just how badly he had beaten him. In the end he even gave him a chance to feel remorse which he did not, Voldemort Loss is the ultimate Lost and Harry victory is the ultimate victory. But in the movie this is reduced to 3d effects. On top of that after the fight was over you could not tell if they had won or lost. There was no celebration, Hagrid patted Harry in the back like he had just won the spelling bee. I mean even if you did not read the book this is disappointing at that moment Harry just beat the most dangerous wizard of all time! he just ended the war! where is the celebration? There is more i could go into like how they rushed the pensive scene with the memories of Snape, but is useless because in the end people who just watch the movies are satisfied. But people who read the books know that it should have been amazing and instead it was just good.


                
"Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows: Part II" continues directly where Part I leaves off. Part I, standing alone, may easily be the best film in the Potter franchise, because of its faithfulness to the novel and for bringing in superb characterization between the three main characters.Alas, Part II suffers slightly from lack of back-story from other characters and somewhat rushed action sequences (which really do look intense, to give it credit). But since this is a direct continuation of the story and not a sequel, I guess it can be excused.Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad film. Far from it. It has a good screenplay, witty dialogue, a dark atmosphere throughout, tense direction by David Yates, and good performances from the actors. There's nothing wrong with that at all.Having said that, there's not much to be said about the movie that is different from the first part, apart from Maggie Smith, Ciaran Hinds and Gary Oldman popping up to complete the cast, some sweeping cinematography and some (not all, some were obviously made for blatant 3D) good visual effects make it quite the exhilarating watch.There's some things which I didn't like. Recurring characters showing up and suddenly dying (off-screen, no less!) The action sequences were plentiful, but each of them were quite short, in my opinion. The final duel between Harry and Voldemort could have been more epic, too.However, there are some very good scenes that stand out and overshadows its flaws. Alan Rickman's Snape is fleshed out in a very proper manner and the audience sympathizes with him. Then, Albus Dumbledore returns briefly for an engaging and meaningful final talk with Harry (while the production design for that scene alone has shades of Kubrick). Finally, the film (and the series before it) ends with an epilogue that will surely leave the fans teary-eyed once the credits start to roll.Is it spectacular? Yes. Kind of. You get what you paid for. Those who walk in the cinema hall without reading the books or watching the previous seven films will be dumbfounded to what is going on in the film. Those who have, and those who endure the series, will find it hard to say goodbye to their beloved characters that they have come to know and love for the past decade.In short, it's not as great as I expected, but it's not too cheesy and not too overblown, it's actually pretty darn good. And the ending is sentimentally joyful and a fitting farewell to Harry and his friends.Taking "Deathly Hallows" as one entire film, it is a big, grand, epic, dark and emotionally satisfying conclusion to one of the most successful film franchises of all time.Kudos to J.K. Rowling, Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and others. It's been a wild and nostalgic ride, but like all great stories, it all ends here. Farewell to the Boy Who Lived, and may he enchant us again when we revisit him either by book or by Blu-Ray.Part II rating: 71/100Part I rating: 75/100Overall rating for Deathly Hallows: 73/100
Harry Potter and Deathly Hallows part 2, directed by David Yates is a thriller and an adventure film, based on J.K.Rowlings novel. It stars the same actors as all the others: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint; Emma Watson the three wizards on the hunt for the horcruxes which are the magical items that must be searched and destroyed as they are the keys to Voldermorts existence, it is vital to destroy them before the dark lord finds them. The action begins with the fight between good and evil, who will win? This is the last of the eight and is surely the one to sum it up with its gripping action and strong plot which gives you different ideas to how it may end. With different directors each time, this director made an impression which will last, besides first impressions always last. Compared to part 1 of Deathly Hallows which did more talking rather than fighting, but this one is the completely opposite. Harry confronting his enemy and with sacrifices, loyalty and betrayal it all spells out disaster. This is how Rowling puts the pieces together to make the Harry Potter a book for everyone, who knew it, would even get adults crying. Also what I think was great about this film was the clever music, which was very eerie and simple which gave every scene its clutch. We also get to see some of the new enemies such as the dragons, voldermorts gang as well as Snape's motives, who is what good or bad? As the film goes on we get an understanding of why Snape took the actions he did, this is what I like about Rowling how she turned a misunderstood character into a hero. Voldermort is another one which will catch you out as the fact that he is similar to Harry. When Harry is knocked out by Voldermort and meets Dumbledore who explains without Harry's existence there would be no Voldermort due to the fact that harry is the last horcruxe. This was again very clever of Rowling how she explains why harry can sense voldermorts feelings and why he can speak snake language which all begins to make sense. I personally felt that Snapes scene where Harry sees his past was the most emotional and most felt part, as you see a part of Snape which we didn't see before, how he was madly in love with Harry's mother, bullied by Harry's father and what he did to sacrifice his life for Harry. When Harry has to fight Voldermort, the first thing that came to my mind was that Harry might die because you don't know what is going to happen next. The director has been able to build tension throughout the film. He has been able to draw the attention of the audience into the most important scenes throughout the film. Another thing which the director did that court my attention was his creativity with the special effects and what summed it all up was putting it up in 3D which brought the whole thing to life. It made fans of Harry Potter such as I feel surrounded in the magical world of wizardry, which is a great experience to have if you love Harry Potter like I do. What I think may have been a spoiler was the fact that not everything written in the book was mentioned in the film and this is a real shame. Also the fact that everyone else in Gryffindor is allowed to fight except from slithering who were locked in the dungeons and were not allowed to fight and there wasn't enough interaction with the characters as when Fred (cousin to Ron) dies there isn't any sympathy not even from Harry. Other than these negative the rest of the film was great and was rated 8 out of 10 for everything also with 408 critics which gave more ratings, no wonder this was the best film of 2011. But a positive would be that the directors kept the same actors for all 8 films as we have seen them grow from young children into adults. Also the battle at Hogwarts was very heart grabbing as we saw a lot of character's who gave themselves up especially Neville who did all he can do protect harry which I thought was perfected as this was the exact same thing that was written in the book about him. The ending was where we all got the message that this is it, there isn't any more of the Harry Potter adventures when harry and his wife (Ron's sister) and Ron with Herminie sending their children off to Hogwarts, we sense that this is it for Mr Potter. This is a great way to say farewell to the Harry Potter adventures along with this film this one made it worthwhile as it started and ended with action what is more we got a better understanding of Harry Potter and all the characters. If I were to rate this film it would be ten out of ten so if you are thinking of watching it then you should.
This will maybe be a positive for many people but for my taste there was far too much of the never ending action scenes in this movie that otherwise had a great storyline they could have been better developing and focusing on. The action scenes were almost bad enough for ne to go down to 6 stars. If you've ever gotten a headache from visual stimuli, beware of this chaos.


                
Aaaaaaaaahh redemption. Much improved over part 1. The acting and dialogue were still a bit stiff and my comments previously on how magical combat it handled still stands but there is much more going on this time. The battle of Hogwarts was surprisingly rather well handled. Despite my issues with the combat, there were some little bits of creativity like a quick time freeze and large fiery beasts. Although basic, the terracotta army was pretty cool to see also. Many character deaths made the stakes and consequences feel more real adding some emotional depth that wasn't there for me in part 1 (other than Dobby). The action was much more competently filmed but there were quite a few moments where it felt like the extras were running or standing around not doing anything. More of a nitpick though. Overall a rather satisfying end to this cultural phenomenon of a franchise. I still think there was a lot of missed potential in terms of magical creativity but I'm glad I finally got around to seeing Harry Potter off.


                
Want a better movie see 7.1. This is all action, pure chaos makes no sense and very rushed to get it over with. Peter Jackson did it better with 3 movies out of a tiny Book. s an 800 page book. Why is this one the shortest out of all the movies. Not a clue. I've seen them all and except for the Snape scene, my least liked. Even below Order of the Phoenix , which despite umbridge making me cringe (hey she's funny in Rat. ) I liked the teaching behind the scene's. This movie , large sections of the book are either missing or were changed in 7.1 so they can't appear in 7.2. The Elf revolt shoulda have been in here. Kreecher should have been in both. I really have no idea what they were thinking with this movie but it might may a little sense to those who bothered to read the book. And again if you only like action but almost no plot. This is your movie. It's not horrid but it should have been way better (and longer)Quality: 6/10 Entertainment: 9/10 Replayable: 7/10 (if only to replay and find out why something doesn't make any sense. ) Disappointed in this one.
This entire series had a up and down string of moments and feelings and qualities. I am glad to say that this was one of those up movies. I was really glad to see the entire wrap up and it was nice to see this series I have invested ten years of my life in be wrapped up in a nice fashion. I really liked the final battles in those movies. I remember thinking that the effects were just some of the greatest things I have ever seen in my life at the time, and while that isn't as true now, they are still great now. 2011 was an amazing year for movies and this helps prove it. The experience watching it when it came out though was different. There was this one random and annoying girl who cried when Snape died super loudly and then a bunch of annoying younger than me (I was 13 at the time) kids running around the theater like a bunch of idiots for no real reason. God that was the worst ever.
Two years ago, i finally sat down and watched all the Potter films. I will admit, they were well put together and pretty entertaining. However, i didn't see why people hold it up like it's the greatest story of all time. So i took their advice and read all the books. Is there a difference? Not really. Sure the movies miss some minor details and leave out a few characters. But the overall essence of the story is captured very well in the movies. But still, i didn't feel this overwhelming sense of joy that everyone else seems to be experiencing. Never the less, they are pretty entertaining to watch.Even though i thought Part 1 of this was a complete bore fest, i knew what was later to come in this entry. And the movie does exactly what i expected it to do.......hit the ground running. Most of these Potter films give constant build up towards a giant climactic battle of sorts. Whereas this one constantly moves forward with it's action and never let's up.The special effects and 3D display are absolutely amazing. Everyone already knows that the 'Battle of Hogwarts' is what everyone was waiting for, and let me tell you, it looked pretty damn impressive. But here in lies my only problem with the film. The 'Battle for Hogwarts' was kind of weak.......allow me to explain.After reading the books and watching all the movies, one would expect that this would be an end all be all battle. In a way, it is.......however, they constantly direct your attention away from this, and focus more on Harry finding these horcruxes. In fact, they focus on that more than the actual battle. Yes, i understand that this IS important......but, i want to see this ultimate good vs evil fight take place, minus the constant cut to's.I would go into one more thing i didn't like, but for those of you who know nothing of the story, i wouldn't want to ruin it for you. But other than that, the film is pretty damn entertaining. Bottom Line, would i say that it's my favorite Potter film? No, but it does give an amazing sense of closure to the series. I wasn't emotional.....to tell you the truth, i don't see how i could be since the story didn't really MOVE me. But the entire theater was blubbering throughout the entire third act. So i guess it really hit home with the die-hards. Never the less, WB did an amazing job with this series. They didn't slip up like most, and they gave the audience exactly what they wanted. Job well done.


                
Im writing this as soon as I came back home from the cinema so the ideas are still fresh. I also have to say that there, after the movie ended, I started an applause suitable for the last movie of the franchise.Over the last few HP movies I learned to keep my expectations low for this one. You have to admit that the fifth and the sixth movie was a complete fiasco, if you read the books that is. So many parts from the book cut out it makes me wonder how are those people who haven't read them connecting everything in the movie. Im not completely blaming Yates for that but in my opinion it could have been done better. First 4 movies were good but also easier to adapt for the big screens cause the books were shorter.Part 2 was good I have to admit. There were some scenes adapted differently for the movie which I thought were completely unnecessary. I will mention some. First was the part when Harry reveals himself in front of everyone while Snape is giving a speech in Hogwarts. I was really excited to see that scene in Ravenclaw dorm with Carrows but I got this instead (hurray). And every member of DA was there, I don't know how cause they are all supposed to be hiding from everyone. The second thing is the moment where Hagrid is holding "dead" Harry and he jumps off of him revealing he is alive too soon in my opinion. Third is the deaths of both Bellatrix and Voldemort. I understand its for the effects but the simple body collapsing would be cooler if you ask me.Everything else was well done. The death of Snape, his memories, dialogue with Dumbledore at "Kings cross", Ron-Hermione kiss etc etc... Even the Harry and Voldemort extended duels was a nice touch too. Emotions were greatly developed at some parts. Almost made me cry.The idea of splitting the final chapter in two was great. A great ending to the perfect franchise. HP stays in my heart forever. Farewell...PS. I hope my English was good enough :)


                
It's over! It has finally ended! After 10 years of watching Harry Potter growing up and becoming a great magician it's finally time to say goodbye. For me it's still kind of sad seeing I really grew up with Potter, I was about 6-7 when the first movie was released, so keep in mind that this review isn't really about criticizing the actors, the story, the effects because for me as a big Harry Potter fan, I couldn't talk about these things without having my own Potter glasses on.So how was the ending? Well it was awesome! For me, this was as close to a perfect ending of a series as it could have gotten...almost! If I'd have to find one little flaw about this movie it would have been that, and its probably better in the book that, (!LITTLE SPOILER!) after it had all ended, you don't know what happened to most of the characters how they continued living and what they made out of themselves, except for a few one, but like I said, probably better in the book.Well, what is there left to say? For me there's only a big big THANK YOU! Thank you Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and all the other great actors who for some part, really took me by the hand and grew up with me, gave me thrills throughout the entire series and kept doing a great job till the very end. Thanks of course as well to J.K. for writing this most important series of books of the millennium and also thanks for all the directors, all the editors of all the movies for making the Harry Potter movies more then just films but a journey through which an entire generation could watch a great story with great characters having a great adventure.Thank you!
My greatest problem with Yates is obviously the battle of Hogwarts. The battle scenes in both Order of the Phoenix and the Half-Blood Prince were disappointing, but I have always been under the impression that this was not so strange because they hadn't enough time to show a decent battle. When I heard DH was split into two parts, immediately I dreamed of a heroic battle of Hogwarts. I thought they would show us everything Rowling described in the book, and so much more - because in a film you can do this. Instead they showed us nothing but two rapid action sequences where the camera flew rapidly over Hogwarts. We didn't see anyone actually dueling, nor did we see the main characters dying. In the book Professor Trelawny fights with crystal balls, and even the centaurs attack in the battle. Did we see any of this happen in the movie? Did we see the battle in the Great Hall? In the book it is described that every character dueled with other characters - George Weasley and Lee Jordan against Yaxley, Flitwick against Dolohov, Hagrid against MacNair, Ron and Neville against Greyback, etc. Did we see any of these duels? Every character that had a role in the first seven movies was asked to return for DH - Part Two. Professor Trelawny, Professor Sprout - they where all on the set. But David Yates didn't think it was necessary to show any of the previous characters fighting or dueling, except one tiny little duel of Mrs. Weasley against Bellatrix. And now we see a huge difference with Lord of the Rings where every minor character gets his role.
As an eight part in the series there's not a single reason to explain the story or its characters, they've been defined. And so this film starts running, and doesn't really pause until the very end of it. As a book translation I guess it doesn't do too bad of a job - most events of importance get a glimmer of screen time. I have no idea how it works on people that haven't read the books though.As a film it's dark, literally. Too dark to my liking, it's a good thing to express the dark and grim feeling of the book, it's overkill to make the film look like everything was shot between dusk and dawn. This effect was even worse in 3D - which again turned out to be a dud.Overall the film felt rushed - as if the maker was done with it, glad to have the series end. As part of the audience I now feel the same - it was a good series to watch through the years but I am happy it is done now.Adding that all together makes it the worst part in the series to me, fitting but not fitting, pleasing and not pleasing.6 out of 10 last rites


                
Plot: The film hinges on the final battle between death eaters and other wizards. Hogwarts is the center of all action. Death and destruction is no longer discussed in background. You literally see the beautiful castle, Hogsmeade and Gringotts being ripped apart and people die. Let me stop with that.Special Effects: The film has been shot in 3D and, as with its prequels, the final episode boots really good CGI. Apparations, flying broomsticks, dragons, giants, slithering snakes, magic - everything is thrown at the audience in the two hour running time of the movie. And its all so beautifully interwoven that you end up applauding their physics rather than cringe thinking about their improbability.Cast: The main stars need no introduction. I guess this series was blessed, for they managed to complete production of eight movies with almost the same cast as they began. So in order to review the casting I need to go back in time - I guess it is unnecessary. I do not think we are going to get a more fitting description of Harry or Ron or Hermione. The only gripe is that we get to see less of some favorite characters (like Hagrid for example).Performance: The lead characters have done good. Not just in this movie but the entire series. Kudos to the kids who dared to spend the most crucial years of their lives to entertain us (yeah they definitely got a handsome pay in return) and have been keen to learn from day one to get their acting skills honed. Of the others I would always rate Alan Rickman's portrayal of the complex character of Snape as a cut above the rest - it was like a character written in the book come alive. Evanna Lynch also cast her character (of Luna Lovegood) with charm. Helena Bonham Carter will forever be remembered as the sneering Bellatrix Lestrange.Read the full review at http://blog.nrajesh.com/review-deathly-hallows-2


                
So I watched the mega blockbuster finale to the Harry "the nerd sorcerer" Potter saga "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" from 2011. So was this movie good, I say abracadabra bitch, or yes in muggle speak. I have seen every Harry Potter movie and enjoyed them all. I especially like how the movies (and I guess the books to) have matured with each passing film. They also went from somewhat structured like in the sorcerers stone to less predictable and original as time has passed. I saw this last one in IMAX 3D, I personally found the 3D to not be mind blowing, which I think is common among films not shot in 3D. So if I was you I would save the cash and see this in regular boring ole' 2D. So this movie just like the others is a little dark, has fascinating characters, a mystery to be solved and mysteries to be revealed. This movie delivers these Harry standards in spades. This movie was enjoyable except for the final scene for me. I won't spoil it but it is taken from the final books epilogue. It seemed tacked on and kind of pointless. I personally think much like star wars we have not seen the last Harry Potter film. I see the next one coming in about 10 years after the next Harry book by Rowling comes out called "Harry Potter and the quest to find something else to write that failed and the search for more money." I think the next one should be R with a little graphic interracial (muggle on wizard) hardcore action. So this movie is a worthy ending to the series, it answers all the questions, has a wide demographic base from young to old from magic nerd to jock. So go enjoy and be nerdy for a couple of hours, but just don't start here these movies for the most part should be watched in order. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http://raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/


                
I like many have grown up reading the Harry Potter books and fell in love with them all. The fact that the entire franchise ends with this movie is a very saddening thought, but I was still anxiously excited to see its send-off, especially after viewing Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part One, which I thought was fantastic. Perhaps I set my expectations too high, but whatever the reason, I couldn't help feeling slightly disappointed after seeing this movie. Warning: Spoilers I'll start off with the good. Visually, the movie is spectacular. I felt that seeing it in 3D wasn't even necessary to get the full effect. The battle was everything I hoped it would be and more. The entire Gringotts scene was impressive as well. I also very much enjoyed how Neville was portrayed in the movie. After reading the book, I was worried that the movie wouldn't do his character justice, but I was pleasantly surprised at how well it was done. And lastly, Alan Rickman did a great job as Snape in this movie. After seven movies, we finally get to see him show some emotion. Now the bad. I felt that there wasn't enough emotion when the deaths of important characters were shown, such as Lupin, Tonks, and especially Fred. What disappointed me the most was that Fred's death wasn't even shown. All we got was a quick view of his dead body, a few tears from his family, and then on to the next sequence. Even Harry's supposed death lacked the proper emotions it deserved. Snape's memories also felt very rushed and I thought some of the most interesting parts of it were left out. Another thing was Voldemort and Bellatrix exploding into confetti. I guess it was done for flash appeal but to me it just felt tacky and inappropriate. And lastly, I Dumbledore's back story was never explained. Many might feel that it wasn't important, but it was very interesting to find out about the regrets and demons of a seemingly perfect person. All in all, this movie was not bad and considering the record-breaking box office numbers, it's already very successful. Many people will most likely enjoy this movie, especially if they haven't read the books. Maybe I'm being too harsh, but I just thought that a spectacular series deserved an spectacular ending, instead of the just okay ending that was delivered.
I have been fortunate to have seen this movie on the 13th (July) and I have here posted a review on my opinion about the movie. The response from real film critics and most other people has been totally positive, but in my opinion it was not THAT good.________________At first I would like to mention that the books of this current series are my favourite and will be that forever. I have also adored the movies, as the very first movie (Philosopher's Stone) had introduced me to this amazing world. I was eager to see the last movie; and now that I have just returned I would like to tell you about it.I will be totally honest...There are many things which would be confusing to understand unless you have read the book... somethings just pop-up and nothings 100%clear. (This didn't bother me too much cause I have read the books, but some people might find this a bad factor to the movie.)Then, on the other side, the acting which was there was amazing. Ralph Fiennes has had quite a bit of screen time and has done fantastically. Alan Rickman has continued his job throughout the eight films, by being the absolutely perfect Snape. Other original cast members including the three... have been great.Though, after the movie is finished and somewhat throughout, I felt that something was missing, perhaps something important, something which didn't leave this "awesome" movie effect...___________________Though, now as I am writing this review, I am thinking back on the last five minutes of the movie (epilouge) --- and also the books, and I as a fan feel really sad its over...


                
I salute you, Potter fans. This moment has taken 10 years to find you, and now the wait is finally over. I can tell you the wait was worth it. Maybe you want to know exactly what happens to Voldemort in the movie or exactly how a battle specifically goes down, but spoilers for this movie (good or bad) are simply not worth knowing. Get in line and don't ruin the experience for yourself.I know what your big (generic) questions are... Is Part 2 fantastically more epic than the previous films? Does it loyally mirror the book to the very last page? Has Daniel Radcliffe's acting improved? I know you definitely don't want to hear it, and I definitely don't want to say it, but the answer is No. If you have come this far after watching seven Harry Potter movies and still have no clue what to expect, then I don't know what to tell you. In whatever regard you held Part 1, you will probably think similarly of Part 2. They are made of the same quality,,, Unfortunately, that means I can guarantee there will be moments that cause you to shift uncomfortably in your seat and think to yourself, "That's not how it happened in the book"; you'll see chunks of the story removed for the sake of runtime; some parts, namely the romances, will feel rushed and awkward; what consisted of pages of dialogue in the book are awarded a single line in the movie; the smothering relationship with Hollywood style leads to silly fist fights and corny one-liners. Even the epilogue is quite laughable because someone in the costume department thought "19 years later" only meant "19 pies and a Big Mac later". Again, these are all defects you should have come to expect in the series... But do not despair! I can also guarantee that after these fleeting mistakes pass, you will shrug your shoulders and realize that these are Harry's last days. The Deathly Hallows Part 2 is perhaps the only possible movie that, despite however unsatisfying some scenes might be, the film as a whole will leave you with a grand sense of fulfillment in your mind and with a feeling of nostalgic happiness tugging at your heartstrings. You will STILL be rooting for your favorite heroes, be wow-ed by excellent special effects, and squirm with delight at the sight of the long-awaited kiss. It is ultimately a bombastic conclusion befitting of one of the greatest literary and film series in history - No one can argue with that. Harry Potter's life on the screen may be over, but the boy who lived will continue to live in our hearts forever.
