My husband and I compromised our integrity on the knowledge of the most beloved books of all time when David Yates took control of the franchise, thereby effectively beginning its downfall.... however, rather than bore you with infinite details on how Yates manages to skip most of the greatest bits and substitute them with paltry unnecessary figments of his own inexplicable, disconnected imagination, we're going to stick to THIS PARTICULAR MOVIE.In what could have been Yates' greatest defining movie of his career, attain him a legendary status amongst the directoral elite, rake in billions at the box office (true fans would have watched this no less than 20 times), he manages to leave us in the same state as the crowd in the great hall after what was supposed to be the greatest battle in wizarding history (and no one was there to witness it!)- Utterly Bored, disappointed and completely unaware of what had just happened! To be fair - the movie-making, special effects, and storyline (although twisted in the aforementioned imagination), seemed to be heading for an epic ending... up until the pensieve (the most powerful part of the book- Snape's revelation) the incredibly romantic, highly emotional story created by Rowling was reduced to a slide-show of muffled voices, and disconnected scenes- mostly consisting of James and Lily! ... and downhill it goes....Yates has flippantly undermined Neville's importance in the story by having him slit Nagini a new one by pure chance with no knowledge of what he was doing- his speech was weak- - the speech he made to Voldemort sounded lamer than an Air Supply song,..as were a quite a few other bits of dialog.... anyone catch the emotion between Harry and Ginny-"Hello there"- alright?.... gonna die today are we?.... OK, gotta run!Yates' new inventions that would be well suited to other movies include... 1- Prof. McGonagals "Lets lock the Slytherin students in the dungeons" - 2-Voldemort and Harry can now suddenly feel horcruxes being destroyed- never happened in the previous movies 3-The horcruxes are just little objects that Voldemort thought of picking up in Diagon Alley on his way to lunch with the Malfoys, and now appear to have an "Accio Harry" effect and call out to him! Losers that gave this movie a 10, read the books and join the true fan club- every horcrux had its own tale and significance! Rowling spent 10 years of her life creating this world... Yates appeared to have planned the movies while on his lunch-break! 4- It's OK to ignore Harry and sip on a cup of Joe just after the epic 'good over evil' battle. 5- Its more important that Ron and Hermione blush and hold hands than run to hug their friend who's just saved the entire wizarding universe. 6-Ol George (from Fred n George) grew his ear back for this installment! wonder what that spell sounded like? 6-Its OK to snap the ELDER WAND with your bare hands and throw it off a bridge- who's gonna fashion you a new one??? As I recall olivander and gregorovitch and are bit tied up these days... 7- Voldy's been working out - you can tell by the way he suddenly wants to slap Harry and use physical strength rather than the magic he's mastered.100001 later, lets get back to some other weak points-Harry's mum displays all the emotions of a corpse (pride, joy, tears for the son who's done them proud...its all there, only its Sirius who's more maternal)Dumbeldore was unbelievable! Cocky, arrogant and incredibly frustrating, while the book portrays him as broken, embarrassed and so proud of Harry's bravery.. (instead we sat through- "k lightning- enough with the questions..gotta fade into oblivion, Yates budget on fireworks doesn't have any pennies left for my wages...")No grand finale after Harry kills Voldy, no fireworks, no celebrations, its like no-one's happy about it...potentially the most emotional, tear jerking sequence, 10 years of this creation, but we're left with faces that portray "ehhh, miss old Voldy already... bloody harry... why'd you have to go do that now?" Seriously- watch the actors faces as he walks through the great hall!Voldy and Ole Trixybells alone seem to have been made of weaker stuff than the other death eaters and wizards as they exploded into confetti- last time Voldy did that, he came back! (thinking of your own sequel now Yates?)- cant wait...Enough said... we'll end with the faint and distant hope that Rowling awakes from the imperious curse and allows someone else to remake these movies capturing the integrity they deserve, until then .. once again to all those who gave this movie a 10, READ THE BOOKS NOW ... Or at least get YATES to do it....
Moments after I saw the very first trailer for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, I was crawling with goosebumps and plagued with anxiety. After almost a decade, the franchise was coming to an end. I had already read the book, knew the plotting, and remembered the fates of all the characters, but the trailer left me in a near unfathomable state -- the end was coming, and there was nothing I could do to stop it.Picking up practically the exact moment where the first half of the left off, the film begins with Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) still on the trail for the elusive Horcruxes that make up Voldemort's (Ralph Fiennes) soul. Rather quickly, it becomes apparent that the group will need to travel back to Hogwarts, and it is there that the final battle to determine the fate of the wizarding community, and the world at large, begins.Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 is a fitting finale for one of the best and most consistent series of the past decade. It is a simply wondrous spectacle that extends and concludes the story wonderfully. While the story and effects are just as great as always, it is the final battle we have all been waiting for that delivers in spades. It is everything you imagined it would be and more. Splitting the films may still be a debatable decision, but the film is able to stand on its own much the same way the previous part did. It is that good, and that gripping. It may be the shortest Harry Potter film, but it is also the only one that feels like it knows exactly where it wants to navigate itself to with each new scene. Grint, Watson and especially Radcliffe are simply stunning in their performances. They have grown up with these characters, and have gotten progressively stronger as actors with each new film. But here, they have totally immersed themselves into their roles, and the results are nothing short of magical. They are exactly how you remember them written in the book, and move from sadness, to courageous, to fearful, and more, with such passion and conviction that you forget they are simply acting. Their styles are that strong, and help provide the emotional crux the film leans on and never from. Even with their varying screen times, the supporting cast is impeccable as always. Alan Rickman is spectacular and simply devastating as the devious Professor Snape. Maggie Smith finally gets some real time to shine as Professor McGonagall, as does Julie Walters as Molly Weasley (who gets the greatest line in the film). Jason Isaacs, Helena Bonham Carter, George Harris, Tom Felton, Michael Gambon and Matthew Lewis also perfect their characters, and help deliver awesome performances all around.But the supporting screen time is dominated by Fiennes as Voldemort. When Harry and his friends are not the focal point, Fiennes simply owns everyone. His performance always ranked amongst the best of the series, and he does not let the finale slow him down. He is horrifically evil in his interpretation, and frequently compares to his absolutely and terrifyingly brilliant performance as Amon Goeth in Schindler's List. The fear that courses through the characters' veins at the very sight or mention of his name, courses equally through the audience. Even when he is being darkly hilarious, Fiennes is downright petrifying. He is the stuff that nightmares are made of. His work is just that close to perfect in the role that it gives an almost genuine authenticity that should not come so effortlessly.But like all Harry Potter films however, the cohesive product is not without its faults.My main gripe with the film come out of the sheer fact that because it was split off into two parts, it allowed some of the more useless and careless sections of prose to make it into the film. Much like the extended and excruciatingly long camping trip from the first half, the second half gets dragged down by the addition of standout moments from the book that felt awful the first time you read them, and come off even worse on the screen. I know they are pandering to the audience, and adding just as much as they possibly could to make the film feel complete, but there was a reason so much was cut out of the other books when they made the leap to the big screen. This is the shortest of the saga by a long shot, and the chaotic pace makes it feel like it could have been even shorter had they chopped more out.My other gripe is the 3D. The filmmakers said they did not have the right amount of time to convert the first half properly, so they just scrapped the plans. The movie looked amazing anyway, and I found myself puzzled at what exactly would have been three-dimensional about it about the second part. Save for a scene early on involving a rather badly rendered dragon, there is not much else that takes advantage of the added 3D. The majority of the film just looks and acts normal, never exploring the format, and never giving the audience a reason to care or change their minds on the quickly dying trend. In what feels like a blink of the eye, the Harry Potter film series is over. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 has arrived, and with it, an incredible end to the franchise. It stumbles in some places because of the inane and disappointing prose of the book, but the filmmakers have stayed true to their book and film fans, and delivered a tremendously worthy finale. It is one of the strongest films of the year, and one of the best film finales ever conceived. 8.5/10.(An extended review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).


                
The conclusion to the series hits some of the strongest emotional beats, mainly due to our long-standing connection with the characters, and provides some grand visual treats in the form of extended magical battles. While 'Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (2011)' may be the biggest in scale and it is entertaining, it does feel lacking in depth - since some things are left oddly unexplained - and instead comes across as an extended third act for its duration. It actually plays out like one long climax, with little of the build-up required to further invest the audience, but at least it's well paced and doesn't hang about. A strong note on which to end a phenomenal series. 8/10


                
(I apologize for any misspellings of character names in advance.) I grew up with Harry and the gang. I spent my evenings waiting at the bookstore until Midnight, eagerly expecting the next book of the series. I wasn't disappointed. I cried at the end of the 7th book; I expected to do the same at the end of the 8th movie.I walked into the theater with 10 misty-eyed buddies, three boxes of Kleenex, and expectations high (I loved the 7th movie.) I walked out of the theater with 10 confused buddies, three unused boxes of Kleenex, and a feeling of slight disappointment.What went wrong??? The Good: Gringotts was flawless. Loved everything about it.Neville, Professor McGonagal, and Mrs. Weasely were awesome in every sense of the word. Their moments of epic earned well-deserving applause and standing ovations from the audience.Snape's death. I never react to movies, but I gasped and grabbed my friend when he was killed. Only time I got tearful through out the whole film. Perfection.Battle of Hogwarts. With a few exceptions (you'll read those later) it was well done.And now....the bad.Tonks and Lupin. Their whole 'we have a son' thing was really random and shoved in. How the heck did Harry know? He was traipsing around the countryside! Very confusing.Dumbledore. His back story, his acting...I'm sorry, the guy was terrible. Him and Harry was an awful moment for everyone, regardless if you read the books or not.Fred's death was way too underplayed. I don't know if they were shooting for the "oh, he's just one amongst many' thing, but I was disappointed. You couldn't even tell it was Fred! It could've been Percy or Bill for all they showed!The Snape/Lily Montage. It was cute....for the first 10 minuets. Then I all I could think was "Can we speed this along, please?" It was awkward and lengthy. I'm all for showing the soft underbelly of grouchy semi-evil Snape, but suddenly throwing a weeping, puppy dogged eyed Snape who moons after Lily for, like, ever, was a 3000 degree character turn-around and ruined his character for me. Too much, too fast.There were several other moments of "Well, that was disappointing" or "Whoa, that was amazing!", but those were the big ones.The bad moments were equaled out by the good....for the most part. The HP saga ended on a decent note, but it was not the tear-jerking awesomeness that I was expecting.
For many fans (and let me get this out now: I am one of them), this is  much more than just another film in the franchise: it's the it's the  end of an era, or simply the end of a journey which lasted for over 10  years (14 if you count the first book, back in 1997). There are no  precedents like this in movie history... There's a certain poignancy  that comes with it, because, as we all know, this is the last one EVER.  There will not be any other Harry Potter, no matter what. The film  clearly knows all that and consciously plays to it, tapping into our  deepest-self, reminding us about this journey we've taken and how we've  grown up with it.   The previously-unknown David Yates has slowly been able to find his own  voice with the latest 4 of the 8 instalments, by combining the sense of  magic the first 2 films had, the darker tone introduced to us by Afonso  Cuaron (with the third episode) but also that more grown-up approach to  the story, which has been brewing and growing with each chapter (and  book of course), but he also had the courage to actually hack to pieces  the overly-written source and actually make a better film (clearly  after book 3, no editor would dare to tell JK Rowling to cut anything  out). In this last "Deathly Hallow", he was able to basically stretch  the final battle over the course of the whole film, making it seem  greater and more epic than it's ever been in the book (In the end, box  office aside, it really did pay off to split the movie in two parts).  Considering the incredible amount of expectations which a film like  this can carry and, consequently, the almost impossible task of  bringing everything to a close, HP 7.2 does a really good job! Yes, of  course there will be some disappointed people, but I think the  disappointment will come from the fact that secretly each of us would  like this story to go on forever and, no matter what, you can never  please everyone. Considering what a massive commercial machine Warner  Bros is we must be so thankful for the way the franchise has been  handled. Producer David Heyman is obviously a man of heart, who cares  for his fans and set out to make the best films he could ever make,  playing on the strengths of its (let's be honest) not-so-perfect source  and in the end making it an even better product. In the end this film  must be judged with that same heart and not so much with the brain,  taking in consideration the series as well as this ending.  And you know what? My heart can't stop saying "I just loved the  journey, thank you so much for it


                
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 (2D) (2011) Dir: David Yates ****WARNING: This review may contain spoilers, read at your own risk.After a decade's worth of movies, the Harry Potter series comes to a climactic and exciting end with The Deathly Hallows Part 2. Although the series has had its share of awful installments, these last two films have gotten the job done, and Potter goes out with a bang.Now with the bulk of their journey behind them, Harry, Ron, and Hermione still have a few Horcruxes to destroy. This takes them to a highly secured wizarding bank with a dragon, and—eventually—back to Hogwarts, where the climactic battle takes place. Meanwhile, Voldemort has taken over all of wizard-England, and possibly wizard-Europe, but he still has to kill Harry if he wants to be truly unstoppable.Director David Yates does a very interesting job with this final part of the series: instead of making an entire other film with a beginning, middle, and end, he simply makes this the third act of The Deathly Hallows. Part 1 was filled with adventure, plot, and character development; all building up to the final showdown between Harry and Voldemort. Yates does a wonderful job of not making the battle too bloated, as so many are these days, but instead focuses on Harry searching for the Horcrux that is hidden in Hogwarts. When several of the main characters inevitably die, Yates doesn't even show their deaths. Instead, he shows us their corpses laid out after the battle, with people weeping over them. Yates handles the scene especially well; it's not too melodramatic or understated, but a truly heart wrenching scene.Ralph Fiennes really shines as Voldemort in this film. Having toned down on the flamboyancy, he has turned the character into what he was always supposed to be; sinister, unsettling, and evil. The main trio did most of their acting in the previous film, and as a result their roles are limited to emotions and plot devices, but it works. Ciaran Hinds is nice as Aberforth Dumbledore, and Alan Rickman does a wonderful job of finally giving Snape some depth during his death and flashback scene. There are moments in the film that are less than stellar, including Ron & Hermione's kiss, the slightly awkward epilogue, and—for purists—the unexplained absence of one of Malfoy's cronies. The film could have also done more with classic characters such as Hagrid, who never really gets closure, and the "romance" between Harry & Ginny is practically absent.Still, the movie is absorbing and entertaining, with intense battles and great special effects. The scene between Harry and Professor Dumbledore in the semi-afterlife is probably the highlight of the film. The eighth and final Harry Potter film does a good job of bringing the much-loved series to a close.http://thatguythatlikesmovies.blogspot.com
I saw this on the 2nd july at a preview and was really really impressed. my favourites of the series up till now have been the third one directed by Alfonso Cuaron, and the half blood prince (6th one). I was tentative about the 3d but actually it worked brilliantly and made the pictures even crisper. This film is a great achievement, sometimes i have considered these films as sell- outs, only looking for doing well at the box office, but they have never failed to entertain and this one makes the characters and their motives much more interesting and deeper. The acting from some is still not to my liking and not up to the standard it should be. For instance alan rickman seems to be making fun of his own particular way of talking by ramping up every syllable, and rupert grint is a very mediocre actor who they still give these terribly clichéd lines. The ending is good but i had some better ideas which i wont say now as to not give spoilers. in general though, the film has a great visual style, fluid storytelling. the world created feels more real than ever and the characters make the film compelling. well worth seeing and the best of all hp films.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows part II was in one word: awesome. First of all the cinematography, the visual effects and the directing was great. Second, the acting. Emma, Rupert and Daniel were once again great, and then yet again nothing special. It were the others that made it. Ralph Fiennes was the star, while he put down Lord Voldemort in a magnificent way. And frankly, it wasn't just him that set the tone, Alan Rickman was great (and interesting to see how Snape too has emotions), Maggie Smith was wonderful and didn't we all just love Matthew Lewis as Neville? Rarely have I seen a movie which was thrilling and seated me on the edge of my very uncomfortable cinema seat, from the very beginning. I must say I think it can be quite hard to act when 'under influence of' the Polyjuice potion, but I reckon that Helena Bonham Carter did a great job as pretending to be Hermione pretending to be Bellatrix. Unfortunately there were some lows in this film too, for example a minor plot error occurred when Harry, Ron and Hermione entered the Room of Requirement with Neville. Cho was there, and I couldn't help but wonder, why? After all, she was a year older than Harry was, and should've had her NEWT's during Harry's sixth year. I was lightly disappointed that there were only hints given to Dumbledore's past, rather than telling the story itself. In my opinion, this story forms Albus and Aberforth in a way in which we missed out on in this film. Another low for me were the deaths of Bellatrix and Voldemort, shattering to pieces. To me, just plain dropping death would've been enough. I would've preferred seeing the film in 2D, rather than 3D, as I did. It didn't add anything special, instead it just tires your eyes. And lastly, I just didn't enjoy the epilogue. It was awkward, not just for the audience to watch, but also for the actors to play, or so it looked like on screen. Harry's little dialogue with his son made me, and others in the audience groan. But to set this aside, David Yates has done a wonderful job, and the script was overall very well done. The film made you bite your nails and close your eyes in the most thrilling parts of the movie, and then yet again you burst out into laughter at some of those parts. I can honestly say, it was absolutely worthy of my time and money.
I absolutely love the Harry Potter books. I think Deathly Hallows part 1 was best in a sense that it stayed true to the book. Part 2 takes from where we left off.The Good : Very well made scenes of Gringotts,Battle of Hogwarts,Snape's memories,King's cross.(Although King's cross could have had more details). The movie captures the tense mood in the book with some comic relief scenes jabbed in. Very good acting by all cast. Alan Rickman is perfect Snape book readers could have asked for. Movie keeps you on edge even though you know what is going to happen.The Bad: 1. Lack of use invisibility cloak. I mean COME ON ! That is so important part of the book ! 2.No Shrieking Shack,the final battle does not happen in Great Hall.No back story of Dumbledore, just one liner hints by Aberforth. No scene of Ravenclaw Common Room ! 3.Movie really rushes through the confrontation of Harry telling Tom Riddle who is true owner of the wand and after everything is over Harry explains it to Ron and Hermione. Then Harry SNAPS the Elder Wand and throws it away. What the hell? I really don't understand point of changing these things from the book. WHY? WHY?4.Movie does not establish the fact that Harry becomes Master of death. So non-readers will feel Harry defeated Voldemort only because of Wand.5.Unintentional funny scenes. The scene where Voldemort declares Harry is dead and laughs is pathetic. Everybody was laughing.Gambon I think is worst Dumbledore, with his ridiculous dialogue delivery, he spoils the "Of course it is in your head Harry ..." line. That line is epic and people laugh because it sounds like Dumbledore is making a joke.8/10 only because whatever they did right,they did it very well.I am being generous since it is last movie. Thank you J.K.Rowling for this series and as JK said "Whether you come back by page or by the big screen, Hogwarts will always be there to welcome you home"
I would like to say that Part 2 is everything Part 1 wasn't...but this isn't entirely true. While it's definitely an improvement, it still suffers a case of drawing things out needlessly. I understand that this is the final film, and everyone needs to get their moment, but could they have not talked so damn slowly and with so many long pauses in between every word? The worst cases of this are at the start, when Harry's talking to a goblin and then to John Hurt. Their conversations take twice as long as they should due to them pausing after every second word for dramatic effect. Speak at regular speed, please! Thankfully, things quickly get moving when Hermione assumes Bellatrix Lestrange's form so that they might break into her vault. The wonderful Helena Bonham Carter doesn't get to say a whole lot in this film, but she makes up for it with classic facial expressions (playing Hermione posing as Bellatrix). There's some nice bits of humour that come out of this which are a welcome break from the seemingly non-stop doom and gloom. Then there's some wonderful action involving a dragon, which I thought was very well done.From here, everything cuts loose. There is magic flung every which-way, plenty of deaths and more blood spilled/seen on screen than all the previous films combined. Harry, Ron and Hermione don't get much time to talk, but that's okay (there was enough of that in Part 1). Part 2 more or less is free of most of the troubles which plagued Part 1, thankfully. And best of all? No damn Umbridge or Dursleys to be seen! Hurrah! Daniel Radcliffe handles himself well in this film. He conveys all the feelings Harry's going through, and handles the dramatic side of things very well. While in the early films, he may have been a bit awkward or stiff with his line deliveries, he's very much comfortable now (which one would hope). He carries himself with a confidence and there's no denying how much he has improved since the early films.Rupert Grint doesn't get a whole lot to say, but he does at least get to display one last Scared Ron face for old time's sake. He, like Radcliffe, has come a long way since the days where all that was mainly required of him was to make scared faces. He now handles the drama/serious side of things equally as well as he plays the humour.Emma Watson - who I've always liked as Hermione - is just as good as the other two. She's able to convincingly portray every emotion and character nuance she's called upon to convey. These three fine young actors have truly grown up together. They've matured in real life, as their characters have on screen, and their acting ability has become more grown-up as well as a result.Ralph Fiennes is everything we've come to expect from him as Voldemort. His defeat is most welcome, though does leave you with a slight sense of "So...that's it then?". The awesome Bonham Carter continues to steal every scene she's in as Bellatrix, but sadly doesn't get to do a whole lot except suffer the massive embarrassment and indignity of being taken out by...Ron's mum. I would have preferred almost anyone defeating Bellatrix Lestrange other than Ron's mum. Why not Neville instead? He'd have reason to - Bellatrix did torture his parents afterall (I was actually pretty sad to see her go. She's been such a blast - and a crazy one at that). As for the other deaths - most happen offscreen, and I felt they didn't quite pack the emotional punch that they were probably intended to. Was sad about Lavender, though.It really was interesting to see just how much Neville (and Matthew Lewis who portrays him) has grown up. Neville was practically a joke in the first few films, yet somehow made the convincing journey to being a young man who leads battles, cuts off snake heads and stands up to Voldemort. He has truly become a hero in his own right. As for poor old Tom Felton...he basically does what he's always done after the first two movies. Draco gets to utter maybe one or two lines and run away like the coward he's always been. Any hopes of him perhaps getting a bit more depth/development are dashed. His mother (like Draco in the last film), though, gets to save Harry's life in a way...so that's something at least. And it's great to see Maggie Smith finally kicking arse as McGonagall (almost makes up for how underused she's been for some time now). And then there's Snape. The perfectly cast Alan Rickman (who was always excellent) really gets to shine this time around, showing us sides of Snape we've never seen before. Also welcome is the return of Michael Gambon's Dumbledore, who shares a rare quiet scene with Harry in amongst all the action.The action is well done all around. It really does feel epic like it should, and the dazzling effects are used wisely here and not overdone. When the film comes seemingly to the end, I felt that could have served as an appropriate enough conclusion. But then we get an epilogue, and...it's not really that bad. It doesn't go on too long and does in fact serve a purpose. We get to find out what has become of the three lead characters, and really, that's what matters most.The HP films have proved quite the journey, with only a couple of missteps (such as Order of the Phoenix and DH Part 1, in my opinion). The magic and charm may have worn off a bit, but it is very satisfying to see it all complete now. There's no denying the amount of work and effort that's gone into them. Goodbye to Harry Pothead and all the obvious wand jokes.
While, personally, I'm not the biggest fan of the books in which these films was based on, I do have to say, this movie is a great movie to end the Harry Potter film series with. 10 points to Griffindor & director David Yates! Author J.K Rowling would be proud. The movie is very memorable. It's so unlike the other movies, which I found to be somewhat boring or below average. For me, personally, this movie, by far, is the best movie in the 2001 to 2011 film series, because how entertaining, it was. To all of the millions of Harry Potter fans around the world; most of them, agree with my statement. Unlike the other movies that are cut into two formulaic plot directions; one being the subplot is which tells the student life of Harry Potter at Hogwarts, while the other, being about the mystery that Harry Potter must uncovered that year. This most recent one has Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) and his gang of misfits, Hermione Granger (Emma Watson) & Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) going to various settings away from Hogwarts, in a last ditch attempt to their school from the oncoming invasion of Dark Lord Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes). The only way, they can stop this, is to find, all the missing objects call Horcruxes; that hold a part of a Voldermont's soul, protecting him or her from death. Seeing how epic in scope, this main plot is, it was no surprised that this 2007's novel with the same name, was adapted into two feature-length parts, with Part 1, being released in November 2010, and Part 2 was released in July 2011. While, some people might have complaints about why the final book being split, I'm not one of those. However, I'm starting to hate the recent trends of films, split into multiple parts; in which this movie brought back. Still, I do understand why the studios felt like they had to. After all, there is still way too exposition sub-stories from supporting characters from the book to fit, even in two films. Despite the film omitting a lot of things, the movie is stil mostly faithful to the source material, with only a few things, change that I didn't like. One of the biggest faults of the film is how both young and old Lily Evans (Ellie Darcey-Alden & Geraldine Somerville) doesn't have the same eye color as Harry Potters. The reason why this is a big deal, is because how much, everybody in the film series, point out how Harry Potter remind them of his mother, because of his eyes. It makes no sense. Another big jarring confusing plot-holes, is how wizards, can or cannot being able to use, other people's wands. In the film, one thing that really baffled me, is how Voldermont thinks that he can't use the elder wand, until he kills Professor Severus Snape (Alan Rickman). Yet, it's show, before-then, that he can indeed use that wand to do magic and other people's wand. The same with Harry Potter. It's weird, how the film makes it seem like they can't do magic without a wand, but yet, they show, them, just doing that with potions. Also, why does people still die in this universe, if Harry Potter has all of the three deadly hallows? Oh Snap! Didn't they establish that one of the wizards knows, how to heal himself with magic, if it's a bleeding wound? How is that character, even dead? Also, how can a living object become a horcrux? It doesn't make sense. In my opinion, don't bother, trying to understand the logic of all the wizard terms, because it will take you out of the fantasy movie, and give you a headache. The movie is full of unbelievable, deux ex machina that is very confusing, and not very logical. You just have to go with it. Nevertheless, I still don't get, why this movie is continuing its insulting black & white one-dimensional views of good Vs evil. A good example in this movie, is how everybody still treat Slytherin's house as an evil community of people, when the movie show that, there are mostly not!? Another thing, that bug me, is the fact, that the underage students weren't evacuated from Hogswarts. I guess, the school is trying to continue, its high death count record of being one of the most dangerous schools, ever. I swear, it always seems like the castle is always in danger. So, I wouldn't call the battle plot, anything new. It is very clichés and prediction. Despite that, the battle sequences are well done. Visual and special effects masterpiece. Lots of heart-breaking, yet fun moments. The music by composter John Williams really set the tone of the film, as always. The pacing for this film is also not a drag. Very well-pace. It's the shortest of all 9 films. The main cast was surprising better, too. Yes, they still, have that wooden delivery in some of their lines, but at least, it's more emotional driven than a normal read-through. Also, the over the top hammy lines by the season actors weren't so annoying this time, because how few lines, they were given. However, I didn't like the Epilogue ending as much as other people did. I can understand why a lot of people don't like it; in a way it feels a bit jumbled because so many characters of this new generation are introduced too quickly, and it's a bit much to take in. I personally am not too keen on the idea. It felt like sequel baiting. After all, it's clear, by Warner Bros that we haven't seen the last of this world completely, as spin-offs movies are indeed, coming soon. Overall: In the meantime, I urge you all to revisit the world of Harry Potter for yourself. Check out all 9 movies. It will be a trip, worth taking.
Best Harry Potter film for me and wonderful end of beautiful journey. The battles are great and tensions are high. Severus Snape is the bravest man and it is one of the best plot twists of all time because we all thought he was evil.Fantastic Beasts doesn't come close to this.
P.s. Very emotional part was when he named his son Albus Severus Potter and told him that he is named after 2 greates wizards and one of them was in Slytherin (I'm not crying, I'm nottt).
I was enthralled from the opening scene to the start of the credits. Very few films capture me like that where I am so in tuned with the story. The film takes you on a roller coaster ride starting off slow, until you reach the first action sequence, then rushes headstrong into another series of scenes, focusing mostly on Harry and his charge of destroying the horcruxes. This is Harry's story. This is his moment to set the wizarding world right. Along the way, several characters stand out. Neville Longbottom makes a stand and Professor McGonagall goes to war. There are many moments in which supporting cast members take the foreground for a moment or two, but it is still Harry's story throughout the movie. I must mention the genius of Alan Rickman as Snape here, he was a defining point in this film and one of the reasons it was so special. Now, was it a perfect movie. No. The CG at points looked amateurish and some of the dialogue didn't fit well into the movie. Does it deter you from enjoying the experience. It shouldn't. These are just little things that annoy me. The whole movie looked amazing. The cinematography extremely well done, the art direction was incredible. The movie was beautiful to look at, the visuals were spectacular and truly Oscar worthy. This film was great, and the best finale a fan could have asked for. It's an incredibly memorable movie and one that i will never fail to enjoy.


                
It's a compelling film (more than the previous part); the protagonist, friendship and courage. Maybe the conclusion it's too reduced.


                
Although I am bothered by some of the changes they made from the book, this film is a fitting finish to the Harry Potter series. It packs a powerful dramatic punch and shows how far our characters have come from the original movie. I'm sad to see the series go, but it was a great ride.


                
It seems that after the pure filler that was Deathly Hallows: Part 1, David Yates finally seems to get down to business in Part 2. Whereas indeed nothing happened in Part 1, Part 2 provides a wide range of narrative, revelations & emotional outbursts.Like in Part 1, the cinematography is top notch, although it is more of a lightshow this time around, as it shows the full scale war of Hogwarts in a visually impressive fashion. It is however not one of these productions that becomes lazy in its visuals due to modern technology, as every shot and every angle seems carefully planned out and the CGI is handled with utmost care resulting in stunning visuals. ( Except perhaps the broom escape from the room of requirement scene, which looked pretty bad ) The score by Alexandre Desplat is also excellent, and while he is not John Williams, it uses a fair bit of nostalgic scenes in which Williams's themes from the first film make a long awaited return, and since nostalgia is ofcourse such a powerful emotion ( Atleast when it reminds us of great things, such as the first couple of Harry Potter films ) this should provide the audience with a very 'satisfying' feeling, which is also primarily what makes this such a good finale.The most fascinating part for me was the revelation of Snape's intentions and his changed depiction from villain into a hero. When we watch the pensive sequence, everything that has happened before makes sense, and this will leave you all the more sad about the fact that ever since the Sorcerer's Stone Snape has mostly always been seen as the villain of the story, and his true intentions are only shown at the end, when it is too late for him. There is no doubt that the pensive sequence is the greatest scene in the film, as its sheer emotional power & the incredible character transformation will leave you in awe for a long time afterwards. I was quite worried that since Part 2 relies on loads of action sequences that these sequences would look the same as they did in Part 1. ( That is, loads of shakycam and quick cutting so you never see what is going on ) Fortunately Yates seems to have learned from his mistakes and as a result Part 2 features great action sequences with fantastic angles and subtle camera movements, instead of the shakycam nonsense the first one had.On the contrary to Part 1, Part 2's narrative instead DOES seem to be going somewhere, as there are less overly melodramatic scenes and more plot-driven ones. It might be shorter, but loads more Horcruxes are destroyed in Part 2 as compared to 1, while in the meantime we witness Voldemort's assault on Hogwarts, which creates a 'race against time' kind of picture in which the tension and immersion is fantastic, since pretty much every likeable character still alive from previous films joins in the fight, and since there are so many likeable characters in the franchise you genuinely care about their fates. Harry's melancholy stroll through the hospital which shows the death of long time characters such as Fred Weasley & Lupin really tug at the heartstrings since we have grown to like them so much over the previous films, and it definitely results in you becoming immersed in the moment, as you know Harry Potter is no longer the fairytale it once was, and in contrast to the first few films shows that its world is not a perfect place and that the good guys can die too. It also features the by far best performance in the series of Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, who finally seems to truly capture the essence of the feelings of his character perfectly. The camaraderie between Ron, Harry & Hermione might have been terrible in Part 1, but they once again grow closer to eachother in Part 2 and coupled with the many nostalgic sub texts to its previous films their character bonding once again seems genuine.However, i won't state that it couldn't end any better than this, as it does have some slight negatives. It should have obviously been longer, since running at 2 hours and 10 minutes it is the shortest of all Harry Potter films, and this seems a bit underwhelming when you know that this is the one where everything is going to end, which in turn results in the picture sometimes being slightly too hasty. Voldemort's death was extremely anti-climactic, as in the end he easily kills himself with a backfired curse because the elder wand never belonged to him. While a lot of Harry's clashes with Voldemort are brilliantly filmed, with a lot of slow motion added to it to increase the tension to a fantastic degree, the way he meets his demise in the end is not as satisfying as it could have been.This all results in a final installment that features excellent action sequences, impressive visuals due to outstanding cinematography and a great use of CGI ( which was for once not lazy ), many nostalgic references to invoke emotions in the lifelong audience, genuine interest in all of the character's fates, the definitive Radcliffe performance, and save for Voldemort's death, a very satisfying experience which results in it being one of the best entries to the HP series ( Prisoner of Azkaban is still objectively better, but it would rank second. )
As the second of a two-part series finale, this was it. Harry Potter has to destroy the last of Voldemort's secret life forces and end things once and for all. And the battle all comes down to the showdown at the now-overrun Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Who will survive? Who will die? The answers to these and all other questions will be revealed when you watch the film. There were some changes but they didn't bother me in the slightest. As the final chapter of the film series, this is how it really ends. It's been a while since I've read the book and seen the movie, but I enjoyed both and I'm not sure which is better; they're both good. If you're more of a movie buff and love Harry Potter, this is the crown jewel. Don't wait. See it.


                
I was greatly looking forward to this movie.
The plot was inventive and unpredictable , the actors' performances were amazing, the visual effects were even better than the previous movies .
Better than I could ever imagine, the ending to the franshise can be called Perfect


                
Though the story is forcing the movie to further diverge from its essence and it tends to go really cheap on most of the sub-plots (I don't see how 10 more minutes on the supporting cast would have ruined the sales) I must honestly admit, that this is a fairly good solution to solve the impossibility of wrapping this monster up. Most of the decisions are justifiable if considering length, box office sales, rating and all the usual s/*t and when it comes to epicness, The Deadly Harlows 2 will not let you down. I don't think, that there ever was a realistic possibility of this movie being any better then what it has become in the end while there was a huge chance of producers ruining it.But I think, the question never was, whether it's going to be good or not, as the work has already been done along the last decade. The question was: is it going to be GOOD ENOUGH. It is good enough.With this, the Harry Potter saga is found its way into eternity and is now officially a legend, comparable, but in many ways surpassing Star Wars. And most of it didn't even suck.This actually was one of the historical cinema moments of this generation and I am kind of proud, of having witnessed it.


                
This film is absolutely brilliant. The makers of the Harry Potter franchise finally pulled themselves together, and made something awesome. I am a huge fan of the books, but I haven't been a real fan of the films, because they've been constantly disappointing me. I've read all the books at least five times, so I now them almost word for word, so maybe that's why the other films (especially the fourth one) were such disappointments for me. But this one, the eighth film in the series, was everything I could hope for.It was true to the book, the visuals were striking, the acting was over the top, the music was moving and the script was (finally) well-adapted. Maybe all these things are due to the fact that J. K. Rowling was an executive producer on this. I liked that there were some funny moments and some extra action in the movie which weren't in the book, but I missed one thing they left out. I won't tell you what it is, because I don't want to spoil the movie for those who haven't seen it yet (shame on you! go see it).I'm glad John Williams didn't come back for this film to compose, Alexandre Desplat's music is so full of emotions and has great tunes. I actually cried at one scene (because of the music and Alan Rickman's great acting), although films don't usually have that effect on me anymore.All in all the film was great fun, in some way better than the book, so for a Potter fan it's a must see.


                
I'm not a die-hard fan of Harry Porter, I'm not even a fan of Harry Porter series. But I have watched three Harry Porter movies. They are all OK for me. I'm impressed by the first movie,"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone ". When I heard the news of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2" record-breaking weekend box offices worldwide, I think I should watch it as soon as possible. I watched today, I have to admit that Deathly Hallows Part 2 is the best-plotted, most-entertained one compared to its previous series movies.However, it's not as good as the ratings here IMHO, someone might say i'm being biased, but if you look at those top 50 movies which got the same ratings, i don't think this movie stand a chance to be equally great as the others.


                
J.K.Rowing is a gifted writer with great talent for imagination. However, her weakness reveals itself in logical parts of the story. She created a new world with its own rules, but the problem is that she couldn't define the rules vividly, and the reason is that she wasn't able to do so!!! Anyways, we should admit that her books are magical and indeed very interesting. I'm a fan myself since I was 12. When it comes to the movie, the acting and the visual effects were almost perfect and the director did a memorable job. The sound effects and music are also amazing. I can't stop watching the final part. And, I'm sure fans are always waiting for more. Fantastic beasts couldn't satisfy our thirst in my opinion. I believe the linkage between Harry Potter movies to related potential movies can be much stronger if J. K. Rowling would write next projects with other talented script writers.


                
I didn't follow the film series that carefully and never read the books, so my comments won't matter to most. I just wanted to see how things got wrapped up with Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) and friends. As always, good special effects to complement the story and a satisfying ending that was much to be expected. With a series that spanned an entire decade, perhaps the most intriguing thing for me was seeing how the characters grew and matured over time. You have to wonder whether the principal players regretted the end of the story or whether there was a sigh of relief that it finally came to an end. Either way, you have a substantial legacy of movies here that will live on for many more Harry Potter fans to come.
As a kid Harry Potter was one of my favourite childhood movies growing up. I loved the cinematography,the characters,the score by John Williams(who did it until I think 2009),and as well as this it introduced me to Emma Watson(who is now in Beauty & The Beast as Belle). This last installment is all about Harry(played by Daniel Radcliffe)who goes head to head against his long time nemesis Lord Voldermort(who wants him dead,and he is played by an unrecognizable Ralph Fiennes)and its a battle against evil with Voldermort's companions(one played by Helena Bonham Carter and Jason Issacs)and Harry must try and save Hogwarts from the deadly hallows.After 10 years debuting on the Big Screen,this final film was very good. The story was good and the whole film was pretty intense. We also get to find out that Snape(late Alan Rickman)was in love with Harry Potter's mother Lily Potter who died from Voldermort when Harry was a baby and Snape seen Lily on the floor and was crying hysterically cradling her in his arms. Overall I enjoyed it
First of all, the movie stands for itself...but for the fans, the readers of the books, not quite.I bet you David Yates hasn't read the books, and if he did, then his head wasn't right. He probably only read the scripts, that could explain the misguidance of the characters. Since the Order Of The Phoenix, he's made the same mistakes. No character development except for Harry, Ron and Hermoine (or whatever you spell that). He also made the films feel like a rush, as the scenes are also fast-paced. Since he took command, he made the supporting characters be treated as background characters. May as well not put such valuable actors if they're just going to be serving in the background, almost as if they were forgotten. I mean, for example, Lupin and Tonks' death...one word, BOOM. One moment they're alive, the other dead. No mourning over them, no mention too...just a two-second glimpse at their bodies. How can you put Lupin (Thewlis did a magnificent job with him) in just a few minutes in the movie, with one mediocre line, and just kill him, when he was one of the main driving forces on the third movie, The Prisoner Of Azkabam? Or as well, Gary Oldman, just a minute on screen, barely a cameo? what's the point? The readers are not dumb, they wont be satisfied with such scenes like these. Ralph Fiennes...I like him, and sometimes he manages to make Voldemort look like a freak and sick bastard, such as when he "hugs" Draco, but there's no driving force behind him, just killing Harry Potter. The driving force for killing Potter is never explained, therefore, his character loses the interest of the audience.Meanwhile, Maggie Smith, Alan Rickman and Jason Isaacs are pure gold in this film. Even though their scenes are not as big, they make gold out of every moment they appear on screen. But then again, all these supporting characters may not be the heart, but they're the structure of the story, they hold it together as they surround Harry Potter.And last, the final battle (sigh). We barely get a glimpse of it, because we were following the main characters all around, sometimes with boring moments. Some call the battle epic, but it's not. Epic should have moments of glory, and there was barely any moment of glory, except for Neville. Excuse me for my bad writing.
