I've been kinda umming and ahhing about Louis CK's new internet show Horace and Pete because it doesn't seem to know what it wants to be - it's very stagey (as in theatrical) and light on jokes, sort of a re-imagining of Cheers without the constant one-liners and 'live studio audience'. But I've just watched the third episode and it's kind of tipped me over into recommending it, if for nothing more than I can't imagine any other TV show of any kind today doing the same thing.Like later seasons of Louie, H&P is not entirely satisfying - not funny enough, not dramatic enough, not deep enough and at time amateurish and self-indulgent the way any student film would be, but with, as he put it himself, a 'hall of fame cast' and music by Paul Simon.It's really the first genuine full-length TV show ever made entirely independently, completely outside of the TV networks, written, produced, financed and distributed by CK alone. If you want to know what TV made without advertisers and other financial considerations taken into consideration would look like, well here it is.


                
Imagine "Cheers" only instead of being light-hearted, episodes would focus on the fact that Sam is a sexual predator, Norm is an alcoholic in a terrible marriage and Cliff is wanted for Federal crimes. Also, Jessica Lange hangs out there.It's shot like a play, there are few to no takes and no audience. The writing and story are really raw and at times it can feel really uncomfortable. You get see Alan Alda give several angry monologues that will make you laugh, but are not funny. Louis CK and Steve Buscemi are in it doing what they usually do, but it's much darker than you would think. And like I said; Jessica Lange is there. Being Jessica Lange.


                
This is not Louie, no matter how much you want it to be like Louie, it's not. CK managed to put together a great ensemble of actors for an interesting project.I liked pretty much everything about the show, except for maybe the commentary on the then current election. Totally unnecessary in my opinion. Also, when one is learning about the service industry, a bartender should actually avoid 3 subjects as a rule: politics, religion and race. In real life, mostly in bars like Horace & Pete's, these topics are what people want to talk about most of the time.Interesting guest actors. Hannah Dunne was impressive. As was Laurie Metcalfe. Some episodes move you more than others. I think the best way to describe this is like *sad* Cheers. Even though it's obviously taped at a theatre-stage like studio, this show is much more authentic than most. 7.4/10


                
