As a fan of the original avatar, LoK is a disappointment to me. The pacing is awful with almost no good flow between books. Someone could skip an entire book and still be able to know everything for the next two seasons. Next is the characters, most are forgettable and rather than their actions effecting the plot, the plot just happens to them. Some characters never even grow since their first appearance to the final moments of the show. The real kicker is the romance and love triangles, avatar isn't known for focusing on romance instead it favors character development, world building, and action. It could have worked for LoK, but like I said the characters never have hints or even romantic chemistry together. The way relationships and characters are handled is a checklist of popular tropes to grab attention, for example out of no where two characters go into a relationship. They had no proper build up and the "hints" can be taken as platonic rather than romantic (blushes don't always mean romance). A character that is supposed to be "progressive" means nothing when they have no real depth to them.People need to know this: Characterization and presentation over representation.It seems like the creators just did what they want while disregarding what the first series had built up. Multiple continuity errors and the magic of bending replaced with machines.Also the villans were terrible. There was no show don't tell aspect at all when writing them. They did terrible things yes, but that's all they do. Don't get me wrong, The Last Airbender had some villains that needed some extra time and character. But when they got a villain right, they are some of the most memorable characters in the show with a thought provoking background that makes you question if they are worthy of redemption.In LoK, the villains do the complete opposite of show don't tell that the subtlety is like a brick made of exposition and plot twists to the face. Any damage they do leaves no meaningful impact to whatever characters have depth in the show. Speaking of Team Avatar:They aren't a team. They really aren't. Bolin is a watered down version of Sokka (who is also abused writing wise by LoK) but with non of the relatable arc and redeeming qualities that make him important to the group. Mako had everything he needed to be a character at the start: a backstory, motivation, and a bit of personality. Past season 1 its blasted out the window, gone with the wind. Asami was a thing who wasn't used very often and gets more attention from the shipping community. Korra is so terribly written that I don't know where to even begin her faults. Here's a tip for any aspiring writers out there; if you have a character with a ton of flaws make them grow and change. The animal companions are there. That's all I can say about them because they don't have any importance unlike Appa and Momo.The most insulting is the stab at the first series. They changed the established lore and no amount of cool fight scenes or art style change how awful that is. Morals and lessons are practically gone in favor for the more adult scenes going on. The characters from ATLA are disrespected and half are gone.Overall the show is NOT a worthy successor of the first series. On its own it's just a mess with little imagination and thought put into it.


                
I had great hope and expectations from this show. As this was a continuation of AVATAR legend. But I was greeted with some regular Hollywood type teenage romance drama. This has nothing to do with the Avatar and his philosophical and spiritual stuff that made the original series a great show. In first series Avatar Aang had to face with real and great problems that helped him evolve into Avatar he had destined to become. This series is shame compared to the original. And choosing a female Avatar with emotions and drama of modern day girl really sucks. And why the heck there is a love triangle? So far there appears to be no real problem and the aim of the Avatar is also uncertain. What on earth the Avatar is going to do to be called as a real Avatar or the producers just want to continue this pathetic teenage drama? Only a real life Avatar can save this series to become a disaster.
Honestly , i tried to watch this Series a couple of times, but stopped after a few episodes again. Story is meh and also the characters are not good and often embarrasing. Honestly , EVERYTHING that made Avatar- The last Airbender so Unique, so special and so damn good are completly missing here. Hard to believe its from the same creators.....Well, at least we have still the original Series i can only advice to anyone.


                
