We have here, perhaps, one of the best superhero American series, or at least, one of them who has best shape the universe of the superhero who it adapted.In this is presented the Batman as Bob Kane created him, and with a lot of influences of Tim Burton's films. In fact, if you have seen the Burton's films, you can see the similarities between both Gotham recreation, besides the great Danny Elfman's score, because, although it has not the same main theme, it has the same musical structure. Talking about the Batman universe, can say that what the series has best embodied (or at least, for me) is the Bruce Wayne/ Batman psychology itself. I like very much how the series treat the character, in so darkly and adult way (not how in the Joel Schmacher's poorly films or in the series Batman Beyond). Although not only Batman, other character too, like my favorite villain: the Joker. And finally, to say that there are two animated films of Batman (from the creators of the series): Batman subzero (which even I can not say nothing about, because I not see it), and Batman: the mask of the phantom (that I see and I recommend it to all who have seen the series, because in 70 minutes the series talk about more things than Schumacher in 3 hours).


                
I'm a big fan of BTAS, especially the first few seasons. The animated movies, like Mask of the Phantasm, were very good too. However, it amazes me that so many people think this is the best animated series ever.Even as a young kid, the goofy, cartoonish style bothered me. It's not as bad as the animated series we have today... but this was definitely a far cry from the realism portrayed in X-Men and Spiderman, which are far better in my opinion. The animation was solid throughout the series, even in the later seasons. And the music and voice actors were top-notch. The episodes almost always had a sort of dark tone, which really added something to the show. Overall, this was a decent series. It's definitely in the top 5 American action cartoons. If not for the cartoonish style, it might have been the best...


                
Batman The Animated Series was pretty good. I think the DC Comics heroes are good and I am fan of the Marvel comics as well! This show is based on the most famous DC Comics' superhero, Batman who fights crime all over Gotham City as he did in Season 1 and Season 2 but then in Season 3 the show changed the name from Batman The Animated Series to The Adventures of Batman and Robin. My favorite Batman villains were The Joker, Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy and Catwoman. I remember this show was on Kids WB!, Fox Kids and Cartoon Network. I really like the series that continues off of this show, Batman Beyond and they continue this show off in Batman Gotham Knights and back in 2004 they did a remake called The Batman. This show premiered on Fox Kids back in September 1992 and it switched to Kids' WB and the show ended September 1995. Pretty good.


                
For the most part - I quite enjoyed this animated, Batman, TV series from 1992. Yep. I really did.The 2-D animation was definitely top-notch and one could tell that there was certainly some real, mature thought put into the show's story-lines.But the thing that puzzled me about the Batman character (whose squared-off jawline was so sharp-edged that it could cut a brick of cheese) was that even though he was just an ordinary man, he was given some truly startling, super-human abilities.Anyway - My biggest beef of all here has to do with the Alfred character (Bruce Wayne's trusted manservant) who I found to be too much of a stuffy, insufferable, British bore (stereotype).(Oh - Well - At least Alfred's presence was so insignificant that it didn't ruin the rest of the show for me)


                
When I was young, I always watched Kor Anime, but this is something different than Kor hero anime. Kor things fight a number of people combined, however, Batman fights alone with many evils. Also, Kor heroes seems to be weeker than foreign Heroes. I watched initial forms of Harley Quinn. It looks like young robber. Somehow, I expect images of animated joker:D This year, Suivide Squad will release. This is a movie Harley Quinn appears heroine. (movie is more prettier than animation. lol)I love MARVEL. also, I love DC Comics, too. I'll watch the movie. In Dark Night. There are many Batman's mechanical weapons. But Animated series shows Batman's physical weapons. It is a little bit disappointed:D However, It is meaningful that this is my first foreign hero animation
