I have a very cool mom who read me Tolkien as a kid and got me started on my path to the geek-side watching Star Wars and anything sci-fi. This Batman series was on after school and I would jump off the bus and run home to watch this with her. We both liked how it was just a little bit darker and more serious than other Batman versions.


                
I remember waking up every Saturday morning and going downstairs and checking out Batman , I managed to just watch some episodes of it on DVD today and it is easy to see where the inspiration for Batman Begins saga comes from. This is not only a cartoon for kids but its adult themes also make it a pleasure for the older audience too. The use of dialogue and not to mention colours which give it the Gothic feel to it make The Batman a force to be feared! The villains are truly villainous and not comical to the cartoons we have these days , some can actually be scary for children but then the producer don't really go all the way with them as we are dealing with a children's cartoon show here. All the people are portrayed as 3-D people with personalities of their own whether it be Robin , Mr.Freeze and especially a complex character like the Riddler was handled. To sum it up, this I would say was golden part of my childhood re-visited and I am glad to say that I have not lost any respect for it! Fans of the new Batman should defiantly check this out.BATMAN: 8.8 OUT OF 10


                
This show isn't great b/c of its diverse storytelling. This show isn't great b/c of its deep-bench cast of characters. This show isn't great b/c of its direction & voice talent.
All of those things ARE great.
But here's what makes this show superb - in a world of legends and icons - Adam West, Michael Keaton, Tim Burton, Danny Elfman, Jack Nicholson, Cesar Romero, Burgess Meredith... - in a world of images & performances carved into stone, these people made their mark. What could have been another tie-in/money-grab became a work of art. They didn't take it to the next marketing project, they took it to the next level. Bruce Timm, Kevin Conroy, Mark Hamill, composer Shirley Walker and so many others turn it up to eleven. They leave their stamp on a legend. And they do it with style.


                
Batman: The Animated SeriesOne of the most successful and loved franchise of Batman, depicts the comic version at its best by going deep into the character's perspective rather than trying to cover-up or justify its sketchy tone. The animation is not only convincingly good but also seems like a lot of thought is invested on its cinematography which for the most part of it works on a metaphorical way. It takes a smarter approach on projecting more of newer character's perspective (mostly its the villain), as it helps to create the anticipated impact. And a slam dunk by the makers by narrowing it down to only 20 minutes and get right to the point, keeping the audience engaged and rooting for more. The consistency of thought-provoking concept and nail-biting scenes that they have projected in earlier seasons has achieved what it is now. It also focuses on offering a closure within its 20 minutes of allotted time. On latter seasons, the writers seemed to be losing their touch on the tone of it as they finds themselves sweating behind the camera waiting for a miracle, which no character helps on doing so. And in the last season, it becomes crystal clear that the makers have decided to draw in their big bucks through it, to a point where they are ready to sacrifice quality over money. Drunk and influenced under its commercial aspect, there barely resides a frame that speaks art let along an episode; a disappointing decision to go for season 04. Kevin Conroy seems the apt choice to be the voice of Batman (although not so sure about Bruce Wayne!) and so does Robert Hastings for Commissioner James Gordon as it has the right amount of depth in it. It also brings in bigger cast like Mark Hamill to do the voice over of Joker, which is done with genuine passion and enthusiasm that is clearly visible on screen. Addition to that, the makers keep some of the villains under their sleeve and uses it as a trump card whenever felt necessary that helps in continuity and glue all individual cases as much as possible. Batman: The Animated Series can be goofy and flawed but is undeniably glorifying and exhilarating on terms of the world that the makers have created in here which smells nothing but home.


                
I was a fan of this show since it first came out on TV. This, along with Animaniacs, was one of my favorite WB cartoons. I knew little about the Batman franchise before the show came on but it did introduce me to the mythology of the masked superhero and his allies as well as his enemies. I must admit I did not catch the Tim Burton films when they came out but this was my first Bat-experience. Lots of guest stars as the villains, plus different supporting actors and actresses for the heroic and neutral parties on the show. This show also has my favorite Bruce Wayne/Batman actor, Kevin Conroy. He brings a serious yet likable side to our dark and conflicted protagonist. Some might say that the show is too dark, but that's the idea. It's Batman!


                
This used to be one of my favourite versions of Batman, in childhood. Kevin Conroy was a very convincing voice for the dark and mysterious caped crusader. There was also Richard Moll as the nasty Two-Face and Paul Williams as the intriguing The Penguin. But the highlight of the show was of course The Joker, voiced by Star Wars' Luke Skywalker, Mark Hamill. They probably chose him because he has a really good laugh. He was always there to make me laugh. The only small problem is that he usually did something for himself and didn't really do a lot to hurt people. I mean he did occasionally, but I still think Jack Nicholson's the best Joker. There were also some other good villains like The Riddler, Poison Ivy, Mr. Freeze, Clayface, The Ventriliquist (or Dummy, with Scarface), The Scarecrow and many more. It won the Emmy for Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming One Hour or Less). Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good!
