On technological level it is not worse that some BBC documentary series. On historical level it is hopeless.Oliver Stone quite often seems think, that he knows what was inside heads of mass murderers from past, what is questionable, and itself is enough to remove "History" from the title.Why Stone's work is harmful you may ask?This is what he says about Stalin: "Stalin recognized the truth. His country was facing its most deadly enemy alone. He needed to buy time and fearing a German-Polish alliance to attack the USSR he shocked the West when he signed a nonaggression pact with Hitler dividing Eastern Europe between them. Stalin's primary concern was the security of his own nation. In fact the Soviet dictator had proposed the same alliance with Britain and France but neither would accept Stalin's demand to place Soviet troops on Polish soil as a way of blocking the Germans."Sounds acceptable? So lets do small transformation:"Hitler recognized the truth. His country was facing its most deadly enemy alone. He needed to buy time and fearing a Juish-Polish alliance to attack the Germany he shocked the West when he signed a nonaggression pact with Stalin dividing Eastern Europe between them. Hitlers primary concern was the security of his own nation. In fact the Germans dictator had proposed the same alliance with Britain and France but neither would accept Hitlers's demand to place Germans troops on Polish soil as a way of blocking the Russinas."Do you still accept it? Both quotes are worth the same.


                
Oliver Stone starts the series criticizing the standard of history education in the US, then in just the first episode he uses England and Britain as if they were interchangeable terms, and the on screen graphic for the Soviet invasion of Finland shows absolute victory and occupation, as with the Baltic states. Even the remotest checking of history will tell you that the Soviets invaded Finland in 1939, and had a torrid time of claiming a marsh or two. This series has clearly not had the slightest bit of editorial proof reading by a qualified historian. These obvious and blatant errors must call into question the content of the whole series.Lamentable!


                
Watching this now and I'm amazed that Stone is casting Stalin as a good guy without mentioning the fact that under his regime his govt was up to its eyeballs in atrocities. Stone is trying to paint his series as a history that is complex and nuanced. But without alluding to the distrust that the US, France, Britain and Poland had towards the Soviet Union which was committed to exporting bloody revolution to every nation - and the difficulties they had in forging an alliance with a communist dictatorship that had slaughtered 20 million of its own people - and embarked on a war against a smaller democracy, Finland, Stone is just giving us a 1950s Soviet propaganda view of history.
As I watched the "documentary" on the dropping of the Atomic Bomb I was struck by how partisan the theme was. It was no until it was over did I see that it was an Oliver Stone production. That explained all of the Truman bashing. This thing was so far from unbiased that it was almost funny. These "documentaries" remind me of Ollie's films "JFK" and "W". Both were absolute hatchet jobs. I am now watching the Cold War comedy...er documentary now. So far it's a joke. Oliver takes himself far too seriously as a historian. What amazes me is that Showtime actually paid him to produce this garbage. He absolutely hates Truman and all Republicans.


                
I find Oliver Stone's creative writing offensive. Facts are vital to understanding historical events. Some facts can be unpleasant. Making up "stories" can be entertaining. Presenting "stories" as fact is reckless and damaging. I am sorry that Mr. Stone is not more responsible.


                
I don't know how anyone can give Oliver Stoned credence as a historian after the whoppers which he told in JFK - look them up for yourself if you don't believe me, and start with the "dismantled limousine," presently resting intact at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan - and I'm glad to see that many of the other posters here at IMDb saw the same lies which I did in UNTOLD (or as I call it, UNTRUE) HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES.From a technical standpoint, the series is admittedly entertaining. The visual source material is rich and compelling, and Mr. Stoned has the same taste for storytelling as he does for lying. His narration (he narrates the series himself) sometimes stumbles, but that's a minor failing and nothing compared to the main fault of his work - that it's about as reliable and grounded in hard fact as ANCIENT ALIENS.As other posters have said, it's impossible to write fully on a subject of such length and complexity, so I'll confine myself to just a few remarks about Mr. Stoned's revisionistic "history" of WWII. He spouts so many easily refuted lies about that period that the reader will be able to judge for himself or herself whether the rest of the series is worth taking seriously.After glossing over Japan's horrific atrocities in WWII - the rape of Nanking, for example, at which even Germany's Nazi government expressed dismay - Mr. Stoned digs up the old leftist chestnut that the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were unnecessary. He claims that Japan was on the point of surrendering unconditionally because Russia had just entered the war against it. Oh, really? It was already being destroyed from the air by American bombers which the Japanese air force couldn't touch, and America was preparing an invasion whose stockpiles of weapons included tons of poison gas, but according to UNTRUE HISTORY, it was only fear of the Soviet war machine which made the emperor and his court see reason.Mr. Stoned paints Hiroshima before its atomic bombing as a city of "civilians" among whom only a small number of Japanese soldiers (and American POWs) were quartered. He conveniently omits the facts that Hiroshima was an important port from which Japanese forces routinely departed for their bloody suicide missions in the Pacific, and that the civilian population cheered those departures with cries of "Banzai!" The Japanese of today are a great First World people, thanks in large part to General Douglas MacArthur's enlightened governance of them after the war, but before then, from the 1920s onward, they were thoroughly steeped in the aggressiveness of their leaders and no less guilty of complicity in atrocity as their civilian counterparts in Nazi-dominated Germany.Mr. Stoned also has the nerve to accuse the Allies in WWII of being the first to bomb civilians indiscriminately. He seems to forget what the Japanese did to the Chinese, and what the Germans did to Rotterdam and Warsaw. As other IMDb posters have pointed out, this tunnel vision is even more blatant in his rosy assessment of "Papa Joe" Stalin, one of the greatest mass murderers in human history.Here's one more example, a minor but telling one, of Mr. Stoned's willingness to twist himself into mental pretzels in furtherance of his propaganda. He's a great admirer of the peacenik Henry Wallace, a political enemy of Harry Truman, and to give Wallace's viewpoint authority, he's described in glowing terms by Mr. Stoned as a successful capitalist despite his affection for Stalin. "Capitalism bad," says Ollie (in so many words). "But Wallace good, because Wallace capitalist." If Oliver Stoned had churned out this kind of mendacious, anti-American garbage in the 1950s, he would have been haled before the House Un-American Activities Committee. And rightly so.Now go out with your Occupy Wall Street friends, Ollie, and take a dump on a police car. Your UNTRUE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES has precisely the same intellectual standards as that sort of "free speech" expression.


                
I guess Ollie is off meds again. He and the rest of the hate America crowd will most likely enjoy his next rant against the US. He and that other moron/toad, michael moore, make plenty of $$$ bashing the US. Hey, just go elsewhere and peddle your dislike everything American. Ollie, are you going to chronicle the lies, deceit, and treasonous actions of Barry Sotero (obama)? One of the worst Presidents in history! I guess since he's so far left, and hates America more than you do you'll just kiss his *** and fail to mention his crimes against the Constitution. Did this nazi-like propaganda come out in 2012? Must of missed it. I will again. Your movies are becoming predicable and boring. JFK was a sequence of unrelated ideas posing as fact that would make Alien Conspiracies more credible. You bash any Republican (W, Nixon) but conveniently gloss over or down play the lies and crimes of democrats. Ollie, get help, get over it and get out of town.


                
I don't know what Stone's agenda is here, but he obviously has a deep seated hatred for conservatives, which is fine if you stick to the facts. Instead, Stone pathologically reels off allegations posing as facts that are the most egregious and outright lies.Here are just a few-- Vietnam: Stone narrates, "...disproportionate number of black soldiers were killed..." Fact: 86% were White, 12.3% were black and the rest consisted of other races.Stone narrates: "...Nixon expanded the war, which lasted seven more years..." Fact: Nixon became President January 1969, the war was over by the end of 1972 with only 300 US casualties and officially over in 1973. That's five years, not seven.Stone narrates: "...over half the U.S. casualties from the war occurred under Nixon." Fact: Total U.S. Casualties for the Vietnam conflict were around 58,000, of which just 15,316 occurred under Nixon.After these blatant misrepresentations (to put it mildly) I turned it off.There's enough factual fodder for criticizing Nixon available. However, as far as the Vietnam conflict, it's widely documented and proved that Nixon continuously dropped the troop levels starting from his first months in office until he got the US completely out by 1973.


                
Not only did I not learn anything from this series, but all I heard from Oliver Stone is how bad conservatives and Republicans are, and how America has destroyed so many countries in the past and is the most destructive country in the history of the world. I didn't hear anything bad about Democrats at all, so clearly this is a biased series. There are a few tidbits of history I learned from this show, but nothing I didn't already know from watching the History Channel. This seems comparable to Michael Moore's movies, except this series is about history. More facts, less opinions Oliver! Stick to your directing movies not doing documentaries.


                
I'm not going to pick this series apart. It would be a waste of my time. I'll merely provide one example among many that exist. It is, however, an important one."His (Stalin's) nation was in the grip of a crushing poverty, engaged still in extensive ongoing partisan warfare in its western sectors, particularly Ukraine, which was soon to be racked with famine." This simple statement was all I needed to hear to recognize what kind of "history" this would be. It isn't what was said, but what was not said.The series attempts to paint the Soviets as victims of an aggressive witch hunt instigated by the evil, bigoted Americans. Even in the quote I provided, Stone tries to conjure sympathy for them. The poor Soviets who were experiencing famine in "their" western sectors, such as the Ukraine. Please search for "Ukraine famine" to find out the truth.Having watched three episodes of this schlock, I've found that it is nothing but a collection of false, delicately chosen opinions with a sprinkling of actual fact designed to further a political agenda.If you want a truly non-biased, no-holds-barred account of our history, keep searching.


                
As a history major, this is easily the worst hisdoc I've seen in my life. It's like Michael Moore and James Cameron screwed and had Oliver Stone as a baby, then got their historical facts from 1970s USSR libraries. I made it through 2 episodes on Netflix before having to just stop bothering. I probably should of started a counter or started tally marking off how many out-of-context events are covered. I don't think it got further than 2-3 minutes in before it started. I felt the need the write a review, because it's always such a pet peeve to see morons involve their delusional political views (right wing or left wing) in a HISTORICAL DOCUMENTARY. As a moderate, the leftist propaganda is absolutely laughable. If if fits your historically inaccurate views, I'd suggest watching it, you'd probably like it. However, if you're actually trying to learn anything, or save brain cells, I'd suggest finding something else in your browse for indie films on Netflix.


                
this is a review of episode 1 because im not sure i can keep watching this the whole episode on ww2 made me cringe...this isn't some revealing piece about how the war could have been easily avoided or how Churchill was a warmonger, or how FDR forced the USA into the war by provoking both Germany and Japan, or how he disregarded all the basic rules of neutrality, or maybe how Britain had several opportunities to simply stay neutral, or how Stalin was planning on invading Germany in 1943, or how FDR knew and wanted Pearl Harbor...or maybe how the assault on Iwo Jima that cost tens of thousands of lives was utterly pointless....none of this is in here....in fact this is just the 'official' kid-friendly version of ww2....what is untold about it? in addition ironically extremely biased against the axis powers and portrays them as one-sided cardboard bad guys...the research that went into this is abysmally inadequate if you want to watch a far better ww2 documentary watch 'World At War'


                
Inaccurate,full of itself bulls**t. I have never seen such inaccuracies in a documentary before in my life short of Micheal Moore film. I mean this thing was a joke. It mostly focuses on WW2 in the beginning (I couldn't stomach more than 3 episodes) where they portrayed the US and UK involvement as a afterthought, and Russia saved the world from the slimy Nazis all by themselves. Where America was just bombing the Japanese for sh*ts and giggles while they desperately tried to surrender to us. And we just dropped a nuke on them because apparently for no other reason than we could. Never mind the fact we dropped leaflets on the cities weeks prior telling the citizens to vacate the city because this was coming. They didn't bother bringing that up or many many other things. They portrayed Truman as a war mongering idiot who wasn't supposed to be in office in the first place because a left wing liberal was shafted out of it.(Wallace) Sound familiar? (Clinton) All in all this is Liberal trash, trying to trash a great generation of people that made this country great.
The Trump of the left rewrites history into an extreme exaggeration of what used to be modest lies to whip up emotions for a brainwashed following. His portrayal of the US as the bad guy in WW2 is beyond absurd. His portrayal of Stalin as a guy who was just looking out for his country's best interest is horrifying and absurd. Luckily I watched this when my Ukrainian wife was not present. This guy was a joke when he supported Chavez and company and he is still a liar. Difference is now that the country is becoming polarized, people like Oliver Stone, Donald Trump, Sean Spicer, etc are getting larger audiences of people looking to reinforce an extreme world view.


                
This is a piece of liberal propaganda aimed to blame the United States of all the wrongdoings in the World. The Title is revealing because what Mr Stone does not tell us is paramount. The Soviet Union is a "victim" of the United States war machine. They only try to make peace while one after another US Presidents let them down. But if someone got it right it was Bill Clinton. Mr Stone forgot to tell us about the Bosnian war he started, the Oklahoma bombing, the Wako TX standoff, the Cuban migration crisis in 1994 (Oh yes Cuba is another US victim). While he blames Bush for not reacting to "some Arabs taking flight courses who did not want to learn how to land a plane" (I wonder how a President should be blamed for that anyway. It is the FBI which should be blamed) he "forgets" to tell how Bill Clinton had been haunted by his sexual behavior long before he became President. "Indiscretions" he calls them, and only talks about Lewinski (which was the least of Bill problems) bypassing the many scandals (sexual or otherwise) which prompted for an special prosecutor. Hillarycare is also praised by Mr Stone. Maybe he wasn't in USA at the time, maybe he was in Cuba trying to convince Fidel Castro to allow him to make a movie about him. I highly recommend this movie to be in the Soviet Union Communist Party hall of Fame.
Mr Stone,
You have a huge hard on for communism. I wonder how many anti country pride documentaries are made in your beloved communist countries. I cannot believe I wasted so much of my time watching this garbage. This guy makes money by making violent films that idealizes violence and hate yet disrespect veterans throughout this entire documentary.


                
