There is a lot of things Americans don't know, but when it comes to history, we look even worse.Oliver Stone has teamed up with Kuznick to tell us the history of the United States, the UNTOLD history. By which Stone means the history that was once known and reported but isn't taught in schools today.I have seen 5 Parts, or Chapters, as Stone calls them, and I must say Im very impressed. Sometimes it sounds a little too Soviet-friendly, but all in all pretty fair. And the acts that are presented can NOT be disputed. Thats the most important thing. So that people who don't agree with Stone can make up their own mind, like I did in some cases.I must say though, its not easy entertainment. Its pure informations for 60 Minutes. I had to pause the show once in a while so I could focus again.I just saw Chapter 5 (Eisenhowers time) and there were a lot of things that I didn't know. I knew the CIA had overthrown a few Gouvernments and installed some puppets, but I didn't know that there were so many.


                
Here we go again. An excellent documentary that shows the world from the perspective of the whole world instead of just the view "The United States of God bless America". Queue the 1 star ratings from the "true patriots" that say that anything that says USA isn't perfect must be propaganda. This sort of brainwashing is exactly what is described in episode five. So please don't be fooled by this. This is actual history, if you look this up you will find the events actually took place. Even though sometimes it may seem Stone is trying to make the soviets less horrible it does not mean they weren't horrible, that just means that they weren't the monsters that the American public was let think they were and that the US escalated the cold war just as much as the Soviets. I am actually astonished that the people in the so called "greatest country in the world" can't take a look at it self and realize that they might of done some wrong in the past.Please ignore ignorant rantings about anti-U.S. propaganda.


                
I cannot express how impressed I was with this work of televisual majesty. Unbiased, well narrated, clearly presented and explained information, just the right amount. Focusing on the real key points to give a brief but in depth understanding, not just of the events, but of their repercussions. Mainstream history is truly written by the those in a position of dominance, and to find out what really happened you have to dig deep and have an open mind, and that is what Oliver Stone has pulled off in abundance! World war two has been an interest of mine for some 16 years now, and even my eyes were opened as to the geopolitical framework that built the world we're in today. Some huge political scandals were missed from most commonly known (and taught) history, I don't know if I agree with all of the opinions, but the facts, the evidence, that speaks for itself! A huge amount of it is quoted, referenced and some from actual recordings from the politicians at the time. And for the sceptics, Yes it does check out, although some is hard to find.After watching this, I've decided to store the recordings to use to help teach my son the real story of what built the world he's entered into. And to give you some perspective of how ground breaking this program is, my son is currently 3 months old! And it will be saved for prosperity until he's old enough to comfortably assimilate such information.That's how important and rare this type of clarity and open minded viewpoint is. Every human being on the planet should turn off X factor and watch this, If they did the human race would stand a much better chance. Oliver, if you ever read this, I hope to meet you one day and shake your hand! Many Thanks.


                
What strikes me the most is that the negative reviews of the series actually confirm everything Stone wants to say.The series is actually brilliant. The book might be even more brilliant. Yes, it is subjective. And yes, it focuses on certain issues more than other issues. And that's because human beings are subjective; history is written and examined by human beings. On the other hand, the series -- and the book-- say right out from the start that this is not the complete history, it's only the part that people don't hear about. That's why it doesn't concentrate on 'other views' or the 'other side' of what it says. Add to that, film is a form of art. And this is the difference art can make when it deals with history.The series does, in 99% of the cases, state facts very clearly and don't see events and people in black and white. And I have come to believe that people who accuse material of being propaganda are the very victims of propaganda. They are those who want to paint the whole world in one brush and put label on people, things, countries, races, ideas, etc. as 'good' and 'bad.' Personally, I think that is the definition of intellectual terrorism.


                
"History is a lie agreed upon...History is written by the elite and the winners of War". These often quoted phrases or variations thereof (as just stated) is what is at the heart of this riveting and deep dissension piece.The "facts" or the "truth" can often times be opinions or guesses, as pointed out by the series, there is much we aren't readily aware of because of the, willful or not, misconstrued presentation of events. What is routinely accepted as the "way things were" is forever tainted, misinformation, disinformation, myth-information, slanted, withheld, covered-up, politically correct, unknown, and simply much of it is ethnocentric to say the least.What's refreshing in this 10 hour mini-series is that it can inspire inquiry and rebooted thought. Not revisionism, but a re-visitation and educational path toward illumination and possibly in some cases enlightenment. There never is one side to any story and reflection, curiosity, and interest in events that shaped our world can never be a bad thing. Except, maybe, for those who benefit from the status quo.


                
The next episode: Bush and Obama, the Age of Terror.This shows that Stone rises above petty partisans left and right.The series is well done and everything is the verifiable truth. It shows that the last war the US fought that had any merit, honor, or valor was WWII. Even as powerful corporations propped up Hitler.Stone during this series, is breaking down how all the way to today we have been saddled with war criminals from the Nixon administration. Murders and tortures we still coddle. They write books, go on speaking engagements, and even obtain cabinet positions in democratic administrations. Stone is showing, that after PNAC got it'd "new Pearl Harbor", they were more than ready to roll out an already printed 400+ page PATRIOT ACT that our treasonous congresspeople did not even read, because they were terrorized with US government anthrax. That terrorist remains at large.The USA is now full speed ahead towards fascism. Oliver Stone is doing us all a public service.Our enemies are at home, enemies of freedom, children, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.Every president the last 40yrs has been a war criminal. This inauguration, the war criminal for the next 4 years will swear in on two bibles. Bibles of men who he dishonor with his export of drones over foreign sovereignty land. Creating more people who justifiably hate murders of children and women.Right-wing rush-bots are slamming this series with 1 star reviews. They can't even be anonymously honest. Hey cretins, how does it feel to see Stone call it so right. You cold war nuts still have it out against the "commies".The Great United States of America now:Tortures-sodomy of kids,rape, Culture of rape,suicide,murder, No Habeus Corpus ,No Posse Commatus ,No Due Process, No Right Privacy, Free Speech Zones -(bush the lesser) Domestic drones, TSA-fondling children rapists,coaches,priest-authority figures, rabid, racism,homophobia, and more fear. A whole network for propaganda,lies and race baiting. right- wing hate radio, talk of right-wing states seceding, corporate owned media,beholden to, the corporations not the people. science deniers. I have seen the enemy....he is "us".I could I forget Camp X-ray aka Gitmo, gulag. Abu-Ghraib, Mai-Lai, shock and awe. I'm getting sick typing all these atrocities. Yet you right wingers have the gall to call this series propaganda. You would not know propaganda if it bit you in the rear.Sounds like all the crap the bad commies did to others. Even then, only Hitler decreed he'd take his terror global. Now, we are the global killers.I'm surprised Stone did not mention "Operation Northwoods" the blueprint for 9/11. Shootings, airliners,and terror to usher in, as poppy bush called it, the New World Order.He at least covered the right-wing coup of 2000. We are all surveillance now.Obama had his chance, to prosecute the criminals for a war based on lies(All US wars). He did not, because he grew up idolizing these monsters.This series is long overdue. Too bad it is on a premium channel, most people will miss it.


                
The Untold History of the United States is a 10-episode (12 episodes for the newly released Blu-ray and DVD)documentary series that re- examines and investigates important events in American history during the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st century. It was narrated,produced and directed by controversial director,Oliver Stone.American University historian Peter J. Kuznick,editor Alex Marquez and British screenwriter Matt Graham collaborated with Stone in the production of this documentary series.The documentary series features events from the time of the late President Franklin Delano Roosevelt up to the events during the first term of President Barack Obama. The episode format consists mainly of archival materials like stock film, photographs, video and audio recordings, computer generated maps and diagrams.Interestingly,clips from several movies that features the historical events that were being discussed were included such as Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,Nixon,W,Zero Dark Thirty and many others.Oliver Stone and his collaborators did a wonderful job of presenting the documentary series.It was evident that a lot of effort was exerted in it. Added to that,the viewer was definitely given an opportunity to closely examine the under-reported events that have happened especially during the middle part of the 20th century when World War II happened.Aside from that,we also witnesses a close investigation on how former US Presidents from Roosevelt up to George W.Bush have affected the nation with both the good and the bad things they did during their terms as President to the country.What is also interesting is the fact that also closely examined what the country experienced during the tough economic times like The Great Depression during the 1930's and The Great Recession during the 2000's.Added to that,we also get to see how Stone tried to investigate the bad things that the United States did during World War II,The Vietnam War,The Cold War,the War On Terror and the wars in both Afghanistan and Iraq and effects that it brought into the country such as the dropping of the Atomic Bomb at both Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945,the production of nuclear weapons and many others.Finally, with Stone,you definitely have to expect discussions of dark conspiracies that the U.S. was involved throughout in history.I have to say that it was definitely well-made.But if there is one thing that made me uncomfortable about it,it is the fact that it has strong feelings against the country's involvement in the affairs of other countries.The documentary has strong feelings about the country policing the world and trying to prevent the spread of communism especially during the Cold War and with the country's participation in the Korean War,Vietnam War and wars in the Middle East.Aside from that,I felt that the documentary tried to show everyone that the U.S. did it for selfish reasons alone when in fact,the country has its own good reasons in doing so.One has to watch this part with an open mind especially with respect to the country's global role.But overall,it was definitely a worthwhile documentary and there is a lot to learn from our complex and shared American history.
I am on episode 4. This is an excellent narrative. Although hardly an eye opener to anybody not brainwashed by American propaganda machine. Stone's premise is that by sabotaging Henry Wallace's VP ticket America left the progressive trajectory and turned itself into a British empire substitute with its citizenry subjugated to the wills of the military industrial complex (MIC). This rings quite true, especially given the warning that Eisenhower himself made in his farewell address, which is ironic since MIC flourished during his presidency. So far I noticed only one incorrect fact - USSR never captured Finland. Now, I would like to address some of the issues others brought up. Statement that Stalin's atrocities were not mentioned - not true. All the important bits are mentioned : Katyn massacre is mentioned. - Decimation of officer elite of the Red Army prior to the war is mentioned. - Gulag is mentioned. - Firing squad behind front lines that would execute anybody retreating. - Allowing Germans to drown Warsaw uprising in blood by stalling the attack on the city. - Mass rape of German women is mentioned. - Invasions into Hungary and Czechoslovakia were mentioned mentioned. These are well known facts, all are mentioned. As for the general theme of the narrative, this is exactly how Soviets perceived the US (and UK) during WWII and after the war. Soviet point of view is : UK and US were stalling opening second front in Europe for as long as possible to the point that it became irrelevant. By all means it looked like the second front was opened with the purpose of not allowing the USSR to march all over the Europe, that is to contain "red invasion". Granted the war would have lasted longer, but for USSR it did not make much difference anyways given already staggering amount of war losses (5 more or 5 less lost millions did not matter anymore).To those who say that American actions in Africa diverted German attention from Eastern front - less than 20% of German casualties came on African front. Even if Rommel was in charge in the battle of Kursk it would not have changed the outcome. Dropping of the A-bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki was done not to get Japan to surrender (which they did not immediately after bombings anyway) but to show Stalin who is the boss now. A grave mistake by narrow minded hawks in Washington. This is when they created the Cold War. Of course MIC needed this like fish needs water. Warmongering would just get the contracts coming. To those idiots that write about leaflets being dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki prior to bombing. Here is the article on leaflets:https: //en.wikipedia.org/ wiki / Atomic_bombings_of_Hiroshima_and_Nagasaki#LeafletsParticularly:"In preparation for dropping an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, U.S. military leaders decided against a demonstration bomb, and against a special leaflet warning, in both cases because of the uncertainty of a successful detonation, and the wish to maximize psychological shock."Even with leaflets dropped elsewhere. Like it absolves of the war crimes somehow. Reminds me of this lawyer speak idiocy like "this cup contains hot liquid" on coffee cups in McDonald's. So it is theirs Japanese own fault they got fried, we told them to leave. So the fact is that US was the first and the only country so far that has used Nuclear weapons in the war. Not the evil Soviets. The bombs were dropped on the cities that had little military value. Even if justification was to cause Japan to surrender, frying 200K civilians to achieve this goal is a textbook act of terrorism.


                
As a Vietnam veteran with a number of outstanding documentaries and feature films behind, especially "The Platoon", "Born 4th of July", "JFK" and "Alexander", Oliver Stone has an epic sobriety that can fathom any historical problem. In this series, he has challenged the greatest historical problem of all, which is America.His main ambition with this series seems to have been to pinpoint the major American political mistakes since 1944, when everything went awry as Henry Wallace was not allowed to be a presidential candidate but was more or less out-manoeuvered by a foul coup, although he had been Roosevelt's vice president during his first three mandate periods. Harry Truman was pushed in as his last vice president to suit other minds than Roosevelt's.And then starts the dreary saga of the terrible horror tale of fatal American blunders affecting the whole world, starting with the use of the A-bomb, which Harry Truman rejoiced at, as if it was something to be proud of while it introduced something America hadn't experienced earlier on an international scale, namely dishonour.That triggered the inhuman nuclear race, while the greatest catastrophe during these 70 years of course was the assassination of the Kennedys. There everything went truly wrong with America, as his successor Johnson brutally reversed Kennedy's decision to get out of Vietnam before it was too late to instead turn it a decade of inhuman devastation of all life in Vietnam, comparable with the worst atrocities of the second world war.That part of the series, chapter 7, is probably the worst, the most horrible and upsetting, as it reveals the US drastic reverse from the enlightened "Camelot" of the Kennedys to the blatant barbarism of the Johnson-Nixon years, one worse than the other.Also Reagan gets his due as a brilliant facade to an abyss of ignorance and carelessness, ruining the one universal chance we had for a total nuclear disarmament as Gorbachev actually tried to take that initiative, while Reagan preferred his "Star Wars". His stupidity was only later exceeded by the minor Bushman's.In brief, it's a terrible settlement with an America that blew all its chances for its preference for lies, illusions and delusions, mainly motivated by reckless and inhuman greed that ignored and drove over all human values for the sake of the progress of the universally destructive juggernaut of power greed.Fortunately the series is not all dark and hopeless, as there are quite a few martyrs on the way that are dug up and remembered, foremost the Kennedys, Gorbachev and Henry Wallace, but there are many others, as well as there are many other scoundrels unmasked and living still today. The series is admirably neutral all the way, no conspiracy theories are even hinted at, the tone is objective, condoling or compassionate but never biased or passionate. It's the most admirable historical documentary I have seen, especially since its topic is the most difficult imaginable.


                
To clarify one thing: I am not a big fan of documentaries at all! They often get boring, because they often take way too long to say somethings. Not to mention the irritation I feel from the often wrong or skewed information they present. They try to make you believe eating meat is worse for CO2 production than gasoline usage or tell you pyramids are made by aliens and take 2 hours to do so. However, this documentary is by far the best I have ever seen! The density of information is super high, I actually was able to watch it 4 times and still pick up something new every time. Everything is fact checked by them and by Showtime (not a USA critic organization). And I haven't found a mistake in the whole series. And once I finished I felt disappointment there wasn't more! What a series! You (almost) never see the narrator talking, there are constant video fragments, edited extremely well. And what a clarifying view on history! The stories focus on where the USA went wrong AND where USA almost went right but unfortunately didn't; in stark contrast to the bulk of the stuff we have been fed. An important theme of the series linked to the period discussed is the threat of nuclear war. Everything they say is still extremely relevant with the cold war regaining strength. Go enjoy this documentary, you won't be disappointed!


                
The massive control of the US media over its population and the rest of the world is uncovered in this series. You will fall to your back with the many under-reported, and omitted facts throughout the history. The abundance of details most of times with the original voices of the protagonists show a very careful research and gathering of material. The narrator if fair towards both parts showing both its achievements, failures and shortcomings. As a history lover, I devoured this material and I confess learning a lot from it. I strongly recommend it.


                
They should play this series from giant TVs on every street corner! "We all cherish our children's future, and we are all mortal" -JFKIf you've ever wanted to do something good for the world but had no idea how, watch this series. Know where you stand. Where we all stand. Know why the world is the way it is, how it got here, where it's heading if uninterrupted. We are all humans. We are all capable of understanding the world we live in and guiding it forward. The world is not as pretty and peaceful as the narrative we are fed. The leaders we have looked to are not as perfect as their PR campaigns claim. Everybody should know the truth of our history so they can do their part to make a better future. Also, not sure why this series is viewed as un-American. It is not. It's just an honest look at history. No fairy tale, no super human heroes, no pretty little narrative. Just honesty. The only thing it seems to be is anti-military. Which is something we should all be against. Watch the series, do some research, and understand why.


                
I haven't found a documentary series so riveting and eye opening in a very long time I am not even much of a history buff at all but even soI started watching it expecting to be bored and move on to something else before the first episode had ended but instead binge watched all of them in a single day The amount of times it showed me a bit of modern history that I was sure I fully understood at a basic level only to reveal that what was actually happening was drastically different and in some instances quite disturbing Possibly the main example of that for me is the stuff pertaining to the dropping of the atomic bombs on japan and the way the fleet admiral viewed the Japanese peopleThen in a very close second is the fact that it was really Russia who won world war 2, not us and the Americans by killing almost 80% of the German soldiers that died as well as putting the "horror" of the genocide and allied casualties into a new perspective with the fact that the Russians lost 30 million men women and children whilst pushing the Germans back An absolute must watch series in my opinionEnjoy
Honestly, I learned a little something during training at school and academy, because the volume was high and the absorption of small ... I fear the credibility of the textbooks should be no more than this film, who for us these historians that they wrote who Oliver Stone for us? Can we completely trust only ourselves. I'm sure that Oliver wanted to tell the truth, the more he shows that it is well-intentioned and exposes the story within sight from the third position. Thanks to him I learned more aggressive US light, if it is true, and in fact he had no reason to lie about this, it means that the country has for a long time loses the confidence of its citizens, a fact! For me at all surprising that even he acknowledges the majority of peacekeeping operations on the part of my country. Information from the pressure of America suffered even me. For my country, I began to be treated worse after studying the history of the academy. After watching this show my attitude toward his own country is much improved! Thanks to Oliver Stone!
Oliver Stone has done it again ! In the spirit of Howard Zinn's primer "The Peoples History of The United States " Oliver Stone has exposed the dark excesses of America's history of Militarism and Corporate Greed . Viewers will be educated and entertained while the real story of how US Presidents ,Bankers and the Military industrial complex conspired to fleece the American people and exploit the world's natural resources . This series covers important historical facts and political alliances missed by the majority of standard high school and College text books . This film series is a "must see" for those who wish learn the truth about war and peace .It will open the eyes of those who curiosity leads them to question the decisions our Federal government both past and current !


                
After I've just watched the end of part 1 and all of chapter 2 I feel betrayed of a much, MUCH better world that could have come into being if Henry A. Wallace would have succeeded Mr Roosevelt. That only foul intrigues impeded this to happen is so unbelievable and thinking of all the consequences for the worse this had for all of the world leaves you in a state of shock... Much of history seems to have been told so very wrong- lies and lies and nothing but lies. I feel disgusted and sad, very sad and so very betrayed. I still have a very hard time to take in what I just saw. Anger -may be that's, as of now, still the wrong word, sadness and disbelieve still predominate ... This documentary should have come out decades ago- it's much too late for a lot of things now as the world has taken a turn for the very bad with Trueman being elected instead of Wallace. But as the future is still lying ahead of us, is yet unwritten and we know that knowledge in the right minds can always result in changes for the much, much better and worldwide this information can still contribute for a better world NOW. -> This docu should most definitely be watched in schools all over the world as an integrated part of history teaching.As for me I will find the time to watch the rest of this immensely important documentary and spread the word to every one I know to do the same.


                
I personally liked the narrative by Oliver Stone's own voice. It feels like my own grandfather was telling me stories of the past, telling me his point of view of the history he went through.And YES! This is a very personal story. But you know, and this is one major point of benefit it. I prefer to see the point of view of people I respect and know - like my own grandfather, like Oliver Stone too - even though I have never met him, but I know him by his work, and by his past personal and professional experience, known publicly, instead of learning by heart and not questioning the State approved versions of History.And YES! This documentary has some leftist taste. But - what the hell! If you call Social justice and Social responsibility inspirations leftist - I am OK with that.Someone said in another review here - "If Oliver Stone was born in a communist state instead of being spoiled in the US, born in a rich family - he would have had a less tolerating view towards the communists" - here I can reply - I was born in one of this Eastern Europe communist states. But there is nothing worse than the libertarian propaganda and policies that were sent to my country by the western brain trusts and conquered it ever since the 1989.


                
This should be mandatory curriculum for schools. It's important to show how US really works, how dirty their past is. I will applaud to every attempt to show how secret agencies, army and government really work, what crimes have they committed and how stupid are people, who blindly follow them.Now at least even the most arrogant people can see if conspiracies are just theories or praxis.Shame is when some people think this is just anti-American propaganda, I know it can look like one, but it's not something bad to hear the truth for once.


                
In this series Mr. Stone presents us with facts in order to help us analyze what happens in the world around us as well as in our minds. How we judge and label others and by doing that justify murder. The show tells us that in order to have a possibility of peace on this planet, the planet which we have brought to a terrible condition already, we fist have to look inside: find our own aggression. If we don't do it, we will continue fooling ourselves that our actions are for good and thus keep creating more suffering for others as well as ourselves. I highly recommend this show especially for those who have had enough of self-deception and are ready to hear the truth.


                
This is Oliver Stone's documentary about the United States from WW2 up until the Obama administration. It links the wars the United States has been involved in over seven decades and discusses with some depth the political tension behind the scenes between the Presidents and their cabinet, their spy agencies, their enemies, their allies, and the American people. There is also some mission critical storytelling about a few long forgotten historical figures that shed insight into our current geo-political landscape in the post 2016 Presidential election.One very interesting story is that in 1944 there was a progressive left wing VP candidate named George Wallace who had previously been the secretary of agriculture and vice president during the third term of President Roosevelt - but he was passed over in a controversial decision by right wing members of the financial sector and replaced by Harry Truman who served as VP during Roosevelt's fourth and final term. This becomes the first in a long series of progressive left wing politicians who are cast out - assassinated - or defeated and opportunities for our government to put people before empire become potentially lost.Roosevelt dies in office just prior to the end of WW2 and so an inexperienced and more simple minded President Truman was suddenly thrust into the Presidency. Truman knew nothing about the complex deals between President Roosevelt and Soviet Dictator Joseph Stalin - and this missed connection becomes a tragic spark that led to many of the anti-communist wars of the last century. What would follow is the construction of the Central Intelligence Agency and massive spending on military that would soon swell into what we call the Military Industrial Complex. The lives of millions would hang in the balance during a slew of close calls that nearly become a nuclear holocaust. One key thing this documentary does a very good job at is showing is that the Soviet Union did not seek global domination - rather they sought to secure their borders. The communists dictators tend to want their land - not global domination. It has been the United States in the post WW2 world has been responsible for the worst air strikes against civilian populations - used puppet governments in Latin America and parts of Africa - and the Middle East - to harness fuel and other supplies. We have done some terrible stuff in the name of empire - yet many of our choices are also rife with complexities that cannot be shunned simply as "America is evil."Perhaps the most interesting scenario of the documentary - is the epilogues that shows the financial history behind World War 1 and World War 2. In WW1 -JP Morgan's bank began to loan money to Britain because Britain was broke after so many years as a global empire and and there is a theory that to get their money back JP Morgan got President Wilson to send troops into the war. While that may have been one of many reasons behind the United States getting involved - including favorable market share with the favorable winners - there are some fascinating links between the banks - fascism - loans - and the war profiting of the financial sector. All of the people in this documentary are human beings - not omnipotent overlords of shadow conspiracies. They have great strengths and weaknesses. They posses terrifying power and humble traits. To understand the world we are in today - one needs to know as much history as possible - because this current geo-political climate was not created in the last decade - but over the course of the last century and this is a documentary that informs as much as it entertains and holds the audience on the edge of their seat.
I came across this series while browsing for documentaries in the IMDb suggestion list. I have postponed watching it for a long time as I thought History related documentary series will be mostly boring, but form the moment I started to watch the first episode I got hooked. This documentary series could change your perception of the world-view. This series is both educational and shocking at the same time which makes it a must watch.The facts presented in the documentary are debatable but viewers get an alternative perspective. It covers most of the topics in enough depth to give us a broad picture. For those who want more details, this series is based on the book written by Oliver Stone. I have not read it but plan to read it soon.


                
This series depicts some of the most important historical events that you will probably never hear or learn of, or at least give you all sides of the story. It is inspiring, but it might get you severely depressed trought the episodes as you will see justice failing and might being right. The hubris of winning will prove itself as a fatal flaw and you will see over and over again how much real injustice has been seeded throughout the world thanks to military actions. You will truly understand why war is important to some and how much money is to be made in it. All in all the most truthful representation of US history I have ever seen, signed a non American.
After completing the 10 episode documentary by Oliver Stone and Peter Kuznick, I must emphasize on the fact that American society, people and culture are something I will always defend, even though I am not an American. We must recognize the precious successes our species have accomplished (mentally, technologically, ecologically) through the unparalleled companionship, solidarity and help that Americans have given, and will always give. But we must understand that humans are the most contradictory organisms on this Planet, thus we will always give a radical opposite. The famous quote by Uncle Ben"With Great power comes Great responsibility."should be a reminder of our true purpose, the true purpose these men in government have to lead this world of us. We have utterly failed to truly take our Planet to a real civilization and not simply chaos and conflicts between ourselves. This film tells you exactly how the greed for power has changed the leading body of the world. The American people are not guilty but victims, just like all of us. They are actually our last hope to end this tyrannical hegemony spread by the rapacious institution we call fear, in cohesion with the political, economic and military establishments that maintains it. A form of government so primitive, we can easily look back to the Roman times and see an outstanding amount of similarities, with no true change in political, economic or social ideals. The only visual changes have been the vast addiction to commodities, making us more lazy than ever before, but also more unaware and indifferent to the true problems out there, problems we choose to ignore.Nevertheless, where many see only darkness, chaos and hopelessness, Stone and Kuznick see enlightenment and hope. An era of knowledge, information and real interest is coming, and with this spread of enlightenment we will have another chance, just like in previous revolutions. This way of leading won't change by itself, it will most probably end abruptly since that is the only way to end something so radical. This documentary is the most revealing eye opener piece of information I have seen since War on Democracy. I recommend any person (15+) to educate themselves on this necessary truth of history, and how we can make history return to its original purpose, to learn from our mistakes, and not simply repeat them and agree upon them, like Napoleon described.I give a long run of applause for this necessary historical piece of evidence that should be compulsory on every class of history worldwide.10 out of 10 to this masterpiece.H.F. Lauritzen


                
I admire the way the episodes are narrated. Definitely a must watch for everyone History aficionado.


                
