Honestly, I was really looking forward to this series, and it seemed to start off well with a focus on the Soviet sacrifices made during the second world war. However, from there the series departs on a litany of tangential opinions from de minimus people to support its own agenda. What's more is that the series devotes less than 30 seconds to explaining the course of action selected by the United States, and the remainder to undermining this course of action with 20/20 hindsight. Furthermore, there is not even any sort of counter-argument even entertained by Stone in this series, which may have been useful in assessing the positions proffered in the series. For example, the controversial subject of the atom bomb, Stone stands on incredibly small estimates for American casualties during the planned invasion of Japan to discredit the decision to drop the bomb. However, Stone blatantly ignores any of the other independent analyses of these figures for the invasion and subjugation of Japan, which would be necessary to truly evaluate Stone's positions. Consequently, the series is more or less a one-sided attack of United States positions from someone with a clear axe to grind; all in all, I doubt the KGB in their hayday could have come up with such a farce.


                
This 'documentary' is a dream on how Stone wishes history really happen. I am not saying everything is wrong or untrue, but this show is full of misleading information and half truths. I am not going to waste time breaking all of the misleading information down, you can look up the information and read the facts for yourselves. I have watched all 8 of the episodes, every episode was worst than the one before, episode 8 by far worst than the rest. Documentaries should be written, produced, and filmed on the facts, Stone forces the viewer to draw conclusion based on only half the facts. He rarely presents facts that proves or even just disagree with his conclusion. I am a student of history and more important a huge history buff. The facts are the facts, drawing conclusions on misleading or a void of information is travesty to future generations.


                
So we are already being attacked even in this lame forum as to why we regard this series and basically all of STONE's work with a large degree of skepticism. We are the blind patriots or so say the intellectually self anointed thought police of the liberal brainwashed left and their clique of fearful trolls who would rather lie than ever be seen by any liberal as having a mind of their own. They say that we PATRIOTS are blind. That is so funny. So lets get to the meat in the sandwich here. The series attempts to give a REAL historical description of periods in our history that are easily teinted by a person's desire to sensationalize and therefore make money. Stone is a master of this approach. He has made a very healthy living out of story telling and that is a lot of what he does. He tells stories but disguises them as history by the use of borrowed material deftly rearranged to gain validity. There are many historians who actually know what happened that are being very quiet and that is because the liberal machine would crucify them and their jobs would become tenuous. This is the truth about American Universities, they are liberal hotbeds and woe if you do not play the game. It is a bit like the scientific community where any attempt to be NOT ONE OF THE GANG is met with outrageous ridicule and vitriol. That is the truth people whether you like it or not. So back to this series. The real problem with this series is its affect on the brainless in our community who would hardly ever see or be involved in a true historical educational process. They will come away from these shows with a WOW LIKE FACTOR AND HEY PRESTO WHAT STONE SAYS BECOMES HISTORY. Again a bit like CNN and the Times news CREATORS who get a whiff of something from a source somewhere in outer Mongolia and spin it up into a REAL news item within a few hours. Usually it lives and dies on the day but occasionally they are found out and then it is obviously the fault of the original unknown source. Laughable really. So we have a lot of people here extolling the STORIES presented, feels a bit like bed time fairy tales but then that is what feeds the liberal mind which is incessantly seeking the moral upper ground to vanquish the real people and maintain their pseudo control over the masses. FAIL. BIG FAIL. The arrogance of liberalism is unbounded. The damage they do is equally unbounded. The truth is left for others to deal with as long as they are seen to be the GOOD GUYS and the rest of us as the BLIND TROGLODITES. Again - big fail. So why is it that these stories work so well in the general public. They are basically denying the real nature of man for the wanted nature of man that the liberal ueberlords would like us to believe we are, or at least should attain. So much for the joke of it all. Of course our nation has done dirty stuff and so it should - we are in a permanent war and if we wish to stay on the top of the pile of dung rather than unwisely at the bottom then we need to continue to do dirty stuff and that is OK by me as long as we are the big dog on the block. If that is distasteful to you please leave the country for some great nation like North Korea, Greece, or any other poor nation where socialism has destroyed what once was. Get a grip on reality people. I am so happy to tell you that I find the series so full of BS and story telling that it is more comedy than anything else. Good night America and GO TRUMP!
