Well, I like some of the facts brought about but it is a lot of conjecture too, mostly that. What if we had done this differently....lots of that. Immature conjecture in my opinion. Stone tries to appear wise after the fact showing what could have happened....how it could have gone. Obscure facts don't make Stone wiser than everyone else. They make him a judgmental anti-US enemy. How was information shared at the time? Did folks really know the things he tries to prove the knew? Were there other facts Stone fails to bring up? What were the dominant concerns? Were we trying to protect these enemies of the US while winning hot and cold wars? Why would we? Why do you think we should have acted that way?Well the world was brought to the brink many times so was our country....we made it so trying to say how it could have been done better is kind of cheap....in my opinion. We weren't there, so why would we try to prove how wrong those before us acted?Stone brings up the horrible actions of the US, but covers none of the horrors performed by the enemies of the US. Why is that?Horrible contradictions by Stone for which he should be ashamed:Makes Stalin out to be an innocent forced to act based on US actions. This is a lie. Stalin was a horror to everyone in the world, his people.Makes Nikita Khrushchev out to be a hero? What?Makes Tito out to be some sort of hero. He was a torturous villain.Makes the Japanese government and war machine seem like innocents and the US a villain. The US performed horrific actions that were shameful. One has to remember we were fighting a horrific enemy...no mention of that? What about the rape of Nanking? Enslavement of Korea? Bataan death march? No mention of these? Fight a horrific enemy nicely? What? Stone thinks like a child.I gave this a 4 only because he does provide some facts. His conclusions drawn are reprehensible and childlike. Those folks he tries to defile somehow kept our country afloat, defeated the most horrific enemies imaginable, but yeah, lets all forget about all that and focus on how bad our country acted. Its really rather shameful and an insult to my family members who died fighting in WWII. Its and insult to those of my family who fought and survived WWII, Vietnam, and the cold war.Shame on you Stone. You close your eyes to the biggest facts and try to embarrass us as Americans. I am glad to know some of the facts you provide, but your conclusions are those of a man who thinks he knows better than everyone else. You don't. You weren't there. And you should be ashamed of yourself.I watched the episodes up through the early 60's for the comments above. The WWII commentaries are especially ignorant.The subsequent Vietnam info was old stuff I have seen many times before. Yeah, Nixon, Johnson were horrible. Nothing new.Reagan and the Bush's were horrible too, got that. Kind of obvious information here.I find the promotion of socialism and world inequality as the fault of each of us insulting. I find that this idiot indicating and comparing the fact that the Vietnam POWs or MIA folks insignificant as compared to the Vietnam people dead insulting and down right awful. Why would you compare those things? They are both awful, but why try to show that awful comparison? He brings up Rambo and indicates were fascinated with the movie and that line of thought rather than the actual events and outcome of the Vietnam war. We should all be insulted by these comments too! You are an idiot Stone! You insult us all as the ignorant, but you appear to be truly ignorant.


                
First of all, The Untold History of the United States is somewhat of a misnomer as a title because most of this is common knowledge or already taught in standard U.S. history courses--only remotely novel aspect to this is Kuznick and Stone's conjecture, opinion, Wallace/FDR worship, and what ifs about the political climate during WWII and the subsequent Cold War.What if FDR didn't conform to outside pressures and went with Wallace instead of Truman? What if we didn't drop the bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki? What if we conciliated our differences with communist ideologues? What if...? And on, and on. Plenty of what is said is true but subterfuge is common, wherein they present a positive spin on many figures and sort of hand wave away their faults or never admit it at all. Quite a number of communist ideologues who slaughtered and oppressed their people are often seen in a rather benign light, and, in contrast, it's not uncommon to feel as if U.S. figures are unfairly demonized in comparison. Oh, hey Joseph McCarthy, let me call you a venomous snake and play ominous music whenever you appear, and I'll play weepy violin music for when Stalin dies--and let us make sure to portray Stalin with the old "papa joe" image! Both of these were juxtaposed together in practically the same breath.There is still a lot of speculation by historians concerning the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan. Both bombs were dropped 3 days apart and Stalin invaded Manchuria around the same time. It's hard to say what made Japan surrender because everything was so close together. Maybe they would have surrendered without Russia's involvement or without the bombs. Maybe one or the other would have been needed (definitely should have waited longer to drop the second bomb, if it was necessary at all, in HINDSIGHT). There are a lot of maybes and it's much easier to speculate in hindsight and play armchair philosopher. Here is another what if: what if we didn't drop the bombs and the war lingered on and Russia invaded mainland Japan and the country was partitioned similar to what happened in Berlin? Bad things can happen from what ifs, not just Stone's Kumbaya vision quests.While I agree that we often picked a regime that wasn't really any better than what they were competing against or the preexisting status quo, and the U.S. world policing has often done more harm than good, I found it rather funny that Stone paints Allende in such a positive light, who was a Marxist and had absolutely horrendous policies with starving citizens on par with 2018-level Venezuela, and the country was about to collapse. A coup was inevitable. Yes, Pinochet did bad things but Chile prospered in comparison to what preceded him, and he didn't kill nearly as many people compared to Castro's regime, who Stone never says a bad word about (because we sided with Batista and a lot of leftist figures seem quite fond of Castro for some reason). If we would have sided with Allende (WHAT IF???), then we'd probably be blamed for that too.As for the cold war, Stone tends to present the U.S. as being mostly to blame, even though it was both sides contributing to the problem rather than the Soviets responding to U.S. aggression. Also, while I generally agree with Truman's sentiment about the red scare and blacklisting, as highlighted in one of his quotes about how the U.S. should not be an entity on a witch hunt for dissenters, I wouldn't say that the condemnation of the communists in the U.S. was without reason. It's a destructive ideology and that was during the Cold War, against the Soviets, who were spreading the ideology and were the enemy of the United States. If you're actively fighting against communist ideologues, then it seems strange to allow them to proliferate and maintain roles in hollywood, politics, the education system, etc, where they have a pulpit to spread an ideology that is deemed antithetical to the United States' ideology--and perhaps allowing them to take over from within (granted, it was also often used to slander political enemies with no ties to communist ideology). Even now you see a very biased perspective in the media and school system. These systems are far more liberal than they are conservative; could not the same happen with any ideologues that infiltrate and maintain power? One might argue that we never weeded out the communist ideologues and their ideas have been presented in the media and academia in a manner more palatable and accepted by the masses. "Like Nixon, Bush appealed to voters' racism and fears of crime." This is actually a verbatim quote. And he goes on to blame the "far right" for everything without ever slowing down to analyze the flaws of the "far left."Admittedly, it is pretty well-made and has a lot of good footage compiled together, if you can tolerate Stone's spin on history. It's often propagandistic (complete with very schmaltzy music) in a very effective manner, such as Reagan's quoted reevaluation of the Vietnam War, where he laments the scenario but goes on to say that regardless of not winning the war and the many failings of the U.S., that it was for a noble cause--then immediately the scene cuts to a man blocking the camera and moving out of frame to reveal a dead child on the blood-spattered ground. It's excellent propaganda at times, not unlike Davis's Hearts and Minds.


                
