Interesting documentary with Director Oliver Stone narrating.I found the information regarding the Eisenhower Administration most interesting. By the end of the documentary, Eisenhower didn't exactly come off looking too well.When he left office in 1961, Eisenhower was ranting about the military industrial complex-yet the documentary showed that his administration contributed to such a belief.With Stalin's death in March of 1953, the Soviets were making overtures to the American government for more peaceful relations. Not only did America ignore these signs, our country according to this documentary, took a very hard line regarding the Soviets. Much of this was blamed on Secretary of State John Foster Dulles.
This is an interesting production: some will call it a documentary, some will call it propaganda, some will call it an educational work and some will call it fiction.It is all of these things at the same time.First of all, it is clear that Stone has his on view on the past history and his view is often opposite to the official narrative. A possible key in understanding this work is to see it as very USA-centric: the role, and errors, of the other players is often downplayed. Often this work highlights the errors of the USA government, while downplaying the importance of the actions of other governments.As for the historical accuracy, there are some problems, mostly due to omitted explanations. An example: both the first and second gulf war are heavily criticized and a casual watcher may not see a difference between them. But the first intervention in the gulf was UN- sanctioned and waged by 34 nations, while the second was an aggression based on lies (presence of WMD).The show intermixes historical footage, charts and fiction. The fiction parts are TV shows or movies of the past, used to illustrate the view of the popular culture on a topic (e.g. communism, nuclear war, ...).Sometimes, during historical footage, a narrator voice pronounces quotes allegedly from an historical figure. Often this narrator has a phony accent, trying to imitate the historical figure's voice. Some of these dubs are really irritating, since it is not made clear that this is not the voice of the historical character.From a technical point of view, the pace is spot-on and the narration is fluid and it follows a coherent flow: i.e. the whole thing never gets boring. The montage also contributes to the pace: there is a cut every few seconds.In any case: do not let your political viewpoint affect your judgment on this show. I think it is worth watching, even more so if it stimulates you to read some additional material on the topics presented.
The American Century as the 20th century came to be known, has closed its curtain for more than a decade now. But the consequences of what transpired in the second half of it, will be felt for quite some time to come.For those who know the works of Gore Vidal, Howard Zinn and Noam Chomsky, Oliver Stone hardly adds anything new to the imperial history of the US of A.Yet Stone still manages to create something that future students of history and especially the widely uninformed masses of the United States should see. These ten episodes are essential viewing for future generations of Americans and Western countries in general, because they show how the hegemony of the western world has been on a decline for some time now and even more importantly, where it all began.To quote Gore Vidal more than 15 years ago: "Europe began as the relatively empty, uncivilized Wild West of Asia. Then the Americas became the Wild West of Europe. Now the sun, setting in our West, is rising once more in the East".Things will change, as they always do, and Oliver Stone, less furious and idealistic, has with this TV-Series cemented something of his legacy, that will infuriate some (politics and history do have that effect on people) but will certainly inform a good many more people."The Untold History of the United States" is not so much a leftist but a humanist view of the world. It ends with John F. Kennedys words how we all share this planet, and thus it should be clear to everyone, that now matter what century lies ahead, if it is not a human century, humanity will have a very limited future ahead.


                
Oliver us the " untold story united states " in ten chapters as a sum of data we do not know . It is an ambitious project input , with all the intricacies that involves researching and re- edit on the hidden data or not the most powerful nation in the twentieth century to the present. You can see how the information is too much for the 60 minutes it takes each chapter , but data are concrete and real founts cite actual events with pictures and videos, to somehow eliminate the idea of " oliver is inventing history" . From the outset, the viewer is forced to question the information presented , as we know that what we see is really what happened ? . This is the most important point of this series, makes us " us" in the focus of truth , discussion of the events that took place during the twentieth century and the present . War and death was always a solution to the economic and political crises ? perhaps in history have happened characters not met in the official story presented , perhaps many voices were forced to remain hidden for capitalism reaches its greatest progress in the world.
