If you want to know the real truth about WWII and not the "US is the greatest country in the world who saved the universe" propaganda, then see this film. I'm a Veteran, so I don't get the blind patriotism or the refusal to accept the truth. As I served, just like my father, grandfather, etc and yet, I don't feel a need to excuse the lies we've been fed. So I'm amazed at how people refuse the truth and just accept whatever the 1% running this country has always fed us. Despite the fact that these people aren't a part of the 1%. They still defend their actions. Wake up! The footage is there. The audio, the video, how anyone can deny the US global domination agenda is beyond me. I knew the truth before this film as I have been researching history from more reliable sources and non-biased sources long before I saw this film. It just shocks me to see people fully accepting our version and not verifying anything.


                
Interesting how most of the negative reviews come from America or countries that do not suffer this "intervention." Cause here in Latin America, no need to tell us. We saw it. We saw an arrogant policy that for years it was believed that he had the right to overthrow democratically elected presidents and replacing them with dictators. Today we know that the tortures were applied during the dictatorship methods taught by the CIA. This is not a theory, documents prove it. And just as I know that the vast majority of Americans politicized are / were against it, I'd like others to at least open their eyes so that it never happens again. Your freedom should not mean the enslavement of others. I leave a loving hug to all Americans who know that. Cause you were as much victims as we went.


                
For the history buffs and those interested in a less partisan view of U.S. History, that's not always completely told in our school history books, I highly recommend Oliver Stone's Untold History of the United States. History itself, and memories in general, inherit the bias of the observer. Further retelling, teaching, and writing of the event also serve to inject patriotism, nationalism, bias and opinion into the mix. This documentary series does well to attempt to strip out all of that, and to see the gray beyond just the black and white.The show looks and sounds like the history shows we all grew up on in school. This should be known going into it, it is not an enthralling Oliver Stone dramatic movie, but it is well produced. For those interested in the subject matter it will easily keep your attention. In fact it's often difficult to break away momentarily because the pacing of the imagery and information rarely has a lull.


                
First off, I had not learned in my most recent 10 years of formal education even half of what I've learned after watching this series. If you have many times got confused, felt something missing, frustrated by concealed fallacies after reading numerous texts on recent history, then you'll be relieved by Oliver Stone and Peter Kuznick's Untold History of the US. Some say there's nothing untold here, which may be true, but it's never been told in such compact, coherent, true way and void of propaganda. It helps you connect many dots, backed by real archives of footage, articles, papers, interviews, etc. This is not just about the US, it's about the world. Don't miss it.


                
Based on a friend's recommendation, I just started this original Showtime documentary series, and it's an amazing show so far. I've only gotten through the first two or three episodes so far, but I'm hooked! Veteran legendary filmmaker Oliver Stone narrates and directs this series- which attempts to cover American history, beginning with WWII, from more of an international perspective. Now I'm not terribly far into the series as of yet, but so far I'm not seeing the evil America some other users have mentioned this show depicts. While not perfect, it seems Stone's series is portraying America's loss of innocence more so after the atomic bombs were dropped on Japan- as a way of expressing U.S. military might more for the Soviets' sake. A lot of this stuff in this show I was already aware of, but yes there are a few things here and there that I didn't know about- like this guy Wallace, FDR's original running mate/VP- he was awesome! What would this country- and the ultimate state of the world- have been like had HE continued as Roosevelt's backup instead of the amateur-ish Truman-?? Well, I would definitely recommend this show. I can't wait to continue my viewing of the rest of the series!
The Untold History of the United States by Oliver Stone is in the most part a condensed analysis of the causes and consequences of the long-term American imperialism plan following WW2.It briefly covers the atrocities of the other imperialist nations and sets the context for explaining the pivotal moment in history that lead America to present itself as the "police of the world".It is a must see, it is very well structured and narrated.The most shocking aspect of American history is the lack of empathy by the American power structure in regards to the millions of death they've caused in other nations since WW2, as well as an apparent lack of justice for American war criminals.Hitler and Stalin were worse by a huge margin undoubtedly, but this doesn't justify the unjustifiable like Vietnam, Iraq, support of puppet dictators, overthrowing democratically elected governments, arming fanatics, betraying the Geneva convention, lying to the UN, drone bombings of civilians, etc.It seems that after launching the first atomic bombs the United States of America have been governed by less than brilliant megalomaniacs. Even the wisest and most humanist presidents had little power to stop a long-term military plan for world control.


                
For those aware of history, politics and culture, we need to step back and see what our world really is. You will have both sides praising and condemning this series. Conservatives are angered by an unpatriotic view. Revisionists are pleased by a view but claim it is told and unoriginal.Exactly what does untold mean? Some people scoff and say, well it has been told enough. But the definition of untold isn't "never told". Perhaps "Less So Stories" might come to mind. Less Told is the meaning in this case. If you were driving a car and met in an accident, of course, it's the other guy's fault. You don't tell the other driver's story. Thus, Stone offers instead an apologetic version of history.In the world view, however, this film isn't really leftist or liberal, but probably slightly left to the center. Most Americans are on the right. Just like Saudi Arabia is on the right economically and socially, the US is far right economically and slightly left socially. Left socially and left economically are, for example, Scandinavian countries. Australia is socially on the left. China is economically right (like US, very capitalistic). In the world view, this series is actually slightly left. Not much off the center, really. Most people in the world will see this as fairly accurate but it's hard for traditionalist Americans to swallow. But it's also has some small lumps that make it sometimes hard to swallow. For one, Oliver Stone comments on a traditional political leadership history, not a social or economic history. For the most part, this series is quite truthful although just like any version of history, it represent opinion and conjecture. Some historians like to view history as a series of movements or struggles. Stone views history as shaped by powerful individuals. But often, it isn't single figures but movements that shape the world. Another lump. Stone also uses his familiarity of movies as his comfort zone. Showing clips of films to depict history may not be the best way to suggest actual political course of events but how we interpret them. History and films, after all, are merely opinions and interpretations of events. Oliver, nice effects to show those clips, but they are movies. Give a few more facts to back up the argument.I wish Stone took this one step towards understanding movements. He makes the case at times for that. Celebrating Wallace or JFK as a hero for the common person and for world peace. But what drove Truman or Reagan the other way? As Stone mentions, it's often who one listens to. Advisors and those closest to power often help shape history as presidents cannot entirely shape policies on their own.Stone may well do one step better by focusing on the influence of movements. How the wealthy classes or hardliners/militarists shape American foreign policy. Noam Chomsky who was cited in this series, often depicts history as class struggles. At times, the common man seeks redress from oppressors and at other times, the wealthy classes dominate control. Historically, due to American capitalism and lack of upheaval, it has been the wealthy classes that control the nation's direction. The recent electoral victory of Trump over Clinton confirms the power of wealth. Stone's historical message is: those who are closest to power and wealth wield greater influence and will seek to protect their interest. Those who don't want change and stand to lose the most, will resist the changes sought by the middle and lower classes. Stone implies JFK made enough enemies and mysterious assassinations of the 1960s were instigated by those resisting change.But Stone brings up excellent points of what truly is important: the welfare of ordinary people around the world. Therefore, he vilifies Nixon for getting more Americans killed than Johnson in Vietnam. He points out that Johnson dropped more bombs on Vietnam than the US did on Germany in WW2. Some estimates as many as 1.5 to 3 million civilians died in Vietnam. The same is true for the US invasion of Iraq by G.W. Bush were again, nearly a million were killed.Do American presidents have their priorities wrong killing people in a third world country that cannot hurt the most powerful country? Is it really for the protection and security of America?In summary: a brilliant, provocative, slightly flawed series worth seeing with an open mind.


                
The whole thrust of this and much of the content reminds me of the line from Stone's own JFK when going over some initial pieces of potential evidence on Lee Harvey Oswald and the JFK assassination conspiracy: "There's a lot of smoke here, but where there's smoke, there's fire." This series, a major work for Oliver Stone, gets going through the premise that Henry Wallace, a true progressive in the early 1940's democratic party, could have been a true force for change but was shut out of the 1944 convention, leading to Harry S. Truman as FDR's newest vice president. The 'would-be' part of it is certainly intriguing, and the evidence seems to have credibility (Stone narrates it all), but even if it's phooey and the claims against Truman may be harsh, the fact still stands on who dropped the first nuclear Atomic bombs on a (at the time enemy) country, leading to a nuclear arms race and the Cold War for decades to come.There's so much here over the course of some ten or more hours that it may be hard to all take in at once. It may not be that kind of experience, perhaps better to not binge-watch but take in over a week or several nights. It's a full course meal of information which is certainly not something that is ra-ra pro-American (but you should hopefully know that, even coming from his quintessential film, Platoon, where the climax of that was the Americans losing to the Vietnamese in a brutal battle). There's much that you also won't possibly expect that isn't necessarily *all* about the United States which is the fascinating part; just how much Russia was crucial in World War 2 and how their casualties were so catastrophic, but yet eclipsed in the pages of history by other countries losses. Or the details surrounding just how damn close the US did come to war with Russia over the Cuban missile crisis. Or so many other, nasty things.I think Stone is coming from a hopeful place here, and his damnations and critique aren't from a complete crank and blow-hard. He may have that in him, but his intentions are pure and with an intent of consciousness expansion: get you thinking about things, maybe you go find information for yourself, and don't always tow the line on everything you're told (not just Americans, around the world is the key point I think, though especially Americans). It's an overview of the past 70 years as only Oliver Stone can do it, and it's exhilarating, befuddling, infuriating, perplexing, terrifying, sad and perhaps questionable stuff. But that's better than something you can easily digest with your stick-in-the-mud grandpa, right?


                
Too bad this documentary footage-commentary is not played in highschool history classes. That way, we Americans might better understand the world we live in. Given the white-washed versions of US history our secondary schools provide, no wonder we're caught up in debacles like Vietnam and Iraq. The US is not alone in this regard. I expect most every developed country has its own white-washed versions legitimizing the nation state and political culture. The trouble is America's distortions are those of the world's most powerful state with global ramifications that include ourselves.Looks to me like Stone is among the rarest of US political birds—an anti-imperialist liberal. If you wonder why I use the term 'imperialist' instead of something more anodyne, then check out the documentary. There, Stone traces the course of America's post-WWII empire building, where hyping the Soviet threat serves as convenient cover for America's global expansion. At the same time, it's interesting to note that Stalin had no interest in expanding westward, discouraging, for example, France and Italy's powerful communist parties from being voted into power. Nonetheless, by war's end, Europe's 19th century empires had collapsed and only the US could keep a restless Third World inside the West's economic and political orbit. And that remains the case whether it required overthrowing popularly elected governments in Guatemala (1954) or Iran (1953) or nationalist leaders like Indonesia's Sukarno (1965) or Chile's Allende (1973). The list of bloody empire management is lengthy and gives the lie to our vaunted respect for democratic elections. Though surprisingly Stone doesn't dwell on the subject, it was the witch-hunts of the early 1950's that solidified America's global thrust. That's because those liberals who advocated good relations with the Soviets (a la Roosevelt) and respect for Third World independence were purged from positions of influence, whether in politics or academe, and never regained it. That's basically why Stone's unexpurgated history sounds so strange to so many American ears. Such advocates as Roosevelt's veep Henry Wallace-- featured in the footage-- were replaced by cold war hawks like Harry Truman, while the Democratic party was stripped of its more anti-interventionist wing. Thus, those Americans insisting on a more complete view of 20th century history suddenly became "com-symps", at best, or possible traitors, at worst. Just as importantly, generations of Americans lost the crucial perspective that Stone's footage belatedly provides.The documentary continues beyond travails of the cold war since the US has been on basically the same course even after the Soviet collapse. After all, new imperial opportunities opened up in places like Iraq and the middle-east. Plus, tools of empire building such as the CIA and the so-called military-industrial complex were already in place. This time, the interventionism was covered by hyping terrorism beyond its limited Afghan- Saudi origins. Of course, the irony here is in the blowback our interventions, in Iraq especially, have caused. Indeed the presence of Jihadi forces has mushroomed across the Middle-East and north Africa largely as a result of Western intervention. Thus empire has come up against a fundamentalist menace largely of its own creation.The documentary focuses mainly on that crucial period of the 1940's when so much of the future course was put in place. Nonetheless, Stone also furnishes footage and commentary on events leading up to WWI and WWII, including the Russian revolution, a key to understanding later developments. The two World Wars are also eye-opening, such as Churchill's abiding interest in preserving the British empire, even at the expense of Allied strategy. Also, there's a jarring look at corporate America's European subsidiaries (e.g. IBM) manufacturing for the Nazis even after the war's start. But one really has to view the entire 10 or so hours to get the full flavor of what gets left out of our official history.Overall, Stone's work is essential viewing for every American. For as Pat Buchanan points out —you can have a republic or an empire, but not both. Recent events, especially, bear him out. There're the undermining of civil liberties at home, a thoroughly corrupted democratic process in our capitols, plus ruinous interventions abroad. These accelerating events show how right Buchanan was. In short, our expansionist history is finally coming home to roost. Thanks Oliver Stone for helping to understand how this came about. Clearly, service in Vietnam was an eye-opening experience for you as it was for many of us.NOTE-- Several weeks after posting this, an overnight hit-squad dumped 17 negatives on this review and likely others, as well. These are hardly fair votes. I guess the spirit of Joe McCarthy lives on.


                
Oliver Stone is a filmmaker I really like. JFK (1991) was a heroic work and Platoon (1986) is one of the best war movies out there. Lately he's been promoting this documentary series on which he worked with American historian Peter Kuznick. Stone appeared on Western propaganda channels like CNN, BBC and Al Jazeera. He appeared on other, less known and more independent stations. And he appeared on RT too. He has been spending considerable time to promote his recent work. Apparently, he even spent $1 million of his own money on the documentary's budget. Stone's case is that there are important things that Americans aren't told about their recent history. So, when I found out about Untold History Of The United States I decided to take a look. First of all, for the vast majority of Americans who will watch this series the content will indeed by eye-opening. Stone and Kuznick cover almost 8 decades of American history. Stone is a great filmmaker so he made the series entertaining as well as informative. Good books and films are mentioned. This documentary is much better than everything else that's available in the United States. Americans have been thoroughly brainwashed for decades now and the information here will definitely surprise them. But, for me, Untold History is still lacking. Stone and Kuznick point out that World War II was won by the Russians (with some American help) and that the Americans dropped atomic bombs on Japanese cities to frighten the Russians. This is good information. But who's responsible for the crimes of the United States? Who killed John F. Kennedy? Why was Richard Nixon really impeached? Why was the Vietnam War started? Why did the Soviet Union really collapse? Who really planned and carried out the 9/11 attacks? Who is it that really runs the United States and the West in general? These questions go unanswered in this series. The people responsible for these and many other wrongdoings are the financial capitalists and the monopoly capitalists. In other words, the real ruling class in the West. These are the people who also helped to bring Adolf Hitler to power in Germany. These are the people behind the scenes. I understand that, for a series like this, mentioning this important information would have been like opening up a can of worms. But I still wanted to point this out. Politicians don't make important decisions in the West. Capitalists make important decisions in the West. By the way, for most of his rule Joseph Stalin opposed these people and he rebuilt the Soviet Union apart from the financial mafia. Naturally, the financiers can't forgive him for this. This is the big reason why Stalin's name is being smeared. Stalin is the greatest man of the 20th century. He ruined the plans of the globalists at least three times. And it's good to see that Stone and Kuznick gave at least a little recognition. But Stalin deserves a lot more recognition.If you're to believe all those insane Neoconservatives America just has to dominate the world and have the largest military in the world. What you don't hear from them is that America just doesn't have the strength to dominate the world. And Stone has been saying this in interviews. Neocon policies accelerated America's decline and led to America's isolation in the world. This doesn't bother me because I'm Canadian, but it's still funny because many Americans do believe in all this Neocon propaganda and think that America can't be defeated. The American oligarchy (dominated by the Rockefellers), however, isn't so foolish. They recognize that the country is in bad condition. Zbigniew Brzezinski already wrote two books about this. He fears that if current tendencies are kept America will be ruined and will soon lose her world dominance. Therefore, some changes have been taking place in America's domestic and foreign policies lately. The nasty and pointless propaganda against Russia has been toned down. Muslims are still being smeared but at least America's policy in the Middle East is changing. So, as all this is going on, it's not surprising for me that Oliver Stone and Peter Kuznick released Untold History. This really is a change in America's domestic policy. Despite the lack of much important information Stone's documentary is still a huge improvement on everything else that's being shown in the United States. Americans are being bombarded with propaganda, and in this atmosphere of irrational hate and violence Untold History is certainly a breath of fresh air. I strongly disagree with some of the content in this series though. Stone and Kuznick praise Mikhail Gorbachev. I think that Gorbachev is an incompetent traitor. They say that Vladimir Putin is an authoritarian Russian hardliner. I say that Putin is currently the smartest head of state in the world and the man who prevented the establishment of a real dictatorship in Russia. But do I recommend this series? Of course I do.


                
A 'Monday Night Quarterbacking' review of American history with an over-emphasis on the lesser accepted point of view, sometimes the non- American point of view and generally the more leftest-liberal point of view. Fascinating at times, as it reveals to us facts we should of known and should have been taught, it under-emphasizes the 'Be Here Now' reality of the times. It's one thing to sit in your study and read stat sheets in an environment of academic utopian vacuum, it's quite different to be in a subway shelter during the blitz of London, read about the bombing of Birmingham, and then take a stand against retaliation in the form of the bombing of Dresden. The killing of civilians as a way to take the fight out of the enemy, is as old as war itself. From biblical times to Sherman 'Killing em till there's no one left to fight' is why 'War is hell' is so true. 67+ years after the bomb, the clearheadedness of the situation seems unreal to those who lived through it. If the amount of American lives saved was a quarter of a million or two million, isn't the point when you're worrying about your loved one and the enemy is the 'Evil Empire'. I wish Truman had begged on his knees before dropping the second bomb. The first, I can understand. Henry Wallace is remembered as the Jimmy Carter of his time. A good guy, you'd let babysit your kids, without a second thought. But the worst president in modern history. Wallace was a man whose bleeding heart would of cost lives and made wrong leadership decisions. In all I highly recommend seeing this, but not as the gospel. Another point of view taken with a grain of salt.
I do not give full stars to the Untold History of the United States only because its character was a character of a documentary series and not a movie. Further on – only superlatives.These series are perfect refreshing course of contemporary history since World War II till nowadays. With the help of the technological achievements are collected and showed astonishing frames, pictures and recordings which were not popularized on that scale before. The series showed after my harsh comments on the anti-slavery wave on the opposite side of the Atlantic and the self esteem of the citizens there to criticize what they were doing not so long time ago.In this series the critic escalates. The hit is even stronger and the targeted is new. The point of view seem honest. Although it shows the unstopped ruling power of the imperialistic character of the trends in the newly found continent, this point of view is humane and peaceful, and even predicts the fall of the dominating unstoppableness.By revealing the ruling of the presidents from Roosevelt to Obama, Stone in a line after the text, offer us a list of 67 (counted by me, maybe more) movies, more series, books and materials which send me on a, out of the negative connotation, crusade or just a journey of the curiosity through the fossilized historical facts of the so called reason, and on the other hand are history of the movies about war (I think only American ones) and a mirroring image of the happening in time to the way of peace and security.http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/


                
i think Oliver Stone is one of best man i had ever known. he look to the world with completely open eyes. i'm not American but his documentary is very excited to me. i love USA and this is a big help to me for more discover America. i just watched 3 episodes till now and i loved that and i'll continue to watch . you will never regret "why i watched it?"the start point is ww2 and he says : i want tell you something you never knew about America and you will find out some heroes are not real heroes and some unknown men are not famous because they never did bow and stand on their wishes


                
Just watch it!............................................................................


                
