Sure, this film's plot is fairly predictable. Sure, if you boiled it down to its essential components it wouldn't amount to much. Sure, Will Hunting's genius is profoundly unrealistic.Yet I'm giving this one 10 out of 10.I don't know whether Matt and Ben have ever been in therapy, but they certainly understand a lot about the human psyche, how it ducks responsibility, and pushes blame onto others, how it dismisses the real gifts it has and concentrates on running itself down. How many of us suffer from the same problems as Will? Only those who deny their own vulnerability will remain unaffected by this film.Not only is the script powerful, but the dynamics between the characters - all of them selfish, even Skylar - is vividly and plausibly executed. The film just about manages to avoid easy answers, preferring to acknowledge (indeed, highlight) the complexity and pain of personal growth and self-realisation.You could read a lot of self-help books, but they won't bring across to you as powerfully as this film what it's like to be scared, what it's like to experience loss, how difficult it is to shake off your old ways of thinking, how important honesty to yourself is. If this is the kind of revelation Matt and Ben are going to come up with, I look forward to their future efforts.The first time I saw it, I felt moved as the credits rolled. On my way home from the cinema, I felt sombre. When I got home, I finally burst into tears. This film burns slowly, inside you.As cinema, it's fair to middling. The performances are all first class. The script is a jewel. As wisdom, it's second to none. A fine achievement.


                
A lot of things have been said about this fantastic movie, and I only hope to add a few more praises.The fact that it was written by Ben and Matt was a shock to me, I did not expect any strong writing and a solid script, but boy was I wrong. The movie lasts for 2 hours, and every minute of it I couldn't even focus on anything beside the incredible world of Will Hunting.Matt plays Will Hunting, who is a brilliant young man who denies his unreal intellect. Will has had a very abusive childhood which hurt him mentally to a point where he can no longer let anyone close to him aside from his best friend who is played by Ben. That is until a professor at one of the top colleges finds Will's talent and helps him out of trouble with the law. Robin Williams later comes in as a therapist to Will, he is the only one who can really stand up to Will's intellect and manages to break the layer of distrust that Will has developed over years of solitude, and the two develop a bond beyond friendship.Yes there is a girl, but this is not a romantic movie. There is more to life then what we are taught and what we have to show for it.The writing is witty, brilliant and hilarious at times, both Matt and Robin Williams preform wonderfully from both a comedic and theatrical prospective. Matt's best work since Dogma and Williams best along side Dead Poet's Society.If your looking for a typical Hollywood movie with a Hollywood ending, then do not bother spending two hours on this movie. This movie is ahead of it's time, and lands an easy 10 out of 10.This one is a keeper in my movie library.


                
It appears the jury is hung... many people either loved or hated this movie. I can tell you why I loved it. First of all the script. I think it had a real slice of life, and brilliance in it. Sorry, but some people do use 4 letter words to express themselves. And no, it doesn't mean that's because they lack intelligence to use anything else. I can rise to the occasion any time I need w/out profanity. But it is how I think & speak in my day to day life. The language shouldn't even be an issue. If that's all you heard, you weren't listening! The brilliance in it is everywhere. For example, William's character putting Damon's character in place by noting that he sneers at things that he has no real life experience with. I know people like that. Then moments when he (William's character) says gems like, "I'll save you the suspense sport- she isn't perfect & neither are you- the question is whether you are perfect for each other." I'm paraphrasing of course. The question of relationships, and life career decisions- the courage to risk and overcoming whatever your background is, are all a part of real life. This isn't supposed to be about genius or some "white trash" as someone else said (some people might say the kids in this movie aren't trash, just normal hard working, middle class guys) - it's about love, life and courage- courage to ante up & try again, no matter how many times life knocks us around. The acting, direction and script are wonderful. They definitely deserved the Oscar for this. It has soul. It has meaning & I am sad for the people that didn't get it. As the movie "American Beauty" said... LOOK CLOSER.


                
This is the best movie I have seen since the Godfather.  Matt Damon and Ben Affleck make a great team...not only as actors, but more impressively as co-writers.  Add Robin Williams in perhaps his best role ever (too close to Good Morning Vietnam for me to make the call), and you have a wonderfully entertaining movie.Ben Affleck is convincing as the best friend to a genius, able to effectively play the joker and the friend who would "lay down in traffic for you".  Matt Damon's portrayal of that genius realizing that life has something more to offer than batting cages and bars is equally stunning. And Robin Williams certainly leaves nothing to be desired (except maybe a beard trimmer...).The most amazing thing about this movie is the writing.  Even if the acting were not terrific, this movie still would have made my top ten list.  I was captivated from beginning to end.If you've not seen it, Good Will Hunting is without doubt a "renter", and I think after seeing it, it's one you'll want to own to watch again and again.


                
This is a screenplay, whose script was written by Ben Affleck and Matt Damon and sold for $ 600,000. (They split the proceeds)I love this movie. I have seen it several times, and I still want more at the end (Isn't that what good movies do to you?) The subplots make for mini-movies of their own, especially the interplay between Robin Williams' character and Stellan Skarsgard's character.Damon's real life buddy Affleck plays that same buddy role in GWH, and provides the definition for true friendship.Minnie Driver is compelling, and I just love a couple of scenes when she and Damon are in a novelty store, and another where she is telling a joke in a bar with Damon, Affleck and friends. The love story which develops with Driver is very convincing, and it's "under the surface" portrayal plus input from one of our favorite characters makes for one of the best definitions of intimacy I have ever seen on film.When I see some of the movies in IDB's top 250, I am sad that this movie isn't in there, but that is my opinion. Torn between GWH and Rounders as Damon's best movie, though I think GWD plays to a wider audience.
So many personal projects of our best players never come out quite right. The vision they have somehow doesn't translate to the screen, or it's not box office subject matter, or maybe the actors aren't gifted with writing or directing talent. That's certainly not the case with Good Will Hunting which was not only the breakthrough film for Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, but it will probably remain their most personal endeavor. Not too much imagination was required though because these guys set this film in their native Boston the city they grew up in, the city they seem to know every nook and cranny of. They didn't even have to lose the New England accents they would have to in most of their other films.When Matt and Ben wrote Good Will Hunting the fact they were able to interest a top director like Gus Van Sant in the project should have said something before one views a frame of film. Van Sant got an Oscar nominated performance for Matt Damon and a Supporting Actor Oscar for Robin Williams as the psychologist who counsels Damon.Will Hunting is this average lower middle class kid from South Boston who was in the foster care system and suffered a lot of abuse while growing up. He has some low level jobs, he's constantly getting in trouble with the law for minor scrapes, and he's a functioning genius who for kicks solves a highly complex mathematical equation between buffing floors at MIT.Which perks the interest of Stellan Skarsgaard highly touted mathematics professor there. He feels and I agree with him that one of the worst sins in the world is wasting the talent the Deity blesses you with, whatever it is. After a succession of therapists who are unable to cope with Damon's genius, Robin Williams gets his turn at bat.Robin Williams one of the wildest, wackiest, most innovative comics that ever walked the earth, drops all of that to deliver a highly sensitive performance as the psychologist who finally reaches Damon on some level. What Damon does with it is for you to see Good Will Hunting for.Some of that breakthrough is achieved with the help of Minnie Driver, a British student at Harvard who falls hard for the blue collar Will Hunting. Most of it is achieved though in the film's key scene as Ben Affleck tells him that no matter what your IQ is, if you don't use it and move up and on, you're the stupidest guy here. It's one of Affleck's best scenes in his whole career on film.I've known a few Will Huntings in my day, blessed with talent I would like to have had and who threw it away for a combination of reasons. One in particular I knew back in the Eighties was a kid who originally grew up in Virginia in the Blue Ridge Mountain country to some really uneducated hicks. They discovered he was gay and immediately had him committed. Back in the day, they did all kinds of things to him like electroshock therapy and guess what, it all didn't work. But it left him a twisted and bitter person who gravitated to the new gay rights movement because it was something that finally validated him as a human being.He also was blessed with an incredible baritone singing voice, he could have sang opera had that been trained instead of his parents trying to change his orientation. But when I last saw him in the middle Eighties no one had or could reach him. He made a living running a cleaning service for apartments. If he couldn't sing militant songs of protest he wasn't interested, even if he could have reached millions more with his issues had he studied, learned, and developed.Unlike Will Hunting, Jimmy Flowers wasn't reached as far as I know. But Matt Damon and Ben Affleck in writing their Oscar winning original screenplay could have known him. So I'm sure they won't mind if I dedicated this review to Jimmy whether he's alive or no longer with us. I'm sure there are Jimmy Flowers and Will Huntings that we've all known and hopefully we have the wit to recognize the talent whatever it is and the encouraging nature to make people develop that talent.


                
The name of the film always put me off watching it. Ever so glad i was convinced in to it. Only the fact that there is so much bad language and for Titanic being released in the same year this would have swept the boards in the Oscars!I hate Robin Williams as a comedian, but i was in tears after watching his timeless performance. I love most of the classic movies but this is definitely the best film i have ever seenMat Damon played a great part, showing the full spectrum of emotions in his role.I've ever gone out and bought the soundtrack to the film, i've watched it half a dozen times and always go right through to the final credits.Pure brilliance!


                
Released in 1997, I finally had my first viewing of Good Will Hunting this week. It's the best film I've seen in ages.Featuring a great cast consisting of the late great Robin Williams, Matt Damon, Stellan Skarsgård and the Affleck brothers. Good Will Hunting was a simple film that offered a lot. It had a bit of everything, some very nice relationships amongst characters which was great drama and at times extremely funny. The film flows at a good pace which kept me interested all the way through, the story was intriguing as I really related to the characters well.There were plenty of good laughs throughout the film as well as some truly memorable scenes packed with emotional punch, mostly from the meetings between Sean & Will, the way their relationship developed was full of heart. My favourite scene has to be the "farting wife" scene, absolutely hilarious and made even better when I found out after that it was improvised, Robin was so funny that even the director was laughing, making the camera shake during that particular scene.Overall a truly memorable film that I certainly hope to watch again & again. Highly recommended."If you ever disrespect my wife again I will end you. I will *beep* end you. You got that, chief?" - Such a memorable scene/quote. Brilliant.10/10.
Surprised to see so many people disliked this one. Personally, as a guy who just enjoys watching a movie, this is exactly what I like to see. I couldn't care less if it's unrealistic or if the plot is obvious and you can guess the ending about an hour before it happens. This is a masterpiece, at least in my tiny and unimpressive brain.


                
Why another review? Well, for the few that might read this, I find this movie very accurate about the state of seeing a counselor. It is also very accurate about a man who carries deep toxic shame within keeping him from intimacy with others and living with massive defense mechanisms. Because of this, I understand why some do not like this movie, it taps a part of themselves they are still running from, and that is why this movie is so powerful.It is very hard to believe two 25yos wrote this script with such realistic relational depth. There are some very powerful emotional dynamics in this movie--the scene with Will & Skyler in her apartment when Will unpacks. The monumental scene with Will and Sean "It's not your fault"--when a movie is a template for real life, this is an epic work of art! This movie allowed people to talk and relate when emotions were road blocks, to point to a scene in Good Will Hunting to establish a base for communication.Here's a point in real time. I was writing this review and a friend called. He ended up hanging up the phone on me because I questioned him about a project. He did a "Will" in Skyler's room on me because I tapped a dark shadow in his life. His sensitivity to being questioned is such a part of his identity he is unconscious about, but something that causes him great conflict in his marriage which is now a divorce, his inability to stay employed, and history with addiction.This movie lays a template for men's issues!


                
I was just starting to write stories, scripts, in my spare time. I wanted to get the form down, so for me, just writing was an exercise in itself. I was putting together a rather simple, down and out story nothing special. Writing in early 97'. I had heard a story on how Matt Damon and Ben Affleck had put this script together and had 'shopped' it all over Hollywood and were both kind of ready to sell it, even for a 'piece of chicken' (Jokingly they said in an interview) but they were sort of at their wits'-end when....- it finally happened.Then, look what happened...2 Oscars, 16 other awards and 34 nominations on top of that! Why? Two reasons I can find. First off, they did not give up, or give in to the temptation to finally quit. The other, and this is just a 'shot in the dark' but, the movie was victorious. No, arguments can truly take solid ground against the film, other than yes, they had an affinity for the 'F'-word. These 'Southies' were really playing the 'streeters' of Boston to steely perfection. They were who they set out to be in their writing. I was amazed, this story touched deeply. they showed the struggle and the belief in and they all sort of had a love for their 'Brilliant' janitor friend, knowing that he is destined for more than they were going to encounter in life. And they still stood up for him and with him on everything from street fights to getting him in the end to embrace what he needed to do and follow and not fear the great task ahead of him. The biggest thing for me in this story is the element of distrust, that came from Matt's Character. He was abused by his dad and through that impact that started the massive down-slide (avalanche) of destructive behavior and thoughts of uselessness in himself. He was almost brought to a place that he might not return, as he didn't feel that he could love or give anything to Skyler, because he was scared of love itself. What should have been there at his childhood home (love) was abandoned to an evil overlord that was nothing more than a 'liability' to his life and personal growth. His biological father became a 'bully' worse than any kid at school on the playground. They even brought back some classic seventies tunes that I had forgotten for years, I enjoyed the way that they, placed the music in the different sequences, it was just right. To boot, Matt's character needs to keep the !! Skylar loved him, and he would eventually learn to love other than what he had known before, new and more openly. When the movie ended I was no less than blown away. As a matter of fact I got scared. I was so intimidated, that I stopped writing. Than I heard about the Oscar wins. Robin's first I think it was. And the other wins and nominations and I thought, after a while later, if I quit, I may miss having something to offer to my friends and family, maybe even this country. So I looked at their example and remembered what I took away from the movie and put it back together again for myself. This one is an inspiration all around. This was a winner through and through! It may have been crass and vulgar and just slightly violent, but that just identified the plot of the story as it got going.They deserved every award that they received. This goes beyond just movie for me, it's not as some have been merely entertainment, but it strikes me like life does sometimes, even when God wants to get through to us. We just need to listen and then do the 'right' thing. But we have to follow through for anything good to happened. I recommend this Gus Van Sant, directed and gifted film highly. If you can't get passed the expletives.... check out Cleanfilms.com on the web.


                
Good Will Hunting was written by Matt Damon for a film class in college. At the time, he did not even think he had put all of his potential to use. Despite this, Matt Damon crafted this masterpiece, and it fittingly marks the beginning of his very successful film career. Will Hunting is a genius who seemingly has misused his talents. It seems he is not motivated to pursue his talents and instead takes a carefree method of going about life. He often is getting in trouble and is surrounded by the wrong kinds of people. It turns out Will is facing a problem much deeper than lack of interest, which requires the help of a therapist (Robin Williams). Will Hunting's chemistry with Robin Williams defines the rest of the film. The genius of Will Hunting is clearly present but it never shines due to his psychological problems. His relation with his therapist allows Will to develop as a character, which is particularly nice to see. The film is shot really well with some emotional scenes. Even though the character of Will Hunting is portrayed as a difficult person to deal with, I was able to connect well with the character and his growth. As with his later movies, Matt Damon was saved against insurmountable odds. However, here is saved psychologically from his traumatized past. Good Will Hunting surely saves Matt Damon just as he begins his remarkable Hollywood career.
Matt Damon and Ben Affleck deserve every word of praise they got for this movie, IMO. Instead of complaining that there weren't enough meaty roles around for them they got to work writing their own, and beautifully written it is too. There is some debate about whether veteran screenwriter William Goldman had a hand in the finished product, but nobody slags off Tobe Hooper because Steven Spielberg supposedly directed the lion's share of "Poltergeist", do they? Anyway, I reckon if Goldman WAS involved, it was only to polish up a few minor details. The bulk of the screenplay has the air of being written partly from experience. I think the criticism the lads received may just have been jealousy from the Hollywood establishment at having the temerity to nab their first Oscars so young. In all areas, not just the script, "GWH" stands out as being a quality product.The guys deserve great credit for tackling a serious issue with their first screenplay and not merely filling the script with a lot of scatological humour (Though there is some of that here too, it just doesn't seem out of place) All of the characters are well rounded and sympathetic in some way, and you never feel they are there simply out of formula or to further the plot. The development of the story grows organically through the characters. Even Skylar, the love interest (played beautifully by Minnie Driver, as too are the rest of the performances great) is an interesting character in her own right and someone we want to follow through the story. The only measurable difference between her role and that of Matt Damon's is that he has more screen time, but this is understandable, given that he is the title character.In reply to those who say that the repeated profanity use highlights a lack of writing skills, I disagree. Often I DO think that repeated swearing is unnecessary to a story and unimaginative; not that it offends me, it doesn't. I do think that film-makers look at the success of a guy like Quentin Tarantino, who writes great dialogue and also uses a lot of profanity, and think that the former is because of the latter. It isn't. Here, the profanity seems natural. Look at the monologues given to Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) I think they are superbly written, and they contain very little profanity. Same goes for Stellan Skarsgard's dialogue.There are 3 scenes that stand out as being superbly written for me (not necessarily in chronological order)* Will's monologue about why he doesn't want to work for NASA* The scene with Skylar when he tells her of his abuse* Sean Maguire pouring scorn on Will's supposed 'life experience'(paraphrase) "Someone that could level you with their eyes,Wakin up every mornin' feelin' like God put anangel on earth just for you..."On a sombre note, I can relate to the above quote because it mirrors what I feel about a 'special someone', who I unfortunately can't be with. Still, personal identification aside, these are all wonderfully written.Gus Van Sant also does an under-appreciated job with the direction. It seems like he realised that he had a good script on his hands and he didn't want to ruin it with any needless showboating. Even though there are no visual acrobatics, I would bet that almost every scene came off better than Matt and Ben envisioned when they were writing it.Deserves to be seen at least once by everyone. Those in the mood for a personal project with big name stars that resonates in all the right places, this one's for you.
I believe movies r a way to look thru eyes of people who looked beyond the mundane. Who explored Human feelings, emotions...beyond just love, anger, lust n sadness..Good Will Hunting is one such svelte work of art.It was not supposed to be about Will Hunting intellect and it is not. It was not supposed to be about telling tale of a great mind and the greatness it accomplished. It was suppose to give u a chance to feel what it feels being 'Will Hunting' and it does that beautifully.In parts, it shows the struggle that on within the calm demeanor. In others, it shows you how greatness become meaningless when its bestowed upon u. At the same time, it shows the mortality of Will Hunting nature. His craving for acknowledgment. It unfolds, one after the other, the layers of complexity that marks his multi-dimension personality...When he with Ben...when he with Robin and the most beautiful one is when he is with Minnie.You have to sit and connect yourself with Will Hunting to really takes his place and live a life that comes along once is century.And as Robin William says in the movie..'But you're a genius Will. No one denies that. No one could possibly understand the depths of you' So go...give urself a chance to try and feel the bliss of being Will Hunting...


                
While plot wise it wasn't really that innovative, it more than made up for it in the dialogue.  I still refuse to believe those f***ers Damen and Afleck wrote it themselves but until its proven false, I will give credit where it is deserved.  The dialogue was riveting, it really was.  Gus Van Sant also did a good job adding feeling and color where dialogue was absent. Hell, even the score chosen was appropriate for the scenes they portrayed. Williams did a tremendous outshine everyone job acting, and even Afleck and Damen were far from shabby.  And as much as we all like to hate Driver, she too was ok I guess.  The movie from start to finish was told smoothly and was crafted deliberately.  Still, it was those small tidbits of dialogue that made the movie incredible and unique.  Few can deny the power of the script.


                
I don't think I have been this moved by a movie in a while. Good Will Hunting is an incredible movie and if I had to say what I think is Gus Van Sant's best film, this would be it. It is a slow-burner, but I think this was purposefully done and it added to the film's poignancy and psychological aspect.Good Will Hunting is a beautifully filmed movie with striking scenery, and it is directed wonderfully by Van Sant. The music is never obtrusive but never too low-key either, while the story is interesting and compelling and the script intelligently written.The acting is one of the film's best assets, as well as its compellingly real characters. Robin Williams is superb in one of his best "drama" roles, while Ben Affleck has never been better and Matt Damon gives another fine performance to match his performance in The Talented Mr Ripley. Minnie Driver is also quite touching and believable.All in all, an incredible movie. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I will never forget that scene... Titanic didn't deserve Oscar more than this... NEVER!!!


                
This is #1- Film in the Messed up Kid MOVIE'S.
This was always a Hard FILM for me to WATCH. It reminded me a lot of my Childhood except I was NOT as SMART as WILL LOL. I HIDE AWAY AS WELL.
But when I went to cancelling I broke down after years of keeping all the years of ABUSE in my HEAD hidding away. It's hard to do that keeping that STUFF hidding away. This MOVIE reminds me a lot about things.


                
A great story full of twists and turns, filled with lessons for a lifetime. This was and still is an extraordinary piece by Matt and Ben. Also from the screenwriting point , this one is one of a kind. So effectivelly written with its characters really show their feelings without telling it. Just best of the best.


                
This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen. Expecially from a story-telling point. I loved all of the Actors, surprisingly Ben Affleck as the friend character did all very well. What got me in this movie were two Things: 1st... The extremly good and complex written character of Matt Damon, what is also based on the great screenplay. 2nd...the few very deep, emotionally and well played Scenes between the Matt Damon Charactor and Robin Williams/Ben Affleck and his Girlfriend. GREAT MOVIE:


                
One of the movies which turned Robin Williams into a legend! He proved in this movie that he is as good in his dramatic roles as in his comedic routines. Pair that with a great performance from Matt Damon as the tittle character and an inspiring story built upon the everyday struggle of the characters and you got yourself a 90's cinematic classic.


                
It steers well clear of unnecessary sentiment, opting instead to find the emotional reality and harshness within the story. In a movie that exudes quality, its Robin Williams that provides both its heart and its highlight.


                
I'd been wanting to watch this movie forever, but I never felt like it was the right time.
Yesterday however, I finally sat back to enjoy myself a nice movie with some of my favorite actors (Damon and Williams). I enjoyed it, but in a very different way from what I had expected. 
I went through a rollercoaster of emotions. I laughed, I cried (a lot), I got frustrated, and sooo much more. This was, for me, definitely the right time to watch this movie. It's mostly about finding yourself and what you want in life, and I think I really needed to hear many things that were said in the movie. It opened my eyes, and my mind and I already know that this movie's going to have a huge impact on the rest of my life.I absolutely love everything about it. Without a doubt a movie everyone should watch at least once in their life.


                
