This movie reeks of one thing....pure arrogance. The film communicates a very immature view on intelligence and success. Are we supposed to accept that since Ben Affleck's character isn't as smart as Matt Damon's, he should be satisfied with his lot in life where as Mr. Smarty Pants should claim his rightful place in the heirarchy of society? So, when some dumb kid sees this movie, he's suppost to say to himself, "You know, I'm not as smart as Will. I'm more like his friend. So, I really shouldn't worry about succeeding in life. Like Ben Affleck's character, I should be happy working construction while my smart friend needs to get motivated and succeed." Granted, the movie does not focus on this, but this theme is definitely present, and extractable. By the way, the math that genius Will does is quite simple. Matrices? MacLaurin series? come on. I learned that in high school and I'm no genius.


                
Within fifteen minutes, one knew how it going to end. Lacking any real narrative suspense, the film then could only be appreciated on a scene to scene basis. Furthermore, I couldn't bring myself to worry about someone with a 170 I.Q. I believe the film would have been much more interesting had it focussed on the Ben Affleck character


                
I can't understand why people like this film.The basic concept was great, but it could have been SO much better.It fails on many levels:1:  The basic story makes no sense.  Will Hunting is shown to possess not just intelligence, but extreme awareness of a vast, VAST body of literature. He can quote obscure books in psychology, economics, art, etc etc etc  
Here's a news flash:  this kind of knowledge doesn't come from innate intelligence, it also requires incredible amounts of reading. So when did Will supposedly do all this reading?  we see him depicted as a working-class goof-off who spends his time carousing with his friends and getting into fights.  Sorry, but that doesn't compute.  At all.2: The direction and editing is terrible.  All of the key moments go by as if they weren't even important. The end of the movie just leaves you saying, "Huh?....." But my, aren't the lead actors good looking? That, and the superb performance by Robin Williams are all that can be said for this amateur effort.   But what do I know....


                
This movie is so predictable when you know the modern American dream: Do nothing, be a loser and then suddenly... whoah! You're a genius and an obnoxious one and the world is kissing the ground you are walking on.And surprisingly all the other smart people are losers. They don't know anything and are bitter when our wonderkid solves problems so easily. And what kind of problems? They are so difficult but still these professors can analyse the results in less than 10 seconds.Every movie has something good in it anyway and Robin Williams is it in this one.


                
Oh please.  What was the hype with this movie? It was yet more formulaic, contrived, saccharine, vacuous tripe.Many comments seem to refer to how 'moving' it was - a reference to the film's overly effusive pouting.  What ever happened to subtlety?And why go for such 'authentic' language in such an unrealistic film which never gains any credibility outside something being shot in a Hollywood studio?And this features so highly on the top 250 list??? Ye gods, watch some films which manage to genuinely convey some emotions a little closer to the world we live in.


                
This movie is very very silly. The worn-out concept of the enfant terrible is mixed with the even more worn-out concept of boy-genius in this pretentious flick by a group of people who ought to know better.


                
I sat down through 2 hours of pure boredom. I look here on IMDB, even though it is not high on the list, it is in the top 250. I was a little surpised. Even though, yes. I am very impressed with Robin and Matt's acting abilities, they still didn't save the movie. I'm not sure what I really didn't like about the movie. Maybe it's because I dispise math. Maybe I'm not too much for dreary talking for 2 hours. Even though I loved "American Beauty", but that was it. I just want my 2 hours back. It was a big waste of my time. If I'm missing something in this movie, please E-mail me. I am curious why this is on the top 250. And don't say "Because it was a good movie".2/10


                
Although the storyline was good, the terrible language was really a turn-off and ruined the movie for me.  I don't feel that I am a prude, but I don't know anyone who talks like that and the movie would have been so much better without it.


                
Good acting and production values are nothing if the movie puts you to sleep. I don't care about Will or his high IQ or his nappy girlfriend. Robin Williams is depressing. I liked him better as Mork.


                
This movie won a Best Screenplay Oscar.  No!  This movie had its good points - the acting was incredible, and all of the characters were played believably.  But the writing was awful.  Robin Williams' character was so pathetically cliched that I personally wanted Will to go psycho and kill him, just so I wouldn't have to watch anymore.  And Skylar was no catch, but Will never EVER deserved her.  I mean, our first view of this guy has him assaulting a man who never did anything to him.  We're supposed to like THIS character?  No, mathematical ability is no excuse for this guy's anti-social danger.  I fervently believed that Matt Damon was this character, but that doesn't mean it was well written.


                
After watching Good Will Hunting, I was struck by two similarities to other works of fiction (in this case, novels) that I had previously read: J.D. Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye", and Stephen King's "Rage". Unfortunately, I did not enjoy either of those efforts, and didn't take to "Hunting" any more pleasantly.For a basic plot summary, this film centers on young Will Hunting (Matt Damon), a mathematical genius (of savant proportions) who spends his time mopping floors at a local university before solving a complex equation left on a blackboard and catching the eye of a math professor (Stellan Skarsgård). However, Will is a troubled young man who lacks motivation, along with a history of violence, and thus is sent to therapist Sean Maguire (Robin Williams), who tries a rather unorthodox approach to salvaging the boy's unique talents.Although I can see why some people would like this film much more than I (due to the deep psychological themes), I have never been one much for the "bratty youngster needs a character treatise to understand what he is going through" type of storytelling. To me, Will Hunting was an arrogant, unmotivated jerk in the beginning of the film, then a whole bunch of psychological terms/scenarios were thrown around, and now suddenly I'm supposed to believe that everything is okay? Not quite.To me, the most interesting scenes in this film revolved around Hunting's potential girlfriend (played by Minnie Driver). I actually felt that her relationship with Will (and her character altogether) were the high points of the film, not the "tense" client-therapist scenes that were supposed to steal the show.I realize that I am probably in the minority here, but I really can't recommend this film to anyone besides those who love to be wowed by psychological scenarios/situations. I found it be pretentious and bloated to be otherwise.
