When Hollywood is trying to grasp what an "intelligent person" is like, they fail so miserably, finding it hard putting words in the mouth of the purported "genius".Right, any genius walks around trying to rub in his superiority at every instance. Sure, they hang out in bars and pick fights <U+0096> it's not like they are (generalizing wildly) autistic nerds who never have a tan.Plus, if you are a genius you know all about Math and History and Politics and of course you're constantly up to date with current events and a thorough analysis of them. Coz these things, like, all go together n stuff, y'know?Plus, you walk around with a smirk all the time. You are just a smug son of a you-know-what, that's how it is, y'all. And of course you smoke, like someone who never smoked before, but you smoke coz it's like cool n stuff, y'know. And you're different. That is understood.And of course you can fight <U+0096> you're a bully. A bully who finds time to study 10.000 books whenever he doesn't lift weights. And whenever he doesn't smoke or drink beer because he follows a strict health regimen.And you date a 30-something college student <U+0096> Minnie Driver. Well, I won't even comment Matt Damon. Team America has hit the nail on the head already.This movie is a daydream of a Beavis & Butthead type student (in other words 95% of them): "Yeah, that's what I would be like if I was a genius." But stupid people and stupid authors in this case cannot imagine the lives of geniuses.


                
I admire films that shoot high and miss. But it really rankles me when a film pretends to shoot high, avoids doing so because of lack of talent, and lies to us in the process.There's great drama in the mere existence of an idiot savant. These are people who often are intolerable socially, inadequate in common thinking skills, and generally lead a cursed `elephantman' life, except for their celebration as (in this case) mathematicians. Instead, we're given a watered down likeable homeboy who has been abused. Oh and he has a photographic memory which is a separate pathology (the two never coincide). Depth discarded.There's truly deep drama in the mathematical problems good Will would be dealing with. But this would require a Nabokov, and his mastery of metaphor. Instead we get the koolaid version for dummies in some (as it turns out) meaningless scribbles and a bubble diagram. Depth is twice discarded. Believe me, this could be played up big; the power of a christ in some of the insights that are speculated -- the voice and eye of God.There's also common, but good drama in the dedicating of one's life to their gift at great personal sacrifice. We actually have some good films in this regard concerning musicians. Math is better since you don't even get the applause. Here the guy with the insights but lack of language would be codependent martyr with the expert in the formalisms but no vision. But too hard, so pass.I can attest that there are cinematic depths to be mined at NSA, MIT, even Southie in terms of the absolutely unique and strange feel of the places. How could this film have missed those dark assets and end up so totally without atmosphere?This movie got made for one reason only: Robin Williams saw a part for himself. Therefore, the previously described  ignorances are filled by an amplified  backstory so Williams can find himself after losing his wife. Pretty damned offensive given the possibilities. I predict that someone will do this story (or something like it) well sometime before I die. It's just too rich, and we do have some bright minds available. Its just not these two kids.


                
*POSSIBLE EARLY FILM SPOILERS*After watching this movie, I plan to file suit against Damon & Affleck to get my two hours back.The characters are thoroughly unrealistic; never in my life have I met anyone who was anything like these people. Damon is thoroughly unconvincing as either a genius or a blue-collar working stiff, and certainly not as a combination of the two. Affleck is completely script dependent yet again, portraying one of his weakest characters yet. And Williams is at his worst.Please, Robin, stick to comedy and playing psychopaths, that's what you're good at. Not "serious" drama.But the sad thing? It's pretty obvious that neither Damon or Affleck took much college-level math. That first problem Will Hunting solves in the hallway can be done with just graph theory, combinatorics, and a little linear algebra. The first problem was trivial; anyone with some discrete math background should be able to solve it. Please, aspiring screenwriters, don't underestimate your audience. You never know who might be watching.
It's very predictable that a movie like this would soon be placed into that undefined category of "good" recent movies, which includes any film having the smallest bit of sincerity and meaning. The fact that the popular trend is toward the visual and that special effects are replacing plots and subtle nuances tends to lead the average viewer to the opinion that any film that attempts these is a grand effort. This is not true. "Good Will Hunting" does not even have a well-defined plot, but that fits into the movie acceptably: it's an extraordinary man's search for himself through love, psychoanalysis, and philosophy. The premier problem is that the movie overplays it's best card: Matt Damon's(character's) incredible brain. There is a certain point at which the audience should halt its fascination at his mental profencies and sigh in boredom. It's unfortunate that this was not the case for most theaters. Though the meaning of life and gifted individuals are good themes for movies, they are not original, and this "tear-jerker" makes no unique contributions to either idea. In fact, if you want to see real meaning in a popular movie, rent "Rocky", a title which many supposed "film experts" would probably not want to admit conveys deeper human meaning than most "good" movies, like (appropriately) Good Will Hunting. Shame on you,  movie fans, for falling in love with such a butchered attempt at profundity.


                
What is it about this movie that people like so much? It is just a two-hour cliche, and a stiflingly boring one at that. It is essentially just a badly done and more obnoxious version of Little Man Tate or Searching for Bobby Fischer. However, the thoroughly average Matt Damon takes the part of the astounding misunderstood genius to a new level. Why? Because, get this: he's... older! Wow! What a twist! That makes it totally different!The only bright spot of this movie is Robin Williams who was cast in the sadly stagnant role of the person who just wants to help our little genius, just as Jodie Foster did in Little Man Tate, or Laurence Fishburne in Searching for Bobby Fischer. Then, we have Stellan Skarsgard in the role that Dianne Wiest and Ben Kinglsey played in the aforementioned films: the academic who is vilified for their attempts to help the genius realize his squandered potential.The only difference that this movie has from the other two I've mentioned is that the misunderstood genius is more independent and gives the establishment a lot of grief. Yeah, Will! Damn the man! Steal an idea! Take Little Man Tate, make him 10 years older and pretend it's a whole new movie!
Number 28 in the top 250? What is the world coming to?


                
I don't know.  I just can't get into a film when three fourths of the way into it (actually all the way to the end of it) I wouldn't have cared one way or another if the main character stepped in front of a speeding bus. Matt Damon's character was so unlikeable that I stopped caring what was going on in the movie.  The same year that this movie came out, Jack Nicholson made me care about an unlikeable character in As Good As It Gets. Matt Damon couldn't do that for me.


                
Drama about an MIT janitor (Matt Damon) who turns out to be a math genius but needs the help of a psychiatrist (Robin Williams) to find the right direction.Winner of 2 Oscars: Best Supporting Actor for Robin Williams and Best Screenplay for Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, who together wrote (clearly when they were teenagers) an impossible story filled with 'holes' beginning at first by the fact that a mathematical genius of 20 years has gone unnoticed throughout his schooling without any teacher having noticed and taken some action, because there are many schools dedicated to this type of people, mainly in the US. Impossible also that he had read so many books and acquired so much knowledge and in addition still have understood and memorized everything with only 20 years. And no one in his right mind, with such a gift, would prefer to lay bricks for the rest of his life and be a criminal with an enviable record at the age of 20 - as Will Hunting himself says in the film, putting down bricks is also a very dignified and noble profession, but the entire plot of the film becomes unrealistic with his insistence on living in rejection of his potential.The direction of Gus Van Sant is insipid and does not help to improve the movie. The acting could be better but with such an argument and dialogues it was not at all possible (the scene in the bar comes to mind - but what the hell was that?). Will Hunting is a disrespectful and arrogant punk douchbag and at the end of the film when he left to go after the girl I was, like the character of Ben Affleck but for the opposite reason, glad to not have to see him again.
I wanted to like this movie-- and did like a few minor elements of it-- but my enjoyment was greatly overshadowed by my overwhelming distaste with Damon's insanely unbelievable self-aggrandizement.Sorry, no one is a 'genius' in all fields, including the fields that he hasn't even studied! What, he got the info by osmosis? Telepathy? When did he find the time to read up on every subject in existence?The film did have a few things I liked-- I liked Robin Williams' character; and I liked the academic environment. This movie might possibly have worked if they didn't go so ridiculously, ludicrously overboard. If they had made Damon's character even a halfway believable "genius", this might have possibly worked. But gee, one of the writers just happens to make his character into the greatest genius in Earth's history. How self-indulgent is that?
I have never believed for a minute that Matt and Ben really wrote enough of this script to win an Oscar each. I get the feeling it really was the encouragement award not the Best Original Script award. I hope time proves me right and it is revealed that several other experienced ghost writers added the plot turns and the odd funny quip. I think it is primarily cursed with swearing and lazy characterization and it basically does not make sense. If Will is such a genius why can't he work out that behaving like a completely obnoxious idiot won't get him anywhere? etc...I agree with most of the criticisms on this site and place it gently in the bin for Movie Psychotherapy For American Audiences Who Need Movies To learn How To Behave.


                
I must say I really found this film very over-rated. First of all the story isn't even remotly credible. How can a street kid without any education solve mathematical puzzles that even professors at Harvard University can't work out ??? Albert Einstein is mentioned several times in the movie as a parallel to Will Hunting, but don't forget that Eintein said, that to become a genius, you need 2% inspiration and 98% transpiration. What makes it even worse is that Will not only masters mathematics but history, literature, chemistry etc. as well. To me, Will is much too much of a Superman, and I couldn't identify with him in ny way. I really believe that you have to strive hard to obtain knowledge and education, and the genius myth that lies behind this film I find totally ridiculous.


                
I'd saved this for a special day when I wanted quality. Shame. Completely bizarre and unrealistic story. So contrived and stupid. It wasn't remotely believable. Just silly. The point of the entire frame was to get Matt Damon and Robin Williams in the same room. They could've saved so much time shortening it. The rest was just transport. Everything about the kids life was uninteresting. The silliest sob story. His relationship with the Harvard girl was a yawn-fest. Bad acting. I'm a liberal, so they were preaching to the choir, but even I found the long liberal speeches a bore. People don't talk like that. There's a rule in fiction... show don't tell. They forgot that rule. How did this film get nominated for nine Oscars, including best picture?!? This is first year English major level of writing. So bad dialogue. Such a weak contrived script. It tries to make some blindingly obvious points about it sucking to be poor. This is not news. Also... everybody was hot and sexy with a smoking hot body. Not believable at all. Just took me right out of it. Both me and my girlfriend sat with dropped jaws wondering how this got so high ratings. The good acting does not save this film. Yes, there's some top notch fine acting here. Both Matt Damon and Robin Williams to stellar performances. Stellan Skarsgård, who I know is a good actor, couldn't save his silly role. Such a stupid idea for a film. I do not understand this films greatness


                
Robin Williams should have been the centre of this movie as he struggled to swim upstream against the tide of an emotionally and morally immature story.I am really not sure how this movie can be so popular: it is a fairy story about growing up which isn't grown up at all: at every opportunity for deep and revealing conflict at the emotional and intellectual level, the script ducks. Thank God Williams and the others strain to keep their heads above the water.Maybe as a modern fairy story this succeeds for the very same reason other fairy stories are successful. They offer not a view of life, love and growth but an escape from the same struggles we all face.Yep, this movie ends with the hero driving into the sunset.Wouldn't y'know.


                
From reading reviews of this film I could not figure out why anyone would want to see it, so I didn't bother. As fate would have it though I happened to be on a plane when it was shown as the in-flight movie and so I got to check it out.I have to say that my view might be influenced by the awful mangling that films get before being unleashed on the flying public. Firstly, all swearwords are either removed or changed to something different, often with hilarious results. (When I saw Money Train "mother-f*!@er" had been changed to "mother-fouler". I think the original was preferable, don't you?) Secondly, anything that resembles a swearword, such as "oh dear" and "my, my, how distressing", is removed. Thirdly, anything of a sexual nature is removed. Ultra-violence is left in and I believe the airlines have a special arrangement whereby extra scenes of violence can be inserted. Finally the colour is distorted, the sound passed fifteen times through a bucket of slime using 1920's technology and the whole thing is projected onto a screen the size of a postage stamp which is half obscured by a person in a big hat. So you have to bear in mind that these things could jaundice my views.The film, as everyone in the world knows, revolves around a young mathematical genius who works as a janitor until he is discovered by a professor and sent to a shrink. Will Hunting is played by an attractive young man who everyone raves about but whose name escapes me. Robin Williams, almost acting for the first time in his life, is the shrink who shows him tough love. An attractive young woman with an English accent whose name escapes me plays Will's girlfriend. Other characters drift in and out of the film.So this young genius gets discovered, has a few traumas along the way, teaches his prof and his shrink things they had not realised themselves and they all live happily ever after. End of film.About half way through the film I began to get interested when Will Hunting actually started to show some anger and treated his girlfriend with casual cruelty. Unfortunately this only lasted about ten seconds before we went back to everyone being nice and speaking in clichés. If only they'd let rip at this point, what a film it could have been. It could be that the airline cut out thirty minutes of dark and dangerous stuff but I don't think so somehow.Let's have a reality check here shall we? A young man grows up in poverty and is abused by his parents whilst secretly being not only a mathematical genius but also an expert on diverse other academic fields and able to wipe the floor with all comers. His other poor friends all have hearts of gold, club together to buy him a car and feel not the slightest resentment towards him. In a matter of weeks he seduces a conveniently rich young woman, solves the secrets of the universe, gets offered jobs worth zillions of dollars despite lacking formal qualifications and being fashionably anti-establishment, finds a therapist who is not him/herself dysfunctional, heals his inner child and rides off into the sunset in a glow of sickly-sweet ickyness. I don't think so.I didn't like the in-your-face manipulation of this film, directed by a dazzling young person whose name escapes me. I didn't like the clichéd and hackneyed script. I didn't like the glib solutions to really tough personal problems. This was just the American Dream in another version. We all have some hidden talent and when we decide to follow our dream we will be rich and happy beyond our wildest imaginings. The fact that we received emotional and physical traumas that would cripple the average person for this lifetime and their next fourteen reincarnations can be overcome. We can heal our lives. Hallelujah! Actually, if I saw this on late night television and I'd had a few beers I'd probably quite enjoy it. But it does not deserve the massive hype and Oscar wins that it has received. No way
i found it really overrated, i mean the movie was very slow & felt like they were stretching the scenes, they could have used the concept a lot better but, i think in the old times this was the kind of movies people liked, but today us the new generation will find it extremely boring. so to sum it up, if you are born after 2000 you won't like it. i am sorry if it hurts


                
Over-praised melodrama of a gifted math-whiz who loves to flaunt his gift, but when approached about it, plays it off with an annoying "Don't bother me" attitude. After a street fight, the whiz (grumpy Damon) is actually given exemption from sentencing, provided that he dazzle a teacher as to why he's so good with numbers. The kid is so closed off that he's actually remanded to counseling with a hot-shot shrink to help open him up. The rest is a dull exchange of dialogue over several sessions until (lo and behold) the kid opens up and becomes a better person. Yay. Another one of those "realism" scripts, where they think the F-bomb dropped every other word is effective character building. Please. Plus some painfully forced macho moments, such as Damon spouting an endless deluge of analysis on the art of the pick-up, and his lackluster taunting of a rival. "Do you like apples? I got her phone number. How do you like those apples?" Congrats, gasbag, you got some flat-chested Englishwoman's phone number. Someone call the Smithsonian. Rent "Good Will Humping" instead.


                
I recently had the opportunity to see Good Will Hunting for the second time. I had not seen it since its video release in 1997. It's funny how nearly twenty years can change your opinion about a movie. I was lukewarm to the film back then, but now - older and wiser - I see it in a new light.I had initially dismissed this film as a two hour study of a bunch of unlikeable and unbelievable people. But now it is evident that Matt Damon deserved his Oscar nomination for his portrayal of the title character, the good Will Hunting.Damon does a yeoman's job making us believe in someone who is not only a math genius with a photographic memory, but a barroom- brawler, cynic, janitor, lover, and all-around down-to-earth working-class joe. Damon and his compadre Ben Affleck also deserved their Oscar screenplay win for creating a character more fantastic than any from the mind of J.R.R. Tolkien.Robin Williams also deserved his Oscar win for having us buy his interpretation of an all-knowing beard-sporting eye-glinting joke- cracking-but-no-nonsense psychologist. Affleck, director Gus Van Sant, and the rest of the cast merit mention as well for trying to get us to like and accept all the unappealing and implausible characters who populate this fantasy world.All this leads me to believe that I should revisit films like Showgirls, The River Wild, Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, and The Greek Tycoon. Maybe I was a little too harsh in my initial assessment of those as well. Yeah, right.


                
