Matt Damon and Ben Affleck scored quite a success with their interesting and entertaining script.  The introduction and exposition sections are enormously engrossing, after which script peaks and rather coasts along the rest of the way.  Yet, the casting is so well done, and the acting at such good level, that interest is nicely maintained.What "Hunting" essentially consists of is some two dozen conversational scenes, bridged together with short transitions of physical activity.  What is rather remarkable is that one isn't aware of the dramatic limitations comprising the structure.  This is a real tribute to the cast, director, and of course, the script. While the basic situation is really quite far-fetched, it is made to seem plausible--again, the mark of good, convincing writing.  The story behind getting the script sold and produced on the terms of the writers' preferences is fascinating.  Still, one can't really call it luck, for both Damon and Affleck "paid their dues" -- and success did not just fall into their laps.  These are two talented young men, with perseverance; and how wonderful for them to have achieved such success while still youthful and full of vitality. "Good Will Hunting" is a good production, with solid craftsmanship in all departments -- thanks to the  creativity of Damon and Affleck.


                
After I watched the movie, I thought the message board of IMDb is already filled with the comments that how Minnie Driver is naturally beautiful or how her acting in this movie was fantastic. But, WTF? everybody put the negative comments about her or how ugly she is, and some people even said that she was totally miscasted. IMO, I seriously doubt that she was miscasted. Although I admit she is not the most beautiful woman in the world, she is incredibly beautiful in a very natural way, and I'm sure that the none of the Hollywood actresses could have gave a performance like she did in this film. It's little sad that the most of people only care about actresses' looks.Anyway, the movie was just great as I expected. Every single actor/actress did a great job in the film, and I still can't believe Mat and Ben wrote a whole script of the movie. It seems to me that the best part of this movie might be Minnie Driver's acting, her lovable character was definitely one of the kind, and I might be disappointed if they used a typical Hollywood actress instead of her.Is it worth to watch this movie? Yes, abso-freaking-lutely Yes!


                
Good Will Hunting is a great film.  It brings, heart, good (and bad) nature, and many other things in this tale of a janitor at MIT who is terrific at math.  This man Will Hunting (played remarkably by Matt Damon) has many flaws though, and soon, he meets his match- Sean, a psychologist (Robin Williams gives a well deserved Oscar winning performance here) and little by little, starts to change.  The way the film shows us Will , Sean and the supporting characters is spectacular and nothing is funnier than a Boston accent.  Great all around.


                
A great movie, well written and very well acted some brilliant moments in this film.


                
This movie is genius. When robin williams passed away i honestly thought he was an overrated actor and considering his repertoire of "RV" and stupid movies like that one, I just didn't have too much respect for robin williams. but after watching this movie i felt dumbfounded to even minorly think that. robin williams' character gives me goosebumps when he talks. and that doesn't mean he has cheezy lines, its because it just felt like the words coming out of his mouth were real. that he wasn't given a script. he was having a normal conversationAnyways... thats my favourite part of the movie. but its not the only part. this movie is always interesting. it feels like there is not one point in the movie in which i could go to the bathroom and feel like i missed nothing. and the casting for the main roles is perfect.


                
Rating-8/10Good Will Hunting is a movie that gets so many people talking, it is loved by many and the performances too. I felt as I watched just why do so many love it, I didn't think it was perfection but there is no doubt this is an interesting piece of cinema with it's smart plot and emotionally charged characters. I did feel it was very good and although only just about, it still manages to really let you enjoy it.The first thing to say about this is Robin Williams who is at his very best here. He just feels so excellent as his role as Sean Maguire who as you will see councils Will Hunting and he adds an extra element to this movie Robin does. All the cast are fairly strong here, Matt Damon as Will is good and really shows us what he has got for his future film career. Cast such as Ben Affleck aren't really shown as much as the two I mentioned but him among his brother Casey Affleck, Minnie Driver and Stellan Skarsgard form a good little cast for this type of film. Ben Affleck and Matt Damon of course write the movie and they do a great job, not only capturing everyday life situations well, but adding in Will Hunting to those scenes to make it feel smart and funny. I did however feel it was slightly contrived, mostly in the way they want to get a certain emotion out of you, sometimes you can laugh and sometimes you can be sad, even times when they want you to think "Oh wow he's smart that Will Hunting". I will also add that the script though is really showcasing the talent these two guys have, and I do feel like these guys really are an example to look up to when aspiring screenwriters come up.Gus Van Sant directs it well and his job is made easier by the fine script brought to him. He manages to delicately direct it without making the film feel done before or too much like a typical piece of cinema. Van Sant also could be said to contribute to Williams performance and you can see Gus really worked well with the cast to make them bring the most out of the script. Another delicate thing is the score, now when you making a film about a genius from Boston, Danny Elfman doesn't always spring to mind but he manages to beautifully score it and the music is really one thing I remember the most about watching the movie.One good thing about the movie is that it is smart, not only in movie terms but in terms of the script and the actors who all seem to remember there lines so well, it almost feels like they all know mathematics like we see in the film. I think all the credit goes to Affleck and Damon who if I'm not mistaken, are not mathematic geniuses but do the screenplay in such a way that it feels like a professor has written parts of the film.Overall it is the ending that is the real pay off, of course I'm not going to ruin it for you but lets just say it makes you feel emotion and really draws you close to the characters we see so much of in this movie. Overall this is totally worth a watch, not only for people thinking "It's Oscar nominated, it must be good", but also people who just want an interesting film, not for those who want action or true thrills but it is definitely one for the thinkers and maybe even the unidentified genius.


                
A youthful, but unhinged genius Will Hunting (Matt Damon) works as a janitor at the MIT, where he conspicuously solves higher level mathematical conundrum handed out to students by Fields Medal-winning combinatorialist Professor Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgård). Shocked by the ingenuity of the troubled orphan Lambeau ventures to have him enrol as his student. The South Boston bred man-child however prefers to spend time and money on booze by the gallons with his friends Chuckie Sullivan (Ben Affleck), Billy McBride (Cole Hauser) and Morgan O'Mally (Casey Affleck). Following a aggressive assault by Hunting on a man who bullied him as a child, Will agrees to attend therapeutic sessions and become Lambeau's protégé. After several therapist resign from taking on the troublesome genius, Lambeau finally asks his former roommate Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) to take on the formidable task. Despite a soul-breaking first encounter, Maguire decides on the challenge, despite the necessity of overcoming Hunting's intellectually layered self-defence mechanisms...Back in the days "Good Will Hunting" offered a novelty perspective, one heavily layered in witty dialogue, well versed psychoanalysis and somehow avoiding pointless on-screen blabbering. A brain-child of youthful Affeck and Damon came a brilliant piece of drama, strongly carried on the shoulders of the central theme of the therapeutic sessions. Probably Gus van Sant's most mainstream effort is arguably also his most honest and best. Unskewed by pretence the story sells as a traditionally structured drama, but with such an intensely successful script, which makes it an undying classic. Although several scenes do seem rough, especially those centred around Skarsgård and the wasting away of Will's talent, almost misguided in intent and somewhat hollow, nowhere close to as forceful as the key sessions between Maguire and Hunting. Exposition is pretty low key and apart from lone scenes like Hunting's love interest, Skylar (Minnie Driver) flying away to California shuns away from artistic endeavours, keeping a simple and focused outlook on the key issues at hand - the question of fulfilment as defined by intellectual achievements as opposed to that of bliss happiness caused by human interaction.


                
This is a 2 hr movie which i wish was a little longer. For me it can be divided into two tracks, the main protagonist's Will Hunting (Matt Damon) track and Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) track. If I had to rate the Robin Williams part I would give it 11/10, it was perfect, his Back-story , dialogs with Will Hunting,looks, acting...the best i have seen in a Hollywood drama. I could feel his love ,pain & anguish and his desperation to give Will Hunting's life a meaningful direction.Will Hunting track is where I have a few complaints, his back-story is not that well established. Also his love story which is crucial for the closure of the movie is not convincing , possibly this flaws are because of time constraints, but then again it has more screen time than the Robin Williams track (not sure if there is a longer directors cut out there).Another reason is Robin Williams part is just so great, everything else had to look paler.Still this a must watch , go see it , I gotta see about a girl !!


                
After a second viewing of this film, I give it a solid 8. Open yourself and be vulnerable before you watch this film, and it will humble you.We all need a little guidance in our lives, and we might not know as much as we think we do about the lives of others. This is just one of the many lessons this movie shares.


                
The genius of 'Good Will Hunting (1997)' isn't in its plotting or its resolution or even its character arcs per say (which are all a little formulaic or clichéd to an extent), but rather in the nuanced and realistic journey that that these almost fully-formed people take to reach the conclusions you know they eventually will. The two central performances are nothing short of phenomenal. Williams' subtly wise and humorous demeanour exudes fatherly knowledge as a man of experience and Damon's frustratingly yet understandably closed-off defensiveness makes his inevitable emotional release truly powerful. The writing rounds them off in ways which make them feel honest, imperfect and, most importantly, real. 8/10


                
Matt Damon as Will and Ben Affleck as Chuckie fit into my visualization of the stereotypical young adult male from Boston in the 90's. The fact that the two were both raised in Massachusetts makes me smile a little when I realize they are most likely playing a version of themselves from the past but with that said I couldn't have enjoyed this movie more. I assumed far too much about this film just based on the quick synopsis I had read beforehand. Will being the problem child/genius was not quite what I was expecting. Typically these type of characters are written to be a sort of incredibly anti-social recluse, where as Will just received a really bad roll of the dice and grew up with little to no positive guidance and instead used his brilliance to skirt the law and impress his friends.
 The introduction of Robyn Williams' character, Sean, was the perfect addition to balance out Will's reckless nature. Sean's heartfelt approach to therapy is something that should be taken considered by real mental health professionals and Robin William's personality shines through perfectly as a foul-mouthed man that has experienced a world full of struggle and pain. A more exceptional match for a young Will has entered the building, the rest can go home.
This film uses an impressive amount of close-up camera angles as a way to transition through dialogue which acts as a way to keep the viewer engaged and aware of the emotions on the characters faces. This fits perfectly with the emotional impact that Will and Sean's interactions have. What an amazing film, I will be watching this one a second time.


                
This film is pretty damn moving. That's the best way I can figure out how to explain this movie. "Good Will Hunting", directed by Gus Van Sant, is about a young janitor named Will Hunting, played by Matt Damon, who ends up being a genius, and solves a very difficult math problem, which grabs the attention of a math professor, but Will has some pretty bad physiological issues leading him to be seen by a psychologist, played by the remarkable Robin Williams. If you have not watched this film, do not continue reading! (Unless you want this film to be spoiled for you) Trust me, you won't regret watching this. "Good Will Hunting" really surprised me. I was not expecting this to be such a moving film filled with some great performances. There is so much right in this film, but the first thing that really shines in my opinion is the score and soundtrack. Elliott Smith wrote many songs that are in this movie, and he happens to be my favorite musician. Miss Misery is the PERFECT theme for this film. The last scene in this movie is both extremely heart warming and unexpected. Miss Misery really turns this scene into a masterpiece. I am going to have to talk about the last scene, so if you haven't seen the movie, please go watch it, you will not regret it, trust me. The last scene shows Will gone, and his friend ends up going to his house and Will isn't there. This was super clever, because not even a few scenes back, his friend does say that one day he wishes he could just come knocking at his door, and he won't be there because he wanted to move on to bigger and better things. That's not all though. What really caught me off guard is how the film goes full circle, Robin Williams sees a note from Will, and it says exactly what Robin said in the past "I went to go see about a girl", and I started BALLING! The approach to making this film go full circle is amazing. It is just so unexpected, and really shows Will character ark shine, it's just all the right ways not to make a cliché full circle ending, and Miss Misery is playing and it just elevates it EVEN MORE! I really think getting Elliott Smith to write a song for this film was amazingly clever. There was 2 scenes that I thought they should have switched the songs for, because the tone of the song and scene don't fit at all. It's when "Angeles" plays in a very serious and sad scene, and "Angeles" does not have a dark tone, it has more of a uplifting, but slightly haunting sound. They should have swapped that with the scene that plays Elliott's most famous song, "Between The Bars", which is a pretty damn dark song. If Gus would have just switched those songs, it would have made the scene it home WAY harder, it did take me out the scene, because I was confused by that decision. Moving on, the plot is pretty simple, and it's not anything extremely unique, but the approach is, and the passing is perfect. I was not wanting to miss one scene in this movie, because it really grabbed all of my attention. I was not looking at the time, and I really was emotionally invested into Will Hunting. They did not make Will out to be the socially awkward and unattractive nerd that you would expect. Will is actually an asshole, but his personality is called for due to his past. I want to talk about my favorite part of this film, which is the performances. There was no one weak actor here, but Matt Damon's and Robin Williams performances are astoundingly powerful, which really gave everyone a run for there money. The most heart crushing scene in this film is really due to the way the performances were executed, and this is the scene where Will finally reveals what happened to him that has made him so damaged, and it's just so amazingly believable on both sides. I do believe Robin Williams gave his best performance ever in this film on this scene, and likewise for Matt Damon. I was crying like a child, and I never get so emotionally involved in a film, but this movie made me start looking at film as a actual art, I mean come on. If you seen this movie, you will most likely agree with me, because every time I have watched this film with someone else, the other person ends up crying because of this emotional scene. This is THE WAY you make a moving scene, I mean it's just so, dare I say epi-- I can't do it, It would be insulting to this film. I do have to say one thing I think this film is lacking, which is good cinematography. None of the scenes really show beautiful shots or unique angles, they are just pretty lack luster and average, which is a shame because I know Gus Van Sant could do some amazing shots. The reason I say this is because one of my all time favorite films, My Own Private Idaho, has some of the most amazing cinematography I have ever scene in film. I am not saying that My Own Private Idaho's cinematography is anything like "2001: A Space Odyssey" (directed and written by the one and only Stanley Kubrick, and Arthur C. Clarke), but I know Gus can pull of some amazing shots. That is basically my only complaint about this film. If you want to watch a entertaining, moving and interesting drama, you should really consider giving "Good Will Hunting" a chance.
"Good Will Hunting" is a delightful and inspiring fiction written by Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, who are not only good actors but good writers, And especially, great storytellers. The script tells the story of Will, a young man of 20 years with a past and a troubled present, who is discovered by a renowned mathematician as a genius, even bearer of this incredible tone, the same denies and questions the feeling of life, intelligence , Future, love and society. This questioning present in the film is what shapes his moral, which is to conjecture the sense of friendship and life, to Will friendship defines life, and his best friend makes him see that he has a bright future and that is not worth it The stagnation in exchange for his friendship, thus showing himself, really, a great and faithful friend, love is put on agenda and even the choices of life itself, because sometimes what the heart says is worth more than reason, Even so, the feature gets very focused on Will's character and leaves all those messages aside, including Professor Sean's character, who is fabulous and extremely three-dimensional. The film plays a lot with the camera, we have a lot of zoom in and out, quick cuts and frames changes, and a very expensive gray photograph from the 80s - even the movie being 97 - the soundtrack is little present but director Gus Van Sant plays with visual references and uses the culture to mock the viewer, when smarter, more blind and more being manipulated and lost, is a questionable message, but the film explains it very well for the viewer more attention. Matt Damon looks great on the role, boyish face, and boy pose and he understands his character as few, even because he wrote it himself, wrote it and knew how to live it, it's not a brilliant and out-of- the-way performance, but it's a great Acting of someone who does not even seem to be acting, just living the character, Robin Williams is wonderful, he passes an air of pure peace mixed with remarkable uneasiness, his character is wonderful. Gus Van Sant is one of those full directors, he's not cool, but he dominates the various areas of a set and always does a good job. Finally, "Indomitable Genius" is a remarkable film, and a delightful fiction that reads like a life lesson.


                
Knowing Damon mostly from his tough guy roles like The Departed, and The Bourne Series, I was surprised by his acting in Good Will Hunting, especially because he was so young then. But taking a look at the list of movies he has done now, I have to admit that he is one hell of an actor. He has done so many different roles - which shows his capability and proves his talent. Affleck doesn't have much screen-time in this, but plays his character well enough, as did his brother Casey Affleck, and Hauser. Williams will be missed for making these tear jerking moments, as he is able to portray empathetic characters so well. The film felt very genuine, mostly because it was unfiltered, and dealt with emotions from the perspectives of different people. Damon and Affleck really did quite a good job with writing the narrative, and Gus Van Sant in directing it. However, there are certain scenes where the monologues are just too long. For example, Sean had one when he and Will were sitting on a park bench after their first meeting. He just went on and on, and the close-ups too are a little unnerving. Then there was another monologue by Will while he was sitting in Sean's office, and kind of went off on a tangent to the point where I realized I had lost track of what he was saying. Also, I could have done without the slow-motion fighting scenes. Whenever there was a cut, you could tell it is obviously choreographed, and that they were moving in slow-motion themselves. That along with the frequent close-ups took me out of the narrative. Overall, a great watch with a complicated protagonist who has many levels to him. The cast is great, and the cinematography, for the most part, intriguing. The language may be hard to understand though, and the vulgarity is certainly off-putting, but adds to the characters. Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
This is the type of film that makes you missing hanging out with your friends on a daily basis. The type of film that tells me that intelligence doesn't have to look, dress, or act a certain way to be respected. The character of Will Hunting, played by Matt Damon, is a highly intelligent albeit troubled young man from Boston. He is staggeringly out of touch with the depths of both his potential and his problems. He is working as a janitor at MIT and solves and equation that Prof. Lambeau challenges his students to solve. In solving this equation and even more getting caught doing so, his genius is discovered. In order to foster this genius Prof. Lambeau leans on a former colleague of his, a psychologist. This psychologist is played Robin Williams and named Sean Maguire. Sean shows Will that struggle and love are a big part of life and he needs to embrace them both to move forward and upward. The theme of this movie can be summed up in human relationships. The many relationships that embellish boyishness and intellect collectively make this movie great. This reminds me of The Shawshank Redemption in the collective of human relationships both inside and out. Andy is troubled by his existence much like Will. The both culminate in a chrysalis type break through. The lighting of both movies is the same. Almost like they didn't do a day of filming without a cloudy sky. Human relationships are what make life worth living. In the end I was happy to see that Will ran toward his love, his existence.


                
It's interesting to look back a movie that was produced almost 20 years back - pure luck browsing through Netflix! The plot is simple but soul-touching. Matt Damon was so young and handsome back then! He perfectly portrayed the role of a genius but confused young man. Although it is somehow hard to believe that there is actually someone born with that kind of gift. The personality of the character is not attractive at the beginning, but with the help from the psychologist, he eventually opened up himself and was able to live up following his heart. The ending is beautiful. Guess there is no exception before true love.


                
On any given day, I probably would have spent my evening reading, or playing video games, or watching TV. Today, however, I decided to log onto Netflix and see what was available to "Watch Instantly." I looked under the "Recommended for You" section and saw the title of a film I had only ever heard of. I had never bothered to ask anyone what it was about; my parents had told me a while ago that it was a great movie, but naturally I hadn't listened (after all, it was rated R). I couldn't even make out the actors on the tiny image of the DVD box. All I recognized was the title: Good Will Hunting. I was done with my homework, I didn't have anything constructive to do, and I was bored, so I clicked on the link that read, "Play Movie". I'm glad I did.This film, written by two former Harvard students and great friends, is by far one of the most incredible films I have ever seen. From the opening kaleidoscopic views of physics equations to the final shot of a junky car heading west on the highway, I was intrigued, to say the least. To anyone who hasn't seen it, you don't realize the sheer beauty of these simple camera shots. To anyone who has, you know exactly what I mean. The story follows Will Hunting (Matt Damon), a janitor working at MIT who is far smarter than the mathematics professors teaching there. It is later revealed that he had a tough childhood, is an orphan, and never had a chance to go to a school like MIT, but by proving an incredibly difficult theorem he shows Professor Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgård) that he has an amazing gift for mathematics. One thing leads to another, and the only way Will can stay out of jail for assault charges is if he gets therapy from Professor Sean McGuire (Robin Williams), a teacher at a community college. Through this therapy, Will comes to realize that he has too much potential to throw away his life living in South Boston. This story runs parallel to Will's love life with Skylar (Minnie Driver), a student at Harvard University. This relationship could have ended up as a pointless plot addition to make the movie longer, but it actually becomes pretty vital to the plot of the movie and completely changes Will's life. The combination of a love story and the story of a genius who finally realizes his full potential makes a brilliant film.This film's story is amazing, but a great film doesn't only have a good story. A great film has a great story, great acting, great scenery, great music, and great symbolism. Good Will Hunting has all of these aspects, and more. The fact that this movie was written by two amateur filmmakers only emphasizes their movie-making skill, and the fact that they can actually act is what fuses the incredible plot to the rest of the movie. If anyone else had been cast as the lead roles of Will Hunting and Chuckie Sullivan (Ben Affleck), the movie probably wouldn't have captured all the aspects that make up this great film. It is a very good thing Matt Damon and Ben Affleck adopted these roles, but the inclusion of Robin Williams in this film takes it up a level. Williams' ability to perfectly transition from jokes to concern to even violence is a blatant sign that he is a great actor, and without him this film could not have succeeded. Aside from the obvious acting and plot aspects of the movie, Good Will Hunting is also stunningly symbolic. Whether Damon and Affleck meant to add so many symbols to the film or not, they did so seamlessly. I won't add any plot spoilers, but let me tell you: if you can recognize the true meaning in films, you will devour this movie.I am grateful to Netflix, to say the least. I don't know what their policy is on making movies available to watch online, but I do know that this policy is definitely a good one. On any given day, I wouldn't have watched the brilliant film that is Good Will Hunting. I'm glad today wasn't any given day. 10/10
This movie celebrates the unsung hero but beyond that, it challenges us to cast aside stereotypes and see the diamond in the rough. In that sense, it follows the Frank Capra tradition of exalting the forgotten people in our own midst.The main plot is about a young man named Will Hunting who works as a janitor at MIT but in his blue collar world, there is a genius lurking. The sub-plot involving two academic rivals – Robin Williams and Stellan Skarsgard – is about the struggle between two strong personalities to decide the best way to help Will.Will suffers from a background of being shuffled from one foster home to another and this leads to behavior that regularly lands him in trouble. He is discovered by a professor, Gerald Lambeau, played by Skarsgard, who himself has been honored for outstanding academic achievement. Lambeau seeks out his long-time rival, Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) to be the youth's therapist – a court-mandated requirement to get Will out of a possible prison sentence and to get him on track to achieve the tremendous success Lambeau feels he is capable of.The rivalry between the two professors takes on tremendous significance for Will's future. Lambeau sees potential waiting to be unleashed and Maguire sees the wounded human soul, who needs to be rescued before he releases him into the world.Will finds love in a young university woman named Skylar, played by Minnie Driver, who clearly sees the broken man with a big heart, who is a latent genius. Skylar is a natural with Will and his friends, despite the fact that they exist in different worlds. When Skylar decides to pursue her dreams in California, she asks Will to go with her. She loves him deeply but because of a deep-seated fear he might be hurt or betrayed, Will cannot bear to leave the world he knows with the friends he trusts. His friends are Chuck Sullivan, (Ben Affleck) Morgan O'Mally, (brother Casey Affleck) and Billy McBride (Cole Hauser).Will's fate is more or less decided at a critical moment in the movie with his therapist and is reinforced by his girlfriend Skylar and his friend Chuckie – both believe in him and care deeply for him. This movie is the result of collaboration between Damon and Affleck. They wrote and produced the movie, drawing on their Boston roots to show the hardscrabble existence of the blue-collar Irish in South Boston (Southie) with poverty and street fighting. The movie is directed by Gus Van Sant, who directed the movie Elephant. The foul language is somewhat jarring but serves to make the movie an accurate portrayal.This movie shows the gap between the blue-collar workers and the university people in the same city but in that setting two strong-willed men try to help a young man from the wrong side of town.


                
A South Boston whiz kid elects to clean the halls of learning rather than enter them, slumming his way through life as a janitor at MIT. But his natural ability to unravel complex equations attracts the attention of a professor who won't let him quit, a beautiful Harvard student who wants to save him, a sympathetic buddy who wants him to escape South Boston, and a counselor who encourages him. A soundly acclaimed, homegrown effort from lifelong Boston buddies Damon and Affleck, which granted them the Academy Award for "Best Screenplay".Matt Damon delivers a great performance and proves himself a charismatic and compelling actor in this movie. Robin Williams also delivers an honest portrayal that adds greatly to the film's character interplay. Overall, the acting was excellent.This is a kind of spiritual sequel to "Dead Poets Society", where young people lead the way for older ones and rebel against the repressive system which fails to understand them. It features Robin Williams in a similarly extended supporting role. Those who enjoyed the former film will definitely like this one also.Van Sant has done a terrific job of keeping what is essentially a series of psychotherapy sessions (both inside an office and out) moving along as a cinematic narrative.With two Academy Awards (Best Actor in a Supporting Role, Best Screenplay) and seven more Oscar nominations, "Good Will Hunting" was the best of '97 along with "L.A. Confidential" and "Boogie Nights". 8/10
Matt Damon plays Will Hunting, a young man from Boston who is brilliant, but also a troublemaker. He has a gift, something that he could use to get out of the down-trodden life he lives, but he's afraid, of his gift, and of leaving what he knows. But when as part of his probation for assaulting a police officer, he is released into the care of an M.I.T. professor, he has to face his fears face on. This is done with his psychologist, played by Robin Williams. For me, the movie came alive when Williams showed up. Up until that point, it was well done, but basic. Williams has the ability in his movies to either totally take control of a scene, or to sit back and play off the other actors (I can't wait for Insomnia.)  I know he's generally seen as a comedic actor, but he's one of the few that can also pull of a serious role (again, I can't wait for Insomnia.)  After he meets Will, he sort of meets his match. After losing his wife to cancer, he went into his own shell, staying with what he knew, what was safe. But while he teaches Will to meet his fears head on, Will also teaches him a few things.
Once again, the plot is somewhat predictable. When Williams' character says early on that he skipped Game 6 of the World Series because he had to see about a woman, you knew that line would come back later on, and it did. The thing that makes this movie worthwhile, was the performance of Williams. I know everyone is talking about Matt Damon being the next big thing, and the script he and friend and co-star Ben Affleck wrote, is strong. But the person that carries the film, in my mind, is Robin Williams. And having Minnie Driver in the movie doesn't hurt (my bias for beautiful women comes through again). So even though you can guess what's going to happen next, the dialogue between the characters (and they all do a good job of holding on the Boston accent the entire film), and the superior acting carry the movie a long way. Not a yawner, not movie of the year, but fun to watch.


                
Splendid! years have passed since i have seen such a movie. From the beginning till the end captures you with its plot. The effort to save a troublesome genius who doesn't like to fit in society that's something worth fighting for.I believe one of the best movies of its kind,and the end a fantastic however expected one.


                
good will hunting came out in 1997 its 2h 6min of pure | Drama 8/10 directed by Gus Van Sant who done a lot of brilliant find yourself stories like finding forester and my own private Idaho he is at it again in this one with a slew of awards it won 2 awards Oscar Best Actor in a Supporting Role with a robin Williams playing a psychologist with his own troubles trying to help someone who is gifted and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen with 2 newcomers and stars of the future Matt Damon Ben Affleck Robin Williams ... Sean Maguire Ben Affleck ... Chuckie Sullivan / Stellan Skarsgård ... Prof. Gerald Lambeau /Minnie Driver ... Skylar / Casey Affleck ... Morgan O'Mally /Cole Hauser ... Billy McBride this film was also nominated for best picture in 1997 A touching tale of a wayward young man who struggles to find his identity, living in a world where he can solve any problem, except the one brewing deep within himself, until one day he meets his soul mate who opens his mind and his heart his mind is the best in M.I.T university in America and Boston is his home town but there is a irishness to the film so Matt Damon character is the cleaner but he is a genius will played by Matt Damon was nominated for the role as best actor but will is headstrong penniless and fails life's lessons and he is in love with skylar played by the beautiful Minnie driver will loves her but is driving her crazy Wildly charismatic. Impossibly brilliant. Totally rebellious. For the first 20 years of his life, Will Hunting has called the shots. Now he's about to meet his match he is facing jail after run in with the law to many times he gets a second chance when his professor see his odd equations but feels sorry for him and gets him help and Sean McGuire played excellently tries to figure him out to see what makes him tick get the inspiration flowing it grossed in america$138,339,411 . Add Robin Williams in perhaps his best role ever (too close to Good Morning Vietnam for me to make the call), and you have a wonderfully entertaining movie.Ben Affleck is convincing as the best friend to a genius, able to effectively play the joker and the friend who would "lay down in traffic for you". Matt Damon's portrayal of that genius realizing that life has something more to offer than batting cages and bars is equally stunning. And Robin Williams certainly leaves nothing to be desired in this inspiring and emotionally film my 166 review
Ben Affleck and Matt Damon scenario and on camera and Gus Van Sant behind the camera to perhaps one of his most impersonal movies but particularly successful. It tells the story of Will, an orphan living in Boston, a genius of science, mathematics and physics in particular, but also rebels fleeing a painful and sad reality past. His meeting with psychologist will he seems to change his life. Gus Van Sant delivers a captivating film, sometimes dramatic and funny. It happens to capture various feelings and us interested and captivated to this story. The script is well written and quite original in ideas. The staging classical and impersonal enough is yet successful. Interpretations are really excellent, Robin Williams and Matt Damon in the lead. A very good film, entertaining, intelligent, moving and captivating.


                
