This show requires two reviews. On one side (season 1-9), we have a show that ranges from good to brilliant and, on the other (season 10+), we have a show that ranges from mediocre to absolutely atrocious.Most of what went wrong has been stated by pretty much everyone who once loved The Simpsons. Today, it is nothing like what it started out as. It's now just a big dumb cartoon for big dumb people. The soul has been ripped out and replaced by a putrid cesspool. The only drive there is at all now—be it for the writers or for the voice actors—is MONEY. The Simpsons has a multitude of writers (many of them now long gone), so it's little wonder that it has such extremes in quality. Clearly, no-one in charge cares about the show anymore; if they did, it would have ended a long time ago. But let's not blame the cast and crew entirely, because DUMB people are still watching this drivel. Either that or stupidly 'loyal' fanboys being taken for a ride. Still, there is no doubt that, somewhere along the way, a decision was made to appeal to the lowest common denominator, thus targeting a wider demographic, instead of those with a higher intellect. It's tougher to write clever, heart-felt stories than to write childish, directionless crap. That's where we are today.I differ with most people as to when the Simpsons started heading down hill. To me, it was season four. Season four is the first major departure from self contained, logically sound storytelling in favour of mindless slapstick (especially in regards to Homer's transformation from loving dad to crazy moron). Go and watch seasons one to three, and you'll notice that season four is where the main departure took place (although there are some warning signs of what is to come in seasons two and three, such as celebrity appearances and the odd episode with Homer acting like an idiot). I consider seasons one to three to have a 10/10 rating, and seasons four to nine to have an 8/10 rating. The difference to me is that in seasons one to three, the characters act and feel real. The situations are mostly realistic, people are behaving like people, and there is an emotional attachment to the characters. I still enjoy seasons four to nine but, in my opinion, they were heading in the wrong direction. After season nine, the show deteriorates before collapsing entirely. Here are some of the reasons:1. Stories are now predominantly based on slapstick. Suspension of disbelief is impossible to maintain.2. There is no structure to the stories. Episodes have become a vehicle for cheap jokes and predictable set-pieces. The audience is bombarded with them. Stories are no longer about anything—there is no message.3. Pathetic celebrity appearances that are nothing more than an annoying ego-boosting exercise for those involved. The fact this hasn't abated, despite how obviously BAD it is, tells me a great deal about the people who now run The Simpsons.4. Characters behaving totally abnormally and increasingly ridiculous. This is most noticeable with Homer, but occurs across the board. For example, Lisa is now a mouthpiece for the Left, and Chief Wiggum is the most ridiculous cop on earth.5. Humour is no longer clever or based around a story; it's all just lame and chaotic.6. All flash and no substance. Even the perfect intro has been replaced with a bloated monstrosity that illustrates perfectly where the problems lie: Flash and no substance, quantity and not quality, clean and lifeless animation (also less unique frames).7. No direction or goal. Most ideas have already been realized.8. Stories are no longer character driven.It's disheartening to know that when The Simpsons finally ends, it will bring with it a huge sigh of relief, rather than sadness. Who would have thought that would be the case in the early '90s?


                
Simpsons seasons 1-10 are 10 stars. 11-13 are 8/7 stars. It goes down hill quickly from there


                
I grew up loving the Simpsons since I was 10. Loving it enough to record it every week and save thr VHS tapes. I LOVED it, do you understand?
But am disgusted with the last few seasons. There is no comedy left in it, every episode is just a sad, mopey melodramatic soap opera wherein the writers rehash the miserable angst of their pointless, awful daily family lives.
If you have more than ten cringeworthy tearjerking attempts at family angst per episode, that's not a comedy, it's just telenovela torture.
End it. It's over, the writing is AWFUL. Put this miserable POS show out of it's misery and force these writers to retire or work on the cringy soap-operas they would clearly prefer to produce.
IT IS DEAD, BURY IT ALREADY!


                
From 1989 through the early 2000s I would never leave the house on a Sunday evening without setting the VCR to record the brilliant, scathingly funny "The Simpsons."Then, after more than a decade of devoted watching, things started to sag. My interest began to wane, but the quality of the scripts took a dive off of Springfield's highest tower (or nuclear reactor).For the last few years, I only tuned in if I was at home and there was nothing else going on. And still the scripts got increasingly worse, the humor bland - if there was any - and I noticed a distinct drop in the enthusiasm of the actors.After skipping two or three years, I got through the first five episodes of Season 29 and quit. I had given a rating of 1 star to each of those episodes and vowed to never watch again (and I didn't).But now, after media headlines trumpeting a wonderful return for Season 30, I watched the season premiere. I was appalled. Not one single second of humour, not even enough to crack a smile, and still the same attempts at reviving jokes that may have worked in 1989. Absolutely pitiful. I gave my score of 1 star and now I swear I shall not return to Springfield.You would have thought enough TV execs would have learned this by now, but you need to quit while you're ahead.The Simpsons" should have taken its final bow, graceful and with heaps of topical, gross humour, many years ago, but it far, far overstayed its welcome, and it greatly disappoints me to reduce my score of the series to 1 star.


                
Removing MJ episode , But not Clinton ? Removing Apu? I mean, has The world gone crazy? Everyone is offensiv today .. and censoring humor . Yeah way to go.


                
Talking about beating a dead horse. Just end it already.


                
I understand that this was one of the first cartoon shows that is made for adults and broke some ground for others, but I just don't see the amazing qualities and praise heaped on it. It is like saying that some monster film from the 1920s broke ground for future horror masterpieces. Only a couple of movie buffs care about the old silent film, and while I might watch it to understand early films, I wouldn't say it was greater and more entertaining than Texas Chainsaw or Exorcist. For some reason, everyone seems to feel indebted to the Simpsons as some great institution--however, I have simply hated and abhorred this show since my childhood, when it first started coming on. I have watched several episodes, or partial episodes off-and-on for years, and this show is about as boring and cheesy as it gets. I really don't get the appeal. I cannot BELIEVE THIS SHOW IS STILL ON TV IN PRIMETIME Sunday PROGRAMMING!!! Also, why is everyone yellow with pointy heads and crap? They all look like they have jaundice and deformities. Nothing about this show appeals to me. The characters are stupid and ugly. The messages are lame. The voices are annoying. The stories aren't nearly as hysterical and fast-paced like numerous other shows.King of the Hill, Family Guy, Beavis & Butthead, American Dad, Cleveland Show, South Park-- all of these are 100 times funnier and more interesting. The Simpsons is such a borefest, I usually can't even finish an entire episode without changing channels. Strangely, most people on IMDb that give all the other cartoon shows bad ratings, use this show as the standard and claim that the Simpsons is the champion of animation comedy. PUHHHLEASE! They must find stuff like colonoscopies and jury duty exciting.Plus, the show has been on for so many years, that it just doesn't even appeal to anyone now. When is the last time, seriously, that you have heard anyone at work or school laughing about something on the Simpsons??????? Uhh...I don't think I've ever heard anyone reference them for my entire life, and no one has ever asked me to sit down over beers and laugh at the Simpsons. Everyone is always laughing about South Park and Family Guy, because they are actually hilarious and outrageous. None of the Simpsons creator's shows are that funny, in reality. I think he just knows the right people or sucks the right people on the casting couch. His shows are lame and mediocre, but I guess some nerds still watch it.
Now you are probably what I meant by that huh? And you also probably wonder what "The Simpsons" and "Ren and Stimpy" have in common, huh? Well here, let me tell you:Well, both were funny shows once, even funny when being gross, offensive or shocking at times. But now, both the shows are so disgusting, shocking and offensive, it is not even funny anymore. Bart becoming alcoholic (What hypocrites! Adult alcoholics aren't funny, but child alcoholics are? WTF)? Marge getting implants and becoming an exotic centerfold? Lisa joing a band of Vegan Hippies? Homer becoming an internet marketer? YES, I know it is a cartoon, but the plots are getting stupider, whether they are in animated form or not.I remember the show used to be funny, the characters used to be believable and the balance of everyday realism and surrealistic fantasy. Now this show has gone out of its mind.Sorry to say, the Simpsons have done everything possible now and Matt Groening should own the rights to the show back and end it for good.OR Groening shoul make spin-off shows on the more interesting characters in the show and work on new and interesting projects.


                
I give the Simpsons kudos for breaking the ground for other adult cartoon comedy shows like South Park and Family Guy but at this point thats all the Simpsons were good for. The show is running as long as Gunsmoke and I remember Gunsmoke in it's trailing years and how I would never watch such an old folks show. Well, that has got to be the way many young people must feel about this show because it's been around since before they were born! To recap what this show is about, ALL rich people are extremely bad and evil, all Republicans are extremely bad and evil, all middle class whites are idiots, all Christians are either unfaithful or boring, all blacks are pillars of society, all Asians are quacks, all Indians work at 7/11, leave the Muslims and Jews alone but make fun of Hindus and Christians and probably others like the Amish, and if you want to be anything in life you need to be a liberal, I have no idea about Gays since they kind of stay away from them but I'm sure when they do talk about them it's in a good way, the only thing I have not heard on this show is reality like abortion, when is Lisa going to get knocked up? I mean at this point it is hopeless liberal propaganda and if it's still funny the jokes must have been played out as much as the Road Runner and boulders falling on Wile E Coyote for me because after over 20 years of beating up middle class white America that joke is extremely unfunny. Any questions? 1 star out of 10, it's still a cash machine though so expect this show to go on forever as America has nothing else to watch Sunday nights I guess.
When I saw the Simpsons show I was really into it and entertained and I thought the show was hilarious. I enjoyed and loved some of the jokes they had, but as the show progressed it got offensive by it started bashing God and Jesus and I am a man of faith. I couldn't watch the show anymore because of the things the show said. After I still gave it a chance and stayed open minded and tried not to judge it, but the things the movie said made me uncomfortable. So I am writing this review to say that I would've enjoyed it, if only the bashing of not only my families beliefs, but also, other people's beliefs in a higher power wasn't thrown as jokes like that. It's fine to have your own opinions, but don't bash people's beliefs. That's messed up. All in all, I would never watch the show or movie again.


                
For me, Simpsons is probably one of the worst cartoon TV series ever, no matter what some people say. It used to be good... Now, it's pathetic.For the past 17 years, it has been getting even worse and worse... In the first 9-10 seasons, it was the best, and probably that's because it had no other competition... But for the last 17 years or so, it must have been the worst cartoon series i've ever seen.Every now and then, it passes a lot of feminist and gay messages and stereotypes that underestimate, especially, the male species. Also, they make the males (almost all male characters of this TV show) look like completely dumb, incapable, bored (etc.) but, on the other hand, they make the females look very smart and willing to do everything possible... As a straight guy, this makes me sick and disgusted. There are a lot of wrong data and well hidden propaganda as well. Also, the fact that a 8 year old girl has all the bad characteristics, like being feminist, vegan (etc.), and changing religions like clothes, is kinda retarded to me. The sad part of all this is that, in real life, the actress that makes the voice of Lisa, Yeardley Smith, has indeed some of those characteristics. So, nothing is random. By the way, t's kinda sad and pathetic the fact that this little girl is made as the smartest one among all the other Simpsons TV's characters, when she obviously isn't... neither on this TV series nor in real life..... There is a huge lack of humour as well. There are like 2 funny scenes every now and then out of 10 per episode... And this is for the last 17 seasons or so, like almost everyone here has pointed out... And there are probably like 1-2 max. decent and funny whole episodes per season.The only thing i still like on Simpsons is their references to my country, Greece... And some of them, not all of them of course... cause most of them are targeted hateful lies and propaganda too. Generally, this TV series is nothing special to watch. I would never suggest it to anyone. It's such a waste of time, and i really hope it would end. It is said that it will end at 30th season. Amen to that! I give it a 1 out of 10, only because they try to be funny for the past 17+ years, but they fail every single time. Almost all of these old Simpsons' grumps and grannies actors and actresses should have retired already, anyway.Finally, I believe that they should call it Simgays, instead, or something like that... because it's mostly about gays and feminists...(puke)


                
It always feels like something semi-religious is going on behind the scenes on this show, even if the creators try hard to make it fast-paced and daring at times. Like a lot of shows, it churns out a true conventionalism and a dont-make-waves approach toward the viewer. It is revealing itself to be more conservative than controversial, so as to not lose any of the misdirected praise or adulation - truly, Daring is not a word for The Simpsons.  Is it funny ? Not really. Do they have funny voices ? Well, some of them, yes. Could they stand to be compared to say, Duckman ? Sure, when hell freezes over, because a show like Duckman is Truly Hilarious, with great characters and intensely funny scripts - try and find the equivalence to the drool-bucket in any Simpson-episode if you can - No ? I am not surprised. Great Comedy. The only outstanding character in The Simpsons is Monty Burns. They should cancel everything else and give him the chance to shine in all his corrupt selfishness. If you have the opportunity to see The Simpsons - read a book.


                
The reason i have voted a 1 is because i'm not actually referring to the original few series of the Simpson's, i'm referring to the last 2 or 3, i have nothing against the first 10 or so seasons, they were all great and perfectly original but since the start of the new millennium the Simpson's have rapidly become one of the unfunniest animated shows on TV to date.And why not, when the public is exposed to such hilarity as Family Guy, South Park, Drawn together, and yes even the wonderfully colourful antics of Fairly Odd Parents, you start to see how uncreative and unoriginal the Simpson's have really become.i watched 4 newish episodes of the Simpson's in a row on Sunday 2nd July on Sky One's Sunday send-off dedicated to Malcolm In the Middle and 24 and no offence Matt Groening but the first 45 seconds of the final Malcomme in the middle was funnier than all four of those episodes together, this is no joke.I'd like to point out the following mistakes I have noticed with the last 3-5 seasons of the Simpson's.1. There have only been 2 episodes where Lisa picks up a saxophone but a whole lot of others where we see her playing an instrument she's never owned.2. In the last two seasons of the Simpson's, i have failed to see where the ending of each episode actually happens, what we are given are pointless and improper endings compared to the real endings of the 1990's, where are the endings? 3. There is an ever increasing AGF around the Simpson's (Anti-Growth-Field) some of the noticeable things are A. there was a new episode in the late 90's showing a flashback of when Bart was born in 1982, how can he be born in 1982 when he's still 10.B. There have been numerous Birthdays, Summer holidays etc in the Simpson's yet for some reason they haven't aged and haven't moved on in grade.C. On Lisa's last birthday homer did something to upset her and she said "dad, you've had 8 years to get to know me, it's too late now", so what's happened is that she's just had a birthday but she is in fact still 8 years old.D. Perhaps the most recent flaw with the age factor is the discovery of Snake's son who is currently Bart's age, well Mr world class animated show writer, i'd like you to explain to me how that's even possible, if any of you so called writers have paid attention to the show, you'll see why i don't find this feasible.E. why is it that Maggie is still in nappies, there were hints that she was getting older in the 1st series and then it all just kinda stopped from there, notice that Apu's children who were all born in around the 10th season are all now walking, talking and have full heads of hair yet Maggie cant talk and can barely walk although she was born before them, unless Asians have a gene which makes them grow faster, which is highly unlikely, also you'll notice that sideshow bob now has a son, who by the looks of it is at least 4 years old, don't tell me this isn't a flaw.F. a recent episode includes Marge writing a book and within this episode appears Dr. Marvin Munroe "Dr.Marvin Munroe, i haven't seen you in years" you'd think it had only been weeks since the AGF is still surrounding you all.4. Has anyone seen where all the characters have gone, recently i've seen a dramatic decline of characters featuring in any episode even for a moment, and when they do it's just as a pointless side joke.5. Why doesn't homer have a job anymore? 6. What happened to the Leftorium? 7. Where the hell is Otto? 8. Why doesn't Smithers admit he's gay? i cant think of anymore things to point out at the moment but i'm sure they'll come to me.i'm not saying that the Simpson's is a bad show, i just think that it's tasteless puns, pointless story lines and disappearing acts in terms of characters is starting to ruin whatever fame the Simpson's had before, and if it doesn't change soon then i don't think there'll be any line for the new movie when it premiers.if you have any complaints about my comments then just email me at this address.therubixtheory@hotmail.co.ukand if you can, please tell me where i can send a letter to Matt groening, i've been dying to tell him what i think.
I cannot understand how anyone can call this the best cartoon ever, let alone even good? For the most part, all this seemed to prove how many dysfunctional families already existed. Because this seemed more to be the favorite show of the more dimwitted people. And the writers simply said let's make more and more!All the show does is mock stuff, half of which you can't even understand with the character's annoying voices. People, there's better ways to express things, while you're even learning something in the whole process, and trust me watching "The Simpsons" is not one of them. Watch the Late Shows, because they are way more amusing and you might get some extra intelligence watching them. At least from my point of view, "The Simpsons" seems more like a tribute to the ones with bad families, like getting drunk, and simply fooling around with real-life moments.This show is something that helped bring you the so-brilliant things like "Bevis and Butt-head"


                
If comedy was not easy. This would not be the longest running animated show. Believe me. I can't believe people think this is funny. This so not not funny so many levels. I can't believe how not funny it is. It is kind of sick at times. And sick is not funny sick is just sick. This show is pooh pooh. They should call this show the pooh pooh show. I have never see such stupid not funny show in all my life. This as got to be the worst show on TV. Do not watch this show it is so stupid. It is badly written. There are talented actors on this show and it is wast of there talent. I do not blame Harry Shearer for leaving the show. After I saw Godzilla I realized he had talent. The other actors should leave the show. It is one show that should not go on.


                
I am a HUGE fan of the Simpsons show. My teenagers and I watch it together all of the time however, I recently watched the above referenced episode which had some references to Sonny Bono. I have to say it was absolutely HORRIBLE to reference his death with "watch out for that tree!" I mean I get joking and all but that was over the top as far as I'm concerned. How would you feel if that was a family member of yours that someone made such a cruel joke about?? I feel like the writers can do MUCH better than this and shouldn't stoop so low by making a joke out of someones tragic death. That was totally uncalled for. So my message is to the writers. DO BETTER BECAUSE YOU CAN!!!!!!!


                
Absolutely despise it!! It is a ridiculous TV show which I have only seen once,even that time I switched it off within the first 10 mins. If I could rate it 0 stars I would.


                
