For the first 8 seasons or so that it was on the air, "The Simpsons" was one of the greatest television shows of all time. Wonderfully developed characters, biting satire and top-notch writing made this cartoon a joy to watch. However, the show began to slide in season nine, and while it remained watchable through season ten or so, it has now become a shell of its former self. From about season 13 on, this formerly awesome show became the kind of "entertainment" it once parodied so well.Several factors have contributed to the sorry drop in quality of the show. First, Homer's character has changed. He used to be a bumbling idiot, but had some good qualities. He has now morphed into a super-annoying, always in-your-face kind of moron. There is nothing likable about the new Homer. As for the other characters, Marge has become as morally bankrupt as Homer and is not likable either. Lisa, always a weak character, is now a little spokesperson for the Democratic Party. She spews out more propaganda than the "Weekend Update" no-talents on SNL. An eight-year old Buddhist? Come on! Bart has become less of a creative troublemaker, and is now more of a wimpy sidekick to Homer. The killing of Maude Flanders was inexcusable, and characters like Milhouse and Moe have become sometimes frighteningly weird (references to Milhouse-a ten year old boy-being gay and/or a cross dresser, for instance). Apu having all those kids was absurd. The shows now revolve around "wild and crazy" plots, with Homer constantly in the forefront. There is the constant, unnecessary use of blood and gore (Homer seems to always be cutting off something, and we are supposed to think it's funny). Also, the gratuitous use of guest stars is sickening. They are never funny, and serve only to promote and glorify themselves. "The Simpsons" used to poke fun at these pretentious celebrities. If this show stays on the air just a few more years, there will be more bad shows in syndication than good ones.The DVD season-by-season sets are great, and really serve to remind us of how far this once incredible show has fallen. I'd advise everyone to buy these boxed sets and remember the great writing, inventive plots and brilliant characterizations that flourished during the first 8 seasons of the greatest cartoon series in history.


                
I love the Simpsons. Correction, I Loved the first 9 seasons of the Simpsons. Back then it had to be the most wittiest, cleverest, enjoyable TV show on the planet. It is for that reason that I find myself in such despair now. Let's face it folks the hey-day of the Simpsons was well over a decade ago. Talk about a show that just doesn't know when to stop. It aggravates me to no end to witness the desperate lengths this show goes to year after year. Every show has a shelf life people and the Simpson is way past its expiration date. I truly think that the only reason it is still on the year is force of habit. Both the public and the Fox network are so used to having on that they shutter at ending it. Trust me, It should end.


                
Originally "The Simpsons" were animated segments on "The Tracy Ullman Show" before they got their own series, which became a mega-hit. And what has made them so popular? Perhaps good timing; animated sitcoms meant for adults were a novelty at the time. Yes, the show does have some wit, and the stories are fast-paced. But even it its salad days, it wasn't as funny as all that. Basically, it's a standard sitcom idea that's been done many times before-stupid father, smart mother who puts up with everything, smart kids who really know what's going on (or so they believe), with liberal propaganda thrown in.The series still goes on, even though many viewers complain that the show went downhill by the end of the 1990's. What makes it continue? It has a cult following and still gets viewers, and FOX seems to want to milk it for all it's worth, and more. And that's why I compare "The Simpsons" to the Rolling Stones, a band that continues by living off its past image.


                
