I'd give a higher rating, but The Simpsons's died long time ago and should have ended when it had some dignity left. Now every episode seems like the same.That said The Simpsons was solid stuff years ago. It was funny, touching and thought provoking. Best episode that comes to mind must be Bart gets an F (I hope that is the real name or this is really embarrassing).


                
To me, the first nine seasons the Simpsons is one of the greatest times in TV history, and no, I'm not waxing nostalgia, I'm saying this because the show Groening and Co created was not only a smart and entertaining body of work, but it also did it with likable characters you could empathize with and great stories to boot.However, as all good things must come to an end, the "Great" years of the show stopped as soon as the powers that be decided to dumb it down to make it a show that's more family (and ratings) friendly (season 10 and beyond). Combined with a total lack of regard of competent storytelling, horrible puns, dated storytelling and the new sterile HD switch the past few seasons are existing only on the show's popular name.
Ever since they started on The Tracey Ullman Show by cartoonist Matt Groening in 1987, The Simpsons have been a hit, but at one point of the series, I guess how to put it is that, the show stopped being funny. I use FXNOW to watch older episodes. Remember that one with Ringo Starr? OK, OK. Let's get to the point. I love the Simpsons, but it isn't what it used to be. Now it depends on jokes and pop-culture celebrities. I'm not saying it's horrible, bad, it just isn't that good anymore. It can be funny at times, but not what it was when it first started. One example is the Summer of 2014 where they said that a major character would be killed off. It was Krusty's father. (hollow cough).Thanks for reading! Chris Caracci
This was once one of the funniest shows on TV. Now it's just crap. It ceased to be side-splittingly funny during the 1996-1997 season, which opened with a James Bond parody episode that never quite got going, featured the divorce of Milhouse's parents, a painfully unfunny guest voice for Kelsey Grammer's TV brother David Hyde Pierce, and perhaps the only mildly funny bit: the romantic fling between Principal Skinner and Bart's teacher (can't spell her name). Now a days, the show is just one outlandishly ridiculous sight gag stacked on top of another, with no real substance or plot behind it and whatever social satire there may be getting lost in the process. Homer is really blown way out of a proportion as the latter day idiot man trying to exploit the system whenever he can or just act like a lazy bastard. Marge, Bart, and Lisa are just annoying. Some of the supporting characters have their moments but not many.The earlier seasons when the characters were more like real humans were the highpoint of the show.


                
Okay, maybe I was too harsh when I said that, but the truth is, this show is, in fact, extremely overrated. Don't get me wrong, I USED to love it, but now it's getting old; as in it should've never even entered the 21st century.To start off, I'm very unimpressed with the animation. It's dull and tacky; and where's the vibrancy? Plus most of the character movements are forced, particularly the facial expressions of Marge Simpson and "Comic Book Guy" (who came up with these names?); to be honest, it looks as if this show is made on the cheap. I may or may not be the only one to complain about this, but the characters' skins are mostly yellow while others are brown, which indicates a pinch of laziness, and it certainly doesn't help that color's all over the place. Even "101 Dalmations: The Series" had better animation than this, and yet it was low-budget for goodness sake.The music isn't much better. The music scores and the theme songs are both kind of pleasant if unmemorable, but in general the musical numbers are poor. Maybe not as bad as those ear-bleeding songs from the "Mr. Hankey the Christmas Poo" episode of "South Park", and not as badly sung either, but it isn't saying much. I think I need to talk about the worst one. That is "Freedom" from that one episode where children fight against grown-ups, and in my opinion is a perfect example of complete unnessecaty, and one that's so bad it's hilarious. With the uncanny music, non-sense lyrics and horrible singing, it was bland and terrible to listen to. Which is rather pathetic, seeing how Danny Elfman has done wonderful music scores for "Chicago", "Corpse Bride" and "The Nightmare Before Christmas". Perhaps he's uninspired with what he has to work with.Maybe I am alone in this, but the characters aren't that very likable. Homer Simpson, instead of being the headstrong funny protagonist I keep hoping for (maybe my expectations are too high), is always dry as a cactus. Bart and Lisa are rather clichéd children, and despite one being a troublemaker (Bart) and the other being smart, intelligent, and caring for the environment (Lisa), are as dried up as well, and Marge's voice is so dried up that you want to smack her in the face. Not even Maggie or any other side characters have any real charm.The episodes are, how do I put it, bad. There is very little humor in each episode, and the writing is stale and the lines clichéd. You always feel as if you've seen it before, I certainly have. So much so, the side characters have very little to do in Springfield, and the dialogue is sappy and wishy-washy. If there's any comedy in an episode, it's unintentional. I am of course talking about everything -- the regulars, the two-three parters, even the "Treehouse of Horror" specials. The endings leave me dissatisfied, not only 'cause they are all happy endings but also 'cause it makes each episodes feel rather abrupt.But as the characters are lifeless and unengaging, same applies to the voice acting. While most of the voices are annoying, others have few points of energy to carry on an episode. Dan Castellaneta tries his best playing Homer, Grandpa Abe, Groundskeeper Willie, and so many others, but is always hampered down by the material he's given. Same applies to Yeardley Smith as Lisa. Most of the actors, like Julie Kavner as Marge, Patty and Selma, Harry Shearer as Ned Flanders, and Tress MacNielle as several females read their lines as if they're reading out of a story book, and believe me, that's quite boring. Nancy Cartwright appears to be the only one having fun, but, like Castellaneta, is given so much to do as Bart, Ralph Wiggum, Todd Flanders, etc.Overall, this show is mediocre. It's not terrible, but bland. **** out of **********.


                
When it first came along, "The Simpsons" took the world by storm, because it was not only hilarious and sincere all at once, but also unique. Whoever heard of an animated sitcom about a normal suburban family, without superpowers or giant talking animals or anything like that? It was unthinkable. Matt Groening's world sucked everyone in simply because it rang true... remember the now-famous adage, "There's a Simpson in all of us?" well, it was true, we loved the series because we identified so well with the characters. We could laugh at our own faults and troubles, and forget about them all at once. I always thought it was a LITTLE overrated, but it was still very good. I practically grew up with them. Sure, its sudden success produced the inevitable morass of bad ripoffs, parodies and tributes, everyone trying to jump on the bandwagon and attempt to capture just what made it unique, butthe Simpsons still stood in a class all its own. But a happy ending wasn't to be. In the grand tradition of so many of the greatest TV shows of all time ("Are You Being Served?"), the Simpsons' writers did the inevitable: They ran out of ideas. Suddenly they were recycling jokes, becoming steadily more offbeat with their humor, and writing plot lines that tried way too hard to be funny and wound up just being stupid. Before long it felt that each episode was being written by committee. I still remember, during December of 1998, praying to God to please, let the series die a dignified death, just have them make one last FANTASTIC final episode and let that be it, don't make them keep dragging it out for another 9 years after it runs out of juice, please... But that wasn't to be, either. Instead they've done exactly that, they've propped it up for years and years past its lifetime. A moment of silence if you please.It used to be one of the best shows on TV, back when it was actually somewhat original.


                
When the Simpsons first started in 1990 the show was totally awesome, sure the animation the voices and lots of stuff was somewhat different but the stories were creative and funny. That kept them going for about 10 seasons. After season 10 I think the show has gradually lost it's touch. Matt Groening himself even said as the show continues it get's even harder to come up with new original stories. The show isn't even as funny as it was in 1990. In 2006 it still has many funny moments but it feels like "so what" After saying that the Simpsons is still one of my all time favorite shows.But because it's lost its touch, I give it a 7.


                
I think it's safe to say that everybody born in '89 onward has grown up with The Simpsons. In its first seasons it exploded into popularity as a timeless satire on American family life, and though it pushed boundaries, it never crossed the line. It was an extremely funny, heartfelt comedy that both adults and children alike enjoyed. My problem with it is that it really began to go downhill in the digital age, mainly its introduction of low-brow sex jokes, its constant sea of "guest stars", but most of all its decline of its most beloved characters.I'm probably being an oversensitive prude, but in terms of the crude humour, we've seen a huge jump from the Homer whose dying wish in Season 2 was to wake up and watch the sunrise with Marge, to a Homer who seriously starts talking about masturbation during a therapy appointment in one of the recent episodes. It's unfortunately trying to compete in a market of godawful "adult humour" junk like Family Guy, because apparently there's no room for a decent family comedy anymore, but while lewd jokes and fart humour might work for some things, it just doesn't suit The Simpsons. Springfield's wacky and dysfunctional citizens have always been flawed, but never in a disgusting or perverted way.As for this trend of "guest stars" being on The Simpsons, one or two is fine, but when you have a new celebrity who you don't care about in each episode, from Katy Perry to Snoop Dogg, it gets old REALLY fast and comes off as a sales gimmick to promote talentless pop icons. It takes time away from the comedy and characters of the show itself when so much screen-time gets devoted to this crud. The original Simpsons was timeless. 20 years from now, people aren't going to have any idea what the hell "Alaska Nebraska" is referencing. Bringing up stupid trends and fads that come and go quicker than you can say "cash cow" doesn't really establish the newer seasons as anything timeless or memorable. I'm not sure what's up with the show's weird lean toward liberalism, either. I mean, it was never afraid to poke harmless fun at Republicans or to bring up the flaws of capitalism, but these days it's just pushy and annoying. This is especially evident with the character of Lisa, who used to be just a shy, nerdy and caring girl who always had a voice of reason. Now she's a mini Al Gore with her radical environmentalism, her smug pretentiousness and her inflated ego and notion that she's better than everybody else. She's become a huge hypocrite to boot. I'd say by-far that this show's greatest downfall has been the decline of its characters. Homer was always a slow-witted man, but he was a good man at heart who always sacrificed for his family when he knew it was important. Now he's just a jerky and selfish pig who can be unbelievably cruel to his family and anyone else around him. Very rarely is there even a glimpse anymore of his old self. Bart, a prankster who was always a bad seed but who still cared about others at his best, is now just watered-down. His "pranks" are lame instead of anything classic, and he doesn't seem to care about anyone or anything anymore. Instead of being mischievous, now he's a borderline sociopath. Marge has stayed true to her original persona but even she's a shell; each episode it's like she jumps on the bandwagon for whatever the new parenting trend may be. Even the secondary/minor characters aren't safe. For example Mr. Smithers has now become the most stereotypical gay man I've ever seen, from his rainbow pride parade parachute to his ridiculously obvious fixation on his boss, which has evolved from being funny to just plain bizarre. Nothing wrong with him being gay, but they've been hinging on the "mystery" of his sexuality for numerous seasons when it's already obvious. And my favourite character, the unnamed Blue-Haired Lawyer, who had a habit of appearing at annoying times to declare cease-and-desist cases, always appeared to still be benevolent and just doing his job, and he was willing to help Bart and Homer when they really needed it. Now he's become the show's "evil lawyer", who even admits in court that he views his injured client as a "paycheck" and who allows himself to be bribed by criminals. He's now apparently xenophobic, too. His character hasn't developed much at all except for him turning out to be an author on-the-side, and being conservative. Him and other characters like Ol' Gil, Chief Wiggum and Dr. Nick, have essentially become bad parodies of themselves. Another thing that I think has really hit The Simpsons hard, though the show is certainly not to blame, was the disappearance of promiscuous schoolteacher Edna Krabappel. I just found out that the woman who voiced her had tragically passed away. Edna was an excellent character and she'll be missed by many fans.I will say that, despite me being a sucker for nostalgia, I like the newer animation, as it gives the characters a more uniform look throughout each episode and makes things appear clearer, though I do miss the brighter look of the traditional coloration. I'm glad that the soundtrack has more or less remained consistent. I do think that Season 28 tried thus far to be slightly more character-driven and less lazily focused on celebrities, but I'm not sure how much longer this animated icon will hold up. It's come this far, and there are still many loose ends in terms of background characters so I do hope it stays on, but I hope it tries not to lose sight of what made people fall in love with the weird and wonderful town of Springfield in the first place.
9 seasons of brilliance,then it went down down and...down!I used to love the Simpson but after the plots started going completely rubbish! Like Ex: Season 4 a brilliant episode entitled "lisas first word" Everything in that was perfect a 9.9 episode in my opinion,it had family value and a very funny enjoyable episode.Now look at season 10 Monty cant buy me love..Mr burns trys to get the loch ness monster then once taken to Springfield,he causes a fire and gets a job at the casino(WTF).Fair play to Matt he made the Simpsons perfectly but it should of stopped by season 10 maybe 9,im sure many other people think this.But eventually i sold all my seasons of the Simpsons and started watching futurama which i wont go on to now...


                
I used to love the Simpsons just like everyone else and would never miss an episode on channel 2 or sky one, but i haven't watched it in ages, probably haven't seen a new episode since about 2001 (except the one Simon Cowell was in and the one Ricky Gervais wrote) and this is because the new ones are nothing in comparison to the earlier ones.All programmes lose steam after a while and they usually end after eight or so series but here the Simpsons is still going after 18 years and they've run out of good ideas! I wish they had ended it years ago when the show was on a high but now i get to the point where i think "Oh god not another new Simpsons episode" because there's no where else to go with it, they even had to bring in Ricky Gervais for a change of pace which failed miserably because that episode was self indulgent and boring. Please end it now before it gets even worse! OK i'll stop being negative now and get to the good points. The characters are hilarious and there are so many to choose from, my favourites being Lisa, Mr. Burns, Sideshow Bob, Ralph, Chief Wiggum and Homer.The early episodes were not only funny but also silly and witty at the same time, the writing was unmatchable and it was hard to believe you were watching an animation. So many episodes stand out like the hilarious 'Cape Feare' or the funny yet sad 'One fish two fish...' and other such as 'Brother from another series,' 'Lisa's substitute,' and 'Bart sells his soul' are great too.I'm not knocking the programme as i was a fan all through my childhood (still am a fan of early eps) and it's always nice to turn on the TV and catch a repeat of Homer, Bart and co.


                
Simpsons you were a 10 when I was growing up. As your jokes got more adult and topics more contemporary through the years I thought I would like you more. Sadly you got too big for your boots


                
Okay, who's honestly reading this, thinking "Hmm, should I watch The Simpsons?" ? With 26 seasons and daily reruns on Fox, everyone has watched some episodes, if not many.I believe I've watched all the episodes, for better or for worse. ^^' I believe its the best thing I can watch on prime time. Its nice to watch during dinner, doing dishes, or to pass the time.Since every episode is stand-alone, and there's over 550 episodes through three decades, I have to talk about the show in broad terms. So, here's the top 3 best things and worst things about The Simpsons.THE BEST 1. The characters are pretty good. They are cartoonish, but likable, three dimensional, and funny. There isn't a character in the large regular cast that I hate to see. I particularly enjoy the unfortunately true-to-life Comic Book Guy, the rude child entertainer Krusty the Clown, and the apathetic elementary teacher Edna Krabappel. The cast is ready for both blunt satire and heartfelt moments.2. Speaking of which, the best episodes do hit close to home. The Simpsons financial difficulties, Bart caught stealing a game, Homer and Marge settling with their lot in life. My favorite one is where Lisa makes friends on vacation. It reminded me so much of those one-week friendships I'd make every summer. Sadly, most of these serious episodes are only in the first half of the franchise.3. The Simpson's best trait is the one that's the least tangible. Its just plain funny. Balanced in timing and variety, even the bad episodes elicit chuckles. I just like this style.THE WORST1. This is the show that brought us the term "Flanderization" - where characters become simplified and exaggerated as a show goes on. Ned Flanders, for example, started off as an ideal, friendly neighbor, but devolved into a friendly, paranoid religious nut. Most characters undergo this change. Admittedly, it does give some characters more personality, but for others, it severely damages their character. The worst example of this is Patty and Selma. They've always disliked Homer, but now its canon that they kidnapped and attempted to murder him. I'm serious.2. As if you can talk about canon in The Simpsons. They haven't aged a day in 25 years. The vast majority of episodes exist in a vacuum. Thus you'll never have character development beyond the half hour of each episode. Since nothing changes, a lot of themes have to be reused. Expect a lot of episodes where Homer and Marge kiss and makeup, Lisa makes friends, or Bart bites off more than he can chew. They'll never learn their lessons forever, which is frustrating on the macro scale.3. I dislike most episodes that completely drop the character and satire. They're just pure cartoons, something the typical episode of The Simpsons would criticize. I skip every "The Simpsons Go To X!" episode (And no, Bart vs. Australia isn't the "good one"! >:I), classic stories with Simpsons characters forced in, and most of the Treehouse of Horrors.Those are my thoughts. If you are the lone person whose curious about the show, watch any episode that's airing at the moment. If you like what you see, then you can use the web to find the best episodes. They're on Hulu, so you can check the highest scoring entries on IMDb and see them yourself.


                
I was a 15-year old when the show came out in 1989 for a pilot. As it was from the Tracey Ullman Show in 1986 I think. As the show has been on for over twenty years and it will be sad when it is canceled just IF it is! As the family from you know where led by Homer Simpson as he means well but can really come off really a jerk. Though with a heart of gold. His straight man like wife Marge, hardworking homemaker who tries to keep the peace but fails.As Bart the underachiever oldest of the three, may go down that path. Lisa is the brilliant genius and makes straight As. And is on the verge of being first female President perhaps. And Maggie the cute sucking pacifier baby who shows signs of genius as well.But they are so dysfunctional that they are so laughable. That is what makes them like a family of ours. No family is perfect. They prove beyond that.Can't believe this show is still on. But have not watched it in years but kind of catch bits and parts of it! Still funny!
I connect this series with my childhood but In the latter seasons it was ruined by attempting to be modern and relatable to kids of the modern era. It's a series with an identity crisis


                
The Simpsons is a comic strip of a cartoon sitcom. It makes short jabs to get you to laugh but still holds a coherent story line while it's doing it. To appreciate the show you will need to start in a single digit season. The reason for this is because the show has been dead for many, many years. Season made after 2005 are hardly watchable and should never be supported/watched. They moved from character development and witty plot lines, like homer working for a James Bond villain for the sole reason he has great benefits, to a cliché of itself. In summary watch the early seasons and avoid the latter seasons so we can stop those money grabbing basters from destroying one of the greatest shows of all time.


                
"Oh no! Another whiny grandaddy blabbin' that the old stuff is the best!"Well, here I go. The new season they have(by the way, I'm from 2015, people in the future), is nothing compared to the Simpsons before 2000. The new, Every Man's Dream, and the cooking episode, disappointed me BIG TIME. I watch the majority of the Simpsons on demand(yay Xfinity!), and most of the older season episodes are from before 2000. Now that's the stuff I watch after work and leave a lot of laughs and I am enjoyed.I rarely go on FOX anymore.I gave this a 7 due to some good early episodes. But, to watch the Simpsons, you can't watch it on Fox. Just don't.Maybe I am wrong, and there is some good episodes after 2000, but out of my many morning or evening Simpsons eps, I think I have a reason for my review.
I rate The Simpsons a 6/10, why? It is because from Seasons 1-10, they were classic, however, in more recent years most episodes were in one way or another a partial repeat of earlier ones, or just plain bad ideas.My belief is that everything had been done by The Simpsons, or everything that can come to mind for a show for audiences 14 or older.Repeatetive lines and events make the once great animated comedy a bore.Things such as Lisa's birthday, which she has had 3, and The Simpsons going to another continent, South America, Africa, Asia twice, Europe several times.The now annoying personality of characters such as Marge and Lisa and the seemingly Bart and Homer based new episodes have created a Simpsons for a new generation, children who didn't grow up in the 90s can enjoy Simpsons on the same level as those who did. However, as a complete overlook, in overall standard, the old and new episodes judged as one, I can safely say it's a modest 6.
This is my opinion, but if you don't agree (which you probably won't) then you don't have to. Well, I do like this show. I've been watching it for so long, probably since i was 4-5, and the old seasons had some hilarious episodes. It's just that, I don't find it as appealing or even as good as people make it out to be. I don't know what it is. I enjoy the show but I can't get attached to it like I am with a lot of shows. It's like there's something stopping me from being obsessed with the show but is that it?I will never be mad about this show no matter how good, classic or "original" it is. I've always preferred Family Guy for a certain reason anyway. But just because it's not as appealing to me doesn't mean I'll hate on it. And that's because I like it.IMO, The Simpsons is a good show and it deserves the praise it gets, but it really is nothing to rave about.


                
