No one, not even Matt Groening himself, could've imagined that The Simpsons would become as big as it did. Nor could anyone anticipate it could become so cultural. "D'oh" is in the dictionary, and it has spawned off several catch-phrases and one liners. Truly, The Simpsons is the biggest thing since Seinfeld! The first three seasons showed them as if they were an actual family. Like the kind of family you'd meet on the street (only a lot more dysfunctional). Homer trying to do the fatherly thing in each episode. Marge being the voice of reason all the time. Lisa and Bart with their sibling rivalry. These first three seasons are not usually sighted as being the best, but they are often brought up when one speaks of "The Best Episode Ever!" By Season four, the show took a turn for what may have been the best. It left it's more realistic roots and became more of a satire. With more zany antics and more clever, witty, and often times sophisticated humor, The Simpsons became the most popular family on television. Each episode still contained it's own merits, themes and messages. Seasons 4 to about 10 are often said to be the "Golden Age" of The Simpsons.However, as the year 2000 came, fans began to see themselves divided. Those who stuck with the show since it came about in 1989 were quick to jump on how the show changed. The humor became more lurid and toilet like, with antics becoming heavily more unrealistic and zany (to the point where some even say it isn't funny... but stupid). Some characters becoming unrealistically stupid, and the show shifting gears from focusing on Bart to Homer... to everyone outside of the Simpson family. The show also began to see more cumbersome and meaningless plots. Plots that didn't focus on current issues, or that didn't seem to be as strong as older episodes. Despite this, new fans seem to have come about to replace then, and the show continues to remain at the top of its game, even today.I'm sure you all know where I stand on that debate. Nine stars to nine fantastic seasons.


                
The Simpsons is a tv show that has aged horribly. It started of absolutely incredible but after about season 9 you could see the slow painful decline. But how did it get so bad? Well most writers started walking away from the show and even the creator of the show Matt Groening moved away and started working on Futurama. There are a few hidden gems in the newer seasons,most future episodes and Ned and Homer becoming spies. But I'll give credit were credit is due from season 1-9 The Simpsons was the best thing on television counties classic episodes like Marge vs the monorail or Lisa goes Washington or in my personal opinion the very underrated Bart gets an elephant of course there are other classics that I haven't mentioned because there's so many I'm glad there finally ending this shoe after 30 long seasons. My dream would be for all the old writers to do the final episode together.
When it comes to TV shows today, you think of crud that people call 'entertainment' like American Idol and others. And you also have shows where people try to be funny and entertaining, but alas there not (which the directors never seem to realize), examples include Hannah Montana and a lot more. But 'The SImpsons' keeps it entertaining it won't make you scream "We seen the same plot line for an episode fifteen times on this dang show!" The characters (despite being hundreds of them) all have a personality and soul, and Matt Groening keeps everything at an excellent pace. And the character voices are superb. And the humor, ninety-six percent of the time ("IF HE WANTS TO HAVE A NOISE COMPETITION WE'LL TURN ON MY CIRCUS FIRE CD!"), never fails. 'The Simpsons' is one of televisions greatest shows, and should never, ever be forgotten.


                
The Simpsons has similarities to other sitcoms, only this show is animated. The animation is very eye catching(where else will you see a show where most of the people are yellow).This show follows the Simpson family. The Simpsons live in Springfield, but the state is never mentioned. The family members are Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie. The other Simpson is Homer's dad, Abe(Grampa) Simpson.This show has been very successful, and is currently the longest running animated show of all time. Part of the reason for its success is the way they alternate which character is the star of the show. I remember when the show first came out, Bart was considered the star of the show, but after a while, Homer became more of the star. Even though those two characters are the stars of the show, there are certain episodes that focus mainly on one of the other Simpsons, or one of the other characters in Springfield.There are a bunch of other characters in the show, like the depressed bar tender Moe, Homer's drinking buddies Lenny, Carl, and Barney. There is also the Simpson's overly religious neighbors, the Flanders, Homer's boss at the Nuclear Power Plant, Mr. Burns, his boss's assistant, Mr. Smithers, and the Indian guy who runs the Kwikie Mart, Apu. At Bart and Lisa's School, the main characters are Principal Skinner, Bart's friend Milhouse, the bully Nelson, and so many others.That is another reason for the big success of the show, the way that so many characters and character's interests create more and more episodes.When this show was first released, some parents thought it was too dirty and inappropriate for their kids to be watching. This was before Beavis and Butthead, South Park, and Family Guy came out. Today, this show is very tame compared to those shows. That doesn't matter to me though, I love all of the shows that I mentioned above.Another great thing about The Simpsons is how they can get so many celebrities as guest stars. Many times, when a certain episode isn't very good, the celebrity guest star can help save the episode from becoming real bad.Even though The Simpsons has poked fun at religion, it has also been applauded for awareness of other religions.Unfortunately, The Simpsons has started to lose its greatness. While I don't hate it like many others, I do agree that it isn't as sensational as when it was still new and fresh. If the show were to be canceled, that wouldn't be entirely bad. If it is canceled now, then everyone can look back upon how great the original episodes were and not have to worry about the newer ones being worse than the originals.This is a great show, if you haven't seen it, see it as soon as possible.


                
The Simpsons is without a doubt one of the funniest and most original shows on television, even as it runs on in years. It is basically an institution in my household and we watch it whenever we can. It's one of the few shows where I can watch episodes again and again and never get bored of them. The show is consistently well written and never seems hard pressed for storylines. And of course, there's Homer Simpson, arguably the greatest and most recognizable character ever created for any medium. The fact that it has been on more than 10 years and is now the longest running sitcom in television history is a testament to it's creativity and appeal. I can't imagine television without this show to brighten my day. Long live the Simpsons and I hope it runs for 10 more years.


                
And thats because it's very, very funny. The first series of The Simpsons, first aired all those years ago when I was an elementary school student myself, were very child-like, both in animation and script, and as the show gained momentum and subsequent seasons made it more and more of a success, the subject matter got more serious, but it retained what it always had from the beginning: a unique wit for pointing out the idiosyncrasies of the real world.By around season 5, the writers had build up an entire world, based around the fictional town of Springfield. Not only that, but all these characters had their own relationships with each other, that remained consistent and believable. The central characters are the Simpson family themselves. Parents Homer and Marge, kids Bart, Lisa and Maggie, their cat and dog, then the extended family: Grumpy grandpa Simpson, who can keep people distracted for hours by telling stories that go nowhere. Marge's unmarried, chain-smoking twin sisters Patty and Selma who live with their pet lizard and despise Homer, then there's all the other characters: next-door-neighbors The Flanders who are so religious only a cartoon could convey it. The staff and students of Bart and Lisa's school, Homer's co-workers and co-drinkers, Krusty the Klown, the TV clown who Bart worships, Police chief Wiggum who is so lazy he believes that people should "take the law into their own hands", sleazy bartender Moe, Apu, Reverend Lovejoy, Mr. Burns Homer's miserly boss as well as other interesting characters introduced in later seasons, such as Gil, the hapless loser who's wife has left him and seems to lose every job he gets. And brilliant once-off characters such as Hank Scorpio, The evil head of Globex corporation, who, it could be argued, is a rip-off of a James Bond villain. But that argument is quickly settled by the fact that no James Bond villain has ever been this funny, or indeed, evil. I could go on and on about these characters, but I won't, because if you've never seen the show I wouldn't dare spoil it for you.Now in it's nineteenth season, with the long-awaited feature-length movie about to hit movie screens, I believe The Simpsons has had an incredible run. Its not nearly as funny as it used to be and hence not as popular, and I feel it's substituting very dark undertones where it used to have clever and funny jokes. I don't like this and I think The Show has given us enough laughs for the last 20 years to easily last another 20. I still don't tire of the old shows and there's so many of them the by the time you've sat through them all you've forgotten the first ones. Whether they decide to wrap it up in the next year or so, or if it Rolling Stones approach of going on and on way past its sell-by date, one thing is imminent: The Simpsons will not be forgotten.


                
It was the funniest, the most heart warming, the most ingenious, ... , to simply put, it was the best show ever created on TV. But then, as so many have pointed out, something went wrong after 10 seasons or so.So what went wrong? the simplest way to put it is to say that somewhere along the line the show had lost its soul. Last few episodes I've watched, it was a bit like watching Simpson robots acting out Simpsons, doing and saying what they are supposed to in a Simpson's like story line. Everything was just too forced and too contrived.Just look at Homer, when the show started despite all his flaws and failings, he had a sweet nature that was endearing. He was a terrible father and a terrible Husband, but still, he was a loving father and a loving husband. He didn't just go on a misguided adventures just for the sake of it, usually they were with good intentions, and we could always count on him to do the right thing when the push came to shove. But in today's Homer Simpson all these characteristics were drained from him and what is left is just a shell, which is nothing more than a programed robot countlessly repeating Homer's catch phrases and acting out only the idiotic nature of what once was a Homer Simpson. There is nothing endearing about the Homer you see today, and you can say the same about the rest of the Simpsons characters.It is easy to criticise what is wrong about the show today knowing how good the show was and the bar it had set was simply not possible to maintain forever. Simpsons will never reach its golden heights again, but does it need to? The answer is no, its legacy was already set during first 10 seasons, and that has kept the show going some 15 years later, still. I do not watch the new episodes of Simpsons anymore but I rarely turn away from any of the old episodes if I happen to catch them.


                
I think The Simpsons is hilarious. The Simpsons has such an amazing amount of great characters. This show has been on the air since December 1989, and how many shows can say they have been as successful as The Simpons I'll tell you not many. This show is so awesome. It may not be as funny as it used to be but it's still great. There are so many great episodes like Deep Space Homer, The Treehouse of Horror Episodes, Cape Feare, and Rosebud just to name some. So there are way too many great episodes to count. So The Simpons are amazing and whenever this show does end it should be remembered as one of the best shows of all time. So this show easily gets an outstanding rating of 10 out of 10. Bravo.


                
In 1989, The Simpsons came into FULL existence with their first season ever and since then, through the 90's, We were introduced to Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie Simpson who were so god damn interesting! Each character we got introduced to were so interesting to see, Moe and Barney along with Karl and Lenny, Kent and Patty and Selma... UGH! I can't deny but say I loved each and every single character except for Marty. A fair few Simpsons Episodes were highly enjoyable and entertaining. I'm going to pick some of my personal favorite episodes which are... Summer of 4ft. 2, The Springfield files, Homerpalooza, "HOW 90's could you get with an episode like that!!!???!?!?!, they had the Smashing Pumpkins in for voice acting and Sonic youth along with cypress hill.... OH MY GOD!!!! If they did this episode any earlier around, 1992 or 1993, they would of been able to have Kurt Cobain in the episode... But, We can only dream..." ALSO DID YOU KNOW, Sonic Youth threatened not to be in the episode if Courtney Love was cast in it? Now you do. Homer the heretic, Homer the Moe, The Mysterious voyage of our Homer, Hurricane Neddy, Lisa's date with density, A Milhouse divided, And many more...I believe season 21 is where things started to feel more drained, they weren't that funny and I can only stumble across 1 or 2 episodes that I might like each season...I'm sorry but I just don't like season 21 and the other seasons that came after it...I just think they're getting desperate to stay irrelevant... I'm more of a fan of seasons 2 through 20 than I am season 21 and onwards.You see, I grew up watching the Simpsons; I would sit at the dinner table watching the Simpsons as it came on at 6pm every night on channel 10 here in Australia. Such good times! Classic episodes and wonderful memories! Each and every single time I watch these older episodes, I get a strong flow of Nostalgia! I highly recommend watching seasons 1 through 20, 9/10
Ever since I was a little kid I watched the Simpsons. Then when I got older I got season 3 and I cracked up completely. I watched the episodes over and over. Then I saw more seasons and I really started to see that this show was just incredible. The writers are ingenious and the jokes are hiliarious. The thing I really like about is the guest stars. They will rip off of shows but actually get the guest stars from the show. The Simpsons are much better then family Guy and I think they always will be. If you don't think that the Simpsons are a good show then how do you think that it's remained on TV since December 17, 1989? The characters are funny, the plots are good, and its a very entertaining show.


                
It's hard to express how I feel about "The Simpsons". It's perfect on nearly every level (the only thing holding it back from reaching perfection on every level is its slight lack of morality). The characters are very well developed, the jokes are incredibly witty, and the backgrounds and props are typically pretty well designed. So why did I give it only 9 out of 10? The decline of the show's quality is the answer. Just this year, our beloved show reached a new low. A low that can only be compared to Family Guy; possibly the worst prime-time animated series ever made. Here is a best-to-worst list of all the seasons so far:season 4, season 7, season 5, season 6, season 3, season 8, season 9, season 10, season 18, season 11, season 12, season 17, season 1, season 16, season 2, season 15, season 14, season 13, and season 19Thanks for reading my review.


                
I love the Simpsons. I think every single person in my whole entire family just adores the Simpsons. My favorite episode in the Simpsons is King-Size Homer. My favorite character is Dr. Nick Riveria.The Simpsons is one of the few cartoons in which someone actually dies. Maude dies, Bleeding Gums Murphy dies, and Hans Moleman constantly dies. Moleman is a peanut like man that always has mishaps and always dies. It is impossible not to love poor little Hans Moleman.The Simpsons is about a family that lives in Springfield that constantly have realistic adventures and plot twists. The family members are named Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, Maggie, and Grampa Simpson. There are actually some emotional and heartwarming episodes. The Simpsons is also one of the few cartoons that actually have sad endings. Mother Simpson has a sad ending.The Simpsons is probably the funniest cartoon ever. The Simpsons is not meant for young children, though. It is made for adults, but older children will love it, too. People swear. This is a great cartoon, but sometimes it doesn't feel like a cartoon.
Kowabunga!! The characters are all classics on this show. What this show does so well when you watch it a lot is defines it's characters sharply & throw in so much comedy that the throw away lines are even great. When you watch this enough & think Bart, Homer, Marge, Lisa, Maggie, Moe, Crusty the Clown, Montgomery Burns, & Abu (among others), you get a mental picture of the character & sometimes see people in your real life who resemble them. Some of the resemblance is deliberate when you consider Matt Gronig's mind. Some of it is happen stance.Regardless, the show will always have its critics because it does shoot from the hip & hit raw nerves about almost any subject. In truth, it is that edge that makes it great. It takes any topic & lampoons it. It recreates great scenes from past TV & movies & lampoons them. Nothing is sacred on the Simpons. That's Funny!!!


                
The world longest run in cartoon series. They might have done something absolutely right, to have the show run over 10 years and the viewer seem to getting more and more. This is <U+0085>The Simpsons.Set in the small town of Springfield, lives the family of five yellow people. Homer <U+0096> a wacky loving father, Marge <U+0096> super mom, Bart <U+0096> the wicked son, Lisa <U+0096> Nerd, and little Maggie <U+0096> still unable to walk.Each week the series provide us with some of the wackiest situation and unpredictable storyline. And that is what make this show so loving; especially with character of Homer and Bart. The series also have loads of guest star using the actual voice of that person making it always fresh and new.With now in its 15 season, The Simpsons has come a long way, and one could clearly see how the show have develop themselves including the style of drawing, humor, and the characters personality. Homer is now the icon of American dad, sloppy, drunk, wacko, but loving parent and husband. And Bart is now the symbol of mischief child with soft heart.Note: now that you see the present date episode, Season 1-3 now look really weird.Recommendation: I Love This Show, And Urge Other People To See It.Rating: 9/10 (Grade: A)


                
Not only is The Simpsons the best TV show ever made, it is also one of american history´s most important political forums. Groening and his co-creators have never been backstroking anyone and certainly never kissed any ass. They show us a society beyond salvation and we are laughing our brains out! Can you possibly do anything greater for mankind than that ?!


                
Probably the longest running cartoon so far. The beauty of it is that the characters Will never grow older while the stories are always following the trend. Can be enjoyed by kids and adults either ways as there are multiple readings/understandings.


                
I can't help but feel as if this show has become poorer and poorer as the years go by. What was once a brilliant TV show which I; along with many others grew up watching and indeed loving. The jokes were brilliant as were the 'couch gags'. Now I see the new series advertised and I can't help but feel a little bit disappointed. Am I the only one who feels as if this show's soul focus is now on getting from the start of the story to the end with very little effort put into to writing jokes and more in thinking of which star studded guest they bring on? Anyway; moving on, back in the mid to late 90's this show was brilliant. The jokes were much more thought out and you could tell that they were making a real effort. Every gag was laughable and the stories had the ability to become completely unpredictable. For a long while this was my favourite TV show and I would like to remember it in that way.To finish off I would like to ask Matt Groening (although I highly doubt he would ever see this) to retire this programme for good as you've missed the chance to leave us all begging for more and I'm sure you are putting the effort in just after 20 plus seasons I can imagine it being really quite difficult.In case any of you are wondering why I have still given this show a 9/10 after slanting it, it's because of what this programme once was and due to all the memories it once used to bring to so many who are now in their mid to late 20's and so I would like to thank you for that.


                
To Jerry Brown, Thanks for Nothing! Jerry Brown (jp88) has no idea what he is talking about, and ought to be committed, or jailed for obstructing sanity!! No fan hates this show Jerry, and that is why it is still on. Just look at the Nielsen ratings in the past few months, they have been upwards of 8 million to 12 million viewers per episode. So, if fans hate this episode Jerry, wouldn't those numbers be going down, instead of up. I don't think you're a true fan of the show, if you think they should pull the plug. I think you should rethink what you wrote.In no number of words, can you describe such a tremendously great show like "The Simpsons". The longest running animated show, mind you. With over three-hundred and sixty episodes as of now. People like Jerry Brown have no clue about "The Simpsons". He must have two crayons shoved into his brain, instead of just one, like Homer. Even Homer is not so stupid that he would want to cancel an award winning show. Jerry Brown's observations of the show getting worse with every season is just a waste of IMDb's space, text and reading. Just from reading his input made my IQ drop.Best wishes Jerry on future comments.And again, these words are for Jerry Brown. You do not scare me!
When I was 10, I adored the Simpsons, America's favourite dysfunctional family. Me and my brother and sisters watched it every day after school, and got a bagful of laughs. Two years ago though, I stopped watching it. Maybe I didn't find it as funny, creative or as original anymore. Well after seeing the Simpsons Movie, I decided to give the show another chance. And I am glad I did, because it is smart, creative, funny AND original. It is true that the show has been declining in written quality the past three years or so, but the more recent seasons are still watchable, thanks to the animation and the endearing characters.The show's animation is fantastic. In animated shows, I like animation that is colourful and fluid, and the animation in this show is exactly that. The theme tune is irresistibly catchy and the story lines are outstandingly good. Other than the voice acting what made the show so good was its writing. Not obnoxious or childish, but smart and most importantly funny. And the visual jokes are also impressive.And the voice acting is exceptional bringing the dysfunctional family to life. Homer is a type of father figure who repeatedly lets down his family, has a love for doughnuts and beer and pretty much hates his job. Dan Castallenetta, a talented voice actor whom I fondly remember as Megavolt from Darkwing Duck, does a great job not only as Homer but as Grandpa and Krusty, not loud and abrasive at all but just right. Julie Kavner is also great as Marge, a caring matriarch who genuinely cares for her family. Nancy Cartwright is perfect as Bart, who is quite naughty and hates school, same with Yeardley Smith as studious Lisa. Plus Maggie is absolutely adorable.Then there are the supporting characters. My favourite is Grandpa, he is absolutely hilarious. Hank Azaria is amusing as Moe and Chief Wiggum, and Harry Shearer is suitably chirpy as Ned and impresses equally with his monotonic drawls for Principal Skinner and Reverend Lovejoy. There are many memorable guest performances from various celebrities, and frequent appearances from Phil Hartmann and Tress MacNeille. My favourite is Kelsey Grammar as Sideshow Bob, a reprising villain I enjoy watching, sinister yet funny. All in all, despite the fact it isn't as enjoyable as it was, The Simpsons is still a great show. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
The Simpsons is clearly the greatest show in amercian history. The show which has been on for over ten years has stood the test of time and only gets funnier with each season. My favorite characters on the show are Snake,Homer and Ralph. Whenver they appear I almost choke from laughing so hard.I love this show.


                
I remember eagerly awaiting the first episode to be shown on sky after hearing so much hype about it. Well what can I say, i was hooked from the start and spent the next ten years eagerly awaiting each new installement with equal excitement. Unfortunately I feel time started to take it's tole and the plot lines became weaker, and more bizarre to try and combat this. They really should have thrown the towel in a long time ago and gone out with a bang. Then I would have happily given it a 10. All I can say is that I hope Family Guy, which is my new favourite (a hard thing to say at first, and a comment still scorned by many!), can manage to stay fresh and know when enough is enough.


                
I love this show and I still watch it! This is way better than south or family guy. Yeah sometimes it can be sexual but family guy or south is messed up.


                
Incredible Show, means a incredible new season in 3 days. I'm staying tuned for this new season. I'm going to watch all of season 29 before Season 30 comes out. I give this show a 9/10 so far all episodes I've seen. This is a sitcom, a special show, AND a brand new fresh comedy gold show. Looking forward to the new episode.


                
This sitcom rocks! The jokes are great and the parodys are funny. It never gets old, but I hope they don't run out of ideas because they made so many episodes that they are really looking like they are about to end the show. Fantasy football, apple computers, I pads, I phones, NFL, MLB, and Star Wars are some examples for parodies in this show. They also make episodes with celebrates in it. Like I've heard there's one episode where Lady Gaga helps Lisa. I haven't seen that one yet. The seasons from the 1990s and early 2000s are best, but new ones are alright, but very few the episodes in this new age live up to my expetations. I want the show to end even though its good because they are really running out of ideas and it dosen't have very much effort.Marge is the only one with hair. Lisa is the smart one. Bart is the trouble maker And Homer is the dumb one. If you want to watch this, new episodes air from September to May on Sundays at 8E/7C on Fox. If you want reruns, stay tuned for old episodes on FXX. This actually gets an 8.5/10
Why do I feel the need to post the 200th review in the 25th season of a show that's almost universally known? Because it's a show that defined an era. Has it declined in quality? Yes, but that's normal. Everything has a golden age before slowly cracking and crumbling away. However, I don't believe the show is crumbling yet. It may have cracks, it isn't perfect (you show me a show that is), but it's trying. There have been massive failures like Lisa Goes Gaga *shudder*, but also massive successes. However, people tend to focus only on the negative, that's just human behavior, and refuse to see some of the episodes for the comedy gold they truly are. Have the newer episodes been a bit of a letdown? Unfortunately, yes. Still, I hold out hope that they will get a second wind and dominate Sunday night once again. If you're looking for a show to watch and are on the fence about this show, don't watch the newer episodes (season 20 and up), try to watch the earlier ones (seasons 1-10) and make the decision from there. I also believe there's a certain pressure to hate the new Simpsons episodes. Because the internet doesn't like it, you shouldn't either. But you have a mind, use it. Form your own opinion and if it makes you laugh, laugh away. I rate this a 9/10 simply because, like I said, it isn't perfect, but it's pretty darn close. Thank you for reading and I hope this helped you or was at least mildly entertaining :)


                
