This show was destined to be the greatest show on Television, it won loads of awards and the cast, writers, directors, art directors, costume designers and every member of the crew deserve a place in the Television Hall of Fame.What was HBO thinking when they canned this masterpiece. It is without doubt the best piece of Televised Artwork to come out of America since Twin Peaks (Go Sampson) and dare I say, The X-Files.I just finished watching the second season and was destroyed when I discovered the show had been axed.Jonesy, Lodz, Sophie the Omega, Brother Justin and the dying Corn Field.BRING IT BACK.By the power of Greyskull I command HBO or any other Network with the balls and brains to give Danial Knauf, Tracey Torme and the Army of Incredible artisans the green light to continue this awe inspiring Feast of Visual Entertainment.Let's create a Carnivale petition on the IMDb.If you want this show back, VOTE HERE!!!YES - Bring it Back.NO - Leave it be.
This is one of the most addictive television shows that has been aired in many years; It is finally on DVD, and I cannot wait until the premiere of the second season on January 9, 2005. The casting of this series is excellent- I especially love Linda Hunt as the voice of Management to Clancy Brown as Brother Justin to Michael Anderson as Samson- the whole cast is wonderful- along with the scenery and pace of the show; it does not have the "rollar Coaster" mentality, but rather sets up all of the characters so you begin either begin to care for them or despise them accordingly. THe First Season set up the cast of Characters, and from what I can tell, the second season will put everything in motion and have more action involved. I am going to go buy the season one on DVD as soon as possible (as soon as I finish writing this review). There have only been twelve episodes so far, and I hope there will be at least 30 more (or however many more it takes til the story is told.) I also enjoy the Carnie Lingo, and to see the contrast of how people lived in different areas. Samson: Before the beginning, after the great war between Heaven and Hell, God created the Earth and gave dominion over it to the crafty ape he called man. And to each generation was born a creature of light and a creature of darkness. And great armies clashed by night in the ancient war between good and evil. There was magic then, nobility, and unimaginable cruelty. And so it was until the day that a false sun exploded over Trinity, and man forever traded away wonder for reason.


                
Isn't there any obligation to finish this story? It's not like its Sex in the City with a different topic each week. This is an unfinished continual story. It would be like J.K. Rowling saying I've decided not to write the final Harry Potter book. People would be very upset to say the least. I just don't think it's right to hook the viewer's into a series like this one and then cancel it. I think HBO should think hard about doing any type of continuing story line in the future. If they can't guarantee they will finish the story then what is the point in starting it? I didn't even bother to start watching the new series Rome. Here today and gone tomorrow should be the new tag line for HBO.


                
I do not understand why this show is not brought back. Just look at arrested development. they are making new episodes now I think. I think HBO made a huge mistake by cutting Carnivale and Deadwood short.It is strange how some horrible TV shows can go on forever while masterpieces like this one get canned by some corporate executive who knows nothing about brilliant productions and only the bottom line.So sad, but I will always cherish this show.I would say that the entire cast of this show was great, but more important than anything else was the writing and the production (most specifically the imagery used to tell the tale) that made it so special.


                
And so it happened with this TV show, both critically acclaimed and celebrated by fans, that it was cancelled due to an unfathomable (and probably personal) decision of the financing network. Having been one of the most original and addictive programs to be seen on TV so far, Carnivale was set up to run for at least 3, probably 4 seasons and now viewers are left with a lot of questions and no real answers after the show was prematurely terminated after only 2 seasons. This happened to other great shows as well (Futurama, Serenity, Odyssey 5) , many times just because some executives put personal grudges before reason. Let's hope that Daniel Knauf will find a way to give all us Karnies the rest of his epic story, even if it is in novelized form.


                
Anyone who has seen HBO's series of Carnivale knows just what the show is made of. It is a critics dream for it encompasses everything one could want in a television show immaculately. The story of a lost man being accepted to join a traveling carnival throughout country America in the 1930s and an obscure immigrant priest at the time quickly whirls into a majestic and intriguing tale with characters of many walks of life and supernatural powers. The actors suit their rolls and perform immaculately to bring to life this epic tale. The cinematography and the precise capture of the history and life at that time make the entire show a truly moving experience.The utilisation of fairly little known actors in this show provide it with the ability to picture these people as their characters without any predisposition to their personality from previous rolls. It also reduces the glamorous appeal that many shows have, which may have been a leading cause as to why it had so few viewers and hence its cancellation, which might I add, has left me heartbroken and yearning for more.The shows appeal comes from many facets and I do implore any of you who may have never seen it or merely saw a couple of episodes to please watch the whole series. It truly is captivation and is a wonderful experience that will enlighten you to the happenings of the times and also to the fabulous abilities of these little known actors who should be recognised for their immaculate work and should be utilised by the film industry more often.The way the show ends (which I will not disclose so as not to add a spoiler) leaves the story very open and I can't live without answers. The film did exceptionally well with critics as many have given it five star reviews. I most certainly do as well as it really does deserve it. It also won many awards and many devotees of the series Carnivale are still in mourning over HBOs decision to cancel such a show of quality in a world of rubbish television with stupid lame humor and boring reality and senseless violence this truly was an outstanding show which everyone must see and which I am so upset to see canceled.If it is on DVD which I am not sure it is yet I do advise everyone buy a copy and then write in to HBO and when they see the sales numbers and the number of people wanting more they'll just have to put it back on air. Please it truly is a breath of fresh air in a world of stale television and movies.


                
I've been watching Carnivàle at least once a year since I borrowed the DVD box from a friend in 2007. I'm a mood junkie, and to me art is something that makes you feel. So far only a few TV series have been able to take me to another world. Carnivàle does it every time. The atmosphere is fantastic: every picture is beautifully shot, every sound is perfect. I love the soundtrack. The writers did an excellent job and the language the characters use is authentic and really funny. The costumes, the locations, everything is just perfection. The acting, casting and directing are superb. Every single character is well developed and I can honestly say that I think they're all great, even the small supporting roles. The storyline is also excellent. It was written in its whole like a novel with 3 volumes. The TV series covers the first volume. There were supposed to be 6 seasons until HBO decided not to make the next chapters. Funnily enough, on the DVD special features is an interview from after the first season where Dan Knauf explains that it's a novel and he points out that it would be awful to start reading a novel and someone takes it out of your hands when you've only read half of it, and he jokes and says how lucky he is that HBO wants to tell his whole story. Tragic! However, at this point, if you surf a bit, it's possible to find information on how the story was supposed to unfold, so that gives some kind of closure after all these years.One more thing there is to say about Carnivàle, if you haven't seen it yet, it needs to be watched several times because it's so multi-layered. And it builds up slowly, but this really pays off for the depth of the story and characters later on, something that is very rare to see on a screen. And of course, it's unfinished but it's still very much worth it and a beautiful experience.


                
There is ample evidence that we are presently inhabiting a golden age of television production. I have just completed episode 12, season 2 of Carnivàle. Clearly, the series is only establishing itself at this point. The primary quality metrics I employ are (1) how much do I think about the program when I'm not watching it? (2) How high has it moved up on my list of free-time priorities? and (3) How much do I care about the characters and how events develop? On these three metrics, Carnivàle ranks as (1) a constant daily companion in my thoughts; (2) the most important thing I do in my free time; and (3) introducing me to characters I am only starting to know, want to stay with much longer, and get to know much, much better. May I add that something magical must have happened at this program's auditions? Every character/actor match was inspired. I know that the descriptor "unique" has frequently been applied to this series, and it is an appropriate choice. I can think of no other program that has (1) captured and developed the era of the dustbowl; (2) delved into the world of an itinerant, socially marginal subculture and brought it to life; (3) developed a unique (allegorical) mythology that says something authentic about our actual nature as humans; (4) left me thinking long afterwards about the themes explored by each episode; (5) so gloriously revelled in the magic and mystery of human differences and uniqueness; and, perhaps above all, (6) inspired me with regards to the importance and possibly lasting significance of the moral and spiritual struggles of daily life. If I were to fall into a small fortune tomorrow, I would consider using it to develop Carnivàle's seasons 3-6, as had originally been planned for this series. Bring it back? Carnivàle still lives. Somewhere out there, it is real, even now. I'd sure like to return it to the screen.


                
Carnivale represents HBO at their most ambitious moment. There has been nothing like it on Television, before or after it. Misunderstood at the time of it's original airing, it failed to gain a wide audience but, it is now a cult classic that is worth watching again and again. It is a true masterpiece of storytelling, direction, and cinematography. Very cinematic and epic in scope. It is one of the most original stories ever told on American television. It's Dust Bowl setting is something that has rarely been covered and never as well as it is here. Carnivale is on the surface, a good and evil story but underneath that, There are many complex and thought provoking undertones. Over the course of the series, The stories of each character come together in such a perfect way that it seems crazy that anyone ever questioned it. Carnivale is very much a slow burner for people that want complex stories that require full attention and commitment. The characters are all complex and engaging, The actors all fit perfectly into their roles and do a great job, and every aspect of production is handled perfectly. Way ahead of it's time, If Carnivale were to come along in today's age of TV, It would certainly be more welcomed and seen for what it is. That the show was tragically cut short of it's intended six season plan, Is nothing short of devastating. Even still, It is very much worth watching. By the end of season 2, It does a good job of closing up a lot of the loose ends while opening a few doors for future seasons that sadly never came. I don't know that there has ever been a better looking show either. It is beautiful to look at and hasn't aged a day since it aired. Anyone that enjoys committing to an original concept that requires patience, but also rewards it, Carnivale is the perfect show.


                
This is a perfect show. I think this show may be one of the reasons why Boardwalk Empire was such a huge and deserved success. This is the show that paved the way there. Between these two HBO shows one can get a very real sense of the times. Carnivale is slightly noir as well, and artistically flawless. I challenge anyone with an artistic eye not to stop the scene at any point and not realize they are looking at a form of perfection, tone, color, light and dark, juxtaposition, detail and appropriate detail. The characters are as authentic and moving as if they popped out of a Steinbeck novel.


                
Ah yes, only the good die young. Whether it's James Dean or a multiple award winning HBO show, the wisdom applies in both cases - the demise of the latter of course thanks to the lack of paying viewers, and what doesn't make considerable profit is canceled regardless of quality. Thus Daniel Knauf's exquisitely conceived and meticulously prepared mystery show "Carnivàle" ended already after two out of the planned six seasons - but posthumously it has gained the nimbus of immortality among the fans, just like good old Jimmy. Maybe it's a good thing, as "Carnivàle" ended on a very high note, which seems difficult to top. And while there are also cliffhangers and some open questions when it is all over the main storyline of what Knauf referred to as "the first book" is concluded and key answers are given. Knauf also provided documents on character backstories and hinted on what might have happened in further seasons, so the interested fan will at least find a bit of satisfaction by searching the internet.So what is the fuss all about? In a way "Carnivàle" can be described as John Steinbeck's realistic "Grapes of Wrath" meets Stephen King's fantasy/horror hybrid "The Stand". Yet while the series has many elements of both great epics, reducing it to these elements doesn't do its ingenuity justice. Yes, there's the American dust bowl of the 1930s featuring prominently and there's an apocalyptic confrontation with supernatural elements taking place, but in between and at the heart of it all lies a portrayal of a historic carnival with its superbly developed characters rarely seen in this intensity on the TV screen. Don't look for superheroes though, fast action or a firework of effects. Powers and dilemmas of the chosen are only revealed and understood bit by bit. The show actually excels in a beautifully slow paced exploration of mystery themes with breathtaking cinematography and intensely atmospheric musical pieces, there's a small shocking dose of horror added, all woven into an intricate mythical tapestry that provides the necessary depth. All those things are to be enjoyed even more the second time around. As for the casting: With "Management" the show has one of the most fascinating mystery "characters" (well, that's all you need to know for now), the legendary "Twin Peaks" dwarf Michael J. Anderson gets his starring role here and fully delivers, then there's the always impressive Clancy Brown, Nick Stahl in his best role and Patrick Bauchau plays the enigmatic Professor Lodz and partly even steals the show. If you have time for character development and want to take in a whole magical world, then "Carnivàle" it has to be. Enjoy it, learn to appreciate what a wondrous feat Daniel Knauf accomplished with these 24 episodes. And shed a tear for that day when HBO traded away wonder for reason - and called it quits.


                
Carnivale is mainly about two characters:Ben Hawkings and Justin Crowe, both with great power, who are destined to fight against each other with the fate of the world at stake.The first travels with the carnival while the latter is a priest.It's a pretty classical conflict :good vs evil, god vs devil ,light vs dark, but the way it's portrayed is just epic.While in the first season it's mostly through dreams and visions, the second spices things up. Besides the main characters, within the story there are also a lot of other secondary characters, each flawed in his own way. While most of them are great, some of them do drag along at times.Since this is HBO, it's obvious that they spared no expense on scenery, clothes, make-up, etc. The story is great and the atmosphere truly dark. There is also an interesting mythology behind the story, which I recommend you read on wikipedia because it'll help get a better grip of the plot.For those who don't want to start watching because of the fact that it was cancelled and don't wish to be left without answers, you shouldn't worry because most questions were answered and even though the show wasn't completed, the ending of season 2 is a much more satisfying conclusion to Carnivale than season 6 was to Lost(let it be know that Lost is still one of my favourite TV series ever in spite of its weak ending). I'll go even a step forward and state that the final confrontation of Carnivale is an outstanding example of how it should have been done in the ending of Lost.So yeah, it's a pretty awesome series, in the same league with other HBO greats and totally worth watching if you're interested in darker and more horror oriented series.


                
I found this late. Although I subscribe to HBO it was while my link was being fixed a technician told me about it. The description fascinated me. After I saw the 1st episode I was hooked. This was the movie I was seeking for years! Religion, spirituality, paranormal, the epic battle between good and evil, and with characters that seemed custom-made for their parts. There was not an episode that I didn't fully enjoy, and the abrupt, premature termination left me saddened. This series is along the lines of some modern occult mystery stories, but better, more real, deeper, and darker. Ye who have hope for the world and the people in it... see this.


                
words can't describe how much I love this masterpiece from the opening credits to the end credits each of the 24 episodes are brilliant. I just finished this show recently and I was devastated to find out that there were only 2 seasons, I really hope that a network would pick it up. The characters are amazing, Clancy brown, nick stahl etc.... the acting is superb, the best way to describe this show without saying any spoilers, its like the x-files during the great depression but with a traveling carnival, a mysterious minister and an Oklahoma farm boy who has powers that nobody can explain. Please Daniel knauf, I know that 10 years have passed but it isn't too late to resurrect one of the greatest shows ever!!!


                
If there's one series that should be brought back on TV, it is Carnivále. I think it's good going of Knauf not to go with HBO's offer on creating a 3 hour TV-movie to clear up some unfinished business: it wouldn't do the brilliance of the series any good. Then why is it such a brilliant series?I'll tell you:Knauf has had a keen eye for the period in which he chose to set his tale: the Dustbowl in the 1930's. It adds to the sense of mystery and the hint of magic he wished to create and that he has created. Because of the decor and the filming one can see that there's been put a lot of heart in this series, but you can also see that there's been put a good amount of money in it (bringing up the reason why the show got canceled).That's not the only good thing though: everything is in great balance. Not ever have I seen a series that's been so perfectly balanced as Carnivále. The casting is great, the costumes are exactly what they need to be, the characters are interesting, intriguing and show true depth, the music is wonderful and is really the finishing touch on creating the meant atmosphere, the story is wonderful even though it might sound cheesy if you try to explain what Carnivále is about, but every attempt on doing so is a failure. Carnivále is something that you have to see for yourself. I'll try to explain it anyway:As said, Carnivále is, the first two seasons anyway, set in the 1930's, during the great drought and the Dustbowl. In this time, a traveling group of Carnies (as they're being referred to by their boss) crosses pathways with Ben Hawkins, who just buried his mother and who's a fugitive. They decide, read: the boss decides, to take the boy in and as we follow his life in the Carnies group, he and we discover that he has a great gift. But with such a great gift comes great enemies and it isn't long before we meet Brother Justin, who has dedicated his life to serving Him. Together with his sister Iris he tries to tell the word of God. But as the story unfolds, he and we discover there lies greatness under this mask of his. Well, I guess it doesn't sound all that great, but it TRULY is. I want as much people to watch this as possible, in hopes HBO decides to take it back up again. The plan was that we would be carried through time to the 40's-50's, but Knauf never had the chance to finish his story. As far as I know, he intended to bring Carnivále as a series of three 'books', in which each book would consist out of two seasons of the series. So we all only saw book one, since the series got canceled after two seasons. If you want to support Knauf, then BUY Carnivále and WATCH it and tell as many people as you can to do the same! Maybe together we can bring the series back.


                
This is one of the best shows ever. It severely bums me out that it only lasted two seasons. We all know why (because god forbid if people have to think about something and aren't handed the answers in one episode).This is the most though provoking and original piece of television that I have ever seen. It is as simple as that.I hope before I expire that they are allowed to continue the series or do something. I read that it was originally supposed to be six seasons. But from what I read and hear it doesn't look good for anything further happening with the series. What a shame.


                
Only up to episode 20, can't imagine how it will all culminate in just another 4 episodes!!!!! My husband and I have been watching this avidly for over 2 weeks. We have only just pulled ourselves up to an episode a day because we don't want it to end. This has to be one of the most intriguing shows I've watched in forever. Fantastic! Never would have thought I'd watch it, but we are both hooked. Great acting; great soundtrack, great video effects and heaps of stories all rolled into one episode each time - I'm not normally keen on this genre, but it had me hooked from Episode 1. Will write another comment at the end of it and see if it shakes up to be all it has been to date.


                
This series is still one of my favourites! The story in a nutshell is of of dirt poor dust farmer on the run joining a roaming carnival and of a preacher. The power of light fighting the power of darkness.What makes this series so brilliant is the telling of the story and the outstanding performance of the cast! Everything unreal and creepy seems believable because of the wonderful acting and directing.There are a billion famous people in this but honestly when I started watching this, I didn't know who was going to be in it or what to expect and that was the beauty of it, discovering something myself, and wanting to know where the story takes me.The series was cancelled, but in some ways thats what helps keep the series so great. It wasn't taken too far and dragged on and lose many of its fans... like LOST, an excellent show I am still a big fan of, but lost millions of their fans after season 2-3. The end of Carnivale left me begging for more, but honestly, thats what makes me love it so much more.


                
Since I hate adverts, I like to buy box sets; I can't remember how I found my way to a reference to Carnivale but, after reading comments, I took a chance and ordered both seasons. And now I've finished watching them I'm overwhelmed. This story will play on my heart and mind for some time, I think, and I'll be watching it again in a couple of months. Everything about it was superb: the casting, the acting, the photography, sets, scripts... everything. A couple of episodes were slow but taking the series as a whole, it was just compelling. Obviously, I've watched it some time after it was aired (it's now April 2008) but it doesn't surprise me that fans were heartbroken and outraged that it ended after only two seasons. Like many others, I would love to see a movie, miniseries or book to give the story a definite end, but........nevertheless, even though someone seeing it for the first time will be dreadfully disappointed when it ends, I would highly recommend it. And I'm so glad I saw it on DVD instead of having to wait a week between episodes that are riddled with advertisements :-)


                
Carnivalle is one of the best series than they have become for the television.Taken care of script, great actors, wonderful scenery and clothes... Hopefully many directors worried to make series and films as much quality as Carnivalle.High recommended, although they canceled the series when finalizing the Second Season. We already know that these products "non apt for all the publics" often are mistreated by the most hearings and the directors of the great TV chains; but it is left brave wonderful series there.The director Daniel Knauf announced that he wished to finish the series in series of comics, since the TV chain that emitted it offered to him to finalize the series of a way to which it was not arranged, a bad way, everything is necessary to say it.We surely waited for anxious those comics that will be wonderful and dignity final for great series.(Sorry for my English)


                
Despite airing in 2003, I didn't watch Carnivale until last year. I thought the description of the show sounded interesting (I love anything set in this time period). This was such a great show. All of the characters are amazing, and the actors/actresses give great performances. The story is captivating, and is wonderfully told. The costumes and sets always looked realistic. It is a concept, with an even better execution. I really wish they had renewed it, and allowed the show to conclude, instead of ending with a cliffhanger. Despite this, I would definitely recommend this show. This is a show that was just done right.


                
Warning! This series is not for a typical TV watcher looking for easy, non-challenging entertainment. Carnivale is a bleak but utterly compelling show that portrays the very worst of the era, the places and the people; yet does it with an unexpected, sparse beauty.This is not a series that will make you laugh, but if you like to be challenged by unusual perspectives on right and wrong, the bizarre, the macabre and the downright weird, this series is an absolute must see! A depression-era carnival/freak-show is perfect for immediately establishing the setting as unusual and strange, and things get more and more 'out-there' as the series progresses.With its engrossing story-lines, superb acting by the large cast, unusual take on the conflict between good and evil, plus suitably dreary and almost colourless locations and cinematography, I rank it as the single best TV show I have seen in 50 years of enthusiastic television watching.


                
This show is the perfect example of making an excellent, fantastic 10- year-work messed up to the end. And it makes me very disappointed like every other fans. The first season was absolutely perfect from the first moments to the lasts. The story, the characters, the atmosphere were so original that I have never seen before. It enchanted me from the first seconds of the pilot episode, and in addition the opening sequence was brilliant too. We can experience the HBO's profession on Carnivale. But why did they cancel a six-season-plan short by four season? We had just only two.And the second season was as troubled that I could not understand anything indeed. They wanted to crush the other four-season-story into one. What a big mistake! They crap this brilliant and very original show up.The first season - as I have already said - was perfect. Every single moment from the story was professionally made and we could be in a fever that what would come next. Having watched every episode I always have a big question in my head, and wanted to see the next one. For the first time I could not "make friends" with these abstract characters because they were so original and special that I have never seen before in TV- shows. But after some episodes I had already had my bests. I don't know why but this sandy and scenic atmosphere always make me feel relaxed and would like to continue the story. I think that the most interesting and exciting part was the true identity of the mysterious Management.I can write many things about this show - but I think a won't, because it is such a comprehensive, complicated and original show that it cannot be assayed in a review. It must have more respect I think, because it is an amazing work that Daniel Knauf - the creator - has made. And makes me very depressed that his intended work is canceled.I had my only problems with the final season which I didn't understand at all. It wasn't clear for me that who is the Good and Evil. Who is really Ben Hawkins, Justin Crowe and Henry Scudder. It was so confused because they couldn't tell the story as they wanted to.I am very sad when great works are gone. Like the TV-show "Dollhouse" which has a five-year plan, and just two seasons were made too. I believe that producers must put the quality forward and needn't mess up perfect plans. But fortunately it is not very typical to HBO.
Great surreal, well produced cinematic television. Attention to detail is unmatched at every level. Set in a forgotten time, a highly developed array of blossoming characters, morosely beautiful twisting plot lines, and an almost balletic like sense toward most of the scene work. Even the opening sequence is a chilling nostalgic and romantic dance around the parallels between real events and the occult. It is a one-of-a-kind series, yet ends unfinished leaving no real closure or catharsis. Leaves you wanting more, so don't watch if you hate that, unless... HBO is lobbied to come back for 3rd, before the cast and crew completely move on. Sadly, at the point that I write this, they most likely have.


                
I still don't understand why HBO would pull the plug on Carnivale. Not only was it one of the most original and well written television series ever but it was a show that you had to put your brain to work. You really had to think about the plots to understand them. Every actor on the show made you feel like you were part of what was going on. I felt like I was just another carny in the background. Now Six Feet Under has finished a wonderful long run, why could Carnivale have not had a fair chance. The executives of HBO believed that the end of the second season ended in a way to make people happy. It left me begging for more. Shame on HBO for taking Carnivale off the air.


                
