This show was destined to be the greatest show on Television, it won loads of awards and the cast, writers, directors, art directors, costume designers and every member of the crew deserve a place in the Television Hall of Fame.What was HBO thinking when they canned this masterpiece. It is without doubt the best piece of Televised Artwork to come out of America since Twin Peaks (Go Sampson) and dare I say, The X-Files.I just finished watching the second season and was destroyed when I discovered the show had been axed.Jonesy, Lodz, Sophie the Omega, Brother Justin and the dying Corn Field.BRING IT BACK.By the power of Greyskull I command HBO or any other Network with the balls and brains to give Danial Knauf, Tracey Torme and the Army of Incredible artisans the green light to continue this awe inspiring Feast of Visual Entertainment.Let's create a Carnivale petition on the IMDb.If you want this show back, VOTE HERE!!!YES - Bring it Back.NO - Leave it be.
Leave it to the same cable network who gave us "The Sopranos" and "Six Feet Under," to find the nexus where the likes of John Steinbeck, Stephen King, Clive Barker and Ray Bradbury could co-exist and produce such a product of dark, disturbing and eerie wonder as this.If Daniel Knauf is not David Lynch masquerading as someone else, then they are indeed cinematic soul mates. How else could you explain the daunting premise of setting such a classic struggle of good vs. evil, in the bleak, Depression-ravaged setting of the Oklahoma dust bowl, circa 1930's?It's a good sign that wherever the overall story arc is going, it was engaging enough to attract some top notch talent, from both mainstream features and more edgy, independent fare. TERMINATOR 3's Nick Stahl and HIGHLANDER and BUCKAROO BANZAI cult fave Clancy Brown face off as a poor dirt farmer and a charismatic preacher, respectively, both of whom seem to possess extraordinary supernatural gifts that neither understands, nor has the power to completely control. One is a "creature of light," while the other is a "creature of darkness," as intoned in the opening monologue by carny boss Michael J. Anderson, (of "Twin Peaks" fame, cementing the Lynchian vibe). The fact that the identity of each is never clearly or inanely foreshadowed or telegraphed to the audience, is one of "Carnivale's" many compelling hooks.Add to the mix the usual collection of sideshow oddities, portrayed more than ably by some interesting actors: internationally renowned actor Patrick Bachau as Professor Lodz, the "blind" clairvoyant; Clea DuVall (IDENTITY and THE FACULTY) as Sophie, the tarot card reader with a telepathic yet comatose mother; Tim DeKay (BIG EDEN) as the boss' right hand man and Sophie's "love interest." And yes, there's a set of cojoined twins, a bearded lady, a tattooed "monkey man" with a tail (if that's what he is.) Even genre staple Adrienne Barbeau gets into the act as the mother of the strongman, (and if the previews are any indication, her part in all of this gets MUCH bigger later on.)We even get the shamefully underused and underrated John Savage, in some mysterious and creepy flashbacks that seem to combine visions that would have not been out of place in any of Ken Russell's films, (particularly TOMMY or ALTERED STATES.)This is the kind of television that TV rarely does anymore, dark, gritty, disturbingly inventive. No wonder the networks are slowly dying, since cable is quickly becoming a safe haven for filmmakers who dare to take the kinds of risks that make their audiences think "outside the box."I only hope that "Carnivale" will continue to sustain and build upon the premise and the promise it presents in the first episode.


                
The best programming on HBO since their TALES FROM THE CRYPT series. Of course, some may argue that isn't saying much for CARNIVÀLE but it truly is a gem.  This twelve episode first season (which debuted on September 14th) tells the tales of a traveling carnival amidst 1930s depression-era America. The show primarily follows two main characters; a chain-gang escapee named Hawkins (Nik Stahl of BULLY) and a Californian Preacher man (Clancy Brown of HIGHLANDER) by the name of Brother Justin.  Both men contain mysterious powers and an unknown connection not only to each other, but also to a man from the Carnival's past named Scudder (the incomparable John Savage).Young Hawkins is picked up by the carnival and hired as an extra hand. While traveling with the crew cross-country, he picks up subtle clues as to the significance of his dreams and learns more about his peculiar powers. Meanwhile, on the west coast, Brother Justin is tested time and again with his contemporaries' lack of faith and grows increasingly dangerous in his religiosity.CARNIVÀLE has quite the cast of familiars, some known and others known only to cult fans. Most notably is 3'7" Michael J Anderson who plays Samson, the carnival boss. You'll most likely recognize him from David Lynch's TWIN PEAKS (1990) as the strange little fellow who spoke backwards. Andrienne Barbeau (ex wife to John Carpenter) plays a tattooed snake charmer by the name of Ruthie, Clea DuVall (BUT I'M A CHEERLEADER) plays young fortune teller Sophie, Glenn Shadix (Otho from BEETLEJUICE) appears regularly as a Californian politician, the 7'6" Mathew McGrory (Rob Zombie's HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES and Tim Burton's BIG FISH) appears in the pilot episode, and the absolutely lovable horror favorite Bill Moseley (remembered best as Chop Top from TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE 2) plays Possum, the carnival's head cook.The show's ultimate strength is the presentation of its visual tones, the lighting in particular is eerily beautiful. Most scenes are lit in reminiscence of the Italian Renaissance painting technique "chiaroscure," in which figures stand with an almost goldenish glow in stark contrast to the dark surroundings and or backgrounds. This is most obvious in scenes of Brother Justin at home with his sister Iris (Amy Madigan). These golden tones give the overall series a cohesive thematic. This is one of the strongest atmospheric shows I've ever seen on television.  Furthermore, the grittiness and downright dirtiness of a poor traveling carnival through the dustbowls of America's Midwest is developed by the show's creators as yet another layer of ambiance. The characters appear dirtier and sweatier each progressing episode as they travel further south.Being carried by HBO and not a mere network station allows CARNIVÀLE greater freedom for its tales. This is not just for mere nudity with the carnies' dancing girls or extra blood with any scenes of violence.  Episodes five and six (titled "Babylon" and "Pick A Number") for example are tragically heart-breaking and downright scary on a number of levels.  The direction, acting, imagery, and overall tone is brutally tear-jerking. This flexibility from conservative censorship only aides the story tellers in their craft.By the final episode of the first season many elements of the story are brought together, yet just as many new questions arise for the viewer. Therefore much excitement and drama unfolds, but not enough to satisfy. Naturally, they want you to come back next time and plenty of story line still does lay over the horizon. Overall, this is a fantastic television series and I for one am eagerly awaiting the second season in the fall of 2004.


                
Carnivale is absolutely brilliant. I am amazed at every episode. The story unfolds with wonderfully colorful layers that constantly change the way you look at it. At times, the acting seems a little forced. With a cast of such talented actors I have to believe that that is the fault of the production itself. Nick Stahl, however, gives an absolutely flawless performance every time. He's really grown into his talent (and looks!). I am most impressed by the writing, the way the human aspect of the characters is so well interwoven with the macabre imagery. A production with this kind of theme and these kind of characters could easily turn campy and yet it doesn't. There's no way a show like this should be believable, but it is.


                
HBO's Carnivale was and is an amazing television series. Beautifully presented, well written, well cast and undeniably unique. Carnivale allows us to escape to a not so distant time and an existing place, yet it's the circumstance that brings it all to life in wonderfully supernatural fashion.Predominantly following the stories of two men - One of great faith and honour and one with little faith or belief in anything, the carnival is the catalyst in the inevitable meeting of these two souls and it is the series that maps this journey. Yet it is not until deep into the series that we come to realise the importance of these men and the consequences of their abilities and eventual meeting.Stellar performances from Clancy Brown(Justin), Nick Stahl(Ben), Clea Duvall(Sofie) and co. bring to life unusual yet brilliant characters in the forms of priests, healers, psychics, snake charmers etc. Who all play significant roles in what is almost a chess battle of good and evil, yet as the viewer we are left to determine who the kings and queens are and strangely - who is good and who is evil?As far as comparisons go, the moment Michael J.Anderson(Samson) appears on screen he is instantly recognisable from his role as 'The man from another place' in Lynch and Frost's 'Twin Peaks'. Although each show shares paranormal elements the stories are very far apart with Peaks taking a much more comedic approach. Each show has an enchanting, memorable quality but sadly the most similar aspect between the two - They were both cancelled prematurely!So that brings us to faith. Faith that the powers that be will one day offer us some resolve in what was arguably one of the most fascinating TV series in recent years. Faith in the millions of other like myself who loved the show, to go out and purchase the box sets, sign the petitions and make it known that Dan Knaufs Carnivale is a great story that deserves to be told - in full!If you haven't seen this show then I implore you to do so. The story itself is compelling, the characters are original and it's a very bright and colourful show to watch. By sticking with Carnivale you are rewarded with twists, turns and revelations and by the 'current' finale you are left begging and pleading for more. If we never see beyond season 2 then so be it, But I hope this show, in due time, get's the recognition and praise it truly deserves. Thankyou to the creators. I still have faith in a return!Joey


                
This is one of the most addictive television shows that has been aired in many years; It is finally on DVD, and I cannot wait until the premiere of the second season on January 9, 2005. The casting of this series is excellent- I especially love Linda Hunt as the voice of Management to Clancy Brown as Brother Justin to Michael Anderson as Samson- the whole cast is wonderful- along with the scenery and pace of the show; it does not have the "rollar Coaster" mentality, but rather sets up all of the characters so you begin either begin to care for them or despise them accordingly. THe First Season set up the cast of Characters, and from what I can tell, the second season will put everything in motion and have more action involved. I am going to go buy the season one on DVD as soon as possible (as soon as I finish writing this review). There have only been twelve episodes so far, and I hope there will be at least 30 more (or however many more it takes til the story is told.) I also enjoy the Carnie Lingo, and to see the contrast of how people lived in different areas. Samson: Before the beginning, after the great war between Heaven and Hell, God created the Earth and gave dominion over it to the crafty ape he called man. And to each generation was born a creature of light and a creature of darkness. And great armies clashed by night in the ancient war between good and evil. There was magic then, nobility, and unimaginable cruelty. And so it was until the day that a false sun exploded over Trinity, and man forever traded away wonder for reason.


                
I 'found' CARNIVALE on the on-demand (see-it-anytime)menu on my cable system. (I was delayed finding the show originally because the title implied to me something else...maybe that's the problem).  When finally sampled, I was awed by everything about the show.  It is one of the great, undiscovered-by-the-masses shows in the last several years. SLOW ?  The lack is in you if you think that. 'Story' at many levels, questions but no answers...  only more questions...  Extremely well crafted and well written, I couldn't get enough of CARNIVALE. It's a thinking person's cornucopia. It was something to look forward to...  When it appeared to be cancelled, I went online searching to see if the series was inspired by books...  I HAD TO FIND OUT WHERE THE STORY WAS GOING !!! Everyone in my house, everyone I work with... we all were very, very disappointed to be left hanging... HOORAY FOR THE CONTINUE-ING STORY... AND MAY THE SHOW FIND AN AUDIENCE...


                
Although initially skeptical about Carnivale, I am intruiged by this dark series. The characters are fascinating (as are the actors). It is hypnotic. But I recommend seeing it from the beginning. So much occurs during each episode as it approaches it's initial 12 episode run. I just hope HBO has enough faith in the show and its viewers to treat us to more! I am curious to see how the final few episodes play out. The show is not predictable, as are some Network shows. I rank this high on my favorite list - right behind Six Feet Under. Congratulations HBO! You've outdone yourself with Carnivale.


                
This show is wonderful - and I've just started watching it this season. Instead of mundane HBO programming out to just woo shallow critics and the usual unimaginative American audiences, this show goes beyond this world to illustrate truth, deception, good and evil. The story is complex for some, since most story lines do not conclude in one episode (then again, it's not a sitcom). The actors are amazing, the writers, brilliant, the creators, well I'm surprised HBO would let this one into their usual thematic dramas (you know what I'm talking about). I can't say enough good things about this show. If you happen to catch it and have no idea what's going on, don't give up - just pay close attention and you'll be utterly enthralled with the brilliance of this show. Carnivale is "out of the box" thinking, which I always love, so unless you enjoy the same old, same old programming, give Carnivale a whirl. It's worth your viewing pleasure!


                
All Carnivàle fans should know this! In April of 2005, I met actors Tim DeKay (Jonesy) and Adrienne Barbeau (Ruthie) at a Convention in New Jersey. (Both very nice, by the way!) At the time, Carnivàle was still under consideration for renewal and neither of the actors had any idea if it was coming back. Jonesy, one of my favorite characters, was shot in the last episode and seemingly dead. Well, you can imagine what question everybody was asking Mr. DeKay. At first, he would cryptically respond by asking, "Did you see any blood?" To which we all had to think about, as the answer was, "No." After a little prodding, Mr. DeKay finally said that if Carnivàle were picked up for a third season, we could more than likely expect to see Jonesy back.Unfortunately, Carnivàle was cancelled soon after. Way to go morons at HBO! But in the end, I like at least knowing that my favorite character didn't die. I thought you all would too. Like Twin Peaks, too many good shows leave too soon.
Isn't there any obligation to finish this story? It's not like its Sex in the City with a different topic each week. This is an unfinished continual story. It would be like J.K. Rowling saying I've decided not to write the final Harry Potter book. People would be very upset to say the least. I just don't think it's right to hook the viewer's into a series like this one and then cancel it. I think HBO should think hard about doing any type of continuing story line in the future. If they can't guarantee they will finish the story then what is the point in starting it? I didn't even bother to start watching the new series Rome. Here today and gone tomorrow should be the new tag line for HBO.


                
I think Carnivale has to be one of the most incredibly addictive series I have ever seen. However, all my friends seem to disagree.. so I have to ask, am I alone or are there others who feel the same? I mean, the overall darkness of its themes and how brother Justin ties into Hawkins is very compelling. There is also the fact that if I listened to a description of the show, (traveling carnival in the great depression era) I would have never watched it. But I saw every episode in one day, with no real idea what it was about and now I have to say its my favorite HBO series ever... am I alone?? hehe


                
We just finished watching all of the first season episodes in a two-day marathon of 'Carnivaling.' All this watching done in wonderful anticipation of Sundays new episode. We love this kind of story telling - convoluted, curious, brain-worthy and fun. The characters are mysterious, interesting, and yet familiar at the same time. We have found fellow Carnivale followers in unexpected places. You never know who might be an admirer.There can't be enough of this style of entertainment on TV. Don't let anyone say consumers don't appreciate storytelling with panache. Thanks to Daniel Knauf and everyone involved. Continue the GREAT work! Just a note from some of your devoted 'audience' in Albany, NY. We couldn't be the RUBES could we? Naw......LOL!


                
I do not understand why this show is not brought back. Just look at arrested development. they are making new episodes now I think. I think HBO made a huge mistake by cutting Carnivale and Deadwood short.It is strange how some horrible TV shows can go on forever while masterpieces like this one get canned by some corporate executive who knows nothing about brilliant productions and only the bottom line.So sad, but I will always cherish this show.I would say that the entire cast of this show was great, but more important than anything else was the writing and the production (most specifically the imagery used to tell the tale) that made it so special.


                
Carnivale will take you on a journey beyond the normal human boundaries into a world where weirdness and metaphysical wonders will capture your imagination. Once hooked in from the beginning, it is a feast in every sense of the word as you will keep wondering how it will unfold, what course of events will follow. Definitely a story for thirsty adults who are bored with plot driven formulas, and long to enter a world of magic. The acting, visuals, and story delivers! The story focuses on Ben Hawkins, a young man who knows he has the power to heal set in the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. Ben is "lost" and picked up by a traveling Carnivale where seen by the unseen management who spots what Ben really is. Ben's healing power can bring you back from the dead, not just heal you from being crippled as seen in the very first episode, which completely hooked me and I only saw the last few minutes of the show. Ben must come to understand how to use his gift and exactly what seems to happen when the "avatar energy" comes through him. There is conflict inside Ben that creates the back drop for the rest of the story as he figures out who he is. The images inside Ben's mind are both artful and intriguing which keep you wanting to know more. In Carnivale the characters grow and develop, each weaving a wondrous part in the tapestry of good and evil. Some say Carnivale starts out slow, however the level of acting, and story telling delivers past the point fascination, and nothing else out there even comes close!!


                
And so it happened with this TV show, both critically acclaimed and celebrated by fans, that it was cancelled due to an unfathomable (and probably personal) decision of the financing network. Having been one of the most original and addictive programs to be seen on TV so far, Carnivale was set up to run for at least 3, probably 4 seasons and now viewers are left with a lot of questions and no real answers after the show was prematurely terminated after only 2 seasons. This happened to other great shows as well (Futurama, Serenity, Odyssey 5) , many times just because some executives put personal grudges before reason. Let's hope that Daniel Knauf will find a way to give all us Karnies the rest of his epic story, even if it is in novelized form.


                
to write about Carnivale is more than difficult. because it is a perfect show. because, after more a decade, the trace of each episode is fresh. because the mixture of fascination and fear, tension and revelations has the gift to survive in memory and define more than a great series but a kind of experience. the voice of Clancy Brown, the amazing performance of Nick Stahl, the stories, Michael J. Anderson who propose a real special character, the dust of Great Depression and the mysteries as magic chain are bricks of a phenomenon. because you feel about it be more than a series. but one of stories, not many, growing in yourself. and this does Carnivale special.


                
Anyone who has seen HBO's series of Carnivale knows just what the show is made of. It is a critics dream for it encompasses everything one could want in a television show immaculately. The story of a lost man being accepted to join a traveling carnival throughout country America in the 1930s and an obscure immigrant priest at the time quickly whirls into a majestic and intriguing tale with characters of many walks of life and supernatural powers. The actors suit their rolls and perform immaculately to bring to life this epic tale. The cinematography and the precise capture of the history and life at that time make the entire show a truly moving experience.The utilisation of fairly little known actors in this show provide it with the ability to picture these people as their characters without any predisposition to their personality from previous rolls. It also reduces the glamorous appeal that many shows have, which may have been a leading cause as to why it had so few viewers and hence its cancellation, which might I add, has left me heartbroken and yearning for more.The shows appeal comes from many facets and I do implore any of you who may have never seen it or merely saw a couple of episodes to please watch the whole series. It truly is captivation and is a wonderful experience that will enlighten you to the happenings of the times and also to the fabulous abilities of these little known actors who should be recognised for their immaculate work and should be utilised by the film industry more often.The way the show ends (which I will not disclose so as not to add a spoiler) leaves the story very open and I can't live without answers. The film did exceptionally well with critics as many have given it five star reviews. I most certainly do as well as it really does deserve it. It also won many awards and many devotees of the series Carnivale are still in mourning over HBOs decision to cancel such a show of quality in a world of rubbish television with stupid lame humor and boring reality and senseless violence this truly was an outstanding show which everyone must see and which I am so upset to see canceled.If it is on DVD which I am not sure it is yet I do advise everyone buy a copy and then write in to HBO and when they see the sales numbers and the number of people wanting more they'll just have to put it back on air. Please it truly is a breath of fresh air in a world of stale television and movies.


                
I've been watching Carnivàle at least once a year since I borrowed the DVD box from a friend in 2007. I'm a mood junkie, and to me art is something that makes you feel. So far only a few TV series have been able to take me to another world. Carnivàle does it every time. The atmosphere is fantastic: every picture is beautifully shot, every sound is perfect. I love the soundtrack. The writers did an excellent job and the language the characters use is authentic and really funny. The costumes, the locations, everything is just perfection. The acting, casting and directing are superb. Every single character is well developed and I can honestly say that I think they're all great, even the small supporting roles. The storyline is also excellent. It was written in its whole like a novel with 3 volumes. The TV series covers the first volume. There were supposed to be 6 seasons until HBO decided not to make the next chapters. Funnily enough, on the DVD special features is an interview from after the first season where Dan Knauf explains that it's a novel and he points out that it would be awful to start reading a novel and someone takes it out of your hands when you've only read half of it, and he jokes and says how lucky he is that HBO wants to tell his whole story. Tragic! However, at this point, if you surf a bit, it's possible to find information on how the story was supposed to unfold, so that gives some kind of closure after all these years.One more thing there is to say about Carnivàle, if you haven't seen it yet, it needs to be watched several times because it's so multi-layered. And it builds up slowly, but this really pays off for the depth of the story and characters later on, something that is very rare to see on a screen. And of course, it's unfinished but it's still very much worth it and a beautiful experience.


                
Carnivàle is one of the most intriguing series (or movies, for that matter) I've been lucky enough to see, ever. The lack of votes/comments here does not give it the credit it deserves, at all.The show starts a bit slow (first episode), yet the story, and more important, the characters, go through a tremendous and spectacular development and grow with each episode. Some brilliant acting performances are carried out, and I must say the series typecasting has been particularly convincing as well. P. Bauschau (as prof. Lodz) and later J. Savage (Scudder), but especially especially C. Brown (brother Justin) and A. Madigan (Iris) truly do an outstanding job of making their characters shine.The series evolves around the fascinating character development, yet also delivers a well built storyline. Several episodes (though not all) got me to the edge of my seat, whereas the makers have an excellent understanding of how to set up a culmination. The acting and certainly the music strengthen those scenes like they should in all shows.Carnivàle is based upon the approaching clash between everlasting Good and Evil, yet twists both sides into many shades of ethical grays in between. Throughout the tale, the network of parties involved and their roles become more complicated, which keeps the story interesting enough for multiple seasons. Although the end of season one was a little bit disappointing in my eyes, the promise of more (and better) to come made that more than alright for me.A warning must be made here, nevertheless. For although an inevitable clash of the opposing sides actually takes place at the end of season two, the story does not end there, and numerous revelations have just been made, which you will be desperately wanting to see come to fruition by then. But the case is, Carnivàle never made it into a third season. The reason for this I do not know, though it might have to do something with the inability of the mass to receive the value of this masterpiece and therefore the lack of incoming cash. So at the end of season 2, you will have a lot of unanswered questions. Let that not (I repeat, NOT) discourage you from seeing the series; I say it just so you will be prepared...Yet not all is lost, I've just read some rumors about the production of a satisfying ending after all... just don't know about the truth of that, yet. I suggest you read the message board for that.All in all, if you're into intriguing, character driven, fantasy based stories, you're up for a treat. If you don't have the patience or devotion to see the profundity of this show, you better skip it. It'll be your loss.


                
Carnivàle is essentially two stories: the realistic journey of a ramshackle carnival through dust-bowl America, and the magical, pseudo-mythological clash of "Avatars" that bleed blue blood, have high-contrast dreams, and say things in growly voices when their eyes turn black. The stories aren't particularly well intertwined; protagonist Ben Hawkins joins the carnival in the first episode but spends most of his time driving around solving mysteries, and many of the characters never interact with him at all.More significantly, the story lines aren't of equal quality. The grit and dirt of the carnival is compelling; the Dreyfuss family are the show's most interesting characters and the series seems to acknowledge that by making them one of its focal points, even though they have absolutely nothing to do with the (very slowly) developing mystical Avataric conflict. The magical storyline, by contrast, is corny and boring. We all know where it's going the minute Ben Hawkins and Brother Justin are introduced, and nothing much really happens to drive this storyline forward to its rather obvious conclusion until season two. Sure, these characters have a lot of weird dreams, and ominous stuff happens, but few of these episodes drive the story forward in any interesting way, and we're left waiting impatiently for the next carnival scene. Brother Justin's storyline is particularly weak, especially in the first season, and in apparent acknowledgment of the fact, the show spends very little time with Justin, showing him to us occasionally to remind us that he's still there.This show seems to have been conceived as a mythological story, with the carnival serving as a backdrop. That's too bad, because the carnival ends up completely upstaging the awkward "good vs evil" concept. Carnivàle could have probably been in a class with Deadwood if they had stuck with historical drama and cut the magic out completely; as it stands, it's a very mixed bag.


                
For those of you who like this show i am very happy to hear because i dont know what kind of reviews it is getting. I think this show is great and very creative. Think about all the crap that is out on TV. HBO has truly done it again with its string of great shows. The acting is great, especially by Nick Stahl who i think is one of the best young actors around (Bully and In the Bedroom). The Season Finale was amazing and should be looked at when the Emmy nomitations roll around. Im happy to see that there is something very very creative and intriguing on TV instead of watching six friends who live in NYC and say annoying jokes all the time.


                
There is ample evidence that we are presently inhabiting a golden age of television production. I have just completed episode 12, season 2 of Carnivàle. Clearly, the series is only establishing itself at this point. The primary quality metrics I employ are (1) how much do I think about the program when I'm not watching it? (2) How high has it moved up on my list of free-time priorities? and (3) How much do I care about the characters and how events develop? On these three metrics, Carnivàle ranks as (1) a constant daily companion in my thoughts; (2) the most important thing I do in my free time; and (3) introducing me to characters I am only starting to know, want to stay with much longer, and get to know much, much better. May I add that something magical must have happened at this program's auditions? Every character/actor match was inspired. I know that the descriptor "unique" has frequently been applied to this series, and it is an appropriate choice. I can think of no other program that has (1) captured and developed the era of the dustbowl; (2) delved into the world of an itinerant, socially marginal subculture and brought it to life; (3) developed a unique (allegorical) mythology that says something authentic about our actual nature as humans; (4) left me thinking long afterwards about the themes explored by each episode; (5) so gloriously revelled in the magic and mystery of human differences and uniqueness; and, perhaps above all, (6) inspired me with regards to the importance and possibly lasting significance of the moral and spiritual struggles of daily life. If I were to fall into a small fortune tomorrow, I would consider using it to develop Carnivàle's seasons 3-6, as had originally been planned for this series. Bring it back? Carnivàle still lives. Somewhere out there, it is real, even now. I'd sure like to return it to the screen.


                
Carnivale represents HBO at their most ambitious moment. There has been nothing like it on Television, before or after it. Misunderstood at the time of it's original airing, it failed to gain a wide audience but, it is now a cult classic that is worth watching again and again. It is a true masterpiece of storytelling, direction, and cinematography. Very cinematic and epic in scope. It is one of the most original stories ever told on American television. It's Dust Bowl setting is something that has rarely been covered and never as well as it is here. Carnivale is on the surface, a good and evil story but underneath that, There are many complex and thought provoking undertones. Over the course of the series, The stories of each character come together in such a perfect way that it seems crazy that anyone ever questioned it. Carnivale is very much a slow burner for people that want complex stories that require full attention and commitment. The characters are all complex and engaging, The actors all fit perfectly into their roles and do a great job, and every aspect of production is handled perfectly. Way ahead of it's time, If Carnivale were to come along in today's age of TV, It would certainly be more welcomed and seen for what it is. That the show was tragically cut short of it's intended six season plan, Is nothing short of devastating. Even still, It is very much worth watching. By the end of season 2, It does a good job of closing up a lot of the loose ends while opening a few doors for future seasons that sadly never came. I don't know that there has ever been a better looking show either. It is beautiful to look at and hasn't aged a day since it aired. Anyone that enjoys committing to an original concept that requires patience, but also rewards it, Carnivale is the perfect show.


                
This is a perfect show. I think this show may be one of the reasons why Boardwalk Empire was such a huge and deserved success. This is the show that paved the way there. Between these two HBO shows one can get a very real sense of the times. Carnivale is slightly noir as well, and artistically flawless. I challenge anyone with an artistic eye not to stop the scene at any point and not realize they are looking at a form of perfection, tone, color, light and dark, juxtaposition, detail and appropriate detail. The characters are as authentic and moving as if they popped out of a Steinbeck novel.


                
