Story about three buddies (played by Robert DeNiro, John Savage and Christopher Walken) going off to Vietnam. They're all gung ho about going and aren't prepared for what they experience. They all return home--one mentally affected, one physically handicapped and one dead.This came out in 1978 and was immediately hailed as a masterpiece. It was one of the few movies that dealt with Vietnam realistically (somewhat). It also really hit a lot of Vietnam vets and young guys hard. A friend of mine went to see it and after it was over he was in the mens room and saw 4 guys in their 20s crying nonstop. I saw it around that time. I was in high school and was bored silly. I figured at the time I was too young to appreciate it. I saw it years later and was STILL bored.For starters--it's too long--3 hours. The wedding sequence at the beginning goes on and on and ON. You learn nothing more about the characters than you could have in about 10 minutes. Even after they return home it moves slowly. The Russian roulette sequences (which were VERY hotly debated) never happened in reality. There's no proof at all that it ever happened. Also one character makes a living out of playing Russian roulette???? Come on! The Vietnamese are portrayed as victims or monsters--very black and white. No shadings of character. With the sole exceptions of DeNiro, Savage and Meryl Strepp the acting sucks. Seriously--HOW did Walken get an Oscar for this? DeNiro should have gotten it. And the irony at the end (when they're all singing "God Bless America") was SO heavy-handed it was almost comic. Wildly overpraised and overrated. This does not belong in the top 250 on IMDb. A 1 all the way.
This boring, overlong, implausible excuse for a story has psyched out a surprising number of people, thanks to a strong cast (Robert De Niro, Meryl Streep, Christopher Walken), phony but emotionally exploitive material, and American audiences desperate to demonize the winners of the Vietnam war.Any scenes that might have shown combat, snipers, or something that could have really happened in Vietnam are jarringly missing - it practically cuts from Pennsylvania to a POW camp. Then the famous "Russian roulette" scenes are utterly invented, and never happened to anyone in Vietnam (and probably not in any other war). Any honest viewpoint on any war would be preferable. Nam veterans aren't fooled; they hate this movie.Finally, they eliminate Walken's character in a twist that should logically have occurred many years earlier, but happens to take place just as his best friend arrives after ten years. Please! The most amazing thing about this movie is how many people say they loved it. Somehow the alternation of pretentious slowness and violence is manipulative. Its success so confused its director that he became delusional and made an even longer and far more expensive failure, so infamously bad it actually brought down United Artists studio. Still, I suspect I'd like it better than The Deer Hunter.


                
Those other negative comments that suggest that maybe this movie was good when it came out, but hasn't aged well, are dead wrong! I waited in line to see it on Opening Night in 1978. As a Vietnam veteran and a huge DeNiro fan, I was really looking forward to the first big movie about Nam. And it was as hideous, boring, exploitive, senseless, and unrealistic that night as it is now! They're going to Nam the next day?!? Without any kind of basic training or anything? The Walken character survives how many years playing Russian roulette?? How does DeNiro get away with that beard in Special Forces? I knew many soldiers from Western Pennsylvania steel mills, but not one with Walken's blow-dried hair-do that not even New York dancers were wearing till the late '70s! Okay, so let's suspend disbelief and not criticize its lack of anything vaguely realistic. In that case, we are left with a boring, long, boring, disjointed, boring, meaningless, exploitive piece of crap that had nothing whatever to do with the Vietnam War. And did I mention boring? For those who want a movie about the Vietnam War, I recommend Apocalypse Now, Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, and a wonderful almost-unknown Burt Lancaster movie called Go Tell The Spartans that also came out in '78. Almost every Vietnam vet I know liked Apocalypse Now -- almost all thought The Deer Hunter was crap. And Cimino's later career supplies ample evidence for that point of view!
The first hour of this movie concerns a bunch of guys at a wedding reception. They spend their time drinking and not saying much, so we don't know who they are. Hmmmmm. Eventually we learn that these guys are going to 'fight for their country in Vietnam' (apparently without joining the army first.) At this point, you'll really start to go 'hmmmm....' The guys, who work in Pennsylvania, leave the wedding reception, still boxed out on beer, and travel (a 45 minute drive) to the Canadian Rockies to hunt elk. Hmmmm. Next, they show up in Vietnam. Apparently they made a special deal with the U.S. Army to serve in the same squad. Hmmmmm.Next, they are all in a hut in the jungle playing Russian Roulette. I think they are being forced to by sinister villains, but I'm not sure. Hmmmmm.Two of the guys are rescued, but one guy disappears, to pursue a career as world reigning Russian roulette champion. Seven or three or five years later, DeNiro goes back to Saigon to rescue him. Apparently the roulette champion had been lucky enough to last years playing this deadly game and made a fortune. Will his luck hold out? Hmmmmmm. Anyway, The last day the Americans are in Vietnam, and refugees are killing themselves to rush the last helicopter at the embassy, DeNiro shows up on a commercial flight, casually strolling through the Saigon airport. Hmmmmm.I think they call it suspension of disbelief. Hmmmmmm.
How this movie got such a high rating is beyond me. There are maybe two good scenes in the whole thing, which hardly makes it worth while enduring the other 2+ hours of it. The beginning drags on and on, then when the characters are finally in Viet Nam, the scene is ludicrous.For a movie that is suppose to show the effects of war on a group of people living in a small steel mill town, it fails miserably.Seems to me the character development was very weak to begin with, and just gets weaker as it goes. I was so bored and disappointed towards the end of this mess of a movie, that I finally turned it off about 15 minutes from the end. I figured it was a lost cause to continue, and I had already wasted over 2 hours of my life watching this crap.Aside from being painfully boring, with no real character development, ludicrous war scenes, a complete failure to get any point across, and totally non-rational events, I guess it was OK. I'd give it a zero rating if I could.


                
Clearly, there are many people who value this movie. I have no problem admitting that I just "don't get it" -- as long as those who like this movie are open to the idea that, just possibly, there is an elephant in the room that they are overlooking. Actually, from some other comments, it looks like some other people have seen the elephant, but think that it fits well into the room.My case rests on the fact that this is meant to be a "serious" movie, but I have had less trouble suspending disbelief with the X-Men than with this movie: if the main characters had escaped from the Vietcongs using their super-powers, that would have left me less uncomfortable than what I have seen in this movie.Some other IMDb reviewers have mentioned the extreme improbability of Nick making a living out of playing Russian roulette professionally. But the weirdness does not end there, because his buddy Michael returns to Vietnam to rescue him from his insanity. How? why, by playing Russian roulette with him, of course! You might think that this is the action least likely to bring the two of them back together to the USA -- and you would be right, because Nick shoots himself during the game. The way it looks to me is that Michael unwittingly ends Nick's successful career.The earlier escape scene is also absurd. It makes sense that Michael and Nick plan to escape by using the gun they are supposed to play Russian roulette with. It makes sense that they figure they need three bullets to escape. It might even make sense that, before starting to fire at the Vietcongs, they want to be sure that the next chamber has a bullet in it (although the way they make sure would mean a very likely failure for their plan, in real life). But why did the Vietcongs let them keep a gun with three bullets ready to be fired? The escape plan boils down to hoping that the Vietcongs will let them keep a loaded gun, if they survive Russian roulette. Nothing wrong with trying; but the scriptwriters should not have allowed them to survive both the odds of Russian roulette and the odds that at least one of the Vietcongs would use his brain.The Russian roulette scenes are surreal. Watching them, I could feel no suspense whatsoever, in spite of the characters screaming themselves hoarse: I simply could not suspend my disbelief. I had the uncomfortable feeling of missing something: perhaps they were playing some other game that looks a lot like Russian roulette, except that the person with the gun knows whether the next chamber has a cartridge in it. That might help to explain both the escape from the Vietcongs and Nick's survival as a professional player, but it would introduce other difficulties, such as Nick shooting himself.Now, all of the above comments are about the Russian roulette scenes, and it might be said that i am overlooking the rest of the movie: that this is not a war movie, but a movie about the trauma of war. Maybe so, but suppose that you had seen the movie without the Russian roulette scenes: would you think that the movie could be improved by adding a few silly scenes?For me, the addition of silly scenes means that i must take away one or two points from my rating. My rating is already pretty low because I "don't get" the rest of the movie, and in addition because I had high expectations for this movie and was disappointed; so i am giving the minimum rating to the movie as a whole.
I hired The Deer Hunter after a number of people recommended it to me. I thought they were serious. I honestly cannot believe this film is so highly regarded when nothing actually happens. There is three whole hours of nothing. I haven't been so full of hatred for a film since I was forced to watch "the Piano" (another very boring and overrated waste-of-space).Alright, it started out looking good and interesting, showing the very harsh conditions of a Pennsylvania steel mill. It captured my interest. That was in the first five minutes.Then, we are treated to about 55 minutes of a mind-numbingly boring wedding scene. God knows what happened to the editor, but he must have been drunk or on strike or something because what should have been a five- or ten-minute brief explanation became a drawn-out and long-winded dance scene! Next there's maybe fifteen minutes of the main characters going out into the wilderness and murdering a few animals for their own entertainment.Now we finally get into the "war" scenes. When I hired this film I was led to believe that it was in fact a "war" movie. No, it really isn't. Vietnam may be involved and feature part-way through the story, but this is definitely NOT a war movie. All we get is a few seconds of Viet Cong brutality, then a flamethrower and some American choppers dropping off a squad or two of well-equipped soldiers.All of a sudden, we are transported into some kind of Viet Cong mobile water torture station, where unfortunate American (and other Vietnamese, probably South Vietnamese) soldiers are forced to play Russian Roulette for entertainment and gambling purposes. They get slapped around, thrown into rat-infested, half-submerged pits and generally mistreated by the evil VC.Don't get me wrong, the first Russian Roulette scene was very tense and I did hope that Robert DeNiro would blow a hole in the head of the VC leader.However, this is all that happened in the film. After that, nothing at all happened. I gave up just before the two-hour mark. It was just too much tripe for me. I could not believe it was rated so highly. Nothing happened in two god-damn hours! A long-winded wedding, a boring hunting scene and a very poor attempt at a war scene.I stopped watching after two hours. The garbage was finally beginning to get to me. So, to all those who adore and blindly praise this film, I have to ask you: Did you actually watch it, or were you just jumping on the Every-Academy-Award-Winner-Must-Be-Good train? It may well have been a great cinematic work in 1978, but today it certainly doesn't stand up against other older war movies.If you haven't watched The Deer Hunter yet...don't bother. Instead go watch a decent Vietnam film - such as Platoon or Full Metal Jacket. Otherwise, you're just wasting three hours of your life.
This movie is just awful. Take away 1 scene (De Niro shooting the guards) and the average rating for this movie would probably drop 2 to 3 points. And that scene had nothing to do with the actual Vietnam war but was just sort of 'COOL'. I enjoy war flicks and Apocalypse Now is one of my all-time favorite movies.. But this movie just didn't make sense.The editing is terrible.. The wedding scene just goes on and on. I suspect it was the best footage they had shot and they just couldn't bring themselves to cut any of it. Then the war starts.. We see a brief helicopter scene and next thing we know our heroes are in a POW-camp? Excuse me?! What just happened? After that point the movie just gets progressively worse.The plot is just outrageous. You don't have to be a statistician to understand that Walken having a successful career in Russian roulette is absurd.. His successful streak ending just the moment his buddy comes looking for him makes it even more silly. I guess many people see good symbolism for war in the Russian roulette theme and thats part of why this movie scores so high... but come on, you cant reduce the Vietnam war to something that never happened in it..This movie insults my intelligence! Its a silly Hollywood action flick posing as a meaningful war drama.. and quite possibly the most overrated movie of all times!
I won't give a summary or a deep analysis here, just a few questions and commentsIf Mike is so fed up with war when he returns to his hometown, why does he keep on wearing his uniform sporting his stupid medals?Why is the house decorated with flags when he gets home? The protagonists' lives have been destroyed in the name of the Stars and Stripes... is everybody a moron? And why do they sing "God bless America" in the last scene? Is it all some kind of bitter irony I don't unterstand?the Vietcong are depicted as sick, brutal, perverse criminals whose favourite passtime seems to be torturing people; there are no American atrocities shown, however... hmmm...the wedding scene is almost unbearable; 10 minutes would have been more than enough; I guess it was the editor's day off ?the plot is SO predictable and the 'hunter motif' is SO cheap; by the way, shooting animals really sucks, so maybe it's a good thing Mike suffers from a Vietnam trauma in the end


                
Heavy handed and manipulative. You can make a statement about the horrors of war without inventing new atrocities about Viet Nam. This film insults the Vietnamese by suggesting some cultural fascination with Russian Roulette. There are no documented cases of U.S. Servicemen being forced to play this brutal game. Were the Viets really that depraved ?The "combat" scenes were ridiculous. One minute the guys are jumping off a helicopter loaded for bear and the next scene they're in some ramshackle, riverside, POW hut. And the "rat pit" they threw Stevie in for not playing the game was a joke. It was in the middle of the river ! How were the rats able to congregate there ? And if that was the punishment for not playing the game, it sure appeared a better alternative. Do you really think the helicopter would have taken off before Stevie and Mike were secure ? With no food, water, or boots, Mike was supposed to have humped crippled Stevie through the Jungle to "civilization", only to dump him on the hood of a jeep and walk away ?And really, what did Mike, Stevie and Nick have to come back to after the war anyway ? A stinky, polluted, industrial neighborhood destined to become another notch on the rust belt when the 70's economy tanked. (Billy Joel's Allentown). Since when is being a drunken steel worker a vision of paradise ? With or without Viet Nam, they were nonetheless doomed.You want to learn about Viet Nam ? Then don't trust the brain candy from Hollywood to be your teacher. I recommend "About Face" by Col. David Hackworth and "A bright shining lie" by Neil Sheehan. When you've finished those books, re-watch the Deer Hunter and you too can write your own scathing review.This movie has not withstood the test of time. It is never mentioned among the true classics. Not coincidentally, Michael Cimino has done nothing of note since this overbearing debacle.


                
Deer hunter is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, despite it being highly recommended.It was way too slow and completely meaningless. I found myself watching it and halfway, just before I ejected the DVD as I had enough, I realised: Why am I watching this? What is this movie about and where will it lead?There was just no point in this movie. In addition it is a very long movie which makes it even worse.As mentioned before I have only seen half of this movie as I did fell asleep and I do not intent watching the rest.


                
Deer Hunter has the lowest content-per-minute of any film I can recall. It's like listening to the dial tone after your caller has hung up - only not as exciting. Is the film saying something incredibly deep? No. It's just s-a-y-i-n-g i-t r-e-a-l-l-y s-l-o-w-l-y. It has little if anything to say about Vietnam, and pathetically little to say about human psychology in general. It's just endless and empty.About the only decent bit is the Russian roulette sequence. Yes, this is indeed gripping... or, at least, it could have been, within a less bloated package. As it is, it only seems to add insult to injury - as if to say, THIS is how interesting your three hours COULD have been, IF we could have been bothered to come up with an actual story, not to mention the discipline to tell it economically.In a way, the Russian roulette metaphor IS appropriate. Because someone would have to hold a gun to my head before I'd ever watch this bilge again.
I purchased "The Deer Hunter" on the rumours of it being a "classic" and "one of the greatest films ever made" etc.People who have passed these comments can surely only be accused of jumping on the bandwagon.  Never having been a bandwagon jumper, here's my realistic assessment.It is AWFUL.  There is nigh on a hour at the beginning that could have been filmed in fifteen minutes tops.  The Vietnam war scenes are painfully brief with some appalling editing of real footage inserted willy-nilly.  The last, very long, third hour, is if anything worse.  As for the infamous Russian Roulette scenes I began to feel that the Director thought he was on to something interesting and literally "did it to death".Recommend it to someone you hate.  It is a TRULY poor film which the artsy-fartsy brigade have adopted as one of their own.  Well they can buy my copy from a famous online auction site from Monday.1/10 (Only 'cos there is no zero on the voting.)


                
after watching this movie,I find out American is the most racist, lier people in this world. I donn't believe it won 5 Oscars, got 8.2 in IMDb. I am vietnamese and as other vietnamese people, we love our people, we love our country and Never, Never, Never made fun in killing my own people or other, we killing because American push us to do so, we have no choice. the story is turn up side down, from black to white , the Vietnamese people have tried with all their ability to fight the invade then as in movie they become the evil. on the other hand, the US come and invade VN and killing 5 millions Vietnamese people and become heroes, victims of the war. How many people have died because of B52, Napalm bombinng, orange agent.... the most evil thing is they use Vietnamize war, using Vietnamese fighting Vietnamese. If Vietcong are evil like in this stupid movie, how come they win the war? how come they got the strong support from the Civilians? Most Vietcong are the farmer, their life is their land, their ancestor. as the war go on, Us bombing, killing innocent people, these farmer had no choice, they need to fight for their life, for the land, for their country. A loser rewrited the history and get 5 Oscar!!!


                
How did this movie get to be in the top 250? Why is it rated so high? If you have sat through this three hour movie you may be asking yourself this same question. Movies from this era tended to move a bit slower, take their time, and deliver some sort of message on the meaning of life. I have patience and can sit through many slower films. But what drags this film down is that the protagonist Michael (Robert DeNiro) does not hold your interest for 20 minutes, let alone 183. Long scenes such as the wedding reception where we watch the guests dance for 20 minutes leave you wondering, why? What does this have to do with Michael? Does he want to get married? Does he wish he had the life of his friends? Do they envy him? How does this move the story forward?In contradiction to the long scenes, there are several shorter ones that seem to have no point at all. Why was Linda (Meryl Streep) beaten by her father and what did this have to do with the story? At times the movie moved forward too fast, leaving the question, what just happened? I continually felt that I was being left out of some crucial plot points that would move the story forward, or at least keep me interested.Nick (Christopher Walken), would seem to make a far better protagonist than Michael. His character actually went through the most change and his story held the most interest. My guess is that this movie spoke more to the times of 1978 with Vietnam being not to far behind. In that way, one who saw it then might rate it higher. Seeing it today, however, one wonders, "8.1 stars?"


                
All one has to do, is to read the plot synopsis given here by IMDb, to see how ridiculous this movie is. 1) The steel workers in the movie appear to be in their late twenties or early thirties (the actors were all in their thirties at least). They were too old to be drafted and sent to Vietnam. Men like that didn't have to join the army (which at the time would could result in their being sent to Vietnam). They would have hung on to their jobs and gotten married. 2) If by some miraculous twist (practically impossible) of fate they wound up in the Army, they wouldn't have served together in the same outfit in Vietnam. 3) The Special Forces were an all volunteer outfit made up almost entirely of career soldiers who had to meet special qualifications to be selected. 4) Very few of our soldiers were captured by the enemy (most of the POWs were downed pilots). Bamboo (tiger) cages were a scandal notoriously used by our side (not theirs) to imprison enemy "Viet Cong" or NLF combatants or suspects (this was turned around cleverly in the movie, so Americans (the audience) can feel themselves victimized). 5) The absurdity is taken further with the Russian roulette hokum. This is utterly contrived to show the insidious brutality of the "oriental" fiends who seek to unman our red-blooded, masculine, all-American steelworker heroes. While nothing like this ever really happened, the point however is to mimic the famous scene (viewable in the documentary "Hearts and Minds") in which the Chief of Police of South Vietnam puts a pistol to the head of a prisoner with his hands tied behind his back and shoots him dead point blank, again the movie turns the imagery completely around. Lastly, the big lie in the movie is that we poor Americans have been victimized by the diabolical, insidious, inhuman orientals. Our big, strong, hulking men have been rendered temporarily impotent and defenseless against this nefarious surreal menace. In the end our boys loyalty and patriotism sees them through, though they may be physically maimed and will be emotionally scarred for live by what has transpired on this heinous foreign den of inequity. Almost nothing in the plot makes sense nor could it ever have happened save in the fertile imagination of a cunning Hollywood hack. If you like this movie, you've got some growing up to do.


                
As a decorated Vietnam veteran I found this to be the most offensive film about that war yet. It is rightwing hollywood propaganda with little basis in fact and utterly unbelievable character behavior. Obviously made by someone that has never been in the military much less spent a year in Nam. The only film to ever capture the character of the Vietnam conflict is Apocalypse Now, the rest is pretty much Hollywood war movie product.


                
Let me start off by saying this movie has the greatest amount of wasted time in any movie ever created! Ya I know it's for building the relationships in the movie...total failure. After watching that wedding scene I can only think back to the great wedding scene in the Godfather, now that's the way to build up relationships.If Michael would have forced his friends to play Russian roulette at the hunt camp resulting in a bloodbath and end the movie at this point it would have made a much better impact. Overall one of the worst movies possible.Thanks for your time
Wow. After hearing all the praise this movie has gotten , I figured this would definitely be a good watch. After just a half hour of the movie, I became so bored I really wanted to turn it off. I didn't however, and kept the movie running. During the next 2 1/2 hours I was baffled at what people saw in this snooze-fest. It's a horrible movie. Beyond horrible! This couldn't keep you interested no matter what happened. It just drags and drags and drags. A couple war scenes are slightly entertaining, but besides that it totally sucks. In closing, do not judge a book by it's cover. Just because De Niro is in this do not think it will be good. This is probably one of the most overrated and boring movie I've ever seen. Steer clear of this unless you like wasting your time. 0/10 Boring!
I honestly cannot believe why this film get's so much praise. Critics cite this film as one of the greatest achievements in cinema and a true testament to how the Vietnam war can affect certain people, no. This film is a testament of how a director can utterly brainwash audiences with a stupidly long running time, immensely successful actors such as Robert DeNiro (who i do like, but doesn't suit this film), boring and mind-dumminlgy stupid dialogue scenes and of course the pinnacle of my criticism, pretentiousness, to make a film that people coin as a masterpiece, yet again, another, no . Well i am sorry Michael Cimino, it's shocking. I promise to anybody out there wishing to have a career in either film criticism or reviewing to watch this film so you can see that websites like this that brand the deer hunter as one of the best films ever made are not fact or universally acknowledged as perfect.I can honestly, categorically say that this is the most boring, overrated, pretentious, stupid, stiff film i have ever seen. It's crap.
This has got to be the longest piece of self-indulgent slop I have ever seen.  After opening with the longest hour ever filmed with a wedding scene that just went on and on and on and on.  I was waiting for something to happen  When I thought that something was happening, I was let down; more boredom.  Even with my finger on the fast forward button, this movie couldn't move fast enough.  THEN we get to the testosterone driven hunting trip.  I haven't seen this much flagrant mochismo since my Navy days, and not even then.  When we finally get to a plot (and yes it can be found about two hours into the movie) I want to participate in the Russian Roulette just to end my experience with the movie.I own a copy of every Best Picture Winner and this is by far the biggest embarrassment for the Academy.  Heaven Can Wait, Midnight Express, and Coming Home are far better movies and should have beat out this self-indulgence.  I have not seen An Unmarried Woman, but I can bet that it too is better.


                
The only thing that kept me awake through this pointless dribble was my friend's loud snoring next to me. It always puzzles me as to how the academy seems to choose their trashiest most pointless celluloid yawners to give awards to. The following is a brief story flow of everything you need to know about this piece of "art": 1) Bunch of alcoholics at a wedding (forever too it seemed). 2) Bunch of alcoholics hunting. 3) Bunch of alcoholics in Vietnam (maybe - hard to tell as nothing happens there but Russian roulette). 4) Bunch of alcoholics come home 5) Back to alcoholic square one. I guess this great movie is the the equivalent of the holly-weird circle of life?


                
This movie moved a lot of people because of its intense sentimentality, but it is a dishonest movie, a piece of extreme self-indulgence by a director without the ability to discriminate between feeling and fact, or between schlock and art. There are some wonderfully intense scenes in the movie, but they are invalid, pure phony manipulation, because the kinds of things they represent did not happen. This is the worst film I have seen, because of its dishonesty and bad taste.


                
Once in a while a Film comes along that seems to Mesmerize Viewers and Critics with its "New" Approach to Film-Making. After the "Future Shock" wears off the Truth Emerges and the Director is Naked, and the Movie Sinks under its own weight of Transparent Self-Indulgence, Posing as a Clever Artistic Turn, Void of Sustenance."The Deer Hunter" is, as many Now Know, Overrated and with each passing Year Slips surely Downward as it Plummets to almost... "what the?". This is a Stilted, Silly, Incoherent, Disjointed, Dismal, Depressing Film. A full One Hour Opening that Drags on with Repetition and Replays of the Same Scene at a Wedding Party that Demonstrates Only that these Guys are "Tight" and are about to Enter the Service. The constant Over the Top Camaraderie with Sing-A-Longs and Bonding are Embarrassing. They like Throwing Food at one another and Shaking beer Cans a lot. Scenes are Driven to their Breaking Point of Audience Tolerance. The Plot is Ridiculous and Demands so much Suspension of Disbelief from Viewers that many will find it Insulting and Irritating, especially the Jarring Editing from one Set Piece to Another without any Transposition or a minimum of Explanation. Things just Happen, and We're Transported to some more Ugly, Useless, Unnerving Scenes that as a combined Cinema Experience leaves one with a Bad Taste or a Hasty Exit and a Hope for it all to End. Analogous to being a POW, one guesses, but Only Guesses.The Movie is Overlong, Horribly Edited, makes Little Sense, Historically rings Untrue, Boring, Laughably Written, Embarrassing, and just plain Gut-Wrenching Awful.There is Nothing to Recommend except to See this as an Example of how Hoodwinked Critics can Occasionally Misfire this Badly.


                
my first review .. specially to warn others from falling into this trap of IMDb rating... generally i do check the IMDb rating and more or less they are accurate ... but for this to be in the top 250 is absolutely shocking... i waited for the whole freaking 3 hours for something to happen that would maybe make up for the ridiculously high rating .. but so amazingly boring is this movie.. i have difficulty giving it even 1 star ... a complete waste of time ,.. the only reason i can imagine this getting such a high rating is that it shows the Americans as some superheroes and it being completely biased against the Vietnamese.. i m a neutral spectator and don't support either side... but to have such a skewed vision, is unhealthy .. just in the name of getting Oscars... BADDD...


                
