Great cast, great scenes....  blah blah blah.I know this film won lots of awards, and I know i am in a tiny minority, but Oh my goodness, this film bored me to tears.  The first hour, with the wedding and all that stuff.  I know it was "necessary" to set the scene, but it could have been told in 5 minutes flat.When they eventually go to vietnam, I still found the film to be very slow and whilst the gripping scenes get more frequent towards the end, by this time, I had lost interest.I know my opinion will be unpopular but hey, I am not here to win any popularity contests.2/10


                
Another big letdown. I don't simply understand what the others find so amazing about this film. The rating absolutely doesn't fit. The Deer Hunter is long and boring, insulting, full of nonsense and misinformation.One big disappointment has come when I found out that this is no war film. There is a little footage from Vietnam and almost nothing from combat. It is called war film so I expected war. I don't want to speak about the nonsenses like Russian roulette all over Asia, 7 years long Russian roulette career, saving friend from Russian roulette through playing Russian roulette... Man I got sick of Russian roulette here, too much of it. These things have been already mentioned in other reviews.I want to talk about the editing and script. As I thought The Deer Hunter is a war movie, I've expected something like 10 - 15 minute introduction and then training or directly Vietnam war where you can see some gradual character's development through the realism and horrors of war. I was mistaken. After first promising 5 minutes comes the 50 minutes long(!!!) wedding situation which is probably supposed to teach us about the main characters and get like them, but it goes on and on and seems like never-ending bore! It is literally empty! While watching this I was at first like: "Ok, this will last about 10 minutes, no problem." After another 10 minutes: "Ok, half an hour, I can take this." After 45 minutes: "God, it looks like the first half of movie is just wedding!" The pace was so slow and it didn't change during the whole film. Additionally, the amount of information you learn during this sequence could be told in 5 minutes. You learn that our friends like drinking alcohol, doing mess, hunting, shouting, fighting, wasting beer, being loud all the day and that they eventually go to the Vietnam. I've seen movies where such behaviour was funny or at least tolerable, but here it is so annoying when it occurs like each 5 minutes! On the other hand there is nothing told about their background, their motives, how and why did they get to Nam war... I really wanted to learn why Cazale (Stanley) is such an idiot, pointing that little gun at people all the time. The characters are really unlikeable since the beginning except for DeNiro and Walken maybe. The wedding and hunting situation ends with moving moment where one guy is playing piano and others are staring at him.After long 65 minutes!!, the movie immediately moves to a village in Nam, where DeNiro shoots one VC and then meets his friends (what coincidence). There is no explanation of how they joined the army, how they got there, nothing. 10 seconds after meeting, few grenades explode outside the village and at this point the film immediately jumps again to a scene where our friends are imprisoned in a tiger cage in a VC camp. And again no explanation of what and how. While watching the Deer Hunter, I was getting the feeling that the movie is somehow ripped apart, incoherent.This brings me to another issue. I didn't find out what is the main story to follow. Is it the wedding and DeNiro's secret love to Meryl Streep? Is it the promise that DeNiro will never leave Walken in Nam? Is it about the way our friends deal with war? What is it? I think there should have been some main plot, otherwise it's difficult to follow the movie.DH contains heavy load of scenes which are unnecessarily long or unnecessary at all with meaningless dialogues. Consider for example the sequence where they argue about the boots before they go hunt. First of all, Cazale gets out of car and repeats five times: "This is not it." Then they eat, do mess, shout, fight for mustard, throw bags, waist beer and throw food again (Everyone who likes order must find it disturbing and I do). Then, Cazale asks DeNiro if he could borrow his boots. DeNiro says no. Cazale doesn't know if NO means NO or YES so they argue, DeNiro says Cazale forgets boots every time, Cazale says that DeNiro is gay, DeNiro says couple more times NO, friends wonder what is the matter with him and both Cazale and DeNiro end up angry. This lasts almost 10 minutes and every bit of the scene is meaningless! And impact of this scene? It has no impact on the story at all! Movie goes on after this and DeNiro and Cazale behave like nothing has happened. The editor could have cut out this scene and nobody would even notice! You don't see any explanation for what has just happened or what was DeNiro's motive to be so strict about the boots, but it's typical for the Deer Hunter. It is not like there is some room for you to guess how it could have happened. There are some serious story holes in the film.The scenes like these, especially wedding situation where 10 minutes would have sufficed, should have been reduced or deleted and Cimino should have paid more attention to explanatory scenes, which could have made the movie cohesive.Last problem I want to mention is the sound of Deer Hunter. Have anybody of you noticed too, that The Deer Hunter is pretty loud? I mean the voices of our characters are silent in comparison with the noise in the background (factory, wedding, Saigon...) and in order to hear the voices I had to keep volume on higher level, which has made watching the movie really uncomfortable for my ears. I actually loved quiet moments in DH.All in all, The Deer Hunter is one of the biggest disappointments I have ever experienced in film watching. I gave one star more for DeNiro who was in spite of all the cons good as always.
This movie is a disturbing piece of 'epic' crap that I feel is a waste of time and a waste of money.I admit, I do have a Christopher Walken bias. He's the only character I liked in the movie. The Vietnam scenes kicked rump!!! The rest of the movie... dealing with that Pittsburgh-ish town... WTF? That stuff is so boring and retarded. A bunch of drunken ugly people running around and clipping out the set-mics with their terrible yelling and singing. What the heck? I mean, SO much of this movie is dedicated to scenes of people doing stupid stuff. The wedding scene was like 45 freakin minutes long. A standard length movie is like 90 minutes.I don't see any sort of memorable significance to a bunch of people dancing around at a wedding, or a bunch of guys yelling inaudible things in a bar - then singing a cheesy song in unison out of nowhere.Am I supposed to 'get to know' these terrific characters and understand their deep complexities through scenes of them doing random and useless crap? There are some good/meaningful scenes in the movie. De Niro not shooting the deer at the end, Walken blowing his own brains out, De Niro taking that skinny dudes gun away from him and showing him how hardcore nam-vet he is. That's pretty much all. Oh yeah, when they escape captivity back in Nam.The other 2+ hours of footage is lost on me. I can't believe someone would destroy such a good idea for a movie with useless clutter. Oh, the ending scene was hard to watch. Not because it was sad, because it was a total piece of turd-matter. Porkey pig going into the kitchen and crying over the news of his friend (walken) offing himself in Vietnam(after he was pronounced missing/AWOL WAYYYYYY earlier, quite possibly monthsago in the movie). Everyone else sits around and sings "God Bless America".Wow, way to drive the point into my soul *vomit* If this is considered the cinematic eye-opener about the damages of the Vietnam war to communities, well I feel sorry for the American public.I think a lot of people trick themselves into liking this movie way more than any human being should, just because it has a way-rad classical guitar piece throughout all of the poorly executed 'dramatic' scenes. (Cavatina I believe it's called) I have a couple of friends who bring this movie up when we talk about awesome movies everyone should see. WTF? It's in the top 250? HA!
Despite all of the rave reviews and the academy awards, this was a real stinker. While I haven't seen any of the other nominees from 1978, they have to be better than this. It was tremendously long with unnecessary sequences that did absolutely nothing to advance the plot (which was thin at best). I can't believe that this picture won an Oscar for best film editing either. A film student could have done a better job. The acting was mediocre, the script was horrible, and the award for best director is an absolute travesty.From the perspective of a film aficionado, this one has very few, if any, redeeming qualities. In fact, I can't think of one reason to recommend this to any of my friends. If you haven't seen it, don't waste three hours.


                
The Deer Hunter claims to be a film about war, and to believe the hype you might think it was a good one.  It is, unfortunately, neither.  The film consists of a series of disconnected, almost unrelated scenes - you're never given the time to form any emotional attachment to the characters.  Huge swathes of time where this could happen - time that would be the meat of any good movie - is completely skipped in what seems to be an attempt to prevent that bond from forming.Without emotional attachment, the film is boring, trite and cliched.  An obsession with a Russian Roulette theme doesn't make a good movie, and that (apart from some fair acting when dealing with the truly terrible script) is about all the Deer Hunter has. The real question here is how this movie has appeared in the IMDB Top 100 movies (99th at the time of this writing) when it doesn't have a coherent plot, has only average acting and really has no story to tell.There are many much, MUCH better war movies out there.  Give this one a pass, and try any of the others - whatever you choose, it is bound to be an improvement.


                
I have seen and enjoyed many long movies before, but dear God this was absolute trash.  We have three blue collar friends who up and join the Army to fight in Vietnam, they get sent to different units and coincidentally end up on the same battlefield.  That probably took no more then 30 minutes but I would swear it seems like 90.  Robert DeNiro doesn't recognize his friends at first, somehow he just has lost it, never an explanation.  They get captured, play russian roulette, escape, Christopher Walken gets left behind, blah, blah, blah.  I think the movie clocks in at around 2.5-3 hrs. but I swear it feels not like hours but more like days.  An absolutely putrid movie not worth the cellanoid it is printed on.


                
A bunch of 35 year old men decide to quit their jobs, join the army in order to fight in Viet Nam. All wind up in the same Army outfit. All are somehow captured.  Lucky enough to survive a game of 50-50 Russian roulette and escape. If you can swallow all that then I guess you will think it's a good movie.  If a movie is a fantasy like Star Wars I will cut them some slack. If it's supposed to be a serious-message movie at least try to base it in the real world. Maybe the message was too deep for me.


                
This movie is weak.The script is not well written and have a lot of weird things that happen for no reasons.let's see:1)In the beginning why are the wedding scenes so long?even longer than the war scenes?.2)If Walken and De Niro's character were friends,why is De Niro trying to sleep with Walken s girl?3)In Vietnam,what were the chances of all 3 characters(de Niro,Savage,Walken)meet each other in the same place at the same time?4)When they are capture and have to do the Russian roulete the first time,when the vietnamese guy put the 3 bullets in the gun,what are the chances that the first three wouldn t fire?and why was Savage's character so desperate?Was he trying to call the attention from the guards to be the next one to die?5)When they escape from the prison and the chopter comes,why do they left De Niro and Savage s character behind?why didn t they came back?6)When Walken walks in the Russian roulette club,what was De Niro doing there?Did he liked the experience and wanted do see it happen with someone else?And why Walken picked the gun and tried to shoot himself?what he was trying to prove?7)Why did De niro left Vietnam without Walken if later he was going to come back for him?8)When they go deer hunting for the second time,why does De niro did the Russian roulette on his friend?what if that shot was really fired?9)In the end,why did De Niro intended by doing a Russian roulette with Walken? how did walken survived all that time doing the roulete?De Niro only tooked away a good money that Savage s character was receiving. Well it s really funny how can people give this a 10 and some of the say that people that disliked this movie are MTV viewers?''The worst blind is the one that choose not to see.I m giving a 2 because despite all these problems the main characters are performed by great actors and that s the only good thing about the movie.
My major gripes: too long (especially stupid wedding scene...which is Russian Orthodox..which most Americans can relate to, I'm sure..), cheap symbolism (wine on wedding dress=blood and whole "one shot" thing for shooting deer....yeah, I get it, thanks for attempting to be clever), poor character development, bad editing, bad scene transitioning (so we're deer hunting in PA....and then we're in Vietnam and De Niro is lying next to his dead LRRP team..maybe a basic training montage or something to establish how we got here?), obviously there was no military consultant for the film (HAIRCUTS?! I guess it was too much to ask an actor to change his hair for a movie in '78... and De Niro's facial hair?! clearly out of regs, no sense of military bearing among the "soldiers"), why is De Niro wearing his uniform around town every day after he gets back?(when I returned, I didn't want to even look at the damn thing), the script is terrible, and the ending is cheesy as heck (they'er singing God Bless America...at the end of a film about how much war sucks...OH I GET IT, THEY'RE BEING SARCASTIC! DERPA DER!) The roulette scene managed to hold my attention, yet was still a bit outlandish. I have no writing experience and could write a better script than this turd. Avoid this like the plague and instead re-watch Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, We Were Soldiers, or any other war film for that matter...even that piece of crap Hurt Locker.
I can't believe I got this movie. After the first 10 minutes, the boredom of the plot kicked in plus the never-ending wedding!Summary: The story revolves around 3 friends, Mike, Nick and Steven, who have enlisted themselves and are on their way to Vietnam to fight the war. With only the weekend they have left as free men, Steven (John Savage) is set to get married. The wedding, which doesn't seem to end lasted well over an hour of the movie, then skips over to Nick and Mike, who decide to go with some friends and kill a few deer before they get sent away. Then the gigantic leap, the 3 guys are in Vietnam and are held prisoners by the Vietcong and there they learn to play the game of Russian Roulette...guys taking chances to see how long it takes them to empty the gun before the single bullet left in there blows ones head off for no reason...must be a guy thing. Then they escape and Steven ends up losing his legs and his arm and can't stand to go home so he stays at the Veteran hospital. Nick vanishes into the crowd of Saigon  trying to find more action with Russian Roulette and Mike heads on home and shacks up with Nick's girlfriend. 3 hours of complete torture, I found it amusing to see Robert De Niro (Mike) running naked in the middle of the night on the wet streets of Pennsylvania. I wonder if it was really him because that took guts although I really didn't understand why he felt the need to do so, okay I understand De Niro probably got paid enough to do that, but still, it was a shock! Nick, played by Christopher Walken was good, his attitude as the cold as ice guy, who stopped caring about his life and wanted to see how long it took for him to die was well thought out. It suited him. John Savage is a wonderful actor but he gets the worst roles I've seen to date. I must admit his only performance that I've really enjoyed is in the T.V series Dark Angel (Now canceled). He still brings out the best in the dead characters he plays.I rate this movie a 2/10 ok that's too low, let's say 3/10.
Thank god I somewhat missed the 70's.


                
The whole movie is so slow paced and is ultimately way too long, thanks to an overindulgent wedding scene which lazes through the first hour. Has its moments in the second half, but I didn't find this movie rewarding (instead, I found it uninteresting). One of the most overrated movies in history.


                
I just saw this movie for the first time yesterday and felt the need to write a review because I don't understand why this movie won best picture and also has an 8.2 rating on this site.The acting is very good, but besides that the movie is sooooooo long and pointless. The first hour is about one of the friends getting married, no joke an hour. Honestly you would have to watch the ceremony, a lot of dancing and a lot drunk people yelling and screaming, but in no way does this really develop any of the characters.There is also about an hour and a half of dialogue, but the run time is a little over three hours. I'm not saying a movie needs to have dialogue through out the whole movie, but come on that's an extra hour and a half of nothing.I love movies and would never tell anyone to not see a movie for themselves, but this is the first time I have been angry watching a movie that so many people rave about. I was honestly incredibly disappointed and feel that the talent alone could carry this movie but it couldn't. If you feel the need to watch this movie, watch it I just wanted to warn you before you watch that it might not be what you expect.
A bunch of redneck douche bags terrorize a small town, driving recklessly and littering empty beer cans everywhere they roam, they then stumble onto the set of some other movie where a pointless one hour wedding sequence is being filmed, before three of them head over to the next studio where apparently a war movie is being filmed. Douchebag one returns home to continue living the redneck life and steal Doughebag 2's girlfriend; Douchebag 2 can't find his way off the war set, gives up and shoots himself in the head; Douchebag 3 returns home and doesn't speak another coherent sentence for the remainder of the movie. Then they all sing 'God bless Merica'.
Why does Mike go back to Vietnam to find Nick? Be specific with this one and use examples: Mike goes back to Vietman to find Nick because of the guilt he feels. Before the duo left for the war, Nick made Mike promise not to come home from Vietnam without him. After being separated from Nick during the war, Mike returns home without him, and he and everyone else believe Nick to be dead. However, when when Mike visits his friend in the hospital and discovers the money he has been receiving, Mike knows right away that Nick is playing Russian roulette in Vietnam. Since Mike made that promise, he now feels even more responsible for Nick since he was the one who introduced him to the game. Mike goes back to Vietnam to finally bring home his friend for good, alive or dead. Sadly Nick kills himself in the process. Boom goes the dynamite.
Three white, northeastern factory workers in their thirties and early forties, from a tight group of five buddies, somehow manage to enlist in the army during the Vietnam war. This, even though the U.S. military in that era was made up predominately of draftees in their late teens and very early twenties, and even though a disproportionate number of them were black, because few blacks at the time could manage to get the student deferments that kept most white kids out of the war long enough for it to wind down to the point where they didn't get drafted. They are magically transported to Vietnam. Without engaging the enemy, they are taken prisoner and end up as pawns in a gambling game where prisoners are forced to play Russian Roulette. Even though their captors have several rifles trained on them at close range, a miracle happens, and they somehow escape. While still in Vietnam, one of them learns that this variation on Russian Roulette is the national pastime for the Vietnamese. They become separated while in Vietnam, and two of them return home separately. By the time these two meet up again, it has most likely been at least five years since they joined up, but they are all still the same age, still in their mid-thirties and early forties. And still not one black soul, anywhere to be seen. You would think that no black people fought in the Vietnam war. But one of them got stuck in 'Nam, playing Russian Roulette professionally, and evidently was very skilled at it, since he has been sending piles of cash to the one who came home in a wheelchair. The one that ended up in the Rangers, the Deerhunter, goes back to 'Nam to find the one stuck playing Russian Roulette. The Deerhunter finds his old friend Nick in a hidden away, secret room full of Vietnamese gambling on the Russian Roulette game, apparently the same marathon game that has been being played continuously for a number of years. Even though Nick has had the presence of mind to send money regularly to Steve, when Deerhunter finds Nick, Nick doesn't recognize Deerhunter and seems not to have any idea where he is, but knows that he is a professional Russian Roulette player. Deerhunter buys his way into the game, in order to try and talk Nick out of playing. To show Nick that he still loves him, Deerhunter takes his turn. The hammer falls, and Deerhunter is still lucky. Deerhunter again begs Nick to come home with him, but Nick takes another turn, and that's the end of Nick. Deerhunter escorts Nick's body home, and there is a funeral, not attended by any black people.
When the movie opens the town is celebrating a wedding and sending off party for the 3 male leads. Steve is getting married literally just before he leaves for Vietnam. His friends Mike and Nick are going with him to 'Nam, but all have very different personality types. Nick the guy who always has a smile on and a laugh just behind is rearin' to go. While Steve a newlywed is a little more reserved, Mike the most solemn and serious of the bunch has this philosophy: "One shot is what it's all about. You gotta kill a deer with one shot." Which he seems to take to heart when he is forced to shoot at the Vietnamese and Vietcong alike. But near the end of the war, all have been severely damaged whether mentally or physically. Steve is in a veterans hospital in a wheel chair, Mike has PTSD, and Nick is in Vietnam forced into playing Russian Roulette until his killed. Mike goes searching for Nick only to find him a broken man, and unresponsive to Mikes plea's to come home. Mike challenges Nick to a final Roulette, Mike gets lucky and gets a blank, Nicks luck runs out and he shoots himself in front of the onlookers and Mike. When Mike returns with Nicks body the final scene is in the bar where they were together last for Steves wedding. And all in the bar stop for a moment and stare at one another, all wondering if it was really worth losing pieces of their souls to something the government said was a mistake?
Since this movie came out, we've had a movie explosion of gratuitous violence, disjointed strings of intense highlights, and boring writing, so The Deer Hunter is not as notable as it once was. There is no character development and not that much character revelation. The time sequence makes no sense in terms of what is omitted except for the cut to the next intense scene, however improbable the sequence. Because the intensity is pointless, it is boring. The hunting scenes are a farce -- trust me, there are no deer in mountain goat territory. There are 20 seconds of re-watchable violence. Apparently, it was always winter in Pennsylvania back in those days. The 'Russian-American culture' wedding scene was fun. The only likable character is a bartender.It is Hollywood all the way. Screw the writers, feature the visuals, anything spectacular, and sell tickets to gullible teenage boys.


                
