****SPOILERS**** The movie "The Deer Hunter" opens in the small Russian/American Orthodox community of Clairton Penn. back in 1967 with Steven,John Savage,getting married to Angela, Rutanya Alda. The next day Steven and his two close friends Michael & Nick, Robert De Niro & Christopher Walken, spend their their last day together hunting deer in the Pennsylvania woods before being drafted into the US Army.Michael is a crack shot when it comes to bringing down a deer and proves it when he's the only one of the group that also included fellow steel workers Stanley and Axel, John Cazale & Chuck Aspegren. living by the rule "One shot is what it's all about" Michael puts that into practice in his hunting deers, he never has to shoot twice to make a kill. Later in the movie Michael sees that that motto of his can also effect him and his friends just like the deers he's been hunting all his adult life. Sent to Vietnam as a member the elite 101th Airborne we see Michael run into both Nick and Steven during a communist assault on a village that their defending. A moment later the three, together with a number of Vietnamese villages, having been captured by the Viet Cong are being used in a morbid game of Russian Roulette by their Communist Vietcong captors.Steven who refused to play the Vetcong death game is thrown into a underwater cage in the Mekong River where he's attacked by dozens of hungry and vicious water rats who almost chew his legs off. Both Michael & Nick are a bit luckier by playing Russian Roulett since Michael takes the chance by encouraging the Vietcong leader to put three bullets into the gun chamber not the usual one! Michael playing the odds that his chances, together with Nick, is 50/50 he'll have if he's lucky three slugs to put between his commie torturers eyes and be able to put them out and escape with both Nick & Steven. As dangerous as an idea was it worked with the Vietcong getting all that's coming to them, in bullets and rifle butts, from a mad as hell Michael and even madder Nick.If was later that the three friends are separated during the fighting and Michael is the only one who comes back home to Clairton Penn. in more or less one piece. Michael later finds Steven in a veterans hospital with both his legs amputated from the wounds he suffered in the Vietnam War and that Nick is categorized by he US Army as either AWOL dead or missing in South VietnamSearching for Nick, whom he promised to never leave behind, Michael finds that Steven at the Vet. hospital has been secretly getting scores of $100.00 bills over the last few months from someone in Saigon? That someone turned out to be the missing Nick! Michael travels 12,000 miles back to Vietnam to find and rescue Nick but there's just two hitches; first being able to get into South Vietnem with the country about to fall to the Communist North Vietnamese and second finding Nick and then seeing if he want's to be rescued and brought home in the first place.Gut-wrenching movie about friendship in war and in peacetime with Michael trying to put the pieces of his life back together after he was tortured and de-humanized by his war experiences. Michael became so disgusted and angry with killing that when out hunting he couldn't even lift his rifle to aim at and shoot a deer back home in Penn., a sport which he used to enjoy more then anything else.Going back to "Nam" in the spring of 1975 as the US supported South Vietnamese government was on the brink of being overthrown, with what little US personnel left at the US embassy in Saigon about to be air-lifted out of the country, Michael finds Nick playing for high stakes, his life, the brutal and inhuman game that took away his sanity while being held captive by the Vietcong years ago; Russian Roulette. Almost unwatchable final 15 minutes as Michael tries to get poor and heavily drug addicted Nick to come back home with him. Michael even goes as far as of playing a game of "Spin the Bullet" himself to get Nick out of his self-destructive state. Nick had been lucky all these months in the gambling dens of Siagon winning thousands of dollars defying the odds of getting his brains blown out. This time, like Michael always said, "One shot is what It's all about" and it was that one and last shot or bullet that eventually did Nick in.One of the best movies about war ever made that shows it for what it is "Hell on Earth" with a young, 28 year old, and at the time unknown Meryl Streep as Nick's, and and now Michael, long suffering girlfriend Linda. Linda together with Michael Steven and his wife Angela, and all of the friends that Nick left behind in Clairton, attending Nick's funeral sadly say goodbye to him. Later Nicks friends and family solemnly sitting together at the dinner table end the film singling "God Bless America" in what has to be one of the most touching and heart-rendering scenes ever put on film. P.S Michael did indeed keep his promise to Nick, he didn't leave him behind.


                
I had difficulty with the first hour of The Deer Hunter.  My two problems concerned technicalities and length.  In a three-hour movie, I feel everything should function in the narrative or inform the viewer's understanding of the narrative.  That being said, I felt there was a lot of fat that could have been trimmed in the very opening of the film, and especially the wedding.  Meryll Streep's first appearance seemed unnecessary, her getting a drink with Robert De Niro's character, the very opening with the truck, and various shots could have been cut down-production companies might have seen Cimino's future mistakes with Heaven's Gate coming had they paid attention to these issues. I also felt at first that the cinematography and sound quality were poor. It didn't look visually real when I felt it should have, and there seemed a lot of audio inconsistencies (ie background noise that changed from shot to shot).  THAT being said, these concerns were soon put to rest when I saw the reason for cinematography that wasn't aesthetically pleasing.  Once Mikey, Nicky, and Steve went to war, I realized that this movie was meant to seem like a documentary in a way-no fancy cinematography so the viewer could notice a certain amount of work put into aesthetics and think more about that than context.  I felt like I was there and everything was shot on location and the Russian roullette scenes were really happening.  It seemed to me the most real portrait of the Vietnam War I've seen, and I now appreciate movies like Full Metal Jacket which didn't resonate prior to seeing the Deer Hunter. Christopher Walken also gave his most powerful and unforgettable performance that he has not outlasted since.  I wasn't watching Christopher Walken; I was watching his character Nick. This movie is not to be missed, and you won't forget it.


                
Spoilers herein.I admire films well done, and this is certainly one. But it succeeds only by attempting something so simple one wonders if it is worth the emotional investment of the audience. I think I prefer projects like `Thin Red Line' which also put you through the wringer but can transform your soul.The simple thing here is to focus on situation as the driver of the story. The actors (fine actors mostly) form an ensemble that responds. This is radically different than the typical DeNiro picture which has it the other way around. It is the only DeNiro performance I credit as tolerable because he subordinates his presence to the vision of the filmmaker. He does do that with others (notably Scorsese) but in their case, their vision is entirely bounded by the character, so we watch him grimace and prance intently and are supposed to be amazed.The situation here is an America that breaks its people. Quite bleak. The situation shifts to and from Vietnam and the actors react, but there is no mistake that they were terminally damaged before the first scene. The changing situation is like the revolver's chambers, that bullet will appear in one of them. Randomly.In producing the film, sound is used effectively. Again, it is a simple effect (the framing of the church choir) but done well.Ted's evaluation: 2 of 4 -- Has some interesting elements.
I've found myself watching a lot of Vietnam films recently, many by some of the greatest directors of all time. And Oliver Stone. Yet despite it all, I still don't think I've found one that's perfect. When Marlon Brando gasped "the horror, the horror" at the end of Apocalypse Now he could easily have been talking about tedious, navel-gazing Vietnam movies.Maybe it's the subject matter that's so difficult to successfully realise. After all, the conflict is still just two generations away, a painful memory for many, making it a morally dubious venture to serve it up as entertainment. Perhaps as a result, many have tried to disguise the subject, to dress it up with a veneer of pretension. The films are often overlong and worthy, too, with the four I've seen (Born on the Fourth of July, Full Metal Jacket, Apocalypse Now and The Deer Hunter) lasting over nine and a half-hours between them. It sounds ridiculous, but maybe a better way is to present the conflict not as a film, but as a movie. A 90-minute popcorn romp that finishes before it disappears up itself, yet still gets the message across. Decent Vietnam films have been made of action movies (First Blood) and sci-fi/horror (Jacob's Ladder) without the need for any great artistic merit.Probably the most disappointing of all four is Stanley Kubrick's resoundingly average Full Metal Jacket (6), which is technically commendable but never as meaningful as it would like to think it is. Apocalypse Now (7) is a better bet, which contains more of the conflict than any of the other movies, a huge celluloid landscape of explosions and death. It lacks a certain something, though, possibly a little depth, that leaves it only on the edge of greatness. Born of the Fourth of July (6), crammed in between Cocktail and Days of Thunder marks one of Cruise's earliest attempts to break free of the bland macho roles he'd previously attempted. Cruise is fine, though the film's lack of subtlety soon becomes tiresome. The incidental theme by John Williams sounds strikingly like his sentimental swoops for Jurassic Park, but then again he'd got away with Superman/Star Wars for years and no-one had mentioned it. Williams, surprisingly, had a (guitar) hand in the gentle and quite moving theme to The Deer Hunter*.The Deer Hunter, then, is the best of the bunch, the best Vietnam movie ever made... at least up until now. Certainly not a film you would watch for pleasure, it contains the most depth, the most psychologically reaching aspects. It's still not as emotionally reaching as I would like it to be, the film perhaps containing a clinical distance between the viewer and its content. Okay, I realise that alienation and the sense of inner isolation is what the film's about, but even before the characters go to war DeNiro's Mickey isn't quite all there. Some of the characters, such as Chuck Aspegren's loutish Axel with his obnoxious catchphrase "f***in' A!" offer little empathy for the audience. Yet it's really only Walken, DeNiro and Streep who get genuine characters anyway, the rest are just support.I remember being unimpressed with the film the first time round, and I admit that, in the main, I was wrong. Direction is almost flawless by Cimino, though oddly he's never had great success since, his post-Deer CV including the flop Heaven's Gate. Acting, too, is top-rate, and the realisation of Pennsylvanian village life, juxtaposed with life in the Saigon village, is exceptional. The picture scores because the nature of war as evidenced by most directors (loads of helicopters, macho bluster, explosions, and graphic deaths) are largely absent, the film being an intense, character-based piece. The famous highlighted section of the war is Walken, DeNiro and John Savage as POWs, forced to undertake harrowing turns in a game of Russian Roulette. 8/10.* Edited four years later to add: No, it isn't the same John Williams. There's research for you.


                
Despite the fact that the first act of the film might've been trimmed to better effect, The Deer Hunter nonetheless remains one of the finest war dramas. High calibre acting, excellent location cinematography, and an intense sense of realism vis-a-vis the characters' interactions made for a memorable cinematic experience. Regarding authenticity, as for example that of the Russian Roulette torture scenes, of course it is usually better to adhere to documented facts, but artistic liberties are not a cardinal sin if the final product can me improved. These things have to be evaluated on a case by case basis. Still this film merits a very strong recommendation, 8/10.


                
This film had long intrigued me, mostly because of Christopher Walken and somewhat because of Robert DeNiro. But sadly, despite the film's greatness, it just did not hit me in the gut. I'm going to respond to another viewer's thoughts: "I think the reason most people don't like this movie is that it is unnecessarily long... I could have done without the hour long wedding scene, but the reason I really don't like it is that it served little purpose... The Godfather wedding is almost as long, but it deeply informs you about the characters... watching the Deer Hunter wedding was like watching someone's wedding video, and it didn't tell you much about the characters... there are many scenes like this in this movie" Now, I tend to agree. The wedding, which takes up like the first third of the film, was not an effective way to get me to care about the characters. In fact, it caused me to get bored early on, and the war scenes had to un-bore me. Luckily, those are really good. But yes, the film as a whole is long for no good reason, and rather than being suspenseful, becomes tedious. An edit cutting 20-30 minutes out would have done wonders for me.And don't get me wrong, I don't have a problem with long films. Three hours is fine, sometimes even four hours ("Das Boot" and "Lawrence of Arabia") is enjoyable. This one just didn't live up to the reputation, and I don't think it allowed DeNiro or Walken to shine. I expect some day this film will fade from "classic" to "obscure".


                
The Deer Hunter is a powerful, disturbing, but somewhat overlong film about life for a group of young American steelworkers before, during and after Vietnam. In fact, this was one of the first films to deal with the Vietnam conflict. The middle section, set in SE Asia and dealing with the experiences of the men in a Vietcong prison camp, spares us nothing whatsoever in its depiction of the horrors of war.Three young Pennsylvanian steelworkers head off to fight in Vietnam. First, there's Michael (Robert De Niro), an emotionally strong and determined type who is almost homo-erotically protective of his friends. Then there's Steven (John Savage), an unassuming and naïve guy who gets married just before heading off to war. Finally, there's Nick (Christopher Walken), outwardly a normal everyday guy but after the fighting the most emotionally shattered of the trio. After attending Steven's wedding, the guys head up into the mountains for a deer hunt. Soon after that, they head for 'Nam, where they are captured by the Vietcong and imprisoned in a half-submerged swamp POW camp. Occasionally the men are taken out of their cages and forced to play Russian Roulette by their captors, a lethal game in which two men take it turns to place a gun loaded with one bullet against their head <U+0096> the loser being the unlucky one who clicks the trigger when it gets to the loaded chamber. After traumatic experiences in the Vietcong prison, the three guys finally escape but are separated as they make their getaway. After various adventures, Michael makes it back to America, where he discovers that Steven is now a crippled paraplegic following an accident during his escape from the Vietcong. Worse still, he learns that Nick is still in Vietnam, no longer a US soldier but instead a suicidal wreck who plays Russian Roulette night after night in seedy alleys and bars to make money. Michael returns to Vietnam to persuade Nick to come back home with him, but finds the nihilistic influence of war has pushed Nick's mind beyond the point of no return<U+0085>.The performances in the film are absolutely brilliant. De Niro is memorable as a natural born survivor. Savage evokes aching sympathy as the just-married kid who ends up wheelchair-bound before he can enjoy fulfilment with his wife. John Cazale is terrific as Stan, one of the guys from back home who doesn't go to war and who cannot understand how it is that his friends come back so dramatically altered. And best of all is Walken, simply stunning as the vulnerable man who becomes locked in a doomed obsession with the game of Russian Roulette. Less impressive is the rambling script by Deric Washburn, which features heavy-handed symbolism and fails to make any of the film's three main sections as incisive as they ought to be. The script rises to moments of undeniable power, but in between there's a lot of meaningless extraneous detail to be waded through. The moving score by Stanley Mann and John Williams is actually lifted from an earlier film (The Walking Stick, released in 1970) but suits the mournful mood of this film just as perfectly. Heavily symbolic and flawed as it is, The Deer Hunter is still a tremendously compelling movie<U+0085>. and it actually grows in stature the more times you watch it.
The Deer Hunter was one of the group of films that, in a sense, got me into more mature dramas and other types of films almost a decade ago. I remember liking the Deer Hunter, particularly the bulk of the scenes in Vietnam and of Walken in his iconic role as the Russian roulette doomed Nick, even though the wedding scene did seem to 'drag' for me. But watching it again I'm struck by how the grandiose nature of the picture, all of the deep and sorrowful emotions let out through the toll of war on these men, still holds up for me. And the wedding scene, upon a second look, is not as overlong as I thought but a rather brave example of how a real wedding goes on in all of its celebration and bittersweet moments (the scene at the bar where the soldier says 'f*** it' is memorable for me). The Vietnam scenes are likely the best in the film, with a heap of horrific suspense with bits of sick humor (if one were to look for it). Later, there are the roulette scenes, but also contemplative ones with De Niro in the woods, and maybe the most heartbreaking of the scenes with John Savage's Steve at the hospital. It's a film that did deservedly give Michael Cimino his (at first) big reputation for creating a touching, violent epic story of the toll of that most recent war of the time. If it's not as great as the other Vietnam film of the year, Coming Home, it might be because there are some scenes that don't work as well, even with co-stars like John Cazale (sadly his last film) and Meryl Streep. But the amount of things that do click in the Deer Hunter do make it one of those possible 'essentials' for the baby-boomers; it's also, as well, a jolt of a scar war movie at times.


                
For a film that was made twenty two years ago(1978) you'd think that with the growing graphic intensity of films this would be a lame, weak film. If I take an example of a recent war movie, say Saving Private Ryan, yes it is more gory (much, much more gory : think the D-Day Landing scenes) but is it more horrifying and unsettling for it? No. Simple as that : no. The Russian roulette scenes although they take up quite a major part of the story and are shown frequently still shock, horrify and with the voluntary 'RR' scenes dismay. Russian roulette is a 'game' in which a six-shooter is loaded with one bullet and then the chamber is spun and slammed in, so you don't know where the bullet is. You then hold the gun up to your head, pull the trigger and hope. In the Vietcong concentration camps where they are being held captive they are made to play this for the purpose of amusement and for gambling purposes. The sight of grown men being reduced to crying and shaking is simply terrible especially when you know that if you don't do it you are put in the 'cage' (a bamboo cage held in water with about two inches of breathing space left, which presumably when the waters rise, drowns you). It is the concentration camp scenes where one of the films almost fatal flaws comes to light. How did they get there? How did De Niro get from deer hunting to Vietnam on his own? How did his friends in a helicopter find him? How did they then get from there to a concentration camp? How did De Niro find his way through the forest, with a disabled man on his back, to a main road? How did Walken remember his disabled friend enough to send him money yet couldn't recognise De Niro? What were they saying at the beginning? Why does the film have to be so long? The film is an epic at around about three hours but you get the feeling with all of these gaping plot holes it was cut down from five hours! The wedding scenes, which took up an enormous chunk of the movie, bored and didn't seem to get anywhere in terms of anything. The Godfather's wedding scenes were great - there was enough going on to keep you attention, some of the films greatest moments occurred there (the 'My Father made him an offer he couldn't refuse' speech deserves to go down in film's history), the scene was set beautifully and the characters were introduced brilliantly like you knew them personally. The Deer Hunter's wedding scenes did none of this, bar a quite good pre-wedding bar scene involving the song 'Can't Take My Eyes Off You', the characters developed slightly but couldn't they do this in ten minutes and then jump to the deer hunting scenes? The dialogue may have left a bit to be desired as well. I put 'may' though as I couldn't hear it most of the time as what is supposed to be background music was made foreground music with the speaking taking a back seat. I appreciate that it was loud there and it was hard to make yourself heard but the person that they were speaking was right next to them and I don't make a habit of standing next to my telly so I couldn't hear what they were talking about! Turning the volume didn't help as that just made the music louder! I have knocked this quite a bit haven't I? So I wouldn't give it a good mark, right? Wrong. I think this is a brilliant film although it has shortcomings I forgive them all for Walken and De Niro's last frenzied scene, which is perhaps the most powerful, brilliant and shocking scene ever! If you are prepared to spend three hours, some of which tedious, you will come out of the cinema or living room feeling like you have just seen a very, very good film in spite of everything.


                
The Deer Hunter is a different war film than most. There aren't any battles or last stands or any of the typical war games. Instead, it is a look at the people involved and a look into a particular piece of culture associated with the Vietnam War. Clocking in at over 3 hours, this felt like a long movie to me. Parts of it were overlong (like all the pre-deployment stuff, particularly the wedding) and other parts were long enough to get the viewer understand the gravity of the situations that are unfolding on screen. The length of the film worked both for and against it. There is some cheesiness that I didn't enjoy like the random breaks into song, specifically the "God Bless America" at the end came off a little too propaganda-ish for me. However, what carries the film is the psychological effects the war has on the characters and how compelling the Russian Roulette scenes are. Both of these are mostly products of the actors. De Niro, Walken and some of the Vietnamese characters are fantastic. The decision to focus on Russian Roulette is also an interesting one because it's one of the only things that can compare to war in terms of limits of the human experience. The stakes are so high already but when it's put on top of war it becomes something else entirely. The climax of the film is one of the darkest that I have seen. There is also something to be said that this film was made not when Vietnam was a memory like most films we know but instead while it was still a relatively fresh scar on the American populace.
This movie directed by Michael Cimino is supposed to be in-depth examination of the Vietnam War and how its events, impacts and disrupts the lives of three Russian American Soldiers in many ways, when returning back to their small industrial town in Pennsylvania. However, the characters in the film are more traumatic by having to play a game of "Russian Roulette' than anything else, they witnessed. The film really lingers on that in the 3rd act, to the point, that the movie is probably best known as today, as the 'Russian Roulette' motion picture. It has caused some film scholars to question if the movie really deserve all that praise, as it hardly has to do with any real after effects that soldiers came home with from the war. Don't get me wrong, this movie was truly one intense watch. However, I have to somewhat agreed, the flick is indeed highly fictionalized & somewhat unrealistic. Without spoiling the motion picture, too much, the reason for that, is because this 1978 Academy Awards Best Picture Winner was loosely based, first on an unproduced screenplay called, 'The Man Who Came to Play' by authors, Louis Garfinkle and Quinn K. Redeker, about a group of gamblers risking it all in Las Vegas, by playing Russian roulette. However, when producer Michael Deeley bought the screenplay, he hired director Michael Cimino & screenwriter, Deric Washburn, who hate each other, to work together to rewrite it. They did this, by having the deadly game take place in a Vietnamese Prison Camp between capture American soldiers, despite there being no documented cases of the game being played during the war. Regardless, those roulette scenes were shot in real circumstances, in dirty locations with the performers getting real beatings. The reaction from all the faces from all three principal actors, were somewhat genuine, especially Christopher Walken, who had no clue that he was getting slap for real. According to the director, the performers got so method with their acting, they requested, one real live cartridge in the revolver to heighten the intensity of the situation. That's totally insane! It's just as crazy to hear that Robert De Niro and John Savage mostly performed their own stunts, including the 30 foot drop fall into the river, 15 times in two days. They could had really got seriously hurt or even died. They almost did, as during a helicopter stunt, the skids caught itself on the rope bridge, nearly causing the copter to fall on two of the actors. They took a good amount of risk for actors deed too old for the ages, their character was supposed to be. Besides the stunts, the acting in this film is outstanding. There is no better example of this, than the 'One Last Shot' sequence. De Niro's emoting here, is ever brilliant, such a thoughtful performance. While, Walken's character just looks like a dead soul waiting for the body to followed. He's so hollow. What an amazing scene. Not to be outdone, the supporting cast were just as good as the main two. Despite, being a vague stock girlfriend character, Meryl Streep was fine in this role. Streep's then, boyfriend, John Cazale was also alright in the film. It's surprised me, to hear that he was very weak when filming began, due to being diagnosed with lung cancer. You really couldn't tell. Sadly, Cazale died shortly after filming was completed & never saw his work. Nevertheless, not all acting was praise, the film got some criticize on its one-sidedly portraying all the North Vietnamese as over the top sadistic racists and killers. Regardless of that, it's really hard to say, that this movie is an indeed a war film, when technically, the sequences involving Vietnam were a small part of the 183 minutes runtime. Most of the movie takes place, during a wedding. 51 minutes to be exact. Because of that, the movie's pacing has been claim to be, somewhat of a slowed burn to the point that Universal wanted the movie to be trim, even more. I somewhat agreed. Scenes like the drunk nude streaking could had been cut. Despite, the film going way over budget and overschedule. The movie is beautifully shot. There is no better example of this, than the deer hunting scene & the depressing climax involving "God Bless America'. Overall: In spite of backlash from some Vietnam Veterans & War Historians who protest the film during its one theater released. The film was indeed successful enough at Oscars, that Universal Pictures widened the distribution to include major cities. It became a box office success. It made the bucks. In 1996, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". That's how important, this film, has become to some people. For me, the over amount of praise for this movie is bit much. It's like, some critics don't mention, this film's big flaws in their reviews. Regardless of that, the movie is still worth watching. 'The Deer Hunter' might have starts out slow, but in the end, it's big bang. Highly recommended, checking it out.
So this movie is 3 hours long and about 30-45 mins show 'Vietnam war' or at least conflict scenes on the battlefield in Vietnam.
Rest is Drama/Romance/Thriller with scenes in the hometown back in the USA and in a city in Vietnam.
The main theme of the movie is actually an allegory for the Vietnam war and does not show what actually happened back then.
Not too much of 'deer hunting' going on and when it does happen, I wouldn't say it is a crucial part of the movie or maybe I just haven't seen the importance and REAL deeper meaning of it yet.
I like the main idea behind the movie (the allegory I was talking about), also good actors with DeNiro, Meryl Streep (I liked her more back then) and Christopher Walken.
I recommend watching it with breaks or in 2 steps since some scenes seem slightly trivial, but overall it shows great sceneries and creates a story worth watching.
Overall, it is quite a task tbh to watch the movie since it's so long, but it is a war story being told, worth knowing.


                
As a whole, The Deer Hunter feels less like a war focused film; instead, Vietnam and the war serves as a backdrop and an influence on the three main characters at least. This is important to note up front, because this makes The Deer Hunter an interesting study of the main characters before, during, and after the war.The beginning of the movie is long and slow, but it works to show the details of Mike, Nick, and Stevie. We get a good idea from his wedding and the circumstances of his bride, Angela's, pregnancy that he is a naive, but faithful and well meaning young man, who sees a big future ahead of them. Nick shows himself as an optimistic romantic, looking to work in the best of his friends' actions in the hunting trip and at the same time, play by Mike's rules. He also spends much time showing how much he cares for Linda, and openly comments about how he loves the small steel town he lives and works in. Mike, on the other hand, is much less of a romantic, and despite his naked run after the wedding, is shown to have a set of rules he lives by, and this includes his dedication to his friends, and the promise he makes to Nick to bring him home.Being in Vietnam changes things, especially the russian roulette scenes. Stevie, with his emotional naive nature, handles it poorly and winds up in a cage full of water and rats because he misses his head with the bullet. Mike, with his strict rules and self compass, fares better because he is the one who can steel himself against death, and ultimately is mostly responsible for their escape. He tries with Nick, but... Nick can't handle it. Having to play russian roulette against Mike while being encouraged by Mike to do it for their escape breaks him, and this impacts his portrayal from then on.By the end, Stevie is paralyzed and missing both legs, Mike is living with psychological trauma from both his experiences in war, and also the results of his attempt to rescue Nick, who was playing russian roulette professionally in Vietnam. Being forced to do it by Mike has left him in a broken state, and when Mike comes to rescue him, he blows his brains out in a russian roulette match in a disturbingly tragic way. "One shot" indeed. The line shows just how far he had fallen from before, and how much spite he had for Mike inside for the entire experience. Despite Mike's best efforts, he couldn't bring Nick back, even if he technically kept the promise and brought him home. That ending sort of broke my heart too, and I think it was a great way to hammer home the emotional message of the movie. Good movie overall. Would recommend.
In The Deer Hunter, Mike comes back from Vietnam knowing that he wasn't able to bring Nick back with him and Mike knows that he can't break that promise for Nick. When Mike comes back to town he avoids a party at his house and then goes in on his own when only Linda is in there. Linda then reminds him that he hadn't brought Nick back with him and that they think he is AWOL. After being back in town for a couple of days he realized life was too different without Nick, for example he didn't feel right working without him or living in their house with Nick's girl. The last straw is pulled when Mike and the other guys go on a hunting trip and Mike just can't pull the trigger on a deer who had accepted defeat. Mike misses on purpose and realizes that he needs to fulfill his promise because that is the type of guy he is, point A to point B. So, when Mike gets back from the trip he plans to fulfill his promise and try to bring Nick back home, but little does he know Nick has gotten himself in a very dangerous business.
#1. The symbolism for the Russian Roulette sequences. What was the director trying to get at? Do you agree or disagree with his concept? Include with this our discussion as related to patriotism.To me, the Russian Roulette scenes, especially those at the PoW camp, symbolised the risks and dangers that soldiers during the Vietnam War faced every day. There are no documented cases of prisoners being forced to play this brutal game, instead, the screenwriter was trying to show us how Mike, Steve and Nick put there lives on the line just by going over there. He is trying to show how a soldiers life isn't in his own hands while engaging in war, but instead is in the hands of dumb luck. Cimino showed us that the Vietnam War was one big Russian Roulette game and that everyone had to pull the trigger.The movie to me is patriotic on one level in the sense that it pays tribute to the troops by showing the horrors they went through and the impact it had on our lives, the movie showed very well the struggles many veterans went though trying to assimilate back into society at the end of the war. On the same not it showed how pointless and unnecessary the war was and that the US did more harm than good over there.


                
Mike goes back to Vietnam to rescue Nike and bring him back home because he promised to bring Nike home. At first when Mike came back home it seemed he felt that he had not followed through with his promise and had disappointed his family and friends. He avoided the party when he first arrived because he didn't want to face his friends without Nike there. As soon as Mike was home he felt Nikes absence and it seemed extremely uncomfortable for Mike being around Linda without Nike there too. Mike missed his friend and felt he had failed at what he set out to do and so he went back to Vietnam to finish his duty and bring back his friend.
1) The director used the Roulete sequences as a metaphor. When Mike, Nicky, and Steve played the director showed how each were unraveling due to the war. I agreed with the director's use of the roulette scenes, because they showed how each of the three men reacted to the intensity of the game, and inadvertently the war. 2) Steve is by far the most unstable, which we see even when the men are at home. When he tells Mike that he hasn't slept with his fiancé' you know something is off about him. Nicky is also somewhat unstable, due to the fact that he is always willing to bet. Mike is the most stable, which is his strongest characteristic. He has a concrete way of doing things, and cannot complete a task unless it is done step by step. And, because of Mike's strong and stable will he gets through the war affected, but not to the degree of Nicky or Steve. 3) The French character is suppose to represent the image American's had on the war in Vietnam. The French where thought to have lured America into Vietnam and then left when we needed them. 4) Mike goes back to Vietnam, because he told Nicky before they left that he wouldn't leave him. Also, because of Mike's personality he would have had to bring Nicky back home because he was obligated to.
#4. Why does Mike go back to Vietnam to find Nicky? Be specific with this one and use examples.I think that Mike goes back to find Nicky for two reasons. First off, I think that he is just not happy back at home. He has been completely changed in Vietnam, while his friends back at home expect him to be exactly the same as when he left. Michael would like to forget his experiences with the war, but everywhere he goes, someone is there to shake his hand and remind him. It is also easy to see by the way he purposely skips his party and by the way he stays in a hotel that he just wants to get away.The second reason that Mike goes back to Vietnam is that he promised Nicky he would not leave him over there. I think that at first Mike tries to put his promise out of his head, telling himself that it was Nicky's choice to stay. However, Mike is unable to do anything without thinking about Nick. Even though (in reality) it is not Mike's fault that Nicky is still there, hunting with the guys and sleeping with Nick's girlfriend begin to make Mike feel guilty about leaving Nicky in Vietnam. In the end, Mike's devotion to his friend wins out, and he risks his own life going back to get Nick.
The Deer Hunter is most of all a character study. This is why it was absolutely necessary to find the right cast. And the right cast it was. Robert De Niro, Meryl Streep and Chris Walken deliver memorable performances and demonstrate their tremendous acting potential.The film though is not a masterpiece as so many people claim it to be. It takes off due to the performances, for sure, but the script is not that strong. I've found it somewhat incoherent, more of a collection of strong scenes than a flowing story. Also you can't fail to notice the sub-par sound quality and editing.So don't miss it, you have three Oscar-caliber performances in one movie, but having very high expectations may leave you disappointed..


                
QUESTION 4 When mike arrives home from Vietnam he does not go to his home for his coming back party because before he left to Vietnam he said he would not return home without his friends, Nick among them. After being home for a little while he decides to go back to Vietnam to get his friend back and keep his promise. I think that if mike did not go that he would have lived a life of regret and the fact that he did not keep his promise would have built a bigger demon in him than he could handle. When Mike goes to Vietnam to get his friend back,he uncovers a monster that has become of his friend. He finds Nick in a game of Russian Roulette and he is not the same person since the first game he was forced to do. Mike does the best he can to save his buddy, but nick drugged and depressed committed suicide. Although Mike did not return home with his pal, he did everything he could to save Nick, but Nick got the better of himself by suicide. Mike realizes everything and everyone has changed and there is nothing he can do,so he goes back home with empty pockets.


                
#4. Why does Mike go back to Vietnam to find Nike? Be specific with this one and use examples.Mike goes back to V. because no one seems to know where Nike is- after Mike has returned home. Mike has a guilty conscience about the promise the two shared with each other- that they wouldn't leave each other behind. Mike and Nike nearly leave Steve behind, but stop and save him too, because their love and friendship with one another is the most meaningful relationships they've had. If Mike came back from V. alive without them there would be no point to living for him. Nike is Mike's yang. Mike's practical and Nike's a dreamer.
i watched this movie yesterday ,i tivoed it ....i originally saw the movie in 78 amidst the Oscar buzz... now 28 years latter what a treat to watch it again, i remembered so little of it , maybe i was extremely tired that evening ,i am not sure...great performances , great casting and the advantage of tivo is i could fast forward the hunting scenes and the long wedding.....one thing that bothered me was the mountains were the western cascades and not the Appalachians ....this really bothered me why the director would make this choice, a decision i totally disagree with, i know the movie was also filmed in Ohio , you are just one state away from the Appalachians as opposed to 2,000 miles from the cascades.....this is personnel but all the leads in this movie seem to have not aged very well. wonderful movie , if you have not watched it a while do so.


                
Why does Mike go back To Vietnam for Nick? I believe Mike goes back to Vietnam to get Nick because he needs closure. When he returns to his town all his friends are relieved that he has returned and try to edge him back into his normal life, including Nick's sweetheart. He tries to get back to normal in spite of Nick's absence. Even when hunting, he is not the same and cant shoot the deer. When he visits Steve in the Va hospital, he finds that Nick is still alive and heads off to get the piece of life that he is missing. He feels that once he gets Nick back, he can finally move on. When he gets there and sees that Nick has lost his mind and is in the Russian roulette, he gives it one last chance to bring his friend home.
Mike returns to Vietnam because he made a promise to Nicky as his best friend to bring him home to industrial Pennsylvania, no matter what became of them during the war. Mike has always been a person that keeps things in order at all times, especially when it comes to hunting. He is also an extremely loyal friend. It is understood that when he makes a promise, he will do everything within his power to see it through. Once he has returned home, Mike reconnects with Stevie, who tells him that Nicky is still alive. Mike understood from the large amounts of money Stevie had received in the mail that Nicky could be found playing Russian roulette in Saigon. He immediately goes there in pursuit of his best friend.When he finally encounters Nicky, Mike struggles to fulfill his promise, even when Nicky doesn't fully remember him or understand.
In the beginning of the movie Nicky made Mikey promise that he wouldn't leave him in Vietnam. Unfortunately, it was very hard for Nicky to keep that promise considering the circumstances. In a scene where Michael is playing Russian Roulette, Nicky enters the room. The viewer is ultimately confused as to whether or not they see each other. until Mikey chases after Nicky.Later Mikey goes back to find Nicky because he ultimately feels guilty for and goes back to get him. Mikey has an obligation to at least keep his one promise. He already abandoned the "one shot" rule and only had one promise left to keep.Unfotunately, nicky looses to a game of Russian Roulette.
