1978's The Deer Hunter is one of the more polarizing movies to come out during the 1970's. It was the first movie with the deeply controversial subject of the Vietnam War to both become a critical and commercial success. However, there were several people who expressed dissent ranging from its portrayal of the Vietnam War to the controversial involvement of Russian roulette to the singing of "God Bless America." I remember not being too impressed with the film the first time I viewed it. I felt it was too long and violent. Years later, I am singing a different tune. It's a difficult film to sit through because of its violence and the effects of PTSD (post-trauma syndrome). But it is a highly engaging and effective film and I regard it as one of the more influential American movies of the 1970's. Not the best, but the most influential because there will be more successful films tackling the Vietnam War on the horizon.You can call this movie a symphony of some sort. I sort this film into three major segments. The first segment is the longest because of its lengthy and effective characterization. We meet three Pennsylvania factory workers: Michael (Robert De Niro), Steven (John Savage), and Nick (Christopher Walken). They enlisted in the army to serve in Vietnam. Steven decides to marry before going off to war and this wedding also serves as the farewell party. This section is eerily reminiscent of the opening act of The Godfather. There is lots of partying and dancing. And we essentially get to know these characters. These men are hard workers who get drunk at the party because they deserve a night for themselves. After the party, the trio of friends along with another friend Stan (John Cazale) go into the mountains to hunt for deer for one last trip. Hence the title of the movie. I found this section to be incredibly effective in character-building. Director Michael Cimino took his time with his part because it was important to understand these men before they go into the horrors of war.The second movement of our symphony is the actual war. Just like that with a loud noise, the film instantly changes its tone. From the foggy mountains of Pennsylvania to the tropical war zone of Vietnam we go. In one of the most terrifying sequences ever made, the three men are taken prisoner and are forced to play Russian roulette while their captors are betting who will win and who will die. Just seeing the men's faces as they are waiting their turn in the rat-infested cages are undeniably scary. One of the film's controversies is that roulette was not actually played in Vietnam. According to Cimino, he read articles saying they did play roulette although any of this has not been confirmed. But it's one hell of a way to add tension to the movie. You can also take this as a symbol for the war overall. Roger Ebert puts it perfectly in his review, "Anything you can believe about the game, about it's deliberately random violence, about how it touches the sanity of men forced to play it, will apply it to the war as a whole." Essentially, this violence stands for the war itself and what these men face. Now our final act of the symphony is what happens after the horrors of the prison camp. Michael becomes a prominent character here as he returns home and is welcomed as a hero by his townsfolk and his girlfriend Linda (Meryl Streep). But Michael does not feel like a hero. Steven is in the hospital after losing his legs and Nick is somewhere in Vietnam still. Michael eventually goes back to find Nick who happened to take his roulette experiences to heart by playing this game professionally. This section is incredibly sad and moving as here we see what exactly war can do to strong-willed men. It was horrible to watch this transformation on screen. To see these characters we got to laugh with in the first part to seeing them play with death in the final act is sad to see. We also get to see an act of patriotism (or is it?) when the survivors join in a ragged rendition of "God Bless America" in the very end. This movie has a very strong cast, although the only star at the time was Robert De Niro. De Niro instantly became the film's leader and he played Michael very well. He became a bona fide star after his work in The Godfather: Part Two, and he put that stardom to work here. Christopher Walken had some of the strongest scenes in the movie because of his involvement with the deadly game of Russian roulette. Meryl Streep is one of the greatest actresses ever to grace our screens, and this was one of her first big roles. We end this paragraph with a sad note. This would be the last movie John Cazale would play because he was suffering from terminal cancer and he died before the film was released. He was very good as Stan, but you can tell in the movie that he was really sick.Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter is a incredible movie about the horror of wars and it effective covers themes ranging from PTSD to male bonding and friendship. It was one of the first movies to successfully cover the Vietnam War, although I'd say this film may not be the most accurate regarding the actual war. I do commend its effort on conveying the themes of general war though. This film was nominated for nine Oscars and it won five of them including Best Picture. Walken took home the statue for his amazing and tense performance as Nick. The film may be controversial and it may be hard to watch, but it's one you'll remember forever. My Grade: A-
"The Deer Hunter" is not a film about the Vietnam war, as it is wrongly said in many cases."The Deer Hunter" is a film tells the story of 3 friends within about 5-6 years, during which their friendship is repeatedly put to the test.It is primarily a picture of the contemporary life of a group of people around 30 living in a small American town during the Vietnam war.The first hour of the film portrays the every day life of three friends Mike (De Niro), Steven (Savage) and Nick (Walken), who look forward to Steve's wedding but at the same time have to prepare for their commitment in Vietnam. The main actors (above all De Niro and Walken) perfectly picture the character's inner conflict between their easygoing home town life and the forthcoming assignment in Vietnam. Despite this conflict the characters don't show their concerns to their environment.Particularly Nick is worried about him and his friends leaving his home town and perhaps never coming back, but he only tells his best friend Mike of his thoughts, who is much more resolute and sees their engagement as a strong masculine act.Cimino manages to show the simple irrationality of young men, going to a senseless war from which they might never return for the only purpose of glory and approval, and abandoning their settled and happy life for it. The spectator just can't understand why those young men voluntarily sign for the army and give up everything they have. The passage from the small-town-idyll to the war cruelty is greatly pictured. Cimino does not show the three friends' way to Vietnam or the training, he immediately switches from a happy get-together to the cruel war captivity of the Vietcong. This passage perfectly underlines the contrast and the inexplicability of the three men's actions.Although the passage that is set in Vietnam is only about one third of the whole film long, the war is omnipresent at any time, which is probably the best benefit of the whole film, Cimino does not need to bomb the spectator with pictures of crying children, mutilated soldiers or desert battlefields in order to illustrate the cruelty of war. Far from it! The changed behavior of all characters after the friends' returns tell more about wars' capability of changing someone's life, than anything else.And the fact that the many dreams that these three friends had before they went to Vietnam didn't come true, because of their longing for recognition by becoming an acclaimed veteran can even pluck your heartstrings.Cimino's great directing and the cast's awesome acting provide for a touching and honest drama about the friendship of a group of young men, that is destroyed by the Vietnam war.


                
Opening in Pennsylvania steel town that morning, Steven (John Savage) is going to get married<U+0085> Just a few days later, he and his best friends Michael (Robert De Niro) and Nick (Christopher Walken) will join the Army and go to Vietnam<U+0085> All three are made prisoners of war who finally escape their ordeal, although with several complications<U+0085> The terrible experiences that they are subjected to change their whole life<U+0085> Over the course of more than three-hours of screen time, "The Deer Hunter" presents outrageous and impressive scenes of sadistic Vietcong force tossing grenades into shelters filled with helpless women and children, and later forcing American captives to play Russian roulette for their amusement, while the prison guards bet on the result<U+0085> Whatever his intention, Cimino goes courageously forth, staging with power his big end during the fall of Saigon, depicting the trauma of war and the effort of one friend to rescue the other<U+0085> The extreme effects of the conflict provide indelible images, and make us feel the pain, the compulsion, the threat, and the terror of war<U+0085>
THE DEER HUNTER is an extraordinary film--there's no denying that. However, I looked at this film from a slightly different perspective than many, as I first had a chance to watch director Cimino's mega-epic, HEAVEN'S GATE (one of Hollywood's biggest money-losers ever). I am glad I saw this later film first, as it forced me to look for the seeds of the director's downfall--even in his greatest triumph, the five-time Oscar winner, THE DEER HUNTER. Despite THE DEER HUNTER being considered a classic and one of the great films of the 1970s, it was not without minor faults--faults that would become much, much more apparent later in HEAVEN'S GATE.The biggest problem was pacing and editing but the film was so good that you could excuse it. Some parts of the film were long and brilliantly done. The scenes in Vietnam were, if anything, too short--but very, very compelling. The scenes leading up to Vietnam (such as the wedding), however, went on way too long--seeming to place about equal emphasis on this rather banal and unimportant part of the film as the later and much more important part. Editing down the first hour a bit and perhaps even adding some more footage of Vietnam (or leaving it as it was) instead would have been a good thing. Additionally, having the characters act LESS like obnoxious jerks at the beginning would have helped as well--the characters didn't grab you right out of the gate. Both problems were significantly worse in HEAVEN'S GATE--the prologue went on for what seems like days and the characters were even more obnoxious! And, while THE DEER HUNTER comes in at a hefty 182 minutes, this long and slow pacing became interminably long in the followup film--clocking in at an astronomical 219 minutes!! In other words, Cimino only followed his own pattern from THE DEER HUNTER in the next film but expanded it even further--probably the result of his own success he felt he was onto something. However, these complaints do NOT say I am knocking THE DEER HUNTER--I am just saying that these tiny complaints became serious problems in HEAVEN'S GATE.As far as the good in the THE DEER HUNTER goes, the acting is amazing, the direction (though slow) was very good, the music terrific and moving and the film grabs your attention. While I was not quite as bowled over by it as some, you cannot reasonably deny it is a standout film--even with pacing issues and any complaints about the ubiquity of Russian Roulette in Vietnam (geez...what are the chances of TWO games like this or a Russian Roulette league--especially since many doubt that such goings on ever happened in the first place) or there being an elk in Pennsylvania (which, by the way, looks like the Rocky Mountains--which it actually is and 2500 miles from where the hunt in the film was supposed to be). A must-see for anyone who considers themselves to be a film aficionado. Just be aware that the violence is intense and disturbing and the language is amazingly spicy for a 1970s film.
A baroque tragedy portrayed in three emotionally shattering acts set against the backdrop of the Vietnam War. But it's about more than Vietnam: The Deer Hunter chronicles the effects of violence upon ALL people, not just those whom participate in it. I will be careful not to spoil or expose the crucial elements that truly make this film greater than the sum of its parts. We are pulled delicately by both the head and the heart to not merely watch but actually experience the normal, even mundane lives of steel workers as their relationships and the story unfold in a small Pennsylvania town. And maybe it all plays slowly at first - granted the film is not densely plotted - but that's precisely the point, because it's about the people, and not anything else. Amidst the awesome beauty of the Cascade mountains (a more than comparable filming substitution for the Appalachians) the iconic parable of the hunter poetically emerges, unifying the narrative and the roles these men play in each other's lives, and in the world. Then Vietnam. Three go in, and are irrevocably changed by 24 hours at a riverside POW camp...and you will be too. You will never be the same after these few scenes. This is by far the most psychologically intense sequence I have ever seen played out on film. Back home in small town PA the effect is much the same. The cold of late fall underscored by a haunting virtuoso guitar solo encapsulates the loss of innocence and the guilt of living in a world that seems broken. Relationships bloom and wither out of season, and again the hunter, the deer, and the bullet find solace and unexpected reckoning with one another. As the story again shifts to Vietnam, we discover that true insanity is not war or violence, but fulfilling a promise of love in the face of it. Beginning with a wedding and ending with a funeral, you will be devastated by The Deer Hunter. It has been said that the movie is about many things: war, patriotism, violence, friendship, Nixon, religion...far too many topics to list here. And even if it is about any or all of those things, what makes this picture overwhelmingly moving and disturbing is the fabric of love woven through every frame. Although lauded by many technical awards, many of the more superficial, aesthetic characteristics such as cinematography, editing, and sound dubbing are either hit or miss (usually in equal shares). But this movie excels far above and beyond almost every other film made in the past 50 years solely by the strength of the material and the powerful performances. DeNiro for once is simply life-like (as opposed to typically being larger-than-life). Streep is complex and yet pleasantly provincial in this her second film. Walken transforms from a character into a person...and through all of it, we can't help living inside their skin for three hours, because we all know people just like them...we ARE just like them.


                
I can identify a lot with The Deer Hunter because my mother's family were of Ukranian background and my relatives on her side were a whole lot like the people we see here from Clairton, Pennsylvania. They worked in the same factory jobs that these men do and answered the call of their country at war, but in a whole different time. And the grandson of one my uncles recently served in Iraq as a marine.Make no mistake about it, these people for all their personal faults are the backbone of America. They are the folks whose blood gets spilled in the wars we fight. So when they are called it had better not be in an unrighteous or fruitless cause.Robert DeNiro, Christopher Walken, and John Savage are three mill workers from small town Clairton, Pennsylvania. All from Slavic background as my family is and in a time when those of us more educated and more sophisticated and knowing better dodge the draft, these guys enlist and go to Vietnam. The Deer Hunter is about the effects of that war on all of them and all around them.John Savage gets overlooked a lot with both Robert DeNiro being nominated for Best Actor and Christopher Walken winning for Best Supporting Actor, but Savage is the guy most physically damaged, losing a leg as a result of the escape all three make from a Viet Cong prison. He's growing quite accustomed to what he calls the country club of the VA hospital he's in and can't bring himself to come home.Robert DeNiro is a hunter on weekends, as were some in my family. But the sure marksman from before Vietnam, after having to kill people to stay alive, is not about killing defenseless deer any longer. Meryl Streep plays the woman who loves both DeNiro and Walken and she's so totally immersed in her role and her role's ethnic background, I could swear she was one of my relatives.Christopher Walken will blow you away with his performance of the man totally unhinged by his capture with the Viet Cong and the Russian Roulette games they play with the captives. His final confrontation with DeNiro will move you beyond words.Michael Cimino who directed and co-wrote the screenplay got an Oscar for the film and himself and deserved every bit of it. Acclaimed the new genius of the cinema, his next project proved to be an overblown disaster, Heaven's Gate. Not that that film was as bad as it was made out to be, but Cimino's career plummeted and never really got back on track.28 years later I remember the Oscar ceremonies in 1979 when a dying John Wayne presented the Best Picture Oscar for The Deer Hunter. Ironic also because one of the cast member, John Cazale who played one of the friends in Clairton and best remembered for being Freddo Corleone in The Godfather also was dying of cancer while the film was being shot.Although I find it a bit too coincidental that three men from the same small town who join the Army would have the exact same service record, The Deer Hunter isn't really about the Vietnam War. It's about war and what it can do those that serve and to those around them.And this review is dedicated to those that serve.


                
An epic film about both friendship, and the tragic effects that stressful experiences can have on the mind, "The Deer Hunter" would have to be considered the true magnum opus of the late director Michael Ciminos' career. It brilliantly captures the feel of a small working-class town (Clairton) in Pennsylvania, and the camaraderie among a tight-knit group of buddies.It's divided into three parts: their lives before, during, and after their tours of duty in Vietnam. It's a very long but engrossing picture that takes characters and viewers alike on a very emotional journey. It's sensitive, beautifully acted, and extremely well shot in widescreen by Vilmos Zsigmond.Robert De Niro (Michael), John Cazale (Stan), John Savage (Steven), Christopher Walken (Nick), George Dzundza (John), and Chuck Aspegren (Axel) are the friends in question, and at no time do they not feel like real people. Real, flawed, but compelling people whom you really come to love by the end of the picture. Steven and Nick have definitely been shattered by their time in 'Nam, leading to some heartbreaking moments. Indeed, Walken does some of the finest acting of his career, and his Supporting Actor Oscar win was merited. Meryl Streep also shines as Nicks' girlfriend, distraught when for a period of time he seems to disappear into thin air.As has been said, this is not really a film *about* the Vietnam War, and one shouldn't let their political inclinations affect the way they view what is ultimately an interesting character study. One review was correct in saying that these could have been any small-town characters struggling to get by during any time of war.Walken and Savage contribute the standout turns, but this is also a nice showcase for character players like Dzundza, Rutanya Alda (as Stevens' bride), Shirley Stoler (as his mom), and Joe Grifasi. Sadly, poor Cazale was dying of cancer during production and he passed away before he could even see the finished film. Roy Scheider had originally been cast as Michael, but walked off the film after major creative differences. Still contractually bound to Universal, this is why he ended up having to do "Jaws 2".Sometimes intense, and sometimes harrowing, this may demand a fair amount of your time, but the rewards are substantial.Nine out of 10.


                
The Deer Hunter is a Drama/War movie starring Robert De Niro as Michael. Robert plays the role of Michael well and portrays his character as a friendly, polite, creative man who likes to pull people's legs, and he is also a control freak. His goal is to always kill the deer on the first shot and takes this very seriously. The Deer Hunter takes place mostly in Pennsylvania and is about how the US-Vietnam war effects a small industrial town. This is one of the most interesting and unique war movies that I have watched. The way music is used in the production, the excellent work of the cast and the amazing authentic set designs make this film stand out from other war films. The film was a bit longer than I would have liked it to be and there are not many battle scenes. The beginning of the movie has some very light and funny moments which quickly turn into a dark and scary atmosphere, and then into a sad and dramatic mood. The music suits the atmosphere throughout and does an excellent job at taking you through the different settings and allowing you to connect to the characters and story on an emotional level. The timing of the music or lack thereof is done on purpose to add dramatic effect and to give the viewer an idea of what is to come. In the light and funny moments, there are fun love songs playing and being sung and danced along with by the cast in a very entertaining way. The dark scenes are accompanied by scary and mysterious music at the beginning of the scene before any dialogue begins. The actors that were chosen to play each part were authentic, intriguing, and excellent performers. Robert De Niro does an excellent job as the lead of this film, commanding every scene. From the beginning of the movie, this facial expressions and tone reveal much about his personality. In the locker room, we see De Niro character interacting with the other men in the room by shaking each person's hands and grinning profusely. Later on in the film, De Niro must portray the guilt that his character Michael is feeling after falling in love with his injured best friend's partner. Words need not be spoken to convey how Michael's character was feeling inside about the entire situation. The Deer Hunter had beautiful and intriguing set designs. It is obvious that a big chunk of the budget as well as a lot of time, research, and creativity was put into each one. My favourite setting was the church that the wedding was at. It was stunning and it looked very authentic for the time and location that the movie takes place. The church was huge and white with many candles all around and on the pews. There was a choir performing at the front and the aisles full of attendees. There were Jesus and Mary paintings all around and glass stained windows. The big grand chandelier was lovely and romantic as were the many vases of white flowers. I would recommend that anyone who is a fan of Classic Drama War movies to give this film a watch. Although the film is over 3 hours long I feel that it is worth the time that it takes to watch it since there are so much depth and so many interesting scenes. For a war movie, you may expect there to be more battle scenes that are shown in The Deer Hunter, but this is because the movie focuses more on the effects that war has after the battle is over. If I did not already have free access to this film through my Netflix subscription it would be worth it to purchase it as I will definitely watch it again someday. The Deer Hunter is a film that will take you on a roller coaster ride of emotion's as it takes you through the lives of young men and women living in a small town during the war. The boys go out hunting after the wedding is done and before they head out to the war knowing that their lives are about to change forever. This movie is great to watch because of the intense music, the incredible performance of the actors, and the beautiful settings. I would give this movie a 9/10 for the effort put into casting, writing, and creating the costumes/settings.


                
The serene view of small town Pittsburgh life is forever changed for a group of friends who travel thousands of miles away to be shaped by the evils of war.Michael, Nick, and Steven are on the verge of entering the Vietnam War but not before Steven is to be married. An ornate Polish wedding is shown as a time of great celebration between all these friends we come to love so fast. The very display is reminiscent of the love that the community shares for one another.The three embark on the uncertain future, making promises before they go and to the ones they wish to return to.There is no more a powerful montage than that of the pain which is experienced by these three men over the course of their tour.The pain which follows Michael home is only magnified when he encounters Linda and his feelings for her are overwhelmed by his guilt for the broken promise to Nick.I can't imagine a story that hits home more with a newer audience. Especially now with the conflict overseas so much we see our American troops coming home jaded after a dance with the devil just as displayed in this movie. Unable to adjust, mixed feelings from a war that no one wanted. All the while trying to keep together what little pieces of their life remain after such daunting circumstances.This movie should leave you wanting for these characters and embracing the beauty around you.
Michael Cimino may have been difficult to work with, but you can't say he didn't make a good film. "The Deer Hunter" is at its core a very tragic story that will stay in the viewers mind for a while.It showed less about the Vietnam war than I thought it would. But this film is about much more than just that. It's main focus is the story of a few friends and how they all change in different ways, even if they had to endure the same horrible things. It makes you think how some things they went through would affect you. It doesn't move quickly at all and takes its time.I know a lot of War films are about similar subjects, but I think most of them explore it in different and unique ways. This one has its own way of exploring how lost you can become without degrading any other War film out there. It's a very long film, but it's really worth experiencing at least once when you have the time. It's a very affecting great story.


                
I have seen The Deer Hunter 7 or 8 times over the years, and have grown into middle age while it's characters (and actors) remain eternally youthful, and the film always leaves me shaken and near tears. Reading some of the reviews of people who were less than impressed with it, I can see many of their objections as valid. The film is very long. The script is sometimes inchoate, incoherent, and clichéd. The pace lulls you, then yanks you forward. Some plot points are certainly in the realm of coincidence,and the ending is very ambiguous.But the film becomes a country in your mind. The slow start allows you to know these people in the most intimate way. If the script is clumsy and clichéd, it is because the characters are small town people, not adept at tossing off bon mots, and their own experience of movies informs how they express themselves, in ways that are no less sincere for being derivative.The disjointed pacing makes the viewer struggle to follow the story, experiencing the same dislocation and alienation as the three men. And coincidence does happen in life, which is what makes life remarkable.( Charles Dickens used coincidence continuously to great effect!)I think the Cimino's genius in this film was casting superb actors, and giving them the opportunity to breathe in these roles. He shot tons of coverage, and you have the impression that the actors lived, breathed and dreamed in character. Their commitment to the characters they inhabit bridge the gap created by a less than "perfect" screenplay--in fact it makes you feel that every second in this long, lurching movie is absolutely inevitable, totally right and completely necessary to a proper understanding of these people.In fact, the spare script is a simply a vessel that holds these burning performances, and allows the actors room to live in the film. I had the same feeling after the first time I saw this film, as I did with Manon of the Spring, that I had known these people all my life. They take up a very large place in my psyche. I love them, with all their faults and their dreams. They simply don't make films like this anymore! As far as ambiguity is concerned, I'm comfortable with that. A friend of mine from Australia once described his view of American films:"First, they tell you what they're going to tell you, then they tell you, then they tell you what they told you." Kudos to Cimino for leaving his characters, (and us) on the razor's edge of uncertainty, after everything they believed in (except each other) has been devastated by war and loss.The tenderness the characters show each other in the final scenes of the film is transcendently beautiful and poignant, and more important than a well-formulated conclusion.There are no lessons to be learned here, just life unfolding itself in front of you. A very rare experience in cinema.
De Niro stars as Michael, a Pensylvanian steelworker who is also a Deer Hunter that goes into the Vietnam War with his buddies Nick (Christopher Walken in an Oscar winning performance) and Steven (John Savage). After the Vietnam War, just Michael returns home and finds everything has changed all because of his return. Nick is still back in Saigon obsessed with Russian roulette and getting drugged. Michael finds Steven in a hospital without his legs and learns that Nick is sending money to Steven from Saigon. Then Michael decides to go back to Saigon and find Nick.This has definitely got me to cry and it is true. I could not believe when he found Steven in the hospital. I think the film was more about the Russian roulette. It packs an emotional wallop. This film is full of courage. The music score is very moving. I would have liked to have seen more of the Vietnam War in this movie to give us some facts but it won best picture that year so it does not matter if you need the facts. A 9.6/10.
When I saw this film I thought that it was a movie just about the Vietnam conflict. I was wrong. The film is about how the Vietnamn War affected those who fought in it. It shows how even if you were not killed or wounded you came back a different person. It was truly one of the Best films of the 1970's. It deservingly won 5 Oscars including Best Picture and Best Director. The film also had a incredible cast featuring break through performances from Christopher Walken as Nick, and Meryl Streep as Linda. Also not to mention a Great performance from Robert De Niro as Micheal. Another Performance which is sadly forgotten is that of John Cazale who died shortly after the film was finished. This film is truly an epic and a must see. But beware their are two Russian Roulette scenes in the movie and they are scary as hell.
Epic storytelling takes its time but is never boring; riveting performances result in wholly fleshed-out characters who are natural & believable, yet refreshingly unpredictable; so absolutely real & emotional.


                
There is no doubting that is a great film, a monument to a tremendous amount of work and care, a showcase for some of the best actors in a generation, and stunning cinematography. And it was John Cazale's last film, a brilliant ending to a short but incredible career. It won many awards, fixed the director a place in history (and possibly enough power to never have to work in this capacity again), and has gone down in history as one of the greatest films of all time. But it is a flawed masterpiece, as much as those flaws don't ultimately matter when surrounded with such mastery, I couldn't help but notice them on my last viewing. The unconvincing and jarring mid-section surrounding the classic scene with Christopher Walken playing Russian roulette seemed stapled together, from when DeNiro returned to the States, only to return to Saigon and find Walkin's character with such ease and join him at the roulette table. Somehow this seemed forced... But, well there is not much else. The scenes in Vietnam are some of the most realistic and disturbing images ever burned to celluloid, however the Asians in the film come off stereotyped into typical enemy roles (Cimino was later criticized for stereotyping Chinese in his film 'the Year of the Dragon' - apparently he doesn't learn well!), but I suppose thats missing the point- the film is about brotherhood, war, peace, love, devotion, and patriotism. I preferred this to 'Apocalypse Now', another epic Vietnam film by a director who was in no way involved in Vietnam...
I am talking about the Russian Roulette scene, possibly one of the few individual movie scenes vying for "best ever" status. For me, Michael Cimino has reached film greatness in making this gripping, haunting and unbearably, emotionally charged episode. His direction is flawless, down to the minute facial expressions and body movements of even the least important of the secondary characters. The atmosphere of total despair, when the value of human life is brought down to no value at all, is suffocating. Perhaps only stories of survivors from the Nazi Death Camps carry a similar aura. And in the relatively short duration of this inferno-on-film, Cimino takes us through the unfolding stories of his three heroes: Stevie/Savage cracking down under the immense and inhuman pressure, Nick/Walken beginning the process of being gripped by the black dog of madness, and then there is Michael/DeNiro. The viewer - no matter if male, female, straight or not - cannot help but fall in love with this on-screen person, this tower of strength and humanity. If you are ever to be in real dire straights, if you are ever to walk in the valley of the shadows - you pray to your creator to send a Michael/DeNiro to stand by you. I have rated this movie a 9 because it is not a perfect movie, however the Roulette scene reaches beyond perfection, and into the realm of true greatness. Cimino in directing and DeNiro in acting have here reached the very top of the mountain.
I have been reading on here people saying that Nick didn't recognize Michael at the end. But I remember Nick saying "one shot" to Michael, so this leads me to believe he did recognize Michael before he died. Also he must have been lucid enough to remember Stevie because he was smart enough to find out where Stevie was (the hospital) and send him money there.So why didn't Nick come back? Was he so scarred by the Russian Roulette? But if he was why would he keep playing it after he was rescued? Why was he drawn to keep playing Russian Roullette?On a shallow note, that was the prettiest I have ever seen Meryl Streep look.
#4. The reason why Mike goes back to Vietnam to find Nickey is because before they left to Vietnam, after Steve's wedding Mike is sitting butt naked on a basketball court and him and Nickey both promise each other that they won't leave each other in Vietnam and that they will come home together. Well, Mike and Nickey meet up at a small village and get captured and they have to play Russian roulette against each other and they both survive but then they get split up again. Mike sees Nickey at a Russian roulette club where people bet on people playing and Nickey doesn't see Mike and a french guy takes Nickey away and basically brain washes him. So, Mike goes back home and he almost starts to fall for Nickeys girl, and when he goes hunting, he can't shoot a deer because that is what him and Nickey used to do, and when he goes to visit Steve, Steve shows him a drawer full of money and Mike knows that money is from Nickey so Mike feels like he has to go back to fulfill that promise. But when he gets back, Nickey is basically brainwashed or too far gone from drugs that he doesn't remember Mike, so Mike plays Russian roulette against Nickey and right before Nickey shoots himself, he remembers the phrase "one shot" because that is what Mike always said how to hunt deer, is with "one shot".


                
First off, let me say that this movie is not for the weak at heart. It is not a movie that you get the family together on a Friday or Saturday night to watch. It takes a great deal of maturity to sit and watch this movie. This movie is a classic. If you have never seen Robert DeNiro outside of Mob Classics and Comedies, this is excellent example of how great this actor really is at his craft. He was nominated for Best Actor and he should have won. The supporting cast is just as great. Christopher Walken (King Of New York, The Rundown, Batman Returns, Catch Me If You Can, Click(playing in theaters now) won Best Supporting Oscar for his brilliant portrayal of Nick . To show prepare for his Oscar-winning role, he had a diet that consist of only rice and bananas(Can you imagine going through with that diet?. This movie also stars Meryl Streep in one of her early works. Most of the her lines in the movie was ad-libbed(lines improvised by the performer). She was nominated for Best Supprting Actress too. This movie is great all around and it is movie that you will never forget.


                
The Deer Hunter, by Will May 30, 2006 The Deer Hunter follows the story of a group of buddies from an industrial town in rural Pennsylvania to the battlefield of North Vietnam.While in Vietnam, the once close friendships are put to the ultimate test, some fail, and some survive. Some of the characters are driven truly insane. Upon their return form war, the audience can see the damaging affects the war has had on the lives of the townspeople.Robert DeNiro, Meryl Streep, and Christopther Walken give stunning performances, that truly define the phrase: "Character Development". The film triumphs as gripping drama, war epic, and winner of five 1978 Academy Awards.A classic film that everyone should see at least once. 9/10.


                
The Deer Hunter leaks out a sweet languor for periods at a time. It takes its time while also moving determinedly. It is like a marathon<U+0097>we settle into a certain pace, we keep that pace for a long stretch, and then we speed it up if only for a change, in order to inoculate the impending threat of boredom. We enter into another world, as if going on a mission ourselves. In taking this lead towards a war analogy, I will go as far as to say that going off to Vietnam for a good long stay is analogous to watching this movie, while going to you name it for vacation is analogous to watching most other movies. I mean this in a way that does not compare the real life Vietnam to a movie; it was of course much more, well, real than that. I mean that one comes of this movie feeling like he/she has lived in another world, been on a long and meaningful journey there and returned home with some stories to tell about it, and some to keep to himself...


                
Shocking, fascinating, and controversial, The Deer Hunter is a great film with jaw-dropping images of war and the way of life of a few friends of Pennsylvania. The film is quite lengthy, with three significant parts. The first part shows how normal these people are <U+0096> working at the local factory, attending a wedding, drinking at the local bar and enjoying weekend deer-hunting trips. Michael (Robert De Niro) is the apparent "big brother" of the bunch who keeps things under control. When Michael, Nick (Christopher Walken), and Steven (John Savage) get drafted to war, they are shown of war's circumstances and how it affects people's lives dramatically. When they return, nothing seems to be the same: Michael is somewhat alone, returning to Linda (Meryl Streep), Nick's girlfriend, and Steven is in a hospital, almost abandoning his wife, Angela (Rutanya Alda).One of the most unforgettable images of this film is when the friends are captured and must play Russian roulette against each other. I have never seen anything more horrific than the stares they gave each other, what they said to each other, and the screams. That one scene is much more terrifying than the rip-off scene we get from scary movies. It is not only jaw dropping, but it defines the struggle of soldiers in the Vietnam War (as far as film-making is concerned).The performances are fantastic. One thing that I absolutely love about films from the 70's is that you an get De Niro, Streep, Walken, Savage, and John Cazale on one screen and make sure they are not making some holiday movie crap <U+0096> they are still trying to achieve their names as actors, and they are fantastic at it. There are rarely any actors like that now (so who's the next superstar? Orlando Bloom? I doubt it). There is perfect chemistry between the actors. Christopher Walken, in his Oscar-winning performance is brilliant in here: The scene in the Vietnam hospital where he is trying to keep from crying in just one great scene. Meryl Streep (in her first Oscar-nominated performance out of her record 13-nominations and 2-wins) is also incredible as Linda, who is torn between her boyfriend who doesn't seem to be coming home and Michael, her boyfriend's best buddy.The director, Michael Cimino makes The Deer Hunter like a history lesson without making it too melodramatic (which is the word people often use when they don't like it). It has a great story and every scene seems to count <U+0096> even the later Russian roulette scenes with the characters we do not know the names of. I have not seen a better cast than The Deer Hunter, which even improves the film. Even though the ending is a little unsatisfying, what happens is heartbreaking and memorable, as they sing "God Bless Americans" like true Americans who appreciate the country even in such a terrible time.


                
1978's Academy Award Winner for Best Picture, 'The Deer Hunter' is one of the finest American films about the Vietnam War and stands apart as an observational masterpiece - it takes no stands and renders no judgments, only tells a story about little lives caught up in grand themes. Michael Cimino enjoyed the brief acclaim of being a 'the next great director' (his writing was also masterful) based on this film until crashing and burning with the costly failure two year's later of 'Heaven's Gate', a flop that effectively derailed his career. Brilliant performances run through every featured role with a who's who of the past thirty years in the cast...Robert DeNiro gives an electric performance as 'Michael', the controlled, precise tough guy who all admire but who cannot fit in with the 'regular' guys and 'nice' girls in his Pennsylvania steel-mill town. Christopher Walken (Academy Award winner for Best Supporting Actor) and John Savage (Lydecker in season one of 'Dark Angel') both give disturbing and nuanced performances as Michael's fellow soldiers from the same town, and show the range of talent and unique personality that we have all come to depend upon from them as fine character actors ever since. Meryl Streep is a revelation as the pretty local girl taking on the pain of seemingly everyone in the story and trying to keep the tears contained behind her thin smile. Her emotional intelligence and sheer decency jump off the screen and give the town of 'Clairton, PA' it's heart. Character actors John Cazale (Fredo from 'The Godfather'), George Dzundza (Priest on season one of 'Hack') and Chuck Aspegren capture the uncomfortable sense of being the ones who get to 'stay home' as the boys head to Vietnam. Much of the criticism of the film related to the Russian Roulette theme that plays through the film's final two thirds with the argument centering upon whether or not such 'games' were actually played in the war. This is essentially meaningless as the metaphor of random death aptly mirrors the lives of these men and provides a context for telling their tale. Others have criticized as being cynical, a group singing of 'God Bless America' during a painful moment but, once again, this is simply an echo of the ambivalence ALL of us felt during the period and about the war and are still facing today. To this reviewer, this scene is beautifully rendered and holds true to an uncertain group of people juggling pain of loss with their faith, love of country and each other. It's powerful stuff, all the more so as a new war and debate rages, reminding us that whoever is right or wrong, it is those who welcome home the body bags and the damaged warriors who bear the burden for the rest of us.The film contains endless classic lines and did wonders both for the Frankie Valli song 'You're Just Too Good To Be True' (which found new fans from the movie) and for the local PA brewery, Rolling Rock, which capitalized on DeNiro telling Streep at the Wedding Reception bar 'have a Rolling Rock, it's a good beer' - thirty years later, the world is still banging them back.See the 'Deer Hunter' and show it to anyone who wasn't born or doesn't know of the period.


                
The Deer Hunter is, and will forever be, the ultimate guy movie. I'm not saying the ladies wouldn't enjoy it. I think The Deer Hunter has some qualities to it (mainly the performance of Meryl Streep) that women would appreciate, however, not on the level that a guy would. And it doesn't matter who you are, male female, if you were not on the edge of your seat clinching the arm rests during the Russian roulette scenes, check your pulse! That was the fastest my heart has ever raced during a movie. The movie has only one flaw; the wedding reception scene went on way too long. The editors could've cut at least five minutes from that scene. Intense and emotional, The Deer Hunter continues to move audiences even after almost 30 years since its release.


                
I have no clue why this film was received so well. It has nothing going for it. There is hardly anything strong in Christopher Walken's acting, he had a very short performance- why did he win the Oscar? I can't see the point of the movie. The only point that was really illustrated was that people who come out of the Vietnam War were, for the most part, screwed up and brain washed. The wedding sequence is incredibly boring, it is truly a film about trailer trash America, and it seems that Robert DeNiro is the only one who shows good acting along with Meryl Streep. The only scenes that really give the film any hope, are the deer hunting scenes in which incredible choral music is heard. This film is not great- but it isn't bad.


                
