I had the chance to see tonight this movie in "Positif" (a french, highly rated, cinema review) "avant Première". When I made the usual reservation for Positif readers/ subscriber, the reservation told me (and it is listed in the invitation) "we remind you that this movie lasts 3h and 16 minutes....". Unusual....I was aware of that, but , as Michel Ciment pointed out, in his introduction, there are 1h 30 minutes movies which seem to last 4 hours....and here, "on ne voit pas le temps passer" un-consciously used the title of a song by Jean Ferrat).And, indeed, this is true. Very few "important" events happen in the film, but the degradation of the relation between the two main characters takes place little step by little step, and each dialogue is captivating, while the cast (all the cast) is wonderfully playing. Some scenes are surprising by their underneath violence (how a gift turns out to be an insult , and how the outrage is returned, is a flabbergasting sequence) The location in Anatolia, the winter atmosphere, and the remarkable photography adds a piece of charm to the film. At the end, you will remember that it all started by a little stone thrown at a car.... and wonder how you were so much immediately entrapped by the intrigue, so much that it could have lasted as long as the mother and the whore, another lengthy movie, you would not have complained.I do not want to spoil you by describing the plot, but it brings so many reflections about society, aging of a relationship, and a couple, that ... you will want to see it again (which I will certainly do when it is theater released in August). It is an absolute masterpiece, and likely the best film of the decade......(and of course Ceylon best so fat) Go to see it !


                
Winter Sleep is a masterpiece by Nuri Bilge Ceylan, a film shining with literary eloquence and incisive social criticism. Aydin ("intellectual" in Turkish) is a failed former actor, now a hotel owner with sufficient inheritance to make him command the stage as a condescending "king" of a village in Cappadocia. He feels licensed to instruct, intrude and judge, not only on his pitiable tenants, but also on his disaffected young wife Nihal and divorced self-doubting sister Necla. This sentiment ostensibly extends to poor, uneducated and religious classes of the country, making Aydin a stereotype of the Turkish elite. The brutal taming of the horse is an allegory of his marriage; young and pretty Nihal is just another decorative item in his life, not an individual with her own rights and pursuits. Aydin also epitomizes a male-dominated society, cutting across levels of education and affluence. A glimmer of hope comes with a stone breaking the glass. While ruthlessly and decisively able to overpower everyone else in his reign, Aydin is disturbingly challenged by a stubborn 10 year-old boy Ilyas (Arabic equivalent of Elijah, a harbinger of the Messiah). Putting the lens on the perpetually pretending psyche of the western-styled intellectual, Winter Sleep portrays the Turkish nation struggling between the East and the West. Aydin claims to have ideals and ideas but has no intention to make a difference for the good, does not even attempt to empathize with his fellow citizens. His articulate quote from Shakespeare echoes a confession. It's no coincidence that Nuri Bilge Ceylan was charmed by Chekhov, a like-minded author from yet another nation torn between civilizations. Hats off to 2014 Palme d'Or judges for their audacity. By recognizing the value of Ceylan's work, they have enticed global audiences to risk 3 hours 16 minutes of their time to a non-commercial film, a feast of cinematography and acting bundled with literary gratification.


                
Since I saw Uzak (Distant, his first film) years ago and enjoyed it immensely, I've made a point of seeing every film Nuri Bilge Ceylan makes. Unfortunately, his esteem in my mind was gradually fading while others, like the Russian Andrey Zvyagintsev's were rising, his Leviathan is an excellent film. With Winter Sleep, though, Ceylan has made a masterpiece- easily his finest film, and I am in awe of his talent. To make a film that is a character study of a small hotel owner's life at its twilight into such a profound meditation on so many themes...pure genius! And to learn that this movie didn't get nominated for an Academy Award...fortunately the French awarded it top prize at Cannes. It's better than Ida and Leviathan (though Leviathan is a powerful, important film). Extremely well acted; beautifully filmed. The power, though, is in the dialogues...rare the emotional and intellectual intelligence on display here. An absolute must-see for fans of art-house foreign language cinema.


                
The truth is, when you read that this monster of a 3.5 hour film is the shortest 3.5 hour film you would have ever viewed, you don't believe or understand how that could be true... until, at least, you have sat through every satisfying scene of this extraordinary piece of cinema. Every single scene, every single piece of dialogue is acted to and filmed with absolute perfection. The film reels you in from the very beginning and does not let go. The cinematography is absolutely gorgeous. There is no better way the Director Ceylan could have captured Cappadocia. Having visited myself, I feel as though Ceylan has managed to capture Cappadocia on screen better than I ever saw it through my own eyes in the few days I was there. It is horrifyingly beautiful!!And the main character, Aydin, is a treasure to behold. He is such a talented, but yet flawed man, he is so human. Every character Ceylan has created is so human. That's what makes this film sooo amazing! Every character is so different in nature and personality to the other character, yet we somehow manage to relate to every one of them. This is the kind of film where not much happens, but your jaw drops at every scene because Ceylan has filmed reality better than most of us live it. It is honestly quite scary. Most of our lives mutter on without us ever reflecting on it, properly anyway, because we don't really get the chance. However, when you watch Winter Sleep you can see a part of yourself in pretty much every character. You understand every person's actions in the film and there is no greater exemplification that, at least between the three main characters, the line of good and bad is ever so blurred. Everyone has their reasons, everyone has good intentions, but yet people just cannot get along harmoniously because they are naturally different.Anyway, without going too far, the film is deep, and very interesting to watch. However, at the same time, the film is extremely humorous. Not your typical 'comedy.' In fact, if you like 'comedy' you probably won't laugh once during this film. The film is such an accurate portrayal of reality that it is funny. Watching the films as Turks, ourselves, the depiction of Turkish society, the mannerisms, the behaviourisms, and the actions of the characters, it's akin to living and breathing Turkish culture. I can think of many examples throughout the film, but without extending my review too long, I will only provide one example. For instance, in almost every scene, the characters are drinking tea. So typical. In another scene, as soon the characters finish drinking tea, coffee is ordered. It's not just the outcome, though, that is funny. It's the way Ceylan has captured the scene...so brutally honest, there is no sway from reality whatsoever. I was honoured to be one of the first to watch this film at the Nova Exclusive in Melbourne. We were born and bred in Australia, but our Turkish culture is still imminent in us. This film is so universal everyone can enjoy it, yet somehow it is such an accurate depiction of Turkish culture and manifests the problems we humans all face across the globe - it really is no different no matter what nationality, culture or race you come from - ultimately, we all have to deal with relationship dilemmas!!I found it amazingly funny in an interview I read with the director Ceylan who responded to the potential dark humour in the film..."I don't do comedies - I don't like laughing" - or something along those lines. Just as he muttered those words he burst into laughter himself. Ceylan has a tack for intellectual art. He has created something so beautiful it will require many repeated viewings just to digest the full glory of this masterpiece. I would love to re- watch it immediately!!


                
How can you embody so many themes in one single movie with such great care and dedication? This motion picture lets you see everything you want to see and perhaps even more. With this I'll also add, its quintessentially a Nuri Bilge Ceylan film, so you cant expect any over- the-top gesture or quirk. Its life at its natural pace. Whether an audience sees it or not, its there, in all its beauty and tragedy.Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) runs a small hotel in Anatolia with his wife Nihal (Melisa Sozen) and his sister Necla (Demet Akbag). His life appears to be a serene one at first. He seems calm, handles everything with care, looks as if he has a grip on almost everything. But does he?When the film begins we have no idea who these people are and by the film ends, its as if we know their core, so much so that its shocking. That is the power only possessed by great films, which this one is, in my mind.With this film, Ceylan has reached to a whole other level of film- making. He not only co-wrote some of the best conversations ever to be captured on film, but also had the ability to stage and dramatize it. On a personal level, I just feel this is that kind of a film which would be cathartic for some, highly profound for others and some might just find it boring owing to its length. But one thing is certain, it has captured the truth of the characters as one would catch lightening in a bottle (if one ever could). Its worth a watch, at least once, and that goes for every single person on earth!Do catch it sometime.


                
I've spent a long time to write a comment on this movie, as I couldn't rely on my judgment about Nuri Bilge Ceylan, who is one of the best directors that Turkish cinema could have ever nurtured; so it took a very long time. Finally I've come up with something to say. If you're one of the people who's always looking for something worth watching and who are sick of superficial movies with cliché stories, Winter Sleep is what you need. For my point of view, this is Ceylan's second best after Uzak (Distant), the movie which also conquered Cannes Film Festival and many other international festivals.You don't need to know the story – there isn't one. There are only 3 basic characters, let's say, three reflections of beings represented by real actors of this life. It's not a coincidence that the lead character of the movie was once used to be an actor in the story. And Ceylan is using the actor's real life images on stage to dramatize the effect. So it's not easy not to think of what the real actor has done in real life, who also performed in Shakespeare Globe Festival in Antonius and Cleopatra in UK, and the photo background in his room is quite visible. The character always speaks of the virtues "conscience" and "morality", none of which he has, and also he uses the word "ignorance" as if he is in a war with it. He might not seem ignorant to you, but deep down, he is ignorant to what he is and everyone around him. He is like the emperor over a small capitalist system he's created and looking down on everyone as if they were beneath him. This is why he is struggling so hard to make everyone think that he's got all these virtues. However, just like Sartre's play "No Exit", it is through your actions and by other's reflections upon you that you can define yourself. In Ceylan's play, three main characters of "No Exit" is Aydin, his wife Nihal and his sister Necla. Knowing there's no escape in facing the reality, to what he truly is, the fear of losing overtakes him. Either he has to accept his "essence", or leave – a spoiler: he can't leave. He must be in "hic et nunc", he is unable to leave.As a reminder of a play in the movie, Shakespeare's play "Richard III" has the most striking quote of the movie: "Conscience is but a word that cowards use, devised at first to keep the strong in awe". , stating Aydin's fear of exposing his true identity and using "morality" as a tool to fight it. The word "conscience" has sickened his wife, Nihal, who can't accept him for what he is anymore, but she isn't able to "choose" her identity either. Therefore she is stuck with him. And his sister Necla disappears right after the truth is spoken to her face: she has done her part in the play.I must say I am amazed by all the references in the movie and it doesn't really need a plot. Ceylan has outdone himself in writing the scenario and of course, most applause should go to the actors who have done an incredible job, especially Haluk Bilginer in creating such an ambiguous character.And thank you Ceylan for speaking up for what is silenced in Turkey, this movie's going to be remembered with one of Cannes Festival's photos, the lead actors holding the text #Soma. Enjoy.
With his latest, Winter Sleep, Nuri Bilge Ceylan's characteristic obsession with his country's variegated topography takes him to Cappadocia, a remote stretch of the Anatolian countryside whose strange mound-like formations provide the backdrop for an intimate tale of marital take-and-no-give that's been stretched (for no apparent reason other than indulgence) to over three hours. Much like the lead character, a charismatic former actor who now runs the Hotel Othello, Ceylan's film doesn't know when to let an argument rest. The obvious analogue here would be Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage; the key difference lies in Winter Sleep's absolute refusal to let anything be at emotional stake. The husband expounds, his wife or sister rebuts, and then he uses his considerable rhetorical acumen to put them in their place. A subplot dealing with a dispute between the hotelier and his tenant farmers seems left over from an earlier film. And in case there were any doubt as to the fatuousness of Ceylan's approach here, look no further than an excruciatingly protracted scene involving an envelope stuffed with money and a crackling fireplace telegraphs its inevitable conclusion from the start. Perhaps such inexorability is Ceylan's true theme. If so, he still has to answer for taking nearly forever to get there.


                
Absolutely a master piece. How do you the judge the quality of a movie? this is how i judge. Scene, dialogues, settings, atmosphere and the life portrayed have not left me for a second for the past few days after i saw the movie. The little details/nuances have been so carefully thought out that you are thinking to yourself he is really a genius. There are so many levels to human nature and each level has been touched on in such a rich way in the movie such as brother-sister, husband-wife, wife-sister-in-law, father- son, boss-employee, friends-friends, manager-customer, locals-foreigner relationships. You also see the conflict of each character so strongly. The director does not say, but make you live it. You never understand how the time passes.


                
In fact can I trade more? lol, naw, but serious, this this is a masterpiece, I've never read too much of Anton Check! But gosh this was creative writing and mindful and thoughtful and philosophical perhaps I don't know but it rocked! I know it might have moved slow but the thing produced and kept yielding more and more results and if it needed more, then more characters transpired erelong there were universal themes all over the place and all culminating at a terrific climacteric, it just worked. Bravo to whomever would attempt to , I mean someone woke up and said yes I want to do this Anton play into a film! lol, dang... its not a War and Peace spectacle but dang its , I guess it moved me deeply like something with way way more production, I yet do not understand if burning the money was bad or good thing or what? But I do know one thing, I was all emo and then that Creepo walked in and I said outloud 'Oh no! F mE!' cause I had all these plans for that money that might palliate a bit of that wretched families' terrible woebegones but dang, dang, just really cool!
There will never be enough words to describe the perfectness of this masterpiece.I specially have chosen the word "perfect" because of the fact that, for a movie lasts 3 hours and 15 minutes, this is the recipe for it.The first scene of the movie gets you inside so fast that the reality of time comes back when you start up your car in the parking lot.Every character in the movie finds a way to be hated and liked by you time to time, like any person you know in your real life.If there is anything fits perfect for this movie, that definitely is Palm D'or.


                
This film is undoubtedly not only a master work by Nuri Bilge Ceylan,but also one of the best films created recently by any director regardless of origin and/or name. As with the majority of the people who have already had the chance to view the film, its length - the duration - of almost 3,5 hours makes you fear and skeptic. But with the first scene of the film you loose the sense of time and watch the scenes flow one after another more like real life than a man-made film. As with all Nuri Bilge Ceylan films the graphic quality is excellent. But the real power of this work is the realty, the detail and the warmth which the director has given to the characters. I was a bit surprised when the film came to the end. Was it really 3,5 hours spent on a cinema chair or was it a period of life I lived with Aydin Bey (the main character - a former theater artist)?


                
NBC says: "In my scenarios, I don't like to reveal what is in my mind". So I will not use the phrase: -what writer means is-. Instead, the impact of movie on me is, the story is based on two concepts: Willfully hypocrisy and willfully blindness to reality.Those concepts make Kis Uykusu a classic movie. Schubert, Dosto referred movie posture and Kapadokya location support it as well. Another remindings are: Dosto reminding money burning scene, poverty details, Shakespeare, Tarkovsky reminding horse scenes, traditional religion references.The telling is so alluring that every single watcher would be withdrawn to the story and feels similarities to the characters. In the end, it is inevitable since the piece is a classic one. Perfect acting makes it quite easy as well.
Warning: This account has potentially very serious spoilers. Please do not read unless you have seen the movie.I watched Nuri Bilge Ceylan's Winter Sleep this week, twice actually. It was a wonderful, deep, multifaceted movie. There is much I could say about the movie, the rich plot, and the wonderful director (and, with his equally talented wife Ebru Ceylan, screenwriter). So much of it has been said here and elsewhere that I don't need to repeat it. However, I think the story is far richer than even most commentators seem to acknowledge (perhaps they are more circumspect than I). Instead, I will give a very short summary, and then discuss what I think is one of the, if not the, most important parts of the film (and which constitutes a spoiler – this is your second warning). I will generalize somewhat, to partially protect, despite my warning above, readers who have not yet experienced this masterpiece.The film is very closely based on Chekhov's short stories "The Wife" and "Excellent People," with some dialogue being verbatim. As many have pointed out, "Winter Sleep" is a story of how Aydin, a self-deceived man becomes a more self-aware man, although whether his fundamental isolation has changed is ambiguous. At the beginning of the movie, his world is literally rocked. From there, he begins a long and highly ambiguous progression. His beautiful wife Nihal, however, is enigmatic, bored, and isolated in several ways from her husband. She leads, however, a charitable effort to improve impoverished schools in the area. Is it truly altruistic? We see later in the film how her charity seems to be very narrowly focused, and might benefit another character in particular, and herself vicariously.Most fascinating are the tangled webs of relationships in the movie, both acknowledged and unacknowledged. Aydin seems at times to be suspicious of his best friends or distant acquaintances, including one older friend whose complete role we may never understand. Meanwhile, Nihal has even more complicated, even deeply secretive relationships.What sort of secrets? Nihal appears to have an unspoken bond with Ilyas, a poor boy. In an interview with the Guardian (November 13, 2014), Ceylan says that he was inspired by some of Chekhov's short stories, and one in particular, but is reluctant to say which, for fear the film should be seen as an adaptation. "I don't want to talk about it," he says. "It was a starting point. There was a little dialogue, but mainly description. You cannot say there was a story but there was a sense of life there." As both "The Wife" and "Excellent People" are dialogue-heavy, and Ceylan has acknowledged his indebtedness to at least "The Wife," it appears that he is speaking of a third story. The interviewer, however, does not seem to acknowledge that. I think that one relationship is key to understanding the movie, and it appears based on a not-quite-halfway-through part of Chekhov's story "Dreams" (*big* spoiler alert there). "Dreams" includes much speech, but it is more like a monologue. Transferring a description of a familial relationship described there to the film requires some reversals of roles, but the absolutely critical personal decision about class and choice remains the same. (Intriguingly, "Dreams" also includes a dog as a touchstone, and barking dogs are one of the curious motifs of the film, extending even after the final fade).To me, this deeply complicated relationship explains so much of the movie, from the launching of a projectile at its beginning to actions (and silences) later. Nihal has a sharp, visceral, almost unexpected reaction at a key point, which is explained by this bond, as are key actions at the end of the film. Even without the "Dreams" connection, the relationship seems clear.Viewers may disagree. It deepens the film's moral ambiguity. Some may object on chronological grounds, but Nihal's youth seems to admit of several possibilities (although one seems most plausible). Perhaps the most critical piece of seemingly contradictory information occurs when Nihal seems to mistake the ages of two other characters (earlier, Aydin does this). However, her body language and the pauses seems to me to indicate a serious attempt at deception, rather than genuine ignorance on her part. Particularly important glances between Nihal and Ilyas are also exchanged at various times during the movie, seeming to acknowledge what goes unacknowledged. What remains silent in this movie is often as profound as what is spoken.In just one example, a dialogue occurs early on where Aydin's sister reproaches herself and says that if she had remained with a troubled individual, that person might not have sunken to their currently low state. Nihal, like all of us would, assures her that that is not true and that she should not be taking the blame. (There is also a veiled reference to a "truth" that was spoken years previously – undoubtedly important but never explained). Later we see, however, that the dilemma over what action should have been taken in the past extends to the her life too - that a third, troubled character could conceivably be a better person if relationships had turned out differently (and yet another might have been benefited too). This interpretation regarding "Dreams" makes this early dialogue, which otherwise raises some "why is this in the movie" questions, even more rich and meaningful. At the end of the movie, it is Nihal who realizes that the assumptions (and self-deception?) under which she has been living have been irrevocably changed. An open question remains how many characters are aware of this secretive relationship - I would argue at least two, based on the pregnant glances. That may also explain the violent, if futile gesture at the beginning of the movie.Because of this movie's deeply involved, moving plot, wonderful acting, and unexpected richness, this is one of the most profound and best movies I have ever seen.
I cannot believe how beautiful this movie is. The acting is particularly mesmerizing, it attracts you into the screen right away, and keeps you wanting more every second and that is because very little of character history is told in the movie. You have only little to predict what will happen, what can happen in the silence between each strike in the conversation. If you recall, I said "the acting" as if I am talking about every actor in the movie. You are correct, every single actor in this movie is incredible, but I have to give it to Demet Akbag, she particularly inspired me with her talent. It was so beautiful that I couldn't believe she was acting and thought if she was like that in real life too. It's a shame we only saw very little of her. The symbolism in the movie screams at your face in almost every scene, and you feel like you can't hold up with all these complex characters and metaphor etc. Aydin, Nihal and Necla's personalities sometimes wave into each other, and only after the movie you realize each character was actually transforming each other's personalities. The growth Aydin goes through is only so much (which was more believable) and the way to it was told was very well.I will be watching this movie to see more, to feel more. I am not humble enough to NOT say "I didn't understand this movie" but I am humble enough to say, "I only understood very little about this movie". I always liked movies that makes you say "I have to see this again!" after you watch them, and if you too, then you MUST watch this.
NBC, the director is an engineer and philosopher of axiology. His technical skill is gifted with an artistic approach. He's not directing, he's mastering his thoughts on screen. This film tells a story about values, relations, customs, behaviours and simply "human things." It's a little bit long but it's also part of the story. You have fun in life, as well as boredom. You have time, as well as a need of time continuously. A moment may be too long but life may come short. We're not satisfied with what we have. Time is an example of this valuation. Time is a measure of our relativity. Winter Sleep demonstrates this in an artistic way. If you're a kind of curious, you'll ask some questions when the film is over. Human relations will be a philosophical opportunity. You'll enjoy bounding ties between relations and relativity.


                
An epic, great film, one of the masterpieces of cinema of all times. The acting is absolutely fantastic, the actors actually take a grip of the viewer and one cannot but be bewitched by them. The setting in Anatolia and shots are great, contrasting greatly with Western cinema so full of clichés and stereotypes about relationships. Each scene is like a painting, a painting which breathes of life, simplicity, and complexity at the same time. The story is to be understood on multiple levels, yet there are great questions to be answered probably only after the film has finished, it contains probably some of the great themes of humanity, all surrounded by the great enigma we call 'life'. A great film for all times.


                
