Set in Cappadochia, central Anatolia, WINTER SLEEP (KIS UYKUSU) focuses on the life of Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) a retired actor who now runs the Hotel Othello. The name is significant, as it reveals his true preoccupation with performance, a trait reinforced by the framed bills on his study wall. With plenty of family money at his disposal he has no need to work, but that does not stop him from screwing every penny out of his tenants with the help of his henchperson Hidayet (Ayberk Pekcan). Although perpetually drawing attention to his poor background and unhappy childhood, it's clear that Aydin's life revolves totally around himself; and that the only way he can salve his conscience is to make charitable donations, preferably anonymously. With KIS UYKUSU we are back on thematic territory that director Nuri Bilge Ceylan previously explored in KASABA. He readily acknowledges Chekhov as an inspiration for creating a world where no one has much to do except talk to one another. Aydin busies himself with a variety of tasks, including writing a column for the local newspaper and writing a book on the history of the Turkish theater. His sister Necla (Demet Akbag) spends much of her time lolling on the sofa and wondering whether she should forgive her ex-husband for an unhappy marriage. Aydin's wife Nihal (Melissa Sözen) is equally indolent; her sole aim in life seems to be to chair a committee of prosperous locals dedicated to raising money for the local school.Stylistically speaking KIS UYKUSU is slightly different from Ceylan's earlier work; there are fewer reflective sequences designed to prompt reflection on the landscape and the elements, and more face-to-face confrontations between the protagonists. They emphasize the basic emptiness of their lives, as they have nothing to but talk and talk, in contrast to their tenants - for example the local imam Hamdi (Serhat Kiliç) who wonders about taking a second job so as to make ends meet. On the other hand these lengthy conversations draw attention to the protagonists' love of surfaces; unable (or unwilling) to engage with life's realities, they would rather talk at rather than with one another.The unbelievable landscapes of Cappadochia in winter, with its fairy chimneys and unspoiled Anatolian terrain, offers a point of contrast to the characters' musings. While they spend their time both literally and mentally imprisoned within Aydin's hotel, the landscape offers a reminder of timeless virtues, as well as the fact that nature continues to flourish in spite of humanity's best attempts to destroy it.The film comes to a climactic conclusion when Ceylan brings the indolent characters into contact with those forced to eke out an existence in harsh conditions. Nihal offers a financial gift to Hamdi's family; but fails to understand how such an act of apparent goodwill represents the ultimate insult. As Hamdi's brother Ismail (Nejat Isler) contends, it is nothing more than conscience money to atone for the fact that Aydin's family were responsible for causing Ismail's son Ilyas's (Emirhan Doruktutan's) pneumonia earlier on in the film. Meanwhile Aydin discovers to his cost that the local educator Levent (Nadir Saribacak) has a jaundiced view of all wealthy philanthropists. Yet such experiences do not lead to any form of redemption. The film ends with Aydin and Nihal sitting morosely in their deserted hotel, looking out of the window at the snow-covered vista beyond, imprisoned by their lack of perception.This film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes; it deserves every success. A modern classic.
I had the chance to see tonight this movie in "Positif" (a french, highly rated, cinema review) "avant Première". When I made the usual reservation for Positif readers/ subscriber, the reservation told me (and it is listed in the invitation) "we remind you that this movie lasts 3h and 16 minutes....". Unusual....I was aware of that, but , as Michel Ciment pointed out, in his introduction, there are 1h 30 minutes movies which seem to last 4 hours....and here, "on ne voit pas le temps passer" un-consciously used the title of a song by Jean Ferrat).And, indeed, this is true. Very few "important" events happen in the film, but the degradation of the relation between the two main characters takes place little step by little step, and each dialogue is captivating, while the cast (all the cast) is wonderfully playing. Some scenes are surprising by their underneath violence (how a gift turns out to be an insult , and how the outrage is returned, is a flabbergasting sequence) The location in Anatolia, the winter atmosphere, and the remarkable photography adds a piece of charm to the film. At the end, you will remember that it all started by a little stone thrown at a car.... and wonder how you were so much immediately entrapped by the intrigue, so much that it could have lasted as long as the mother and the whore, another lengthy movie, you would not have complained.I do not want to spoil you by describing the plot, but it brings so many reflections about society, aging of a relationship, and a couple, that ... you will want to see it again (which I will certainly do when it is theater released in August). It is an absolute masterpiece, and likely the best film of the decade......(and of course Ceylon best so fat) Go to see it !


                
Winter Sleep is a masterpiece by Nuri Bilge Ceylan, a film shining with literary eloquence and incisive social criticism. Aydin ("intellectual" in Turkish) is a failed former actor, now a hotel owner with sufficient inheritance to make him command the stage as a condescending "king" of a village in Cappadocia. He feels licensed to instruct, intrude and judge, not only on his pitiable tenants, but also on his disaffected young wife Nihal and divorced self-doubting sister Necla. This sentiment ostensibly extends to poor, uneducated and religious classes of the country, making Aydin a stereotype of the Turkish elite. The brutal taming of the horse is an allegory of his marriage; young and pretty Nihal is just another decorative item in his life, not an individual with her own rights and pursuits. Aydin also epitomizes a male-dominated society, cutting across levels of education and affluence. A glimmer of hope comes with a stone breaking the glass. While ruthlessly and decisively able to overpower everyone else in his reign, Aydin is disturbingly challenged by a stubborn 10 year-old boy Ilyas (Arabic equivalent of Elijah, a harbinger of the Messiah). Putting the lens on the perpetually pretending psyche of the western-styled intellectual, Winter Sleep portrays the Turkish nation struggling between the East and the West. Aydin claims to have ideals and ideas but has no intention to make a difference for the good, does not even attempt to empathize with his fellow citizens. His articulate quote from Shakespeare echoes a confession. It's no coincidence that Nuri Bilge Ceylan was charmed by Chekhov, a like-minded author from yet another nation torn between civilizations. Hats off to 2014 Palme d'Or judges for their audacity. By recognizing the value of Ceylan's work, they have enticed global audiences to risk 3 hours 16 minutes of their time to a non-commercial film, a feast of cinematography and acting bundled with literary gratification.


                
Since I saw Uzak (Distant, his first film) years ago and enjoyed it immensely, I've made a point of seeing every film Nuri Bilge Ceylan makes. Unfortunately, his esteem in my mind was gradually fading while others, like the Russian Andrey Zvyagintsev's were rising, his Leviathan is an excellent film. With Winter Sleep, though, Ceylan has made a masterpiece- easily his finest film, and I am in awe of his talent. To make a film that is a character study of a small hotel owner's life at its twilight into such a profound meditation on so many themes...pure genius! And to learn that this movie didn't get nominated for an Academy Award...fortunately the French awarded it top prize at Cannes. It's better than Ida and Leviathan (though Leviathan is a powerful, important film). Extremely well acted; beautifully filmed. The power, though, is in the dialogues...rare the emotional and intellectual intelligence on display here. An absolute must-see for fans of art-house foreign language cinema.


                
Mr Nuri Bilge Ceylan had made adventurous efforts in his movie "Winter Sleep". Rewardingly, Palme d'Or Awards was passed onto his hands in 2014. A stunning feature of this movie was the eloquence of major characters. Because of this distinct feature, the audiences need feel comfortable to catch up with a large amount of intellectual debates and accusative questionings between the characters, in order to tap into the characters' inner worlds.During three hours and sixteen minutes, a rich and deep portrait of various emotional sufferings are gradually unfolded. The audiences are exposed to intense conflicts between the rich and the poor, a complacent brother and his critical divorcée sister, an egoistic husband and an unhappy young wife and also a naive philanthropist and a resentful villager. Also, there are explosions and accumulations of negative emotional outbursts such as distrust, prejudice, loneliness, fear, suffocation, delusion, cynicism, hopelessness and hatred.While viewing these interpersonal tensions and emotional despairs, it seems to me that our characters were all wearing shackles which had stopped them from finding their true inner strength. For Aydin, the shackle was his distrust and emotional rigidity. For Necla, it was her disapproving attitude and reluctance to change. For Nihal, it was her pessimistic view of her future. For Hamdi, it was his deeply-rooted shame and hatred towards the rich. For Hamid's little son Ilysa, it was his inability to fight against social unfairness. For Hamdi's bother Ismail, it was his involuntary submissiveness and unresisting. And perhaps due to these emotional scars, they all felt deprived of freedom and thus pushed each other into corners in order to feel justified. Mr Nuri Bilge Ceylan opened an abundance of philosophical discussions in this movie. Seemingly he was unwilling to provide effective solution to ease any of these social and interpersonal tensions depicted in the movie. Nevertheless, Mr Ceylan did examine Aydin's self-revelation after he clashed with his sister Necla and his wife Nihal. When Aydin's false ego was badly stricken, the loneliness and pain in Aydin's heart must have been unbearably agonizing. From that moment, the movie started to openly unveil Aydin's vulnerabilities. He contemplated at his parents' graveyard. His messy hair was flying nowhere in the snow, looking terribly sad. When he showed genuine care to the young motorcyclist, that warmth didn't returned back to him. The releasing of a wild horse back to Anatolia steppe could indicate his longing to loosen his own rigidity and forceful mind. While waiting for his run-away train to Istanbul, he frankly demanded the company of his assistance Hidayet. He paid attention to a dead fox lying beside the rails in the snow and even checked birds of prey on the nearby tree. He watched the dying rabbit pitifully during hunting. At the end of the movie, Aydin admitted to himself that he was unable to live through life without Nihal. At this point, when Aydin acknowledged his emotional vulnerabilities, it appeared that he regained his peace and order, and even kicked off his long-term writing project on "the History of Turkish Theatre". Aydin perhaps realized that he no longer needed to be the superior one who was emotionally distant to people and himself, who felt like a king by being a columnist in his imaged kingdom, who loved his own civilized manner to contrast others'clumsiness, who was relying on rigidity to feel strong<U+0085> Overall, this is a thought-provoking movie, managed by a master director and performed by impeccable cast. I would love to watch this movie again after a few years, as I wish to comprehend more of its richness and depth when life rewards me with more personal experiences.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Brace yourself for 3 hours and 19 minutes of heavy listening. Yes, the film was named Palme d'Or at the most recent Cannes, and the dialogue is exceptionally well written, but this isn't one you can just kick back and enjoy. It requires some effort. The two big "action" sequences involve a 10 year old boy tossing a rock and later, his too proud father dropping something into a fireplace. The real action occurs between the ears of the viewer as we assimilate the moods and nuances and double-meanings that accompany the stream of conversations.Award-winning director Nuri Bilge Ceylan co-wrote the script with his wife Ebru Ceylan, and that probably attributes to the sharpness and poignancy of the relationships between Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) and his wife Nihal (Melisa Sozen) and his sister Necla (Demet Akbag). Much of the film is devoted to one of two things: Aydin making himself feel important, or Nihal and/or Necla voicing their opinions on why he isn't. While that may sound simple, the wordplay and grounded performances often leave us with the feeling that we are eavesdropping on very private conversations.Filmed in the breathtakingly beautiful Cappadocia region of Anatolia, the geological spectrum contrasts mightily with the near claustrophobic interior scenes that dominate the run time. In fact, when one of the characters does venture outdoors, viewers will find themselves breathing easier and in relief of the stressful intimacy of other scenes. Hotel Othello is cut directly into one of the more picturesque hillsides of the area, and owner Aydin spends his days locked away in his office, kicking off his latest article bashing societal and morality changes within the village. Aydin has a pretty easy life, as he has inherited the hotel and numerous income producing rental properties from his father. Aydin's career as a stage actor also adds a bit to his local celebrity (and ego). He fancies himself an important man with an important voice, and never hesitates to broadcast his charitable offerings.Aydin lives at the hotel with his much younger wife Nihal, and his recently divorced sister Necla. The dysfunction abounds as none of the three much respect the others, and manage to express this in the most incisive, passive-aggressive ways possible. There are two extended (each pushing 30 minutes) exchanges that are unlike anything you may have ever seen on screen. One has Necla letting Aydin know what she thinks of his articles, while the other has Nihal finally coming clean with her feelings of being held back, emotionally captive. Both scenes are captivating and powerful, yet voices are never raised and facial expressions are crucial. This is intimate filmmaking at its best and most uncomfortable <U+0085> psychological warfare would not be too extreme as a description.Conflict is crucial for a dialogue-driven film. Some of the best include My Dinner with Andre, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, and 12 Angry Men. These are the type of movies that cause us to study all the subtleties within a scene <U+0085> not just what is said, but how it is said and how the message is conveyed. Pride, loneliness and despair run rampant through the characters here and the philosophical discussions force each to lay bare their soul. For so little action, an undercurrent of wild emotions flows through every scene. In addition to the three leads, there is a character named Hamdi (an Islamic teacher/adviser, played by Serhat Mustafa Kilic) who plays the role of peace-keeper and mediator. His constant smile is but a mask he is forced to wear in his role, and I found his character the most painful of all to watch. The title may be interpreted as either a "hibernation" or "sleep-walking through life's final stages", and both fit very well. The hotel provides a cave-like hiding place for Aydin, as he pretends to play his final role – that of an important man in the village. There are some truly masterful moments in the film, and it's easy to see why it appeals to only a certain type of film goer. Inspired by the short stories of Chekhov (The Wife, Excellent People), as well as the writings of Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, and Voltaire, means the viewer is investing emotionally in characters quite full of resentment and oh so dishonest with themselves. It's an undertaking that is difficult, but does offer the opportunity to test one's listening skills and ability to read body language. It also comes with wisdom such as <U+0085> Donkeys lead camels (you'll have to watch the movie!).


                
Winner of the prestigious Palme d'Or at 2014 Cannes Film Festival, Winter Sleep arrives with high expectations but succeeds amazingly well in living up to its new-found honour for this Turkish drama is simply one of the most engrossing, mesmerizing & satisfying narratives to surface on the silver screen in the past year, and is definitely one of the best films of 2014.Set in Anatolia, the story of Winter Sleep concerns Aydin; the wealthy owner of a mountaintop hotel who was once an actor but has since fallen into the hibernation mode over the years. The plot covers the chaos his self-involved persona brings to his small kingdom as the animosity of his loved ones & the poor people under his reign begins surfacing once the winter approaches.Directed by Nuri Bilge Ceylan, the film takes a very methodical, patient & firm approach with its narrative which does a stellar job in slowly unraveling the inner details of the various characters inhabiting this story. The entire story is an amalgamation of one conversation after another but it's how each discussion begins & ends plus seamlessly switches from one to another that makes it such an immersive experience.The locations are wonderfully chosen, set pieces are finely detailed, the hotel itself creates a calm but secluded ambiance which becomes all the more suffocating on the advent of winter. Camera-work is mostly still yet effective plus the landscapes are beautifully photographed, its 196 minutes of runtime never really bothers for the most part, thanks to its breezy storytelling & the score makes its presence felt just when it's required.Coming to the performances, every single actor here chips in strongly in their given roles & leave nothing to complain about. Haluk Bilginer delivers a magnificent performance as Aydin, and is brilliantly supported by Demet Akbag & Melisa Sözen who play his sister & wife, respectively. The rest of the cast also shines since each character is deftly scripted & gradually developed which differentiates them from caricatures.On an overall scale, Winter Sleep is an intensely gripping, masterfully told & exquisitely layered study of a self-righteous character that also takes an interesting look at failing relationships, old age regrets, class divides, and the morals of right & wrong. And despite its challenging runtime, dialogue-driven plot & slow-burn narration, it manages to be a truly immersive & absorbing cinema that's worthy of your time & money. Highly recommended.


                
The truth is, when you read that this monster of a 3.5 hour film is the shortest 3.5 hour film you would have ever viewed, you don't believe or understand how that could be true... until, at least, you have sat through every satisfying scene of this extraordinary piece of cinema. Every single scene, every single piece of dialogue is acted to and filmed with absolute perfection. The film reels you in from the very beginning and does not let go. The cinematography is absolutely gorgeous. There is no better way the Director Ceylan could have captured Cappadocia. Having visited myself, I feel as though Ceylan has managed to capture Cappadocia on screen better than I ever saw it through my own eyes in the few days I was there. It is horrifyingly beautiful!!And the main character, Aydin, is a treasure to behold. He is such a talented, but yet flawed man, he is so human. Every character Ceylan has created is so human. That's what makes this film sooo amazing! Every character is so different in nature and personality to the other character, yet we somehow manage to relate to every one of them. This is the kind of film where not much happens, but your jaw drops at every scene because Ceylan has filmed reality better than most of us live it. It is honestly quite scary. Most of our lives mutter on without us ever reflecting on it, properly anyway, because we don't really get the chance. However, when you watch Winter Sleep you can see a part of yourself in pretty much every character. You understand every person's actions in the film and there is no greater exemplification that, at least between the three main characters, the line of good and bad is ever so blurred. Everyone has their reasons, everyone has good intentions, but yet people just cannot get along harmoniously because they are naturally different.Anyway, without going too far, the film is deep, and very interesting to watch. However, at the same time, the film is extremely humorous. Not your typical 'comedy.' In fact, if you like 'comedy' you probably won't laugh once during this film. The film is such an accurate portrayal of reality that it is funny. Watching the films as Turks, ourselves, the depiction of Turkish society, the mannerisms, the behaviourisms, and the actions of the characters, it's akin to living and breathing Turkish culture. I can think of many examples throughout the film, but without extending my review too long, I will only provide one example. For instance, in almost every scene, the characters are drinking tea. So typical. In another scene, as soon the characters finish drinking tea, coffee is ordered. It's not just the outcome, though, that is funny. It's the way Ceylan has captured the scene...so brutally honest, there is no sway from reality whatsoever. I was honoured to be one of the first to watch this film at the Nova Exclusive in Melbourne. We were born and bred in Australia, but our Turkish culture is still imminent in us. This film is so universal everyone can enjoy it, yet somehow it is such an accurate depiction of Turkish culture and manifests the problems we humans all face across the globe - it really is no different no matter what nationality, culture or race you come from - ultimately, we all have to deal with relationship dilemmas!!I found it amazingly funny in an interview I read with the director Ceylan who responded to the potential dark humour in the film..."I don't do comedies - I don't like laughing" - or something along those lines. Just as he muttered those words he burst into laughter himself. Ceylan has a tack for intellectual art. He has created something so beautiful it will require many repeated viewings just to digest the full glory of this masterpiece. I would love to re- watch it immediately!!


                
How can you embody so many themes in one single movie with such great care and dedication? This motion picture lets you see everything you want to see and perhaps even more. With this I'll also add, its quintessentially a Nuri Bilge Ceylan film, so you cant expect any over- the-top gesture or quirk. Its life at its natural pace. Whether an audience sees it or not, its there, in all its beauty and tragedy.Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) runs a small hotel in Anatolia with his wife Nihal (Melisa Sozen) and his sister Necla (Demet Akbag). His life appears to be a serene one at first. He seems calm, handles everything with care, looks as if he has a grip on almost everything. But does he?When the film begins we have no idea who these people are and by the film ends, its as if we know their core, so much so that its shocking. That is the power only possessed by great films, which this one is, in my mind.With this film, Ceylan has reached to a whole other level of film- making. He not only co-wrote some of the best conversations ever to be captured on film, but also had the ability to stage and dramatize it. On a personal level, I just feel this is that kind of a film which would be cathartic for some, highly profound for others and some might just find it boring owing to its length. But one thing is certain, it has captured the truth of the characters as one would catch lightening in a bottle (if one ever could). Its worth a watch, at least once, and that goes for every single person on earth!Do catch it sometime.


                
I've spent a long time to write a comment on this movie, as I couldn't rely on my judgment about Nuri Bilge Ceylan, who is one of the best directors that Turkish cinema could have ever nurtured; so it took a very long time. Finally I've come up with something to say. If you're one of the people who's always looking for something worth watching and who are sick of superficial movies with cliché stories, Winter Sleep is what you need. For my point of view, this is Ceylan's second best after Uzak (Distant), the movie which also conquered Cannes Film Festival and many other international festivals.You don't need to know the story – there isn't one. There are only 3 basic characters, let's say, three reflections of beings represented by real actors of this life. It's not a coincidence that the lead character of the movie was once used to be an actor in the story. And Ceylan is using the actor's real life images on stage to dramatize the effect. So it's not easy not to think of what the real actor has done in real life, who also performed in Shakespeare Globe Festival in Antonius and Cleopatra in UK, and the photo background in his room is quite visible. The character always speaks of the virtues "conscience" and "morality", none of which he has, and also he uses the word "ignorance" as if he is in a war with it. He might not seem ignorant to you, but deep down, he is ignorant to what he is and everyone around him. He is like the emperor over a small capitalist system he's created and looking down on everyone as if they were beneath him. This is why he is struggling so hard to make everyone think that he's got all these virtues. However, just like Sartre's play "No Exit", it is through your actions and by other's reflections upon you that you can define yourself. In Ceylan's play, three main characters of "No Exit" is Aydin, his wife Nihal and his sister Necla. Knowing there's no escape in facing the reality, to what he truly is, the fear of losing overtakes him. Either he has to accept his "essence", or leave – a spoiler: he can't leave. He must be in "hic et nunc", he is unable to leave.As a reminder of a play in the movie, Shakespeare's play "Richard III" has the most striking quote of the movie: "Conscience is but a word that cowards use, devised at first to keep the strong in awe". , stating Aydin's fear of exposing his true identity and using "morality" as a tool to fight it. The word "conscience" has sickened his wife, Nihal, who can't accept him for what he is anymore, but she isn't able to "choose" her identity either. Therefore she is stuck with him. And his sister Necla disappears right after the truth is spoken to her face: she has done her part in the play.I must say I am amazed by all the references in the movie and it doesn't really need a plot. Ceylan has outdone himself in writing the scenario and of course, most applause should go to the actors who have done an incredible job, especially Haluk Bilginer in creating such an ambiguous character.And thank you Ceylan for speaking up for what is silenced in Turkey, this movie's going to be remembered with one of Cannes Festival's photos, the lead actors holding the text #Soma. Enjoy.
Winter Sleep is a long movie. At three hours and 15 minutes, this film will make you actually look at your clock before hitting play. It won Palm d'Or at Cannes and I had no idea of any of this until I saw it on Netflix this week. There's a lot of substance to this movie and a great deal can be said and debated philosophically. I'll just stick to what really stood out for me.The Disconnect Between ClassesAydin, the protagonist of the movie, is a wealthy man, well educated and, in kid mind, generous and kind to those around him. What becomes apparent early on in the film is that he is also detached from the practical ongoings of his estate. His property is rented out and managed by lawyers and helpers, he does not know his own tenants, and he's oblivious to the issues they are having.When a kid breaks his car window with a stone, he's shocked and surprised. He does not realize that debt collectors and the police had a conflict with the kid's father, that the father has no job, and that they live of one person's wage. If this were a more predictable film, you would expect Aydin to realize these details. It doesn't happen! In fact, the only way Aydin tries to help the less fortunate is by donating a great sum of money to the charity his wife, Nihal, is organizing.This same disconnect is present in my own life, and likely in the life of many of the people around me in the same social class and age group. Our idea of helping the less fortunate is donating to charity once a year or jumping on some online viral bandwagon every so often. And do we really do it to help, or do we do it to help ourselves feel good?Just like Aydin writes a weekly column in the local paper, so do we write our blogs and Tweets and Facebook posts preaching whats's right and showing off our opinions and moral stances. But in the end, how many of us actually take action or speak from experience rather than simply from philosophical realms?The Physical SeparationWhat is captivating about the movie from the get-go is the setting. It's filmed in Cappadocia, Anatolia, a region of Turkey. The landscape and the homes are truly unique. Aydin lives with his wife and sister in a hotel they own. This hotel is built into the mountain, in a way, and it has the feeling of a castle. Aydin is like a kind ruler, and this castle is separating him from the rest of the people, adding to the idea of disconnect.While he sees himself as a sort of benevolent ruler, we quickly see that practically nobody feel this way about him and he's actually disliked even by his own family. His helper runs all errands, and the ruler sits oblivious in his tower. His sister challenges his moral standpoint on the notion of evil; his wife feels like a prisoner with no purpose in life; his subjects despise him behind his back.This separation does not happen only in remote regions. This separation is a daily reality in the society we live in. Very few people live in communities where they interact with their neighbours, or even with their own family. People are separated by vast geographical distances, going far from home in search of materialistic gains. And even those who stay close often just shut themselves in, watching Netflix all day or spending hours on their smart phones. Aydin fails to see past the his own mountain fortress. We fail to see past our computer screens.Making the Best of What You HaveSad ideas aside, there is a sense of redemption buried somewhere in the snow. Aydin claims he worked all his life, and it is only in his old age that he's as wealthy as we see him. Maybe it's unfair to judge him so harshly. Maybe he was not really meant to be a ruler and his detachment is a byproduct of his lack of interest and his moral high ground. He used to be an actor and his current goal is to write a book on the history of Turkish theater. That's not so wrong, is it? A quiet life on top of a mountain, removed from the problems of the village? Isn't that what many of us want after a life of work?And what about the tenants who failed to pay rent for many months? If they lived in Canada, they would have been kicked out a long time ago! It's clear that even though the people around Aydin are unhappy, he's actually content with his station in life. He tells Nihal that he still realizes the value of having a warm room and a roof over his head, while she talks about doing greater things in life. I couldn't help but agree with Aydin: we often forget what we have and, like Nihal, we get stressed with wanting more and more from life. A simple shift in focus could make us happy: just focus on what you have and consider that billions of others would give anything to have a full fridge, a warm house, and people who love them.There: I tried to end it on a more positive note! Hope you will watch this long but rewarding movie! Thank you for reading.
With his latest, Winter Sleep, Nuri Bilge Ceylan's characteristic obsession with his country's variegated topography takes him to Cappadocia, a remote stretch of the Anatolian countryside whose strange mound-like formations provide the backdrop for an intimate tale of marital take-and-no-give that's been stretched (for no apparent reason other than indulgence) to over three hours. Much like the lead character, a charismatic former actor who now runs the Hotel Othello, Ceylan's film doesn't know when to let an argument rest. The obvious analogue here would be Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage; the key difference lies in Winter Sleep's absolute refusal to let anything be at emotional stake. The husband expounds, his wife or sister rebuts, and then he uses his considerable rhetorical acumen to put them in their place. A subplot dealing with a dispute between the hotelier and his tenant farmers seems left over from an earlier film. And in case there were any doubt as to the fatuousness of Ceylan's approach here, look no further than an excruciatingly protracted scene involving an envelope stuffed with money and a crackling fireplace telegraphs its inevitable conclusion from the start. Perhaps such inexorability is Ceylan's true theme. If so, he still has to answer for taking nearly forever to get there.


                
Turkish screenwriter, film editor, cinematographer and director Nuri Bilge Ceylan's seventh feature film which he wrote with Turkish screenwriter and art director Ebru Ceylan, premiered In competition at the 67th Cannes International Film Festival in 2014, was screened in the Masters section at the 39th Toronto International Film Festival in 2014, was shot on locations in Turkey and is a Turkey-France-Germany co-production which was produced by producer Zeynep Ozbatur Atakan. It tells the story about a columnist named Aydin who lives in a small town with his wife named Nihal and his divorced sister named Necla, and who one day after meeting a man with his assistant regarding the acquirement of a horse, becomes involved in a situation initiated by a student.Distinctly and precisely directed by Turkish filmmaker Nuri Bilge Ceylan, this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated interchangeably from the main characters' viewpoints, draws a thematically versatile, non-political and conversationally reflective portrayal of a once promising theatre actor, an uncle whom is preventing his brother from further complicating a predicament and making amends for his nephew's actions, a Japanese couple and a wife engaged in a project. While notable for its distinct milieu depictions, reverent cinematography by cinematographer Gökhan Tiryaki and production design by production designer Gamze Kus, this dialog- driven and narrative-driven story about human complexity which is somewhat inspired by short stories by Russian 19th century author Anton Chekhov, depicts some densely interrelated studies of character and contains a timely instrumental score. This increasingly atmospheric, ironically humorous and internally involving three hour and sixteen minutes narrative feature which is set in Turkey in the 21st century, where the journey into the human soul proceeds and where a husband begins engaging in his spouse's project which she has started independently from him, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, measured continuity, philosophical contemplations on essential questions, concentrated and noteworthy interplay, masterful cinematic scenes and the commendable acting performances by Turkish actors Haluk Bilginer and Serhat Kiliç and Turkish actresses Melisa Sözen and Demet Akbag. An ingeniously literary, cinematographically understated and mindfully mysterious character piece which gained, among other awards, the Palme d'Or at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in 2014.


                
A dark, non-pithy version of Polanski's Carnage, this character study focuses on a wealthy, aging intellectual (Haluk Bilginer), who owns an isolated hotel where he lives with his young wife (Melisa Sözen) and divorced sister (Demet Akbag). With the arrival of a snowy winter, the relationships between the three deteriorate to a disturbing extent.There is little physical violence in the movie (a slap in the face and an animal shot dead), but the amount of psychological conflict is unsettling. Superb performances and a sharp script make the increasingly venomous confrontations between characters riveting.Once again, writer/director Nuri Bilge Ceylan borrows from great Russian literature: a tense sequence with an envelope full of money is a possible homage to a famous scene in The Idiot, and I counted at least three short tales by Anton Chekhov which inspired various plot developments (A Nightmare, The Wife, Excellent People). 8/10
Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) is a wealthy man, a former actor who now runs a hotel in Cappadocia. He also writes a column for the local newspaper, and is researching for his planned book about the history of Turkish theater. Nihal (Melisa Sözen) is his beautiful and much younger wife. Necla (Demet Akbag) is his divorced sister. Also involved the family of Aydin's poor tenants who could not pay their rent for several months already. The friendly and gregarious Hamdi appeals for compassion, while his older brother, the impetuous jobless ex-con Ismail and his sullen young son Illyas, could not hide their contempt for their landlord. This film is about the various conversations and confrontations between these people. These may begin as abstract debates about not resisting evil or boredom or donations, yet they all end up being very personal. There is no real plot, just a lot of seemingly random dialogue. Although, there are arguments that seemed endless and repetitive, these confrontations were eloquently written with very meaningful words for both sides of the issue. These long talky scenes were riveting despite their length and you hang on to every word they were saying. The performances of the actors of these flawed characters were faultless and so natural.The cinematography of this film is so amazingly beautiful as it magically captured the unique topography of Cappadocia during the wintertime. There were several picture-perfect haunting scenes throughout, specially those about the Anatolian horse, the cemetery, the train tracks, the tree with the birds, the rabbit in the brush, the town, the hotel -- all covered with pristine snow. The close-ups of the actors were all so perfectly framed to achieve maximal drama. The use of mirrors to vary the camera shots were very good. I admit that the 3-hour and 16-minute length of this film can be felt. However, you do not really mind this time running as you listen to intellectually-stimulating emotionally-rich conversation. This film is a masterpiece of world cinema by acclaimed Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan, truly worthy of its Palme d'Or during the Cannes Film Festival this summer. This should be a shoo-in to at least be nominated for the Oscar for Best Foreign Language film. 9/10.


                
Absolutely a master piece. How do you the judge the quality of a movie? this is how i judge. Scene, dialogues, settings, atmosphere and the life portrayed have not left me for a second for the past few days after i saw the movie. The little details/nuances have been so carefully thought out that you are thinking to yourself he is really a genius. There are so many levels to human nature and each level has been touched on in such a rich way in the movie such as brother-sister, husband-wife, wife-sister-in-law, father- son, boss-employee, friends-friends, manager-customer, locals-foreigner relationships. You also see the conflict of each character so strongly. The director does not say, but make you live it. You never understand how the time passes.


                
In fact can I trade more? lol, naw, but serious, this this is a masterpiece, I've never read too much of Anton Check! But gosh this was creative writing and mindful and thoughtful and philosophical perhaps I don't know but it rocked! I know it might have moved slow but the thing produced and kept yielding more and more results and if it needed more, then more characters transpired erelong there were universal themes all over the place and all culminating at a terrific climacteric, it just worked. Bravo to whomever would attempt to , I mean someone woke up and said yes I want to do this Anton play into a film! lol, dang... its not a War and Peace spectacle but dang its , I guess it moved me deeply like something with way way more production, I yet do not understand if burning the money was bad or good thing or what? But I do know one thing, I was all emo and then that Creepo walked in and I said outloud 'Oh no! F mE!' cause I had all these plans for that money that might palliate a bit of that wretched families' terrible woebegones but dang, dang, just really cool!
"You're actually a well-educated, honest, fair and conscientious man. But sometimes you use those virtues to suffocate people, to crush and humiliate them."-NihalLisbon & Estoril Film Festival #1This was the first time I attended the Lisbon & Estoril Film Festival, this year being its 8th edition. This year's festival opened up with a must see, Winter Spleep, a film I absolutely could not wait to watch. It has gotten a lot of great buzz around it, especially since it won the Palm d'Or back in May, which basically catapulted this film into the radar of all movie lovers. I went in with reserves still, because I mean, it's a two hundred minute movie and it is not every picture that can own that run-time, still I was excited and hoping for great things.We follow the mountains and the landscapes of the startling and breathtaking Anatolia, in Turkey. Winter has arrived for these poor, distanced, isolated villages and with it some cold winds and trouble have to come stay. Aydin is a retired theater actor, a rich, influential man within the villages near him. He has now settled down in his hotel in central Anatolia. He seems to be lonesome but mildly happy and satisfied with the life he leads, a simple life that one is. He writes for the local newspaper, he writes about too important matters for such a small newspaper which no one reads. He's working on his new book about the Turkish theater and this way, he's able to keep focus and not lose his mind for the hopeless silence and isolation of the landscapes.Trouble starts when a family, who has lived in a house that Aydin has rented them for many years, can't pay him for their stay in the house. Has a consequence, Aydin's lawyers are obliged to go and rifle that family's belongings and leaving them with little to live with, even their dignity. Aydin, knows little about the matter and lets the lawyers and his friend Hidayet to take care of the problem.The first episode happens when a child, that leaves in that house with his poor family, hits Aydin's car with a rock and consequentially breaking his car window and almost making a car accident happen. Aydin and Hidayet take the child back home, where his father is waiting. The child is soaking wet, since he had fallen in a river while trying to run way. It is here that we have a confrontation between the man who has seen his dignity and the dignity of his family taken away because of their lack of economical possibilities and the man who's basically, even if in an incidental way, the one who has taken it. This is a 5 minute dialogue, which starts very quiet, building up an unbearable tension until a climax that felt unavoidable.That's basically what the film is all about, the movie is narratively driven by its dialogue. The film is divided into a more or less episodic series of dialogues where people ultimately lose control, let their masks fall and speak their mind, even at times more with the purpose of hurting each other, more than to have an actual argument. There's a clear contrast here between the pale, quiet beautiful natural backgrounds and the strain and hate that's being unleashed. We are talking about twenty minutes sequences of just dialogue, some may be even longer. This could have resulted in a bore but it doesn't, because we can totally relate to some of the dialogues that always feel genuine and because they are so compelling, rich and filled with several layers of development. Almost every single sequence, ultimately leads up for a quiet climax (when it comes to sound) but a catastrophic one to the characters that we are following.Winter Sleep was far from being a bore at the theaters, the environment was fantastic, the film does have its wits, whimsical moments that often resulted in huge laughs and I thought the run- time was totally bearable, but yeah I mean it is a two hundred minute picture and I think it's safe to say that the movie extends its visit for a little too long. I had had a long day behind me and I started to feel the weight of its run-time in the last forty minutes or so. My numbing neck and aching legs probably didn't help, so I was a bit inpatient for the film's ending. I was impatient because the film was starting to lose me, the dialogues were no longer grabbing as tight and because I wanted to know in what note this film would end.When it comes to craft, well this is pretty much spotless. Cinematography is gorgeous, some tremendous images go through the screen through its run time. It's not only well crafted when it comes to cinematography for example but also when it comes to storytelling. Narratively it's bold and engaging and it creates its own set of rules.Winter Sleep is a film that I respect massively, I probably have to say though, that I respect it more than what I actually enjoyed it. It's a huge, colossal film that nearly owns it's two hundred minutes, even if it was way too much for my numbing back and drained energy. It's a film that will surely only be appreciated by a small amount of people, Nuri Bilge Ceylan has gained in me a follower but I don't believe he will make many friendships with main audiences who will soon discard such a long, slowly paced Turkish drama. It is a challenging film that ultimately rewards its audience with some powerful images and palpable strain. The audience in the theater seemed to be in awe, me I was simply left satisfied and with a huge respect for the piece.Rating:B-


                
There will never be enough words to describe the perfectness of this masterpiece.I specially have chosen the word "perfect" because of the fact that, for a movie lasts 3 hours and 15 minutes, this is the recipe for it.The first scene of the movie gets you inside so fast that the reality of time comes back when you start up your car in the parking lot.Every character in the movie finds a way to be hated and liked by you time to time, like any person you know in your real life.If there is anything fits perfect for this movie, that definitely is Palm D'or.


                
This film is undoubtedly not only a master work by Nuri Bilge Ceylan,but also one of the best films created recently by any director regardless of origin and/or name. As with the majority of the people who have already had the chance to view the film, its length - the duration - of almost 3,5 hours makes you fear and skeptic. But with the first scene of the film you loose the sense of time and watch the scenes flow one after another more like real life than a man-made film. As with all Nuri Bilge Ceylan films the graphic quality is excellent. But the real power of this work is the realty, the detail and the warmth which the director has given to the characters. I was a bit surprised when the film came to the end. Was it really 3,5 hours spent on a cinema chair or was it a period of life I lived with Aydin Bey (the main character - a former theater artist)?


                
NBC says: "In my scenarios, I don't like to reveal what is in my mind". So I will not use the phrase: -what writer means is-. Instead, the impact of movie on me is, the story is based on two concepts: Willfully hypocrisy and willfully blindness to reality.Those concepts make Kis Uykusu a classic movie. Schubert, Dosto referred movie posture and Kapadokya location support it as well. Another remindings are: Dosto reminding money burning scene, poverty details, Shakespeare, Tarkovsky reminding horse scenes, traditional religion references.The telling is so alluring that every single watcher would be withdrawn to the story and feels similarities to the characters. In the end, it is inevitable since the piece is a classic one. Perfect acting makes it quite easy as well.
Nuri Ceylan's Winter Sleep explores the need to find values one can live by in the contemporary world free of religious trappings. Set and filmed in rural Turkey it represents the elemental pivot point between Islam and the West.The film is essentially the anatomy of Aydin, a secular intellectual/artist/businessman, who pretends to conscience and morality as he judges (and oppresses) others but falls well short on both counts himself, frozen by his arrogance. Aydin has retreated to run a small hotel which he keeps "natural," preferring muddy roads over gravel. His inherited property made him wealthy, a condition he also defends as "natural." He writes a weekly column in a small local paper, but won't venture into a major publication. When Aydin gets an email from a local teacher he summons his wife and neighbour to hear her adulation, under the pretence of asking their advice on responding to her request for financial help.Ceylan makes Aydin admirable and sympathetic, then gradually exposes him. His vanity in reading that email is our first clue to his failings, as well as his alienation from his wife Nihal. At first a beautiful enigmatic phantom, she emerges as a repressed, young woman who has finally found self-realization in running a charity project. Aydin spoils that by taking over her bookkeeping. He suspects the others of fraud and wants to preserve their family name. That, we later learn, he has already compromised when he turned earthquake victims away from his hotel in order to accommodate the paying members of relief agencies. His association, not Nihal's inexperience, would poison her project. Aydin also tries to remove himself from what's happening around him. When a second- generation tenant falls into rental arrears, Aydin claims his assistant Hidayet and his lawyers do everything on their own. Aydin feels no responsibility for the cruelty a wild horse suffers when caught for him. Aydin frees the horse when he leaves Nihal and sets out for Istanbul. He is jolted into self-awareness when he instead goes for a drunken evening and morning hunt with neighbour Suavi and schoolteacher Levent. Levent's babble confronts Aydin with his earthquake shame. The combination of brandy and guilt give the controlled and controlling Aydin his first breakdown. He vomits. The next morning he shoots a rabbit and finds it, still quivering with last life. That breaks down the detachment he has maintained between himself and the abuses of nature he has ordered, whether toward animals or his tenants. He returns to beg Nihal to forgive and to stay with him. His catharsis awakens him from his winter sleep.In a breakfast conversation Necla proposes to confront evil by submitting to it. She postulates that instead of resisting evil, thus further provoking its agent, by submitting to it one can perhaps arouse the malfeasant's conscience. She even considers asking her drunken ex-husband to forgive her for divorcing him, in hopes that might convert him to sobriety. "Islam," of course, means "submission," though that usually refers to Mohammad not to evil. In addition to his secularity, the other Islamic cornerstones that Aydin violates are brotherhood and charity. Neighbour Suavi is literally what Aydin is metaphorically: a lonely isolate, who after his wife's death closed off several rooms and retreated to his living room stove. But Suavi has warm relationships with others, like the teacher, and he has actively joined Nihal's project. Aydin's callous treatment of his suffering tenants and the earthquake incident prove his total lack of charity. When he gives Nihal a large donation it's to try to buy off her anger at his intrusion. Of course, he tells Suavi and Levent about his "anonymous" gift to bolster his image. His "charity" is disqualified by his self-interest.When Nihal gives that money to the unfortunate tenants she turns his conscience money to effective use.That family is a microcosm of current Islam. The younger brother Hamdi is the local imam, who gives sermons and struggles on a small salary to support his jobless older brother Ishmael, his sister-in-law and nephew, and their aging, ailing and ungrateful mother. Despite their long tenancy, Aydin has allowed the family to be dunned by a collection agency, the police, and confiscators of their TV and other goods. Ishmael was humiliated by an assault in front of his family. Hamdi serves the community with Koranic wisdom. But he can't mediate between the wealthy landlord and the violent rebel. Hamdi reluctantly accepts the money from Nihal, but Ishmael proves self-destructive in his sense of violated honor. Ishmael went to jail for stabbing a brute who stole his wife's underwear and then teased him. Now, as he recounts his various shame by Aydin, he rejects the money that would restore his family's honour and throws it in the fire. "Ishmael," of course, was Hagar's son, the original Moslem banished from Abraham's family. The original Moslem here becomes the first radical. The Grade V boy Ilyas is an intensely resentful figure who stones the landlord's van, then falls into a faint and a fever when his imam uncle tries to get him to apologize to Aydin and kiss his imperious hand. If Ishmael's burning of the money evokes the self- destruction of the Islamic militant, son Ilyas represents the outer-directed destruction to come.
Nuri Bilge Ceylan's new film 'Winter Sleep' is a family drama set on a stunning mountain hilltop hotel in Anatolia, Turkey. The ageing Aydin (Haluk Biginer) is the wealthy hotelier, a retired actor who owns a lot of the properties in the area, and spends his days writing for his local newspaper.Aydin is married to the much younger Nihal (Melisa Sozen), and his divorced sister Necla (Demet Akbag) lives on the premises too. Wealthy to the point where he doesn't need to worry about anything, Aydin casually mopes around finding something to do, and generally creating a nuisance of himself. Most people tend to have a reason to dislike him, and this includes his own family. With his wealth extended to his family, these people spend their days doing nothing but still hanker after making a life of purpose.So much time on their hands leads to bitterness, as evidenced in the ongoing bites and petty quarrels between the three of them. Nihal is the curious one, who lives separately from Aydin who gives her the freedom of their modest kingdom. She still feels trapped, blaming Aydin for bringing her down when she's attempting anything of her own making. He's made out to be more monstrous than he seems, slowly being forced out of his own home by everyone.'Winter Sleep' is a contemplative, deeply serious study of wealth, family dynamics and communities. Conversations and arguments are often literate and earnest affairs, discussing anything from the role of the artist, the role of Muslim men in the community, to enabling evil-doers to uncover their own consciences.Aided by the stunning Anatolian rock formations, 'Winter Sleep' is beautifully shot, especially the final images. One majestic scene involving the capture and calming of a horse is a cinematic marvel, and a troubling study of a mans innate desires superceding all others. Although nothing much happens, everything slowly does, as does in life. Even Aydin is forced to change his ways, whether you are rich or poor you still have to earn your happiness.
Warning: This account has potentially very serious spoilers. Please do not read unless you have seen the movie.I watched Nuri Bilge Ceylan's Winter Sleep this week, twice actually. It was a wonderful, deep, multifaceted movie. There is much I could say about the movie, the rich plot, and the wonderful director (and, with his equally talented wife Ebru Ceylan, screenwriter). So much of it has been said here and elsewhere that I don't need to repeat it. However, I think the story is far richer than even most commentators seem to acknowledge (perhaps they are more circumspect than I). Instead, I will give a very short summary, and then discuss what I think is one of the, if not the, most important parts of the film (and which constitutes a spoiler – this is your second warning). I will generalize somewhat, to partially protect, despite my warning above, readers who have not yet experienced this masterpiece.The film is very closely based on Chekhov's short stories "The Wife" and "Excellent People," with some dialogue being verbatim. As many have pointed out, "Winter Sleep" is a story of how Aydin, a self-deceived man becomes a more self-aware man, although whether his fundamental isolation has changed is ambiguous. At the beginning of the movie, his world is literally rocked. From there, he begins a long and highly ambiguous progression. His beautiful wife Nihal, however, is enigmatic, bored, and isolated in several ways from her husband. She leads, however, a charitable effort to improve impoverished schools in the area. Is it truly altruistic? We see later in the film how her charity seems to be very narrowly focused, and might benefit another character in particular, and herself vicariously.Most fascinating are the tangled webs of relationships in the movie, both acknowledged and unacknowledged. Aydin seems at times to be suspicious of his best friends or distant acquaintances, including one older friend whose complete role we may never understand. Meanwhile, Nihal has even more complicated, even deeply secretive relationships.What sort of secrets? Nihal appears to have an unspoken bond with Ilyas, a poor boy. In an interview with the Guardian (November 13, 2014), Ceylan says that he was inspired by some of Chekhov's short stories, and one in particular, but is reluctant to say which, for fear the film should be seen as an adaptation. "I don't want to talk about it," he says. "It was a starting point. There was a little dialogue, but mainly description. You cannot say there was a story but there was a sense of life there." As both "The Wife" and "Excellent People" are dialogue-heavy, and Ceylan has acknowledged his indebtedness to at least "The Wife," it appears that he is speaking of a third story. The interviewer, however, does not seem to acknowledge that. I think that one relationship is key to understanding the movie, and it appears based on a not-quite-halfway-through part of Chekhov's story "Dreams" (*big* spoiler alert there). "Dreams" includes much speech, but it is more like a monologue. Transferring a description of a familial relationship described there to the film requires some reversals of roles, but the absolutely critical personal decision about class and choice remains the same. (Intriguingly, "Dreams" also includes a dog as a touchstone, and barking dogs are one of the curious motifs of the film, extending even after the final fade).To me, this deeply complicated relationship explains so much of the movie, from the launching of a projectile at its beginning to actions (and silences) later. Nihal has a sharp, visceral, almost unexpected reaction at a key point, which is explained by this bond, as are key actions at the end of the film. Even without the "Dreams" connection, the relationship seems clear.Viewers may disagree. It deepens the film's moral ambiguity. Some may object on chronological grounds, but Nihal's youth seems to admit of several possibilities (although one seems most plausible). Perhaps the most critical piece of seemingly contradictory information occurs when Nihal seems to mistake the ages of two other characters (earlier, Aydin does this). However, her body language and the pauses seems to me to indicate a serious attempt at deception, rather than genuine ignorance on her part. Particularly important glances between Nihal and Ilyas are also exchanged at various times during the movie, seeming to acknowledge what goes unacknowledged. What remains silent in this movie is often as profound as what is spoken.In just one example, a dialogue occurs early on where Aydin's sister reproaches herself and says that if she had remained with a troubled individual, that person might not have sunken to their currently low state. Nihal, like all of us would, assures her that that is not true and that she should not be taking the blame. (There is also a veiled reference to a "truth" that was spoken years previously – undoubtedly important but never explained). Later we see, however, that the dilemma over what action should have been taken in the past extends to the her life too - that a third, troubled character could conceivably be a better person if relationships had turned out differently (and yet another might have been benefited too). This interpretation regarding "Dreams" makes this early dialogue, which otherwise raises some "why is this in the movie" questions, even more rich and meaningful. At the end of the movie, it is Nihal who realizes that the assumptions (and self-deception?) under which she has been living have been irrevocably changed. An open question remains how many characters are aware of this secretive relationship - I would argue at least two, based on the pregnant glances. That may also explain the violent, if futile gesture at the beginning of the movie.Because of this movie's deeply involved, moving plot, wonderful acting, and unexpected richness, this is one of the most profound and best movies I have ever seen.
I didn't want the film to end like Aydin did't want to take the train to leave Cappadocia. In every scene step by step I felt how alienated the characters are from their true selves. There was a worrying despair in Aydin's situation that he belonged to nowhere, neither Cappadocia nor the upper class life of an actor. In the end he admits to his wife that he isn't the charismatic actor she expected. His wife Nihal and his sister Necla makes Aydin confront with his reality to a degree. The free-spirited motorcyclist man symbolized to me that unlimited freedom was also a state of alienation like dogmatic conservatism. The only scene that I didn't think realistic was Nihal's confrontation when the money she gives as a gift is turned into ashes by the unpredictable man, Ismail. Turning a gift like that isn't something inherent in Anatolian culture. But from one of Ceylan's interviews I felt that this may be something he wanted to inject as a value to our society. I think this is a movie of confrontations.
