First of all let me tell you my complete disbelief of such a high rating for this movie. I try to understand why people would give it such a high rating but I must be too dumb to get it because honestly this movie is so boring I had to watch in three times and even then I almost fell asleep three times. Don't get me wrong, the actors are all good, the filming is good as well. But it doesn't matter if you have the best actors possible or the worst actors possible, if you make a movie about the extremely boring life of extremely boring people then you get an extremely boring movie. And if you make a movie that last for more then three hours about nothing then you get an extremely long boring movie. Because let me tell you, and here is a spoiler, so if you want to stop reading this review before I spoil it for you then this is the moment. This movie is about nothing and it last more then three hours. Unbelievable people like that kind of nonsense. I simply don't get it.


                
I admit I have had high hopes for this one. I have like some of the stories of the Ceylan family. And I have appreciated the technical side of all their movies.This one is slow. Much slower than the others. And, pretty much like the other successful European teams, the Ceylans have bigger and bigger budgets. Which have to be explained. This way you get a lot of outdoor scenes that have no value, including the first frames, and quite a few of driving scenes also with no value.About an hour into the movie and I was wondering what am I doing in the room? I thought about asking my money back. But the power of "what if" was stronger. At the two hour mark my butt was hurting. And the story was getting worse.In the end the best part of this movie is getting outside and being able to move.So far, this is the worst Ceylans script. Almost every scene is explained after the action. You could guess some of the explanations, which makes the continuation of those particular scenes redundant. Other scenes remain cryptic, probably some Turkish custom badly explained.All I am left after wasting three hours is a shapeless mash. Is it about religion? Religion pops into the story in a pointless way that might mean meaningful message. But there is no religion in the end. Is it about the Turkish folk? But the folk are badly represented. Is it about Turkish intelligentsia? But they are also badly represented. Is it about education in Turkey? About a brother and a sister? About a wife and her much older husband? At the three hour mark the film or hard drive runs out. You get a regular cast and crew list on screen. But is it really over? This is a movie about everything. It ends up about nothing. But that is enough to seduce some juries.Contact me with Questions, Comments or Suggestions ryitfork @ bitmail.ch


                
