"You're actually a well-educated, honest, fair and conscientious man. But sometimes you use those virtues to suffocate people, to crush and humiliate them."-NihalLisbon & Estoril Film Festival #1This was the first time I attended the Lisbon & Estoril Film Festival, this year being its 8th edition. This year's festival opened up with a must see, Winter Spleep, a film I absolutely could not wait to watch. It has gotten a lot of great buzz around it, especially since it won the Palm d'Or back in May, which basically catapulted this film into the radar of all movie lovers. I went in with reserves still, because I mean, it's a two hundred minute movie and it is not every picture that can own that run-time, still I was excited and hoping for great things.We follow the mountains and the landscapes of the startling and breathtaking Anatolia, in Turkey. Winter has arrived for these poor, distanced, isolated villages and with it some cold winds and trouble have to come stay. Aydin is a retired theater actor, a rich, influential man within the villages near him. He has now settled down in his hotel in central Anatolia. He seems to be lonesome but mildly happy and satisfied with the life he leads, a simple life that one is. He writes for the local newspaper, he writes about too important matters for such a small newspaper which no one reads. He's working on his new book about the Turkish theater and this way, he's able to keep focus and not lose his mind for the hopeless silence and isolation of the landscapes.Trouble starts when a family, who has lived in a house that Aydin has rented them for many years, can't pay him for their stay in the house. Has a consequence, Aydin's lawyers are obliged to go and rifle that family's belongings and leaving them with little to live with, even their dignity. Aydin, knows little about the matter and lets the lawyers and his friend Hidayet to take care of the problem.The first episode happens when a child, that leaves in that house with his poor family, hits Aydin's car with a rock and consequentially breaking his car window and almost making a car accident happen. Aydin and Hidayet take the child back home, where his father is waiting. The child is soaking wet, since he had fallen in a river while trying to run way. It is here that we have a confrontation between the man who has seen his dignity and the dignity of his family taken away because of their lack of economical possibilities and the man who's basically, even if in an incidental way, the one who has taken it. This is a 5 minute dialogue, which starts very quiet, building up an unbearable tension until a climax that felt unavoidable.That's basically what the film is all about, the movie is narratively driven by its dialogue. The film is divided into a more or less episodic series of dialogues where people ultimately lose control, let their masks fall and speak their mind, even at times more with the purpose of hurting each other, more than to have an actual argument. There's a clear contrast here between the pale, quiet beautiful natural backgrounds and the strain and hate that's being unleashed. We are talking about twenty minutes sequences of just dialogue, some may be even longer. This could have resulted in a bore but it doesn't, because we can totally relate to some of the dialogues that always feel genuine and because they are so compelling, rich and filled with several layers of development. Almost every single sequence, ultimately leads up for a quiet climax (when it comes to sound) but a catastrophic one to the characters that we are following.Winter Sleep was far from being a bore at the theaters, the environment was fantastic, the film does have its wits, whimsical moments that often resulted in huge laughs and I thought the run- time was totally bearable, but yeah I mean it is a two hundred minute picture and I think it's safe to say that the movie extends its visit for a little too long. I had had a long day behind me and I started to feel the weight of its run-time in the last forty minutes or so. My numbing neck and aching legs probably didn't help, so I was a bit inpatient for the film's ending. I was impatient because the film was starting to lose me, the dialogues were no longer grabbing as tight and because I wanted to know in what note this film would end.When it comes to craft, well this is pretty much spotless. Cinematography is gorgeous, some tremendous images go through the screen through its run time. It's not only well crafted when it comes to cinematography for example but also when it comes to storytelling. Narratively it's bold and engaging and it creates its own set of rules.Winter Sleep is a film that I respect massively, I probably have to say though, that I respect it more than what I actually enjoyed it. It's a huge, colossal film that nearly owns it's two hundred minutes, even if it was way too much for my numbing back and drained energy. It's a film that will surely only be appreciated by a small amount of people, Nuri Bilge Ceylan has gained in me a follower but I don't believe he will make many friendships with main audiences who will soon discard such a long, slowly paced Turkish drama. It is a challenging film that ultimately rewards its audience with some powerful images and palpable strain. The audience in the theater seemed to be in awe, me I was simply left satisfied and with a huge respect for the piece.Rating:B-


                
I really wanted to like this movie! I watched it yesterday and I keep thinking about it all day today, trying to figure out what I liked and what I didn't like about it. I have to say, this IS a good movie! However, I am not completely convinced as many other reviewers here, that it is a masterpiece. It is way too long. Half of the audience fell asleep. I think that in 2-2,5 hours the director would be able to convey the same message as in 3,5 hours. The dialogs were too long and sometimes difficult to follow. The characters were well developed and the actors were extraordinary. The photography was beautiful and the director managed to present the whole atmosphere of the approaching winter in the remote rural areas of Turkey. All in all, the movie was well structured, but for me it lacked something to be a masterpiece. Maybe a little more dynamics.


                
Of the many life lessons this film contains, I remembered this one best: generosity can be an act of compassion, but also one of selfishness. It is the message of the most powerful scene in the movie. It hits home because of the strong emotions shown by the protagonists, and the totally unexpected turn of events. There are a few such scenes in this movie, but not many. These masterful scenes, full of understated power, are examples of superior film making. There are also many scenes, filled with nothing but long dialogues about philosophical questions. They were much less appealing to me. Slowly but meticulously, the film unravels the character of Aydin, an intellectual who lives in a small village in the Turkish mountains. An inheritance has made him wealthy, he is married to a young and pretty wife, he runs a small hotel and seems to enjoy his simple and quiet life. He is happiest behind his Apple notebook, writing articles about current affairs for a small local newspaper. But in reality Aydin is an unhappy man. He is full of contempt for people with different moral values than his own. He thinks he is superior, 'a king in his own little kingdom', as he puts it. His rigid approach to what is wrong and what is right, leads to a conflict with one of his tenants, who is behind with the rent. Despite Aydin's moral superiority, there are limits to his leniency in this matter. At the same time, he disapproves of the philanthropic activities organized by his wife, which leads to a growing distance between them. The film raises many moral issues. Is justice compatible with compassion? How to deal with financial wealth? Are moral values absolute or relative? Should we resist evil? I could go on. Each viewer will have something to think about after having seen this film. This is no small accomplishment. In fact, one of the most powerful characteristics of good film making is to raise questions, without necessarily providing the answers. It is not hard to see why this film appeals to so many people. Everyone can find something in it from his or her own life. The questions raised are universal, they concern life itself. But a film raising universal questions is not necessarily a masterpiece. It doesn't mean there can be no weak points. I think the overall praise this film has received, is a bit overdone. In my opinion, 'Winter Sleep' tries too hard to be an intellectual challenge. Too many scenes are long, extended conversations. Moreover, they are not contributing to the plot (yes, there is one), but obscuring it. The best films don't spell everything out, but let the images speak for themselves.


                
I guess if I were looking at this movie the 'right' way, Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) would be the bad guy of the piece. He had the temerity to expect payment of rent from long delinquent tenants, he and friend Hidayet (Ayberk Pekcan) returned a young boy to his home after the kid threw a rock at their car breaking a window, he tried to reason with his wife Nihal (Melisa Sözen) over being excluded from a meeting in his own home regarding her charitable work, and endured a long conversation with his divorced sister Necla (Demet Akbag), who admitted that she had never seen any of the plays he had written. The crux of the story seemed to rest in Aydin's relationship with his wife in a marriage that had hit an impasse after many years. She stated that he was selfish, spiteful and cynical, and maybe he was, but the story didn't really seem to lay out those qualities in the man. What it did seem to reveal was Aydin's compulsion to insert himself in Nihal's charitable work against her will, but at the same time, she appeared to be entirely secretive about it, enough to raise some kind of suspicion. And then there was the business about the burning money. I'm not sure why Ismail (Nejat Isler) would have considered it an insult, but he only added to the affront by destroying what was offered in good faith. If he was that perturbed about accepting charity, he could have used it to pay the rent he owed Nihal's husband, and used the experience to help him get back on his feet again. So maybe for this viewer, there's some sort of cultural divide that clouds my understanding of what director Nuri Bilge Ceylan was trying to achieve here. I can say that the effort was made somewhat compelling with the distinctive photography amid a rather harsh landscape. But all too often, I was left frustrated by a host of characters always attempting to sort things out without ever doing so. Maybe my problem is that I relate to the character of Aydin so much that I don't see the faults that other viewers do. Be that as it may, my opinion of the picture doesn't extend to other Turkish films, as I found both "The Bandit" and "My Father and My Son" to be more accessible in terms of understanding what those pictures were trying to say.
It is important to know what kind of movies you like before you venture to the cinema to watch Winter Sleep. If you like romantic comedies, action packed movies, or musicals then you should stay as far away from this as possible. The movie is extremely slow paced, and lasts 3.5 hours which is a lot if you are not into it that much. I did not mind (in fact the last hour is the one that felt the shortest) but I really sensed that the director could have conveyed the same message in a two hours movie. I suppose he preferred to add extra time in every scene to make it feel more like a real life situation. And he succeeded. He also mastered the visual side of cinema with some impressive photography. Some shots were absolute eye candy!On a more personal note, I would say this doesn't fit entirely in the "My favourite movies" category, but rather in the "movies I can enjoy". And while I liked it, I could easily see people falling asleep or leaving the cinema half way through, so it's a hard movie to recommend to anyone, no matter the IMDb rating. If you are thinking about watching it, I suggest you do your homework and learn as much as you can before you pay your ticket. Better be safe than sorry.


                
This is a good movie, but not good as 9.1 appeared as in this movie rating. Most of movie scenes happened inside village houses, a lot of talking between character. It tells a story, with an old actor turned into hotel owner, his young wife, other villager who are his tenants, different people have their own social character. However I expect above 9 rating movie should have grand scene and a lot of beautiful scenery or actions. I cannot find these elements in this movie. I will rate it as 7. It meets some audiences' appetite who like to see long talking with social content. Most of young people would prefer grand scene movie or more actions.


                
This is the first film I have seen by Turkish director, Nuri Bilge Ceylan, a film festival favorite who won the main award of the 2014 Cannes film festival with this. I wasn't thoroughly convinced by it (it's too long, almost three hours and fifteen minutes and the characters engage too many times in aimless philosophical discussions), though it has its moments. It is a mostly "true to life" film, though being true to life doesn't always makes a movie interesting.The main character is Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) a retired actor who lives in picturesque Cappadocia managing a boutique hotel he has inherited from his father that is seemingly carved in rock. He has also inherited properties in the surrounding area. Aydin sees himself as a sort of the area's enlightened feudal lord, though some of the villagers would beg to argue with the enlightened part, as he is often in violent conflict with those who are late with the rent. Among them is the tough ex-convict Ismail (Nejat Isler), who lives in a dilapidated house with his wife, their son Ilyas (who at the beginning of the movie throws a rock to the car in which Aydin was driving) and his brother Hamdi (Serhat Kilic), the ingratiating, obsequious local imam. Ismail would return towards the end of the film with one of its best scenes, when he pointedly rejects and destroys a valuable present brought by Aydin's wife.In the hotel, Aydin lives mostly with his nagging, recently divorced sister, Necla (Demet Akbag), his tough, capable assistant Hidayet (Ayberk Pekcan) and his younger, beautiful wife Nihal (Melisa Sozen). Aydin and Nihal doesn't seem to be getting along very well, and Nihal tries to enliven her boring life by engaging in charitable work with the area's broken schools, an activity that Aydin mocks. Necla and Nihal criticize Aydin as arrogant and presumptuous. He spend most of the time in the hotel writing a column for the local newspaper (a paper no one reads, according to his sister) and preparing a volume on the history of the Turkish theater (Ceylan might be a bit as presumptuous as Aydin: in the end titles, he quotes Chekhov as a main influence on him).Not much else happens in the movie in terms of plot, as it is mostly about the relationship between the various characters. The characters are recognizably real, though none of them is very likable. Interestingly, there is a clear distinction between the secular outlook of Aydin and his immediate family and the conservative values of the impoverished, religious villagers, all of whose women use the Islamic scarf.I wouldn't recommend this film to a casual film-goer, but those who appreciate difficult, arty films, will probably enjoy this. All the acting in it is phenomenal.
My first impression after watching this acclaimed movie was that it did not strike me as a Palm D'Or award winner, and that the story was too drawn out. 196 minutes would be considered long for a film by any standards, and personally I believe what makes a good movie includes the director's ability to tell a good story within the attention span of your audience. What added on to the feeling that this movie was way too long was the fact that some conversations were not as intriguing or revealing as the director or playwright thought they would be. The amount of bickering was in excess, and it was trying the audience's concentration and patience. This could have been handled better; the interpersonal affray could be sharper, the digging up of old feuds, the dirt dishing, the flinging of family skeletons all felt lukewarm. There is, of course, no lack of dramatic irony; this was well appreciated at times, even if it was an age-old cliché to have a husband pretending to leave town in the hope of catching his wife unawares. The screaming hypocrisy of the middle class and the bourgeois embodied by the chief protagonist was well played. He lived contentedly in his snug little comfort zone in self-deceit, oblivious to the world around him and the needs of others, fussing over trivial matters and oozing with self-importance over his petty articles, believing himself to be a pillar of spiritual and literary influence he hardly was (as pointed out by his sister). The ever widening rift between the social classes mocked the charity work by Nihal to the poor, for her it was a hobby, something to channel her energy and efforts into to dissipate her boredom to be married to a rich old man whom she did not love. Thus her utter dismay and disbelief to have her well-intended charity backlash with such fury (tossing stacked cash into the fireplace to spite must feel powerful), yet she had never envisaged that her kind gesture was an insult humiliating honest poor folks who were used to earning their keep. The film also dripped heavily with symbolism - I imagine the horse representing ideals, dreams and freedom, though what the rabbit meant was unclear to me. For those who love astounding visuals, this movie would not disappoint. The breaking in of the steed was a stunning scene though some might find it uncomfortable. The Turkish landscape is presented in a poetic and artistic portrayal with many breathtaking sights. One could not but be mesmerized by the snow-capped mountains and the mist veiling the ridges and the valleys. The picturesque quaint old buildings and the majestic ancient architecture made this movie almost an unofficial tourism bureau advertisement. In the end, the chief protagonist appeared to have found a new meaning in life - at least he did begin to write his book. His beautiful pretentious wife learnt a lesson (hopefully) and where do we find ourselves? Exactly where we began? An interesting end to a supposedly insightful introspective journey. It was worth mentioning that in Hong Kong, the movie was translated into "winter awakening", which might be a more apt title. Last but not least, good acting on the part of most actors and actresses who managed to carry the story across (in spite of the script and the dialogue at times) convincingly and realistically.
This is a mesmerizing film from Turkey and the expectations were sky high since this won the prestigious Palm d'or in Cannes. Plot follows a family caretaker of a hotel- this film features amazing cinematography and performances. The plot is basic but the flow of dialogues keeps you intrigued. This film should be watched by any cinephile. (This Turkish delight you don't wanna miss)


                
