Mr Nuri Bilge Ceylan had made adventurous efforts in his movie "Winter Sleep". Rewardingly, Palme d'Or Awards was passed onto his hands in 2014. A stunning feature of this movie was the eloquence of major characters. Because of this distinct feature, the audiences need feel comfortable to catch up with a large amount of intellectual debates and accusative questionings between the characters, in order to tap into the characters' inner worlds.During three hours and sixteen minutes, a rich and deep portrait of various emotional sufferings are gradually unfolded. The audiences are exposed to intense conflicts between the rich and the poor, a complacent brother and his critical divorcée sister, an egoistic husband and an unhappy young wife and also a naive philanthropist and a resentful villager. Also, there are explosions and accumulations of negative emotional outbursts such as distrust, prejudice, loneliness, fear, suffocation, delusion, cynicism, hopelessness and hatred.While viewing these interpersonal tensions and emotional despairs, it seems to me that our characters were all wearing shackles which had stopped them from finding their true inner strength. For Aydin, the shackle was his distrust and emotional rigidity. For Necla, it was her disapproving attitude and reluctance to change. For Nihal, it was her pessimistic view of her future. For Hamdi, it was his deeply-rooted shame and hatred towards the rich. For Hamid's little son Ilysa, it was his inability to fight against social unfairness. For Hamdi's bother Ismail, it was his involuntary submissiveness and unresisting. And perhaps due to these emotional scars, they all felt deprived of freedom and thus pushed each other into corners in order to feel justified. Mr Nuri Bilge Ceylan opened an abundance of philosophical discussions in this movie. Seemingly he was unwilling to provide effective solution to ease any of these social and interpersonal tensions depicted in the movie. Nevertheless, Mr Ceylan did examine Aydin's self-revelation after he clashed with his sister Necla and his wife Nihal. When Aydin's false ego was badly stricken, the loneliness and pain in Aydin's heart must have been unbearably agonizing. From that moment, the movie started to openly unveil Aydin's vulnerabilities. He contemplated at his parents' graveyard. His messy hair was flying nowhere in the snow, looking terribly sad. When he showed genuine care to the young motorcyclist, that warmth didn't returned back to him. The releasing of a wild horse back to Anatolia steppe could indicate his longing to loosen his own rigidity and forceful mind. While waiting for his run-away train to Istanbul, he frankly demanded the company of his assistance Hidayet. He paid attention to a dead fox lying beside the rails in the snow and even checked birds of prey on the nearby tree. He watched the dying rabbit pitifully during hunting. At the end of the movie, Aydin admitted to himself that he was unable to live through life without Nihal. At this point, when Aydin acknowledged his emotional vulnerabilities, it appeared that he regained his peace and order, and even kicked off his long-term writing project on "the History of Turkish Theatre". Aydin perhaps realized that he no longer needed to be the superior one who was emotionally distant to people and himself, who felt like a king by being a columnist in his imaged kingdom, who loved his own civilized manner to contrast others'clumsiness, who was relying on rigidity to feel strong<U+0085> Overall, this is a thought-provoking movie, managed by a master director and performed by impeccable cast. I would love to watch this movie again after a few years, as I wish to comprehend more of its richness and depth when life rewards me with more personal experiences.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Brace yourself for 3 hours and 19 minutes of heavy listening. Yes, the film was named Palme d'Or at the most recent Cannes, and the dialogue is exceptionally well written, but this isn't one you can just kick back and enjoy. It requires some effort. The two big "action" sequences involve a 10 year old boy tossing a rock and later, his too proud father dropping something into a fireplace. The real action occurs between the ears of the viewer as we assimilate the moods and nuances and double-meanings that accompany the stream of conversations.Award-winning director Nuri Bilge Ceylan co-wrote the script with his wife Ebru Ceylan, and that probably attributes to the sharpness and poignancy of the relationships between Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) and his wife Nihal (Melisa Sozen) and his sister Necla (Demet Akbag). Much of the film is devoted to one of two things: Aydin making himself feel important, or Nihal and/or Necla voicing their opinions on why he isn't. While that may sound simple, the wordplay and grounded performances often leave us with the feeling that we are eavesdropping on very private conversations.Filmed in the breathtakingly beautiful Cappadocia region of Anatolia, the geological spectrum contrasts mightily with the near claustrophobic interior scenes that dominate the run time. In fact, when one of the characters does venture outdoors, viewers will find themselves breathing easier and in relief of the stressful intimacy of other scenes. Hotel Othello is cut directly into one of the more picturesque hillsides of the area, and owner Aydin spends his days locked away in his office, kicking off his latest article bashing societal and morality changes within the village. Aydin has a pretty easy life, as he has inherited the hotel and numerous income producing rental properties from his father. Aydin's career as a stage actor also adds a bit to his local celebrity (and ego). He fancies himself an important man with an important voice, and never hesitates to broadcast his charitable offerings.Aydin lives at the hotel with his much younger wife Nihal, and his recently divorced sister Necla. The dysfunction abounds as none of the three much respect the others, and manage to express this in the most incisive, passive-aggressive ways possible. There are two extended (each pushing 30 minutes) exchanges that are unlike anything you may have ever seen on screen. One has Necla letting Aydin know what she thinks of his articles, while the other has Nihal finally coming clean with her feelings of being held back, emotionally captive. Both scenes are captivating and powerful, yet voices are never raised and facial expressions are crucial. This is intimate filmmaking at its best and most uncomfortable <U+0085> psychological warfare would not be too extreme as a description.Conflict is crucial for a dialogue-driven film. Some of the best include My Dinner with Andre, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, and 12 Angry Men. These are the type of movies that cause us to study all the subtleties within a scene <U+0085> not just what is said, but how it is said and how the message is conveyed. Pride, loneliness and despair run rampant through the characters here and the philosophical discussions force each to lay bare their soul. For so little action, an undercurrent of wild emotions flows through every scene. In addition to the three leads, there is a character named Hamdi (an Islamic teacher/adviser, played by Serhat Mustafa Kilic) who plays the role of peace-keeper and mediator. His constant smile is but a mask he is forced to wear in his role, and I found his character the most painful of all to watch. The title may be interpreted as either a "hibernation" or "sleep-walking through life's final stages", and both fit very well. The hotel provides a cave-like hiding place for Aydin, as he pretends to play his final role – that of an important man in the village. There are some truly masterful moments in the film, and it's easy to see why it appeals to only a certain type of film goer. Inspired by the short stories of Chekhov (The Wife, Excellent People), as well as the writings of Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, and Voltaire, means the viewer is investing emotionally in characters quite full of resentment and oh so dishonest with themselves. It's an undertaking that is difficult, but does offer the opportunity to test one's listening skills and ability to read body language. It also comes with wisdom such as <U+0085> Donkeys lead camels (you'll have to watch the movie!).


                
Turkish screenwriter, film editor, cinematographer and director Nuri Bilge Ceylan's seventh feature film which he wrote with Turkish screenwriter and art director Ebru Ceylan, premiered In competition at the 67th Cannes International Film Festival in 2014, was screened in the Masters section at the 39th Toronto International Film Festival in 2014, was shot on locations in Turkey and is a Turkey-France-Germany co-production which was produced by producer Zeynep Ozbatur Atakan. It tells the story about a columnist named Aydin who lives in a small town with his wife named Nihal and his divorced sister named Necla, and who one day after meeting a man with his assistant regarding the acquirement of a horse, becomes involved in a situation initiated by a student.Distinctly and precisely directed by Turkish filmmaker Nuri Bilge Ceylan, this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated interchangeably from the main characters' viewpoints, draws a thematically versatile, non-political and conversationally reflective portrayal of a once promising theatre actor, an uncle whom is preventing his brother from further complicating a predicament and making amends for his nephew's actions, a Japanese couple and a wife engaged in a project. While notable for its distinct milieu depictions, reverent cinematography by cinematographer Gökhan Tiryaki and production design by production designer Gamze Kus, this dialog- driven and narrative-driven story about human complexity which is somewhat inspired by short stories by Russian 19th century author Anton Chekhov, depicts some densely interrelated studies of character and contains a timely instrumental score. This increasingly atmospheric, ironically humorous and internally involving three hour and sixteen minutes narrative feature which is set in Turkey in the 21st century, where the journey into the human soul proceeds and where a husband begins engaging in his spouse's project which she has started independently from him, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, measured continuity, philosophical contemplations on essential questions, concentrated and noteworthy interplay, masterful cinematic scenes and the commendable acting performances by Turkish actors Haluk Bilginer and Serhat Kiliç and Turkish actresses Melisa Sözen and Demet Akbag. An ingeniously literary, cinematographically understated and mindfully mysterious character piece which gained, among other awards, the Palme d'Or at the 67th Cannes Film Festival in 2014.


                
A dark, non-pithy version of Polanski's Carnage, this character study focuses on a wealthy, aging intellectual (Haluk Bilginer), who owns an isolated hotel where he lives with his young wife (Melisa Sözen) and divorced sister (Demet Akbag). With the arrival of a snowy winter, the relationships between the three deteriorate to a disturbing extent.There is little physical violence in the movie (a slap in the face and an animal shot dead), but the amount of psychological conflict is unsettling. Superb performances and a sharp script make the increasingly venomous confrontations between characters riveting.Once again, writer/director Nuri Bilge Ceylan borrows from great Russian literature: a tense sequence with an envelope full of money is a possible homage to a famous scene in The Idiot, and I counted at least three short tales by Anton Chekhov which inspired various plot developments (A Nightmare, The Wife, Excellent People). 8/10
Nuri Bilge Ceylan's new film 'Winter Sleep' is a family drama set on a stunning mountain hilltop hotel in Anatolia, Turkey. The ageing Aydin (Haluk Biginer) is the wealthy hotelier, a retired actor who owns a lot of the properties in the area, and spends his days writing for his local newspaper.Aydin is married to the much younger Nihal (Melisa Sozen), and his divorced sister Necla (Demet Akbag) lives on the premises too. Wealthy to the point where he doesn't need to worry about anything, Aydin casually mopes around finding something to do, and generally creating a nuisance of himself. Most people tend to have a reason to dislike him, and this includes his own family. With his wealth extended to his family, these people spend their days doing nothing but still hanker after making a life of purpose.So much time on their hands leads to bitterness, as evidenced in the ongoing bites and petty quarrels between the three of them. Nihal is the curious one, who lives separately from Aydin who gives her the freedom of their modest kingdom. She still feels trapped, blaming Aydin for bringing her down when she's attempting anything of her own making. He's made out to be more monstrous than he seems, slowly being forced out of his own home by everyone.'Winter Sleep' is a contemplative, deeply serious study of wealth, family dynamics and communities. Conversations and arguments are often literate and earnest affairs, discussing anything from the role of the artist, the role of Muslim men in the community, to enabling evil-doers to uncover their own consciences.Aided by the stunning Anatolian rock formations, 'Winter Sleep' is beautifully shot, especially the final images. One majestic scene involving the capture and calming of a horse is a cinematic marvel, and a troubling study of a mans innate desires superceding all others. Although nothing much happens, everything slowly does, as does in life. Even Aydin is forced to change his ways, whether you are rich or poor you still have to earn your happiness.
I read some reviews below and i am surprised. people say that conversations are meanless and long etc... This kind of criticism and comments make no sense. This is not a Hollywood movie which characters say everything directly just because films like these are making for teenage minded people. I mean sometimes you can not say what you want to. sometimes you use long path to home... moreover dialogs are serving the philosophy of movie. This movie is the best of Nuri Bilge's, about ego and contrasts between arrogance-virtue. You can also thing about your attitudes, this film makes you to do so. Main characters's (Aydin) last words are impressive, with these words film having a emotional and touching side. A good movie for people who like thinking about themselves


                
There were times during this film when I felt I had slipped into a filmed Chekhov play along the lines of Anthony Hopkins' "August"(1996). However, this film has a rhythm and vitality few films of Chekhov have offered. The exotic setting accounts for some of this. Mr. Bilginer's magnetism, conveyed in his husky voice and exquisitely trained eyes, lifts every scene he is in to a high level of tension and engagement.This is not a moralistic film, in my opinion. It is, as the castrating Necla says while needling her brother, "realistic". It displays human nature with its flaws without harsh commentary. The characters themselves do all the judging and muddling. Nihal feels she is a strangled Desdemona despite her accommodating Othello's (Aydin's) tolerance of her youthful angst. Necla lives off her brother and resents it. Aydin is an enabler and insecure in his own worth.Aydin is the misunderstood patriarch. He doesn't even understand that he is a patriarch, no matter what good he feels he is doing. He fails to see the real context of his part on the stage of his environment. He is the gentrified landlord, but sees himself as an innocent businessman in a system he did not create. Nihal fails to understand her charity is selfish and lacks human understanding. Necla talks about not resisting evil as a good thing, because she cannot resist her own evil sadism toward those around her.This is perhaps the first film of this length which I was truly sorry to see end. I was not tired of the characters or the setting. I could not have imagined I would feel this way about a film about winter in Turkey.
Anatolian landscape dramatic in beauty and hardness, locks people in a certain dynamic which is hyper cognitive, hyper existential, and imminently resentful. Characterised by the dominance of its scale over the scarcity of people, yet each character present on screen consumes it to an almost suffocating fullness. Real, articulate, overbearing. The conversations start very well behaved, sincere and forthcoming with the ease of the mature, and turn into the inescapable deadlock which the place imposes. A merciless incompatibility of human relations in despair from their interdependence. No where to go, nothing to resolve, a clear realization of this situation resigns each to his chamber, on a bed, a couch, a writing desk, staging ideas or vocations to cover underlying personal crises. Whoever seeks solace only aggravates his situation further because in a place like this hypocrisy does not live.


                
This is a movie that has stayed with me for months after I have seen it. It was on at a film festival and based on my regard for "Once Upon a Time in Anatolia" I was keen to see this one.There are scenes of great visual storytelling involving the horses. The main character and hotel keeper imagines himself as some kind of Chekovian / Shakespeare. Or rather he is like that but without the insights that a great playwright might have. He likes to pontificate on local events in his column for the local newspaper but the reality is much more mundane.I liked the scene where he realises his wife has disconnected from his world view and he pretends to go off on one of his business trips to the city. In reality he heads off to a neighbour's farm where he drinks with his buddy and the local school teacher who inadvertently lets slip a few home truths.Despite all of this it is a great movie- head and shoulders above almost anything else being made today. if they cut a few of the longer speeches out it would be a better movie but still great.
Cannes seem to have a theme as of late for selecting 3 hour films for their coveted Palm d'or with Nuri Bilge Ceylan's latest and Blue Is The Warmest Colour. However, Winter Sleep's mammoth 196-minute length should not be solely be considered a challenge. In fact, it was perhaps the most leisurely viewing I had while at the festival outside of Whiplash. It's a warm character study, one that takes its time to burrow deeply into its topics. That's the notable personality of Winter Sleep for how it feels novelistic in its approach. It doesn't necessarily have more scenes than the average film, nor does it cover more time, instead it's full of extended dialogue driven scenes that stir gently and dig thoroughly to make their points. It's an intellectual feast on a literary scale.The film details the winter of a middle-aged hotel owner Alydin, played by Haluk Bilginer, and his relationships with his recently divorced sister, his young wife, acquainted guests, his friends and employees, and the tenants of houses he owns. He's a former thespian of the theater and a minor celebrity, though he's currently working on a book about the history of Turkish theater while he runs the Anatolian village. He's both generous and egotistical, considered the king of his small kingdom, having ownership rights to most of the houses and shops in the town. Through ordeals with his wife's charity, his sister's misery and a family struggling to pay rent, he wrestles with the morality of his altruism, despite lack of activism, as those dependent on him only resent him in returnWritten by Ceylan and his wife Ebru Ceylan, Winter Sleep does feature familiar archetypes of those with power and how they choose to use it. However, it spends time peeling back their layers and making them more human and conflicted characters. Scenes often take ten minutes to get their points, but it holds us with every articulate word. As a result, it has a very natural delivery of exposition, one delightfully deliberately crafted moreso than a taunt film. Plot threads are neither forced open nor closed. It's sprinkled with lyrical visual metaphors between the conversations that whilst obvious, they are very powerful, feeding into the character development. All the cast from top to bottom live in their character's skin in vivid detail, particularly from Bilginer and Melisa Sozen, who's vulnerable performance leaves the lasting impression of the supporting cast.Like with his previous film Once Upon A Time In Anatolia, one of the best films of its year, it's visually stunning. It may not have the same bravura as the former with ambitious camera movements, but it's just as sharp and striking, though with a kinder and more intimate approach to its network of characters. Ceylan has a careful and poetic use of space, light and movement in the simple interior scenes and every frame expresses so much. But it's also grand from the wide expanses of the snowy Anatolian mountains and from the harshness of the cold outdoors to the warmth of the rooms, the atmosphere feels palpable and immersive. It definitely makes the length and pace easier, along with its endearing sense of humour.However, it is hard to ignore that it feels like it panders to critics a little bit. There are too many unnecessary mentions of the craft and criticism of acting and writing. It feels extraneous to its main focuses. Unlike Once Upon A Time In Anatolia, which had fascinating ideas about the nature of truth and how we'll never know it, even if we witness events firsthand, Winter Sleep doesn't overtly have a universal point to make outside of its specificity to its characters and country, illustrating the divide between the powerful and powerless, but that's satisfying enough. It's a thoroughly engrossing, thoughtful and beautiful film and if the length doesn't intimate Academy voters too much, this is an easy frontrunner for the Foreign Language Film Oscar.8/10Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com/)


                
Intellectual depth is hard work, most film directors don't have it.As a film director, Ceylan, is awesome. As a screen writer, he is excellent. But as an intellectual, he is average.The film presents us with several human dilemmas, conflict areas. They are beautifully told, but they go nowhere. I don't see any depth there.If script was written by some one else, I'm sure Ceylan would see that the arguments were left unresolved, unanswered, and the end was the cheapest gimmick one could imagine.I loved watching the film, but totally disappointed with the intellectual banality.


                
Winter Sleep (Turkish: Kis Uykusu) (2014) 
Director: Nuri Bilge Ceylan 
Watched: May 24, 2018 
Rating: 8/10 {Clue: Was filmed in this gorgeous plateau in Turkey; also known as Asian Turkey} A "contemplative cinema" film quite difficult to summarize- about so little, yet so much. Numerous tea-drinking, dialogue-limited, superfluous scenes where nothing of value occurs- there is no plot but it overflows with complex themes and psychological intensity (My two favorite questions: Can you force someone into an inevitability of remorse by not resisting their evil? and 
"Conscience", "Morals", "Principles", "Purpose"; The one who uses these words the most is perhaps the most highly suspect?) 
 
Aggressive, drawn-out discussions between brother and sister; passive-aggressive arguments between husband and wife; circuitous conversations between landlord and tenant; all create an impressively tangible and physical tenseness in the viewer- yet the characters meet with very little resolution. The ending is many things at once: devastating, difficult to understand, even more difficult to accept, and leaves one with much to ponder (That much money, wasted! How can one's pride be worth that much?) Ostensibly about a retired actor who now owns a hotel and multiple properties in meagerly populated Cappadocia, spending most of his time researching and writing, Loneliness, morality, religion, philosophy, family, marriage, philanthropy, pride, parenthood, social consciousness, the disparity between classes, though- these are the real characters. Incredible cinematography- especially some of the scenery shots in the dead of winter (My favorite is the releasing of the horse into the wild on a winter night.) Although needlessly lengthy, manages to allure with a beautiful shot or profound dialogue as boredom begins to set in. 
---- 
Acrostic is a form of poetry where the first letters in each line, paragraph, or word are doubly used to spell a name, phrase, or word. The word "acrostic" comes from the Greek words "akros" (outermost) and "stichos" (line of verse). Read the appropriate letters in the poem vertically to reveal the extra message, called the "acrostich"! 
#Acrostic #PoemReview #AboutSoMuchMore #PalmedOr #Turkish
Absorbing, epic length story set in Cappadoccia, Turkey. Several themes swirl around the hilltop hotel: necessary evil, civic responsibility, shame, ambition, marital breakdown. What happens when a man's heart goes into hibernation? Director Nuri Ceylan is at his most powerful with his Chekhovian style script.


                
A wisp of smoke pluming from the tussock, this is the opening shot of Nuri Bilge Ceylan's Palme d'or winning tome WINTER SLEEP, and it impeccably recapitulates what Ceylan angles to reify: the cosmically intangible yet intrinsically tangible incapability of communication among us humans. Our protagonist is the salt-and-pepper, middle-aged Aydin (Bilginer), a quondam thespian (a term which he prefers than "actor"), who runs a mountaintop hotel called "Othello" in Cappadocia of the Central Anatolia. For those who are au fait with Ceylan's track record and artistic felicity, it comes as an invigorating surprise to see a concise-to-wordy volte-face here, as this 196-minutes saga is chiefly composed of long-winded conversation segments (with no embellishment of accompaniments to boot), only intermediately larded with its ongoing actions and the sublime, postcard-ready shots of the magnificent topography of the locale, which is able to rouse even the most torpid wanderlust out of hibernation, Ceylan assures us its natural beauty is unadulterated and the film would land on its feet eventually through its dramaturgic toil. With winter looming around, the hotel business is in its troughs, but Aydin's sedate life is slowly descending into a personal quagmire due to both in-house and extraneous forces. The crisis within is the irreconcilable rift between him and his closest kin, namely his divorced sister Necla (Akbag, coalescing a languid easiness with sharp-edged spite) and his wife Nihal (Sözan), who is only half of his age. Their first debate is about Necla's "not resisting evil" supposition, an airy-fairy notion completely throws oneself on the mercy of other's quarter, before soon it exacerbates into many a personal snide, between Necla and Nihal firstly, then a protracted sibling verbal sparring adding insult to injury, from introspectively dialectical to deliberately catty, Ceylan hits home with his onion-peeling relentlessness to censure a detrimental propensity among intelligentsia: constantly attempting to earn one-upmanship by thinly-veiled denigration. Apparently, Aydin wins this round and Necla willfully takes her bow and never returns thenceforth. The meat of Aydin and Nihal's nuptial rub comes to the fore later, starkly chaste, their relationship has already been on the rocks for years, Nihal tries to ease her "trophy wife" shame by plunging into a fund-raising business for schools and children, refusing Aydin's interference of any kind, apart from accepting his anonymous charity from time to time. She cannot bear his non- threatening but chronically encroaching superciliousness, yet has no moxie to put the kibosh on their marriage in gridlock. As for Aydin, he sees all too well of Nihal's fix and cunningly barters his subservience for her entrapment "I love you, and I know you don't love me, but you cannot get your cake and eat it too!", that is the connotation. The cruel manifestation of selfish love from those who are endowed with clout and money. And later in a conversation with a local teacher Levent (Saribacak, exemplifies cogently how to shoot the booze-emboldened sideswipes), which goes argumentative, Aydin seemingly has the final say with a caustic rejoinder but the subsequent spewing betrays that an inward damage is done.Outwardly, it is the gap between castes that writs large and cannot be mediated, the family of Aydin's hard-up tenants, brothers Hamdi (Kiliç) and Ismail (Isler) cannot pay their rent on time and the ensuing dispute becomes rather ugly, and when a broken car window impels Hamdi to humble himself in front of a condescending Aydin, the Janus-faced reality seeps into the scenario in both castes, from smile to curse, from bonhomie to grumbling, all in a trice, even Aydin's chauffeur/assistant Hidayet (Pekcan), who is not above to hector those less fortunate tenants, but meanwhile has to carry all his master's luggage in a snowfall day, with the latter wandering with idle hands, so it is not surprising to see him one minute ago promise to keep a secret at the behest of Aydin and the next minute, casually divulges it to another party on the phone, the well-adjusted equilibrium between obedience and defiance is all too close to home.Indubitably, WINTER SLEEP is first and foremost, an actor's showpiece, leading actor Haluk Bilginer competently hammers out his delivery on the strength of his word-wielding expertise and telegraphs Aydin's inscrutable train of thought when lines are not proffered. Melisa Sözen, on the other hand, brilliantly portrays a more emotionally readable persona and her best scenes are in the cathartic episode, when Nihal tries to use money to buy her conscience in front of a seething Nejat Isler (emotive with a commensurate restraint, upstaging the rest in his two scenes), and the story reaches its apogee, but in post-mortem, it is a missing opportunity that Ceylon doesn't apply his "not resisting evil" theory for a trial run here, which in return points up Ceylon's own guarded and idealized stance of the have-nots: they are willing to die for dignity, the only remnant left for them to weaponize. An illuminating stew of the perennial vagaries (religion, philosophy, morality and class stratification, etc.) obstructing our day-to-day communications, WINTER SLEEP mark's Ceylon's highest achievement so far for his profound perspective in fleshing out a conundrum that is elementally complex and sophisticatedly widespread.


                
There would seem to be something inherently uncinematic about the chamber drama: a work tied to one, domestic space and the conversations that ensue therein. With Winter Sleep, rightly celebrated Turkish auteur Nuri Bilge Ceylan proves, like Bergman before him, that the chamber drama can indeed be high cinema. While most of the scenes take place in interiors, in only a few different rooms, Ceylan and DP Gokhan Tiryaki create brilliant master- shots in which the characters converse. There are a handful of exteriors of the Anatolian steppe and they are, characteristic of Ceylan, exceptionally beautiful. Interior or exterior, the color palate of the film is beyond reproach- consisting, as the title suggests, almost entirely of winter hues.One of the themes that, it seems to me, connects Celyan's films is the gradations of power, sometimes brutally absolute power, that people wield over others in contemporary Turkish society. In the director's "Three Monkeys" modern Turkey was portrayed as an almost feudalistic society, except that capitalism had enabled different layers of classes, and thus different layers of serfdom. The bourgeois suffer for the infractions of the wealthy, and the poor suffer for those of the bourgeois. In "Winter Sleep" the power dynamics are more emotional than economic, though the latter still comes into play. Indeed, as much as this film consists of interactions between family members in private spaces, it may subtly be Ceylan's most socio-political statement. The characters are former Istanbulite "cultural elites" holed up in the majestic if impoverished Turkish steppe, most focally Aydin, a former actor and son of a local land lord who has uncomfortably inherited his dad's power, as well as the coldly beautiful ancestral home that he has converted into a picturesque hotel. Aydin tries to shield himself from moral responsibility for the misery imposed on his destitute tenants, a struggle for which his wife Nihal tries and fails to assume responsibility. Aydin consistently tries to blind himself from his real affect on the world by commenting on society in a weekly newspaper column in which he tries to come off as bearing properly Turkish sensibilities- promoting a fine line between "modern thinking" and religious propriety, even though he has no use for religion, is of Europeanized taste, and seems more comfortable chatting with his foreign guests in English than relating to the local people, or indeed, his family. The most consistent theme in the interactions between Aydin, his wife, and sister Necla is whether turning the other cheek will lead one's tormentor to see the wrong of their ways. These characters do, indeed, seem to employ this technique in their interactions. Nihal, for instance, accuses Aydin of causing her misery. Aydin asserts that he is a "modern husband" and that she is "free to go as she pleases", though reminds Nihal that she will be impoverished if she divorces him. He then offers to give her space by rejoining society- Istanbul, hoping that she will feel guilty for hurting his feelings and ask him to stay. This passive-aggressive give-and-take is repeated in superficially different ways throughout the film between different sets of the three relatives. On the verge of leaving for Istanbul for the winter to give Nihal and Necla some space, Aydin instead goes on a drunken hunting trip with an old friend and returns to the hotel, bearing a slain rabbit as an offering to his family. The only internal dialog in the film is its last lines, in which Aydin acknowledges to himself, though not to his family, his terror of the thought of being without them even though he knows they no longer love him. The family thus remains stranded together in the isolated, beautiful ruin of their ancestral home, Ceylan's metaphor for contemporary Turkish society. Consistently hoping the other will implicate themselves for the misery around them, the characters emotionally oppress one another by telling each other that their unhappiness is their own doing since they are all, after all, free to do as they please in the modern state of Turkey. The "freedom" of a supposed modernity is thus the medium by which society's subjects incriminate one another. While Ceylan's film is most specifically an allegory of modern Turkey, it could serve as commentary on the oppressive freedom of "liberal democracies" everywhere.


                
It takes script, acting and directorial skill to keep a film flowing while still captivating for over three (3) hours. Some credit goes to Chekov for the framework of isolating peoples of different educational; economic; status; etc. backgrounds in one isolated arena and let them duke it out - verbally. The other credit goes to the carved cave dwellings, some of which date back about a thousand years while others are more recent, of the more recent some are quite elaborately constructed, one of which is the film's setting - a modern caved hotel. Incidentally, the source material for the hills/cliffs is volcanic ash - Tuff (looks like sandstone), a serene natural beauty contrast to the human personalities. Film should have been titled "Winter Storm" as a cabin fever style escalation of verbosity, mostly on issues that range from individual/personal values of the film's characters to more abstractly, human values in general, begin to provoke animosities and distrust. The central foil is the hotel owner, Aydin, and because of his appropriately stone like demeanor the diatribes just bounce off of him; even seeming to reflect more of the accusers themselves. I'm inclined to think that a bit more editing would have produced the same film in a little shorter length, but then too we live in a time driven, multitasking environment in contrast to the film's appropriate - time moves glacially slow setting. So the film's molasses slow tedium may have had a purpose.


                
After waiting nearly a year, I was finally able to see the film that won Cannes in 2014, Winter Sleep, also the first film I've seen from Turkey. Winter Sleep is a sober, serious film, centering on Aydin, a wealthy hotel-owner and landlord, his much younger wife Nihal and his sister, Necla. Aydin's vehicle window is smashed by a young son of a tenant, furious over having their possessions confiscated for months of unpaid rent. The boy's uncle tries to patch things up, but Aydin is unimpressed with his tenants. Suffering from hard luck, they see Aydin as a tyrant, though he doesn't personally manage his properties. Winter Sleep is overlong and slow but not really boring. The main drama is the emotional drama in Aydin arguing with Necla and Nihal, who both seem interested in breaking away from him. Necla picks at Aydin's writings as safe and presumptuous in dealing with topics Aydin doesn't know about; any writer will appreciate how that feels. Nihal is annoyed with him for meddling in her charity work late in the game. Then at the end, the tenants refusing Nihal's charity- indeed, throwing the equivalent of thousands of dollars in cash on the fire- is striking. This is a man insulted by charity from the "oppressor." I do feel a little sorry for Aydin- his sister and wife seem to do next to nothing, but are unappreciative of him, and he is unaware of some of the harsher acts done in his name.I liked Winter Sleep; it's a solid film, not much to dislike. But I can't say I was wowed by it- I wasn't devastated by it, or particularly moved by it. Even though it won Cannes, I can still understand why it missed a nomination by the Academy, and why they showed their love to Ida (2013) instead.
