Set in Cappadochia, central Anatolia, WINTER SLEEP (KIS UYKUSU) focuses on the life of Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) a retired actor who now runs the Hotel Othello. The name is significant, as it reveals his true preoccupation with performance, a trait reinforced by the framed bills on his study wall. With plenty of family money at his disposal he has no need to work, but that does not stop him from screwing every penny out of his tenants with the help of his henchperson Hidayet (Ayberk Pekcan). Although perpetually drawing attention to his poor background and unhappy childhood, it's clear that Aydin's life revolves totally around himself; and that the only way he can salve his conscience is to make charitable donations, preferably anonymously. With KIS UYKUSU we are back on thematic territory that director Nuri Bilge Ceylan previously explored in KASABA. He readily acknowledges Chekhov as an inspiration for creating a world where no one has much to do except talk to one another. Aydin busies himself with a variety of tasks, including writing a column for the local newspaper and writing a book on the history of the Turkish theater. His sister Necla (Demet Akbag) spends much of her time lolling on the sofa and wondering whether she should forgive her ex-husband for an unhappy marriage. Aydin's wife Nihal (Melissa Sözen) is equally indolent; her sole aim in life seems to be to chair a committee of prosperous locals dedicated to raising money for the local school.Stylistically speaking KIS UYKUSU is slightly different from Ceylan's earlier work; there are fewer reflective sequences designed to prompt reflection on the landscape and the elements, and more face-to-face confrontations between the protagonists. They emphasize the basic emptiness of their lives, as they have nothing to but talk and talk, in contrast to their tenants - for example the local imam Hamdi (Serhat Kiliç) who wonders about taking a second job so as to make ends meet. On the other hand these lengthy conversations draw attention to the protagonists' love of surfaces; unable (or unwilling) to engage with life's realities, they would rather talk at rather than with one another.The unbelievable landscapes of Cappadochia in winter, with its fairy chimneys and unspoiled Anatolian terrain, offers a point of contrast to the characters' musings. While they spend their time both literally and mentally imprisoned within Aydin's hotel, the landscape offers a reminder of timeless virtues, as well as the fact that nature continues to flourish in spite of humanity's best attempts to destroy it.The film comes to a climactic conclusion when Ceylan brings the indolent characters into contact with those forced to eke out an existence in harsh conditions. Nihal offers a financial gift to Hamdi's family; but fails to understand how such an act of apparent goodwill represents the ultimate insult. As Hamdi's brother Ismail (Nejat Isler) contends, it is nothing more than conscience money to atone for the fact that Aydin's family were responsible for causing Ismail's son Ilyas's (Emirhan Doruktutan's) pneumonia earlier on in the film. Meanwhile Aydin discovers to his cost that the local educator Levent (Nadir Saribacak) has a jaundiced view of all wealthy philanthropists. Yet such experiences do not lead to any form of redemption. The film ends with Aydin and Nihal sitting morosely in their deserted hotel, looking out of the window at the snow-covered vista beyond, imprisoned by their lack of perception.This film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes; it deserves every success. A modern classic.
Winner of the prestigious Palme d'Or at 2014 Cannes Film Festival, Winter Sleep arrives with high expectations but succeeds amazingly well in living up to its new-found honour for this Turkish drama is simply one of the most engrossing, mesmerizing & satisfying narratives to surface on the silver screen in the past year, and is definitely one of the best films of 2014.Set in Anatolia, the story of Winter Sleep concerns Aydin; the wealthy owner of a mountaintop hotel who was once an actor but has since fallen into the hibernation mode over the years. The plot covers the chaos his self-involved persona brings to his small kingdom as the animosity of his loved ones & the poor people under his reign begins surfacing once the winter approaches.Directed by Nuri Bilge Ceylan, the film takes a very methodical, patient & firm approach with its narrative which does a stellar job in slowly unraveling the inner details of the various characters inhabiting this story. The entire story is an amalgamation of one conversation after another but it's how each discussion begins & ends plus seamlessly switches from one to another that makes it such an immersive experience.The locations are wonderfully chosen, set pieces are finely detailed, the hotel itself creates a calm but secluded ambiance which becomes all the more suffocating on the advent of winter. Camera-work is mostly still yet effective plus the landscapes are beautifully photographed, its 196 minutes of runtime never really bothers for the most part, thanks to its breezy storytelling & the score makes its presence felt just when it's required.Coming to the performances, every single actor here chips in strongly in their given roles & leave nothing to complain about. Haluk Bilginer delivers a magnificent performance as Aydin, and is brilliantly supported by Demet Akbag & Melisa Sözen who play his sister & wife, respectively. The rest of the cast also shines since each character is deftly scripted & gradually developed which differentiates them from caricatures.On an overall scale, Winter Sleep is an intensely gripping, masterfully told & exquisitely layered study of a self-righteous character that also takes an interesting look at failing relationships, old age regrets, class divides, and the morals of right & wrong. And despite its challenging runtime, dialogue-driven plot & slow-burn narration, it manages to be a truly immersive & absorbing cinema that's worthy of your time & money. Highly recommended.


                
Winter Sleep is a long movie. At three hours and 15 minutes, this film will make you actually look at your clock before hitting play. It won Palm d'Or at Cannes and I had no idea of any of this until I saw it on Netflix this week. There's a lot of substance to this movie and a great deal can be said and debated philosophically. I'll just stick to what really stood out for me.The Disconnect Between ClassesAydin, the protagonist of the movie, is a wealthy man, well educated and, in kid mind, generous and kind to those around him. What becomes apparent early on in the film is that he is also detached from the practical ongoings of his estate. His property is rented out and managed by lawyers and helpers, he does not know his own tenants, and he's oblivious to the issues they are having.When a kid breaks his car window with a stone, he's shocked and surprised. He does not realize that debt collectors and the police had a conflict with the kid's father, that the father has no job, and that they live of one person's wage. If this were a more predictable film, you would expect Aydin to realize these details. It doesn't happen! In fact, the only way Aydin tries to help the less fortunate is by donating a great sum of money to the charity his wife, Nihal, is organizing.This same disconnect is present in my own life, and likely in the life of many of the people around me in the same social class and age group. Our idea of helping the less fortunate is donating to charity once a year or jumping on some online viral bandwagon every so often. And do we really do it to help, or do we do it to help ourselves feel good?Just like Aydin writes a weekly column in the local paper, so do we write our blogs and Tweets and Facebook posts preaching whats's right and showing off our opinions and moral stances. But in the end, how many of us actually take action or speak from experience rather than simply from philosophical realms?The Physical SeparationWhat is captivating about the movie from the get-go is the setting. It's filmed in Cappadocia, Anatolia, a region of Turkey. The landscape and the homes are truly unique. Aydin lives with his wife and sister in a hotel they own. This hotel is built into the mountain, in a way, and it has the feeling of a castle. Aydin is like a kind ruler, and this castle is separating him from the rest of the people, adding to the idea of disconnect.While he sees himself as a sort of benevolent ruler, we quickly see that practically nobody feel this way about him and he's actually disliked even by his own family. His helper runs all errands, and the ruler sits oblivious in his tower. His sister challenges his moral standpoint on the notion of evil; his wife feels like a prisoner with no purpose in life; his subjects despise him behind his back.This separation does not happen only in remote regions. This separation is a daily reality in the society we live in. Very few people live in communities where they interact with their neighbours, or even with their own family. People are separated by vast geographical distances, going far from home in search of materialistic gains. And even those who stay close often just shut themselves in, watching Netflix all day or spending hours on their smart phones. Aydin fails to see past the his own mountain fortress. We fail to see past our computer screens.Making the Best of What You HaveSad ideas aside, there is a sense of redemption buried somewhere in the snow. Aydin claims he worked all his life, and it is only in his old age that he's as wealthy as we see him. Maybe it's unfair to judge him so harshly. Maybe he was not really meant to be a ruler and his detachment is a byproduct of his lack of interest and his moral high ground. He used to be an actor and his current goal is to write a book on the history of Turkish theater. That's not so wrong, is it? A quiet life on top of a mountain, removed from the problems of the village? Isn't that what many of us want after a life of work?And what about the tenants who failed to pay rent for many months? If they lived in Canada, they would have been kicked out a long time ago! It's clear that even though the people around Aydin are unhappy, he's actually content with his station in life. He tells Nihal that he still realizes the value of having a warm room and a roof over his head, while she talks about doing greater things in life. I couldn't help but agree with Aydin: we often forget what we have and, like Nihal, we get stressed with wanting more and more from life. A simple shift in focus could make us happy: just focus on what you have and consider that billions of others would give anything to have a full fridge, a warm house, and people who love them.There: I tried to end it on a more positive note! Hope you will watch this long but rewarding movie! Thank you for reading.
Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) is a wealthy man, a former actor who now runs a hotel in Cappadocia. He also writes a column for the local newspaper, and is researching for his planned book about the history of Turkish theater. Nihal (Melisa Sözen) is his beautiful and much younger wife. Necla (Demet Akbag) is his divorced sister. Also involved the family of Aydin's poor tenants who could not pay their rent for several months already. The friendly and gregarious Hamdi appeals for compassion, while his older brother, the impetuous jobless ex-con Ismail and his sullen young son Illyas, could not hide their contempt for their landlord. This film is about the various conversations and confrontations between these people. These may begin as abstract debates about not resisting evil or boredom or donations, yet they all end up being very personal. There is no real plot, just a lot of seemingly random dialogue. Although, there are arguments that seemed endless and repetitive, these confrontations were eloquently written with very meaningful words for both sides of the issue. These long talky scenes were riveting despite their length and you hang on to every word they were saying. The performances of the actors of these flawed characters were faultless and so natural.The cinematography of this film is so amazingly beautiful as it magically captured the unique topography of Cappadocia during the wintertime. There were several picture-perfect haunting scenes throughout, specially those about the Anatolian horse, the cemetery, the train tracks, the tree with the birds, the rabbit in the brush, the town, the hotel -- all covered with pristine snow. The close-ups of the actors were all so perfectly framed to achieve maximal drama. The use of mirrors to vary the camera shots were very good. I admit that the 3-hour and 16-minute length of this film can be felt. However, you do not really mind this time running as you listen to intellectually-stimulating emotionally-rich conversation. This film is a masterpiece of world cinema by acclaimed Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan, truly worthy of its Palme d'Or during the Cannes Film Festival this summer. This should be a shoo-in to at least be nominated for the Oscar for Best Foreign Language film. 9/10.


                
Nuri Ceylan's Winter Sleep explores the need to find values one can live by in the contemporary world free of religious trappings. Set and filmed in rural Turkey it represents the elemental pivot point between Islam and the West.The film is essentially the anatomy of Aydin, a secular intellectual/artist/businessman, who pretends to conscience and morality as he judges (and oppresses) others but falls well short on both counts himself, frozen by his arrogance. Aydin has retreated to run a small hotel which he keeps "natural," preferring muddy roads over gravel. His inherited property made him wealthy, a condition he also defends as "natural." He writes a weekly column in a small local paper, but won't venture into a major publication. When Aydin gets an email from a local teacher he summons his wife and neighbour to hear her adulation, under the pretence of asking their advice on responding to her request for financial help.Ceylan makes Aydin admirable and sympathetic, then gradually exposes him. His vanity in reading that email is our first clue to his failings, as well as his alienation from his wife Nihal. At first a beautiful enigmatic phantom, she emerges as a repressed, young woman who has finally found self-realization in running a charity project. Aydin spoils that by taking over her bookkeeping. He suspects the others of fraud and wants to preserve their family name. That, we later learn, he has already compromised when he turned earthquake victims away from his hotel in order to accommodate the paying members of relief agencies. His association, not Nihal's inexperience, would poison her project. Aydin also tries to remove himself from what's happening around him. When a second- generation tenant falls into rental arrears, Aydin claims his assistant Hidayet and his lawyers do everything on their own. Aydin feels no responsibility for the cruelty a wild horse suffers when caught for him. Aydin frees the horse when he leaves Nihal and sets out for Istanbul. He is jolted into self-awareness when he instead goes for a drunken evening and morning hunt with neighbour Suavi and schoolteacher Levent. Levent's babble confronts Aydin with his earthquake shame. The combination of brandy and guilt give the controlled and controlling Aydin his first breakdown. He vomits. The next morning he shoots a rabbit and finds it, still quivering with last life. That breaks down the detachment he has maintained between himself and the abuses of nature he has ordered, whether toward animals or his tenants. He returns to beg Nihal to forgive and to stay with him. His catharsis awakens him from his winter sleep.In a breakfast conversation Necla proposes to confront evil by submitting to it. She postulates that instead of resisting evil, thus further provoking its agent, by submitting to it one can perhaps arouse the malfeasant's conscience. She even considers asking her drunken ex-husband to forgive her for divorcing him, in hopes that might convert him to sobriety. "Islam," of course, means "submission," though that usually refers to Mohammad not to evil. In addition to his secularity, the other Islamic cornerstones that Aydin violates are brotherhood and charity. Neighbour Suavi is literally what Aydin is metaphorically: a lonely isolate, who after his wife's death closed off several rooms and retreated to his living room stove. But Suavi has warm relationships with others, like the teacher, and he has actively joined Nihal's project. Aydin's callous treatment of his suffering tenants and the earthquake incident prove his total lack of charity. When he gives Nihal a large donation it's to try to buy off her anger at his intrusion. Of course, he tells Suavi and Levent about his "anonymous" gift to bolster his image. His "charity" is disqualified by his self-interest.When Nihal gives that money to the unfortunate tenants she turns his conscience money to effective use.That family is a microcosm of current Islam. The younger brother Hamdi is the local imam, who gives sermons and struggles on a small salary to support his jobless older brother Ishmael, his sister-in-law and nephew, and their aging, ailing and ungrateful mother. Despite their long tenancy, Aydin has allowed the family to be dunned by a collection agency, the police, and confiscators of their TV and other goods. Ishmael was humiliated by an assault in front of his family. Hamdi serves the community with Koranic wisdom. But he can't mediate between the wealthy landlord and the violent rebel. Hamdi reluctantly accepts the money from Nihal, but Ishmael proves self-destructive in his sense of violated honor. Ishmael went to jail for stabbing a brute who stole his wife's underwear and then teased him. Now, as he recounts his various shame by Aydin, he rejects the money that would restore his family's honour and throws it in the fire. "Ishmael," of course, was Hagar's son, the original Moslem banished from Abraham's family. The original Moslem here becomes the first radical. The Grade V boy Ilyas is an intensely resentful figure who stones the landlord's van, then falls into a faint and a fever when his imam uncle tries to get him to apologize to Aydin and kiss his imperious hand. If Ishmael's burning of the money evokes the self- destruction of the Islamic militant, son Ilyas represents the outer-directed destruction to come.
I didn't want the film to end like Aydin did't want to take the train to leave Cappadocia. In every scene step by step I felt how alienated the characters are from their true selves. There was a worrying despair in Aydin's situation that he belonged to nowhere, neither Cappadocia nor the upper class life of an actor. In the end he admits to his wife that he isn't the charismatic actor she expected. His wife Nihal and his sister Necla makes Aydin confront with his reality to a degree. The free-spirited motorcyclist man symbolized to me that unlimited freedom was also a state of alienation like dogmatic conservatism. The only scene that I didn't think realistic was Nihal's confrontation when the money she gives as a gift is turned into ashes by the unpredictable man, Ismail. Turning a gift like that isn't something inherent in Anatolian culture. But from one of Ceylan's interviews I felt that this may be something he wanted to inject as a value to our society. I think this is a movie of confrontations.
I agree with the critics that have compared it to something like an epic Russian novel with its penetrating observations on the human condition and philosophical musings. The film deals with a whole host of issues like pride, how we create our own prison, how we protect ourselves through self-deception, how ego can fuel seemingly charitable motivations, how we can suffocate others through good intentions, generational divisions, the notion of resisting evil in order to bring out the good in others (which sparks a darkly humorous debate among the characters).I found the film to be very shrewdly written in how it constantly reinforced certain character traits in different contexts. As I stated before, the character of Aydin (even while instructing others that the road to hell is paved with good intentions) likes to justify himself with his good intentions and doesn't want to mislead people: he defers the tenant to his partner about the debt, he's always reading his articles on potentially touchy issues to his sister for feedback, and even little things like the way he expresses uncertainty to the client about the Omar Sharif movie that was filmed in the area and how he examines the pictures on his website after the client asks about the horses at the hotel (the horse being captured and subsequently set free was also a nice touch of symbolism).
This is probably the slowest film I've ever seen where I was invested the whole time. That's quite a feat considering the film's glacial pace and 196-minute run time. I'll admit I don't watch a lot of foreign movies, but I'll go out of my way if I feel they're worth checking out. I heard how slow this movie was, so I went in somewhat cautious. Don't get me wrong, some of my favorite movies are quite slow, such as The Bird People In China and There Will Be Blood. However, I have my limits. I have respect for the artistic merit of films like Solaris, Satantango, Werckmeister Harmonies, and The Turin Horse, and I get what they're going for thematically, but JEEZ, can we please move on? I probably sound like an ignorant jackass for saying that, but hey, that's my honest opinion.Did I fall asleep during Winter Sleep? Despite the fact that I started the movie at 9:00 pm and it didn't finish until after midnight, the answer was surprisingly no. In my opinion the film is perfectly paced for the story it wants to tell, slow enough that you feel the pace of life in the mountains of central Turkey but just fast enough to keep things moving along. The acting and dialogue are the two things that drive the film, and both are executed beautifully. All of the actors were fantastic and felt like real people. The fact that I don't recognize any of them probably helped, but even in a foreign language film its not hard to spot weak acting. Not a whole lot happens in the film, but the film remains engaging because we care about these believable, relatable characters. Movies like Lord of The Rings: The Return of The King or The Ten Commandments are engaging throughout their 200+ minute run times simply because so much happens in them that you sort of need it to be that long. For the first hour of Winter Sleep, I wasn't really sure where the film was going, but things kept escalating and tensions kept building. By the two and a half hour mark, I was on the edge of my seat, anxious (in a good way) to see how the climax would play out. If a film comprised entirely of 15-minute scene after 15-minute scene of people talking can keep me anticipating what happens next, it must be doing something right.The film is beautifully shot. We get some beautiful scenery outdoors in addition to some nice cinematography for the indoor scenes. (not really a spoiler) I like how some of the more pivotal scenes are lit only with the flickering light from a fireplace, reflecting the characters' emotional intensity. There's some interesting symbolism and religious/social themes sprinkled throughout as well.My only complaint with the film is it gets too philosophical and political at points for my taste. There are times where characters will talk about Islam, the Turkish government, and other things for like five minutes at a time. While it technically helps develop the characters and fits with the plot thematically, I felt that some of it was unnecessary and could have been cut. There are times where its needed for the plot though, like when Aydin berates his wife about laws regarding taxation on donation money (not really a spoiler).Overall, I was pleasantly surprised by this film. If you sit back and let the film suck you in, you'll find yourself engaged. It isn't for everybody, but those willing to stick it out will hopefully find it rewarding.


                
Winter Sleep is a great movie on different levels. Unlike his previous film, Once Upon a Time in Anatolia, Ceylan's use of poetic language is spare and not central to his new film. Instead, the focus has shifted to character studies through Bergmanesque scathingly revealing dialogues that makes the similarity of the title to the film Winter Light maybe not entirely coincidental.But what makes the film unique is how it works well as a psychodrama but it doesn't confine itself to the inner lives and struggles of its characters. On a different level, the characters can rightly be coming out of a Dostoevsky story, each representing an archetype, the wealthy (the bored and jaded, the sensitive and empathic but trapped in a bubble of luxury, the distant and arrogant pseudo-intellectual taking his moral and cultural upper hand for granted) and the poor (the subservient, the frustrated and hateful, the resigned and meek.) Ceylan's keen observation on how the poor and the wealthy, each destined to live in their own bubbles, see themselves and fail to understand the other makes their inevitable clash, as the hunting scene might suggest, more like a law of nature than due to their personal demons and character weaknesses. Maybe some of the arguments in the film can be read in the same Dostoevskian vein: the artists putting words into his characters' mouths to argue and counter-argue what he himself has been grappling with. But even during those conversations, the undercurrent of psychological drama is present; the question is not just what they are arguing or whether we agree or not but what motivates them to say what they say. What feels a bit thematically out of place from the rest of film though, is when Ceylan becomes Dostoevskian in a melodramatic way in a scene where Ismael refuses to accept the money from Nihal. And aside from a few scenes where it feels the movie is losing its steam in this more than three hours of a marathon, Winter Sleep is a considerable achievement and one of the best movies of the year.
At over three hours, I was very surprised at the speed which this passed by. This isn't just thanks to the incredible photography and landscapes, but also the dialogue which was consistently intriguing while essentially going nowhere, much like the characters inhabiting the small village.This is a movie without a plot, rather it is a multiple character/relationship study, with some humour littered about as the lead character seems to be one of those people who revels in others' mistakes and enjoys pointing them out, as he is always right. His and his friends interactions with the rest of the cast are somehow captivating, it is action through dialogue. Whether meaningless talk that defines the characters, or more philosophical conversations that bring to mind Russian extensionalist writings, it is the dialogue and the character studies that make up the action. Not a movie for everyone then, I feel I say that a lot but a three-plus hour Turkish film is probably not most folks' cuppa tea. Especially when the conversations get heated – it's a lot to ask to read all the subtitles and know who is saying what. But the movie paints each character so well that for the most part, I could tell who was saying what through their attitude and manner of speaking.I enjoyed this one immensely, and having never heard of the director Ceylan, I am keen to check out his filmography as soon as possible. Deserving of its Palme d'Or without a doubt, as their isn't a moment where either we see long takes of the incredible cave-like village/hotel and the surrounding areas, all of which look absolutely stunning, or again carefully photographed indoor scenes that again somehow provide for entertaining dialogue despite their being little in the way of narrative. This also rivals Under The Skin, TGBH, Force Majuere and Interstellar for the visual spectacle it provides.I read many comparisons to Bergmann's work, and while this is somewhat true, much like the same comparisons with Force Majuere, they aren't quite accurate. Both study the human condition in its true form: flawed personalities and the results of these. However Bergmann for the most part had one character that was the subject of study, and their flaws were often much more psychologically troubling and dark in atmosphere. This however is a study of an entire village, a metaphor for the various flaws and vices that make up humanity in our society today.One fault that could be aimed at the movie was the running time, as there is no question that in three hours, one would have expected more significant events to occur. I do think that this element should have been explored further, but the simply amazing cinematography, by one Gökhan Tiryaki , and the strangely consistently interesting conversations were by far enough to overlook this. The script was extremely well written, and each conversation revealed more layers of each character's personality. There is no narrative, no plot, but the study of a small community and the secrets and unhappiness that hovers over most living there is quite masterfully done.This is certainly a new experience for me, as I haven't quite seen a movie with such an obvious lack of a narrative, but yet it managed to intrigue, entertain and make me laugh. The ending at first seemed abrupt, but in hindsight it made perfect sense. An ideal ending for an extremely interesting multiple-character study that slowly reveals layers of each character. Some are likable, many aren't, yet their character's gradual progression as people was enough the to satisfy this viewer. It did remind of Bergmann, but in a much less dark and more subtle way. Not to mention this film follows the lives of multiple characters, all whom belong in a hierarchy of sorts, as one owns the hotel, others rent and are subsequently lower, and for the most part are treated as so. A significant event near the end of the movie signifies an actual plot device, and in hindsight I can see why it happened.This is an ambiguous film, it leaves a lot to your imagination, and you're enjoyment of it really depends on the limit of your imagination. If it enjoys sprinting the 100 metre dash in under nine seconds then you will see this film and then want to see it again immediately. If your imagination is slower than a sloth doped up on endone, this perhaps isn't a film for you. But if you use your head, and follow the conversations littered throughout the run-time, you will find yourself intrigued at the many subtleties of the film that are executed with perfection. A good eye is required, and a certain understanding of humanity and personality traits doesn't hurt.Another gem to end the year, 2014 has been filled with amazing movies and the pace does not seem to be letting up. It is extremely encouraging to see not only improved quality from the US, but also many British movies and non-English films that say a lot more than you might think. I feel different cultures approach filmmaking in their own unique way. This is certainly a unique movie, and as it progressed I felt like I was learning simple things about the culture of the characters – a high number of Muslims, a subject lightly touched on.4.5/5 – Strong in every facet but narrative/plot, but considering the goals of the movie and what it sets out to do, this absence feels right. It reflects the fates of most of the characters well as a general metaphor for where we are as humans today.


                
Winner of the Palme D'or in 2014, Turkish Director Nuri Bilge Ceylan's Winter's Sleep succeeds on many levels as a cinematic achievement. Just as other movies in his oeuvre, Ceylan again takes a simple story, and combines it with an exquisite cinematography, well-drawn characters, crackling dialogue, stimulating use of image and sound and a well-balanced black humor. The result: a brilliant piece of cinema in every aspect.While the film's central theme seems revolving around never-ending tirades and mind games between protagonist and the people in his surroundings (his family, friends and his tenants), actually the film focuses on a man's internal struggle, an array of moral dilemmas, a clash between value systems, a complex tapestry of relationships, and matters of faith, empathy and feeling. Also, the humdrum of remote small-town life in the darkest time of winter is exquisitely reflected. Just like his previous works, Ceylan opts again to keep the running time to a considerable length in order to bring a novelistic effect to his simple yet thought-provoking story. It lasts more than 3 hours and has a slow, measured pace, but no single moment or line feels extraneous. It never drags or gets boring. Definitely, he is a story-teller in the true sense.Similar to his former movies (such as "Climates", "Distant" and "Once upon a Time in Anatolia") , Ceylan again takes advantage of his background as a photographer. The picture is gorgeous from the first scene to the last, thanks to the wintry Cappadoccian setting. He creates an out-of-this-world mood, mesmeric and melancholic, suggesting that his characters are somehow cut off from the realities of the world. The attention to authentic details is impeccable. The hotel, that cut directly into rock, serves as a perfect ground for movie's gloomy atmosphere. Beautifully lit cave- like chambers, with crackling log fires in the background provide an excellent place for expansively conceived, circular debates.Likewise, all characters are well-drawn and well-cast. Incomprehension of another's feelings, and intellectual and emotional dissimilarities of characters are exquisitely portrayed, and reflected into ponderously long, but sharp and crackling dialogue. From cynical, selfish and privileged Aydin (Haluk Bilginer) to fragile, oppressed and embattled wife Nihal (Melisa Sözen), and to confused, depressed and resentful sister Nermin (Demet Akbag), all characters are trapped in their cocoons of emotional loneliness and insipid existences.Gökhan Tiryaki's cinematography is outstanding in the use of lights, shadows and dark contrasts that enhance the story to such an extent. Majority of scenes starts with a long shot in long take with static cameras. Indoor scenes are inter-cut with powerful close-ups, all with the flavor of artsy photography; with reverse, changing camera angles and pans and tilts. Sharpness and colors are glorious too.Last word: Pure, plain and gripping, one of the best films of 2014. This is a kind of movie that makes you think over and over again about the distances inherent to human relationships. (8.4/10)


                
I think the best film of Turkiye is unconcerned. Turkish Cypriot wise wise ceylan the people who want to be better and who want to do it are in a last There is no doubt that there is a director who works in this film. individual issues such as social problems are very impressive presenting to a spectator on a sec.Newsehirin muhtesem The cinematography with the images shows us almost as much. At one time in anatolia, 3 monkeys, as far away as dense movies den won a golden palm feud for winter sleep. Oscar I wish the person is safe and I hope this happens.


                
I really really like it but it is so long. I finished in a week.


                
This movie gives you a feeling inside your heart. I didn't know Turkish films can present a simple trivial incident in a cinematic way. Don't be misled. The movie is not about one incident. 
It's slower a bit but the formidable screenplay keeps you stack.


                
This film marked the Turkish cinema to the world of Turkish cinema that provides a voice and, in addition to the excellence of construction, which is also the name of this mükelliyet until Nuri Bilge Ceylan, thank you. Turkey Turkish film, cinema attracts rare winter sleep because I can not find a word needed to describe the movie in the history of the Turkish nation, what a movie like this to see what was such a success. I think the Turks under the leadership of Nuri Bilge Ceylan to industrial aspect of foreign cinema, this film will carry the love and the happiness a difficult movie to watch. Winter sleep until all my gratitude to the staff and Nuri Bilge Ceylan and monitoring are not the Turks say.


                
How is it that I'd heard about so many foreign films from this year that are being nominated or gaining traction with critic bodies, yet I had never heard of this until today and it's a PalmeD'or winner? Anyways, absorbing, mesmerizing, pretty haunting work here. The cast is aces all around, and the film does a great job of really creeping up on you and keeping you more and more hypnotized as you're immersed in the conversations between these fascinating, well- developed characters. Definitely the best foreign-language film I've seen this year and very strongly recommended. In some ways, it reminds me of Mr. Turner in that both do flow and look like pieces of poetry and paintings, not just visually but atmospherically.


                
The greatness of this film lies in the things, it didn't said. Sometimes though I wish they were spelled out.It is about the ability of mankind to withdraw from life, in order to survive the cold winter. There is a central scene between brother and sister, in which they dispute on the surface, but in fact they reveal layer for layer the excuses, they made for living their lives.However, and thats the main critic point, the movie moved me intellectually but not emotionally. The difference between a good movie and a great movie is: the good movie shows the problem, it requires intelligence, the great movie shows a way out, it requires courage. This one is "only" a good movie.The final scene remains a mystery to me: Is it meant as a happy or bad ending? Does it mean he begins, what he didn't dare to begin earlier, or does it mean he remains in his winter sleep. The closing pictures suggest the latter. It would make a great movie out of "Winter sleep".


                
