This show has a great look and production value, fine actors, but sadly the script lacks coherence and character building. the storyline has almost nothing to do with the book it's supposedly based upon. this show is pretentious and boring, a real pity, since the books with gereon rath from author volker kutscher are actually very good. it could have been so much more, but this is just embarassing and shows the immense gap between german tv productions and those from other countries like uk, us, china, japan,denmark ,... save your time and skip this show and read the books instead


                
The Germans discover a – well, not all-too – new kind of humour. The investigating Kommissar here is named Gereon Rath, apparently having been baptized with Gereons Koelsch and Rats Koelsch, two beer brands from Cologne, and he's played by Volker Bruch of SK Koelsch fame, another Krimi series from the 00s. And now, whoosh!, he's transported from, yup, Cologne, to 1929 Berlin to solve a period case in Babelsberg involving porn, blackmail, Russian expatriates and shady characters that actually don't trigger too much enthusiasm; you've seen 'em all, as well as the good-cop-bad-cop routine or the struggling shorthand typist Charlotte (Liv Lisa Fries, despite her 20s cutie outfit easily recognizable as one of those gentrification moms from the Prenzlauer Berg area), and the never-ending club and dance scenes are about as scorching and authentic as a show of the Max Raabe Palast Orchester, a modernish nostalgia schlager ensemble for Berlin's higher earners. Compare them occasionally to the rousing nightclub action featuring sax player Sidney Bechet in Hanns Schwarz' comedy Einbrecher (1930). That was cinema. This is pseudo-hipster chic, small screen style.
No explicit spoilers here , maybe a heads up. Great production but with a fatal flaw for me at least. Yes, bad things happen to good people but this is not a documentary, it's a story and I believe you have to strike a balance between fairy tale endings and despair. Tragedy and loss of course, but also hope. I was devastated towards the end of the episodes and lost any interest ( I'd loved it up to that point) after that. I regretted the hours I'd watched. So if you can relate to my opinion about despair and hope then I strongly suggest you don't bother watching. I've heard a second season is coming out but I could not care less.


                
