There are significant detours from the book which for me drops it a star.... But love the series. Watched seasons 1 and 2 back to back over a few days. Captivating.


                
Interesting tv-show, recommended. First episodes introduce us into what is properly called Babylon inter wars Berlin ( such as a world of decadent art, after first war misery, bordellos, and pornographic studios ) A chaotic, vicious world; there is also political corruption, family disappointments, betrayal, just like in real life. I would say the political setting is realistic, as in the police upper offices or the underground ultra nationalistic movements.
 Charlotte is a girl that tries to survive, is quite astute, and appreciated for that.The main protagonist, Gereon, is driven by a sense of duty, and sometimes acts against his superiors or associates' motives.Svetlana Sorokina sings as a kind of Lady Gaga of her time. Her lover, Kardakow should have been called Koshka(cat) as he has nine lives. Most communist revolutionaries were such as lawyers, teachers or military. Unusual to be an artist- I think they made him an artist to connect him with the artistic scene important in the show.Unlike Hollywood shows, not all the stories end up well, there is also tragedy. I was afraid Gereon is all too perfect, but we find out he commits perjury.We also find people of about any social status living in less comfortable accommodations (eg journalist and detective bachelors sharing lodgings).
There are many references of the type "he is from town X" (so he must behave in a certain way) where insert X, a German town-I think such remarks about province appeal more to the German audience.
The theme song is haunting and beautiful.
Also, there are some cool bizarre negative characters (The Priest, The Armenian)


                
Excellence in filmmaking. Germans have always made exceptional films. What bothers me is the dubbing. I would have much rather seen subtitles. When there is dubbing, the voices never match the personality of the actors. It's very annoying when the dubbing is out of sync with the character. I would give it 10 stars if it were not for the poor dubbing.That said; kudos to the script, director, cinematographer, actors and sum of the crew and producers for a sensually stunning experience, not seen in a very long time.


                
For A non German speaking U S viewer it may be A little confusing and complicated in spots as multiple storylines are happening at once. I blame that on the CC quality. When someone speaks in German and no CC happens,you have missed something., Also you have them flashing on the screen too quickly to read. Too bad because this is a very lavish production. You could use some background history for this too. Of course Germans would know this. Kind of relevant in the US in the era of Trump. Democracy testers and those pesky Russians ....


                
The story and setting is quite unique and compelling for this day in age: Wiemar Berlin.Negative: The dubbing into English sounds poor. A previous person commented on this in some detail. Strongly recommend watching in German with English subtitles. Some aspects of this plot are unclear and the clarity would have been appreciated. E.g., our protagonist's hazy / barbiturate-affected recollection of being pursued by "the saint" that seems to be revealed more and more over the last handful of episodes. It sufficiently confused me to the point of wondering if he had actually retrieved the reel-to-reel tapes to which so many are subject to blackmail or if that was some sort of dream sequence / induced memory? Lastly, whoever translated the date of the battle in which our protagonist abandons his brother: in German it was November 4, 1918. The translation into English comes out as Nov 14, 1918, but the war had ended on November 11, 1918. Also some of the translations into English are literal and thus somewhat nonsensical, but this is a very, very small quibble with a well done series such as this.
Only a small complaint, and I realize that it's one few people will care about. I bring it up mainly because the art direction here is so VERY good, that what with the high quality on display, an anachronism seems worse than it would be in an inferior production. Fact is: women's headbands had disappeared from the party scene with the advent of the short skirt in 1925. Period. Yet here at every dance hall scene, set in 1929, at least every other woman is seen sporting a headband or other hair ornament. In 1929 - bare heads were in - and had been so for years- fashion moved fast in those days, even the poor tried to hard keep up with the moment. Costume people are paid to know things like this - but in this case, they don't.


                
