I viewed No Country for Old Men twice and thought it was one of the best films I've ever seen. It was time to see another film so I read some of the reviews here on IMDb. There will be blood had nothing but great reviews and was getting awards and nominations like No Country for Old Men so I figured I had to see it. It wasn't available to see locally for a couple weeks and I unfortunately didn't check the reviews again before going to see it yesterday. I'm seeing bad reviews for this film now and I can understand after seeing the film.I didn't get into any of the spoilers so I didn't know what to expect. I only had a basic idea of what it was about.The film opens with a view of the plains which was nice to see. Then, out of nowhere, this horrible screeching violin tears into your head leaving you wondering "what the hell was that all about?". I figured it was setting something up for later in the film. The only purpose of that noise that I can figure is to give the film an eerie feel though it really only helped me to understand that this film wasn't put together properly.Early on, Daniel basically adopted the young son of one of his men that died on the job showing a caring side of him but not much else happened.I waited patiently for the film to progress and thought it was finally about to when Daniel commenced drilling on the land he purchased from the Sundays and the feud between Daniel and Eli started to develop. But, I saw their interactions as strange and misguided along with the plot at this point in the film.I had a hard time trying to figure out how religion worked it's way into the plot especially when bad things started happening at the drilling site after Eli didn't get to bless the drilling. I thought religion was going to take over a bit at that point and the drilling was essentially cursed and doomed. Nothing ever happened with it though leaving me wonder what the point of introducing religion into the film was.Daniel seemed to have good moments and bad moments at this point making me wonder if he was a good guy or a bad guy. He seems to care for HW after he hit his head but then runs off to see that the fire gets put out. He seems to console HW after losing his hearing but sends him off and goes about running his operation. I guess that people can have a good side and a bad side but it was strange seeing Daniel go back and forth being good and bad.The scene where Daniel gets baptized is the only entertaining and funny thing in the entire movie but it's sort of awkward seeing how religious the towns people are and how religion was introduced earlier on in the film. I wondered where they were going to take religion in the film next.Daniel goes off to see that the pipeline gets built and finds out that the man claiming to be his brother isn't actually his brother after negotiating the pipeline deal. He finds this out by going along with his "brothers" wishes to get drunk and get women to celebrate their pipeline deal. It seemed like Daniel wanted to see if his "brother" was going to show a greedy side to determine whether or not he was playing him for his money. His "brother" gets greedy asking for money for a prostitute and Daniel calls him on it finding out he was playing him all along. My problem with this is that anyone can have a desire to go get drunk and get women; including a real brother so I don't think this scene made any sense.Daniel comes back and brings HW back and strangely tries to go on with business as usual like nothing really happened. He's a good guy again for bringing HW back after the hard work is completed but is a bad guy again for ignoring to nurture HW and failing to learn sign language so they can communicate with each other.The film falls apart at the end when HW talks with Daniel and Daniel basically ignores and makes fun of him until HW mentions that he's starting his own oil company. Daniel goes off the deep end and pushes HW away in a very cruel way. The most ridiculous scene of the film is when Eli pays Daniel a visit out of nowhere asking for money. I had seen way more than enough up to this point and this scene left me hating myself for wasting my time and money to watch the film.I tried hard to understand the films direction and purpose but really couldn't with how sloppy it was. It was pretty much all about Daniel and that's certainly nothing that anyone wants to see. Why would I want to see a sloppy story about a greedy oil man and his messed up life? I just don't get it.Regarding the reviews, how could anyone possibly give this film a good review? You caused me to waste my time and money and I'm sure there are many more just like me.I will say that Daniel Day Lewis' performance was good given the circumstances. His character, Daniel Plainview, was a not so good in a horrible film.Go see No Country for Old Men if you want to see a good film. Hey, it doesn't even have music added to it and it certainly doesn't have a horrible screeching violin that tears into your head leaving you wondering "what the hell was that all about?".
Hi. How's everybody doing? I just saw 'There Will Be Blood' last night. I don't like the idea of spending my whole life on the internet on message boards discussing trivial aspects of pop culture, but I felt compelled to issue a warning about this film. Critics seem to like it. Oscar nomination folks gave it a nod. Even more so, the pseudo-critic/'we derive personal validation of our innate human desire for creation and creativity by attaching ourselves to the works of others like leeches" folks really really liked it.This movie is not good.It may be compelling to a degree. The acting is fine. There isn't a story. Perhaps this lack of story is OK for the fact that regular life (at least based on my perspective created from my personal experiences) does not seem to have a nice little beginning/relevant conundrum/happy resolution format. I even applaud the director for trying to make a movie such as this and "stretch" our thinking. Its just that this movie failed at stretching anything other than my ability to believe people who review films and decide for us what is good.My warning is for those who haven't seen this movie. Please go to the theater with an open mind. Make up your own mind. Decide for yourself whether or not you like this movie. Come back home. Sit at your computer for 30 minutes if you have to and think about the movie for yourself. THEN and only then, decide what it is that you think. Write it on this website. Tell the world what YOU think.As a society, we have to get away from being sheep. If a movie makes an attempt at being art, then that is wonderful. If it fails, then that is fine. Good try. But, lets please not decide that something is good based on some sort of manufactured intellectualist solidarity. It hurts us all.For me, I hope someday that i get my 3 hours back.
I heard about the reviews for this movie and my husband and I set out for a good movie afternoon. The opening scene is a beautifully shot red rocky landscape with green hills and a stark blue sky, the soundtrack is not a soundtrack but a screeching sound reminiscent of fingernails on a blackboard. I nearly left then and should have. No plot, no female characters, Daniel's son is a wooden puppet who barely speaks and at times I held my hands over my ears to block out the horrible, excruciatingly loud, obnoxious soundtrack. It was so loud, much of the time you could not understand the actors. Now what's the point in that? I wondered why we came, then figured it out. In a dark theater somewhere, filled with film critics this film was first shown. The most influential one of all sighed and said "this is sooo good!" He was referring to the popcorn, of course, but all the rest began repeating his comment, whispering it around the theater. The soundtrack should've been the song from "The Emperor's New Clothes" ! I'm so glad to see I'm not the only one who noticed how bad this movie really is. I often rate a movie based on how much I cared about the main character. The main character in this film had no character. He was not worth watching for almost 3 excruciating hours. I guess I only stayed that long in the hope that something interesting would happen. I was so bored I nearly fell asleep except for the obnoxious noise that was substituted for a soundtrack. Don't waste your time or your money on this one.
I am extremely disappointed. My son and I probably saw the most boring, plot-free movie ever in There Will Be Blood. Don't believe the critics; I'm certain they were paid off by the industry or worked on the film itself. Dialogue was meager at best (the first thirty minutes nary a word said, but the music was near deafening!). The character development was stale and uninspiring - save for that cult preacher; at least he was entertaining. Quite honestly, I didn't see any point at all to the movie and my son and I waited it out, hoping to see even a small sliver of reason why this movie received such high marks. The only thing that stood out for me was that maybe it was an allegorical tale about greed.Seriously, we were scratching our head, trying to figure out why they titled it so and the only thing we could come up with is this<U+0085> ---------SPOILER ALERTS-----------At the very end, we finally see blood. There Will Be Blood - at the end; get it? I think the industry pulled a fast one, if you ask me. Ha ha, I get it...but I wished I hadn't seen it.There were many opportunities to justify the R rating, but none qualified, other than that pool of blood under the cult preacher's head. I've seen more blood (and gore) on CSI than this movie ever provided during its 2:45 hour snail race, not that my reasons for seeing it was to see blood, but - yeah, pointless.In summary, TWBB was a shameless raping of our finances, plain and simple. Strong words? Yep, but so's my son's and my dislike for this 2 hour and 45 minute waste of time. I can't believe that Screenit.com's critic gave it 8 out of 10 stars and that people are talking about it and the 2008 Oscars in the same breath. Yes, Daniel Day Lewis did a fairly good job, but his win would be the only one even remotely deserving, that is IF he takes the trophy home next year. Anyway, I'd have rather seen Alvin and the Chipmunks - or that Veggie Tale Pirate Movie - than this poor excuse for entertainment. A classic it will not be!
This is the worse movie I have ever seen, and that includes Show Girls. Boring, overacted, irritating loud music, and a pointless plot. None of the characters were defined, let alone likable. I kept thinking that eventually something interesting was going to happen but it never did. I am very glad I had free movie tickets because I never would have spent money to see this stinker! Looks like all the hype for this movie is to ensure Daniel Day Lewis gets the best actor award. Don't listen to the critics! This movie was terrible!! Just watch the clearly disappointed audience running for the exits. I would not recommend this movie to anyone.


                
This was the worst movie I've seen all year. The film was way too long, the score was too loud and distracting, adding nothing to any scene but confusion. There was no cohesiveness, no continuity, just a series of loosely tied together scenes about people who are not interesting, compelling, or sympathetic in any way. DDL over-acted his way through the film with an unrealistic accent for the time, place, and character. I felt like he was screaming, "Look at me: I'm ACTING!" I was very disappointed with all aspects of this film, and for the first time ever, was tempted to walk out of the theater before it was over. "I'm finished" was a welcome relief, because it expressed my sentiments exactly.


                
I too went to see this movie because of all of the gushing reviews and nominations. Not only do I want my $11 back, I want the two and a half hours back! As far as a compelling story, there is nothing there, there: We have this amoral evil guy, who continues to demonstrate that he can be evermore amoral and evil. For 2.5 hours. We live in a world of that, why would I want to pay good money and my time to see that?Then there was that egregious and screeching music track that falsely indicates great things are about to happen that never do. For the life of me, I can't fathom why so many are convinced that this is such a great movie. Rated higher here than "Chinatown" or "Taxi Driver"? Come on<U+0085> you're kidding, right? The cinematography is lovely, that that is not enough. Spend your money, and more importantly your time seeing the finely crafted "No Country for Old Men", twice.
I wanted this movie to be good... I really did. But, it's really bad folks... The character development is weak, there is intense/foreshadowing music and then nothing happens... (I think because they needed to fill the time block allocated to this movie) For a while, I didn't know if the lead character was good or bad - I respected his entrepreneurship and gentlemanly ways, but you are forced to be suspicious because he's a little "too smooth". It wasn't until he went mad and got violent that I understood - "oh, he's the bad guy".The main plots are about greed, oil, religion and the "important things in life" - but I can think of hundreds of better plots/story lines than what this movie attempts. The main actor, Mr. Plainview does a great job, but I agree with other reviewers that his character doesn't seem to fit the mold of a western oil man, set in this time period. His accent is wrong and he's a smoother talker than I would have expected. There often seems to be conflict just for conflict's sake.The movie is too front heavy and does not spend enough time on the later parts of Mr Plainview's life - the resolution and downfall of the character that could be so much more interesting.I can usually understand why people like movies, even when I don't agree. Between my wife and I, one of us usually likes the movie we see. I'm at a total loss for this one folks, it stinks.
This is a really crappy movie. It was absolutely nothing to say and takes forever no to say it. There is no story, and the pieces that you will find don't connect.The actors take decisions and you don't know why or even care for that mater because it's really boring, everything takes forever without any particular reason for it.The actor is great in is role but the movie is more than 2 hours of boring Hollywood crap. And that's no reason to see a movie.So talked about but in the end you fell ripped off. Is it about church, greed, or fathers and sons or non of the above.Stay away from this movie...


                
I haven't felt so strongly about a movie in a long while but then again "There will be blood" is something unique. I can without doubt classify this as the worst movie I have ever had the misfortune of suffering through. It is I suppose possible that I somehow missed the aspects of the movie that others seem to have experienced as profound moments.This film endeavours to be about so many different things (family, religion, oil etc) but manages to explore each so fleetingly that and in such a bizarre way that it leaves the audience bewildered. There was no dynamic to keep the story (or lack there of) moving forward, at times it felt like a seemingly random series of events with no connection whatsoever to the scenes pro them.The music adds to the ruin that this movie is. While possibly enjoyable if observed out of context to the scene in which it is attached is atrocious in conjunction to the scene being observed. I recall a ten minute long scene with a hugely suspenseful score that provokes a reaction in the audience in a similar way that a horror or thriller movies score would, but instead of being justified the scene ends abruptly and the built up suspense slowly dissipates. This trend continues through out the movie.Through out the movie scene changes are heralded by am almost 20 second sync of sound that distracts and complicates not only the current scene but the following one as well. In conjunction with this no consideration is paid to the audience as scene changes will often rapidly change from extended darkness to eye burning brightness.What remains to be mentioned is the acting of this movie. It becomes apparent that the theme of this movie is to have the protagonists portrayed as out of this world batshit crazy (forgive the curse words but trust me it's accurate). If this was the director's intent then each respective actor has done a spectacular job. Eli in particular was frighteningly insane as the priest of the small church, as was Daniel to ward the closing moments of the movie.In closing I would recommend steering well clear of this disaster of a movie, save your self the torment. At over two and a half of stagnant plot and meaningless scenes you will be clawing at your eyes in frustration. I can't help but think that the entire movie was a tortuously long build up to one huge joke, There will be blood...eventually.


                
It's unfortunate that there are so many pretentious long boring movies out there under the guise of being epic. There Will Be Blood is a prime example. It is very very long and very very boring and pointless. Daniel Day Lewis waddles around the whole movie hamming it up every chance he gets. All you hear about is how great of a performance he did when nothing could be farther than the truth.DDL did not in fact do a good acting job at all. His acting is so hammy I could swear I was watching a movie from the 1940's. His tone and overall delivery sounds exactly like Jack Palance. I'm utterly convinced he told people he was researching the role and sat around watching repeats of Ripley's Believe It Or Not.


                
The true false profit is none other than Anderson and this cruel joke of a movie.What "message" are we supposed to take from this film? Oil barons and false evangelists are not nice people, who would have ever guessed? Well neither are pretentious Hollywood actors and directors who think that spoon feeding us fictitious morality and screaming at the camera are somehow worthy of praise.Oh but this "poignant" and "timely" film is somehow worthy of an Oscar? Just another example of Hollywood deigning to tell us how we should think.The milkshake is drained, DRAINED I TELL YOU!


                
I think one reviewer on Rotten Tomatoes said it best when describing this film: "If you want to be a movie snob this year, this is the one to say you've enjoyed. If you want to be entertained, this is the movie to avoid." I want to start off by saying that I think Paul Thomas Anderson is a wonderful talent. He made great films in Boogie Nights and Magnolia, and made a wonderful attempt with Punch Drunk Love. This film, however, misses the mark in a profound way. I gave it only one star largely because the film fails to achieve anything it sets out to do.I see comments from reviewers on IMDb talking about the wonderful character that Daniel Day-Lewis has created, but I see nothing more than your garden variety sociopath. Day-Lewis is a fine actor, but here he appears to simply be performing a Bill the Butcher retread, and the character is sadly overacted. Perhaps it is blasphemy to talk of this much-heralded actor performing at anything less than Oscar caliber, but I simply found myself struggling to believe this role several times during the film. (most notably the baptism, the scene is unintentionally comical) As for the film itself, the pacing is incredibly poor, the plot is weak and disjointed, the character development is almost completely absent, and the script is simply uninteresting. The film wants so badly to be unique and clever, but sadly ends up eccentric for eccentric sake.Admittedly part of the reason I gave this film only one star is the praise the film has received, from both critics and misguided viewers. This is a film that picks up steam from a critical standpoint, and viewers feel obliged to mirror the sentiment. In this case, the idea that this is a masterpiece (to any degree), is simply laughable.My guess is that if you were to ask your most pretentious friend what they thought of this film, they will tell you of its brilliance. If you were to ask your most honest friend, they will tell you it bored and irritated them, whilst stealing nearly 3 hours of their life, without hope of return.One last note is the score to this film. Some - again - found it inspired and the stuff of legend. For me, it was one of the most grating and frustrating parts of the film. I think I have an idea of what the filmmakers were trying to accomplish here, but instead they simply destroy even more of the film's potential coherence.
Daniel-Day Lewis and others do not deserve a 1 out of 10 stars here as he could not have played his part much better, but my wife and I saw this movie because so many people reviewed it so well, and we're not sure why. We kept waiting for something to happen and knew it may not have a satisfying ending (hence the title name- There Will Be Blood- but didn't even see much of that), we kinda felt like we're watching a car wreck and expecting it to make sense; we were left not even sure what the point was. We also felt like the movie's been done before (although I could look at it this way; without giving anything away- but maybe watching a man destroy himself, and the lives around him make me feel better about my life). Still, could have done without it.


                
Maybe I'm just becoming a curmudgeon but this thing and this year's other critical hit, No Country for Old Men, left me cold and wondering "what was the point of that?" There Will Be Blood is almost 2 hours and 40 minutes of a pretty-much one-dimensional portrait of one really evil guy. There's no depth of character, no character development, and only the feeblest of conflicts. Maybe if the film-makers had made me believe there was actually some real emotional connection between Daniel and his "son" this would have been interesting. But they did everything they could to avoid even that nuance.After an hour I was checking my watch and asking when something was going to happen. However, because it's nominated for best picture, I sat there. After two hours I was checking my watch and hoping desperately it would end soon. At the end I just wished I hadn't wasted 2 hours and 40 minutes of my life on it.


                
To be honest, this movie deserves more than a one star, but I gave it one star anyways as I see more than what's wrong with this movie but pop culture in general in today's world.This is a movie that's solely about a man's obsession, to the point of perversion.The director used a very simple trick. He created a monster that defies all valid social context but somehow thrived and survived against all odds. The movie's minimalistic presentation gives an impression of authenticity and realism, yet you have a character that's unrealistic to a comical extend.There's this man who hate, distrust and despise everyone, yet he confront them constantly as he wishes to prove and validate something he believes to be non existence to begin with. From there, all manners of confusion and oddity arise. A man who had everything easily obtainable yet often frustrated and angry as if life has been depriving him of opportunities. Talking about not making sense! He's more cynical than the Satan himself. Thank God that he's been occupied by all these oil business. Otherwise, he would make a perfect serial killer.The first 30 minutes have no dialogs. We are presented with this character that comes off as very little human like, and he persisted to be that way through out the whole film. Once he started talking, he's all of a sudden a man of great persuasion skills, oozes with will power and determination, and some kind of unapologetic charisma. He's an opportunist, cold and calculated. Yet he comes off to be extremely emotional and are set off by the slightest detection of insincerity. When you fuse all these contradictory personalities into one man, you would end up with a Picasso piece, a monstrosity of a character that's devoid of any real human qualities that you can relate to. For those who can't see through all these trickery are easily taken by the bold style and brute force. For me, it's a disaster.The music is as nonsensical, menacing and crude as the character. It is there to built tension when there's actually little or nothing happening on the screen, just like the scrutinizing cold stare of Daniel Day Lewis, it offends and provokes with little or no reason.The whole thing may very well work for those who are easily manipulated, as it can be witnessed here. Beyond the facade of cinematic trickeries that feeds off the fear and bewilderment of audience, there's nothing of substance here. Same can be said about "No Country For Old Man". It is a trend of directory style that's heavy on niche trickery, very little on character development. Because they believe that you don't need to understand the character, you just to be overwhelmed by it. It is indeed becoming a trend, spreading at an alarming rate. Before long, the screen will be filled with psychopath with very little human like qualities. I fear the worst, when those characters are to be admired and imitated by the feeble minded, and hyped by the spineless.


                
This movie was horrible. Absolutely so far off the themes of the novel OIL! by Upton Sinclair. I can't even begin to explain what a letdown this trash is. Evidently Hollywood is still unable to effectively tackle the struggle of Communism vs. Capitalism, even as portrayed by a well-known and respected socialist/liberal like Upton Sinclair. Most people will have not read the novel but let me just state the following: The son, H.W. (know as Bunny in the book) is Plainfield's real son and he never goes deaf. He is not an orphan and sees his mother regularly. The father, again Plainfield, does not kill anyone in cold blood. Eli doesn't play a major role in anything, the son is never sent away. The father and son don't fight. Plainfield is not an evil man, but a prosperous capitalist who cares about his workers, the lives of them and their families and so on, because it is in his best interest. Bunny, is a communist/socialist/union sympathizer who spends his fathers money bailing out his socialist, pro-union, and communist friends, skipping classes at the private college he attends, and having sex with movie stars and other wealthy women. That is just a taste of how far out the movie is from the book... Again, this is a horrible movie that took parts, very vaguely, from a great book and turned them into crap that over-glorifies evil and death and ties them to oil for the sake of protesting modern times. Don't go see, don't rent, don't watch on TBS 5 years from now.
Daniel Day Lewis is a great actor so I gave it a 1 otherwise it would be a negative 1. This movie made "The Unforgiven" look like a high voltage action movie with this being so - Slow is not the right word - more like agonizingly painful. No real story line - terrible subject as as storyline (oil in the early 1900's)- no reason for any of the characters being the way they are - no reason to watch the characters as they are - no redeeming qualities to walk away with - no inspiration to gain from it - no ending worth discussing - no dialog worth remembering - no reason to see it and definitely no reason for me to have sat there for 2 1/2 hours watching it. I guess I just couldn't believe it could be that bad and that some how - some way it was going to build to something even if it was in the last 5 minutes but it was not to be. Don't waste your time now or when it comes out on DVD. Watch "Dexter" on TV and save your money - it's more compelling, more fun and at least you have an understanding of who you are watching.


                
This is possibly the single worst movie I have ever seen. I'm actually surprised that a sign didn't flash up before the credits saying "HAHA, jokes on you, we just wasted 3 hours of your life, and you paid money to do it! This movie was the result of some over idealistic, closet protester deciding to make a movie about the status quo the world has seen over the past 150 years. Despite the wars, disasters and change, one thing has remained the same: Religion and oil rape the poor, protect the rich, and occasionally cross paths resulting in disastrous consequences (cough, IRAQ WAR!!!, cough). That is pretty much the core message of this movie.My suggestion to the writers of trash like this would be: Balls up, get some gumption about you, and actually write a movie about the message you are trying to get across. Don't pussyfoot around issues by making crap like this.On another note, despite the appalling script and shocking storyline, the acting was superb.


                
What is this thing doing in the top 250? That fact alone forced me to register and comment on this movie.Okay, it's not THAT bad. But it's certainly not worth the high praises many others are giving it. There will be many "sheep" giving a 10, and many others giving a 1 to counter that out of disgust. A 6 would've been fair, but guess how I voted?Summary: Daniel-Day Lewis acts as you would expect him to (and is probably the sole reason for many people liking this flick), all other characters are under-developed, not worth remembering, or illogical. ("Hey, you just killed this guy who I thought was your brother! Want a pipeline on my land? Come to our church and overact like a penitent man and it's a deal!")And the story itself, well, it doesn't seem to be going anywhere. Each time you get the feeling that something interesting is finally going to happen, nothing happens at all and the movie continues with something totally different.Oh, and I've heard enough out-of-place screeching violins for a long time to come.
This is a rarity. The film was extremely well acted, had great cinematography and all the elements of a well made film.And it still sucked.Perhaps it was the lack of a plot. Or that it moved at a pace that made a snail look as if it was moving at lightspeed. While I suppose it could have the central message that "greed is bad" it hardly seems enough.I am stumped as to why it has the fawning attention of the critics. Maybe as a swipe at the oil companies or at those who founded them. Perhaps the wonderful crowd in Hollywood like the hypocrisy of religion shown in the film.Several times, I recall thinking "it HAS to get better" but I was wrong. Aside from the last 5 minutes, it only got worse. In the meantime it meandered at a tedious pace for over two and a half hours.Certainly Daniel Day Lewis managed a wonderful performance. It was, after all, a well-crafted, but HORRIBLY BAD film.


                
This is the worst movie I have ever seen.... I do not understand why "There will be blood" has such good reviews... Maybe is like the saying:"the beauty is in the eye of the beholder...",in this case I can not see the beauty-I am blind:) I have to say that lately all the movies that I've seen are average quality as far as plot,acting,effects...quite everything...I don't remember seeing a movie from which I could say"OK,this is a good movie I want to add it to my collection and see it another time" and I don't know if this is because I see to many movies or their quality has decrease so much?!?I hope that year 2008 will be the a better year for us,normal viewers


                
This will go down as one of the most over-rated movies of all time. I can't believe that I sat through the whole thing. I kept telling myself that surely something was about to happen. It still hasn't! Have you ever watched paint dry? Well, neither have I, and now I don't have to because I have seen something worse. I like Daniel Day Lewis, and he has done some great movies, which is why I went to see this. They could have told this story in about 30 minutes, but instead took almost 3 hrs. Do yourself a favor, let me save you the 15.00 you will spend on tickets, plus the other 10.00 you will spend on popcorn and coke. Go get a pizza and rent a movie - and know you saved yourself some agony. I have never commented on any movie before, and I see at least one a week, but I couldn't let my fellow man down on this one.


                
This movie is a tedious bore. The main character, oil wildcatter Daniel Plainview, is a callous guy when we first meet him. His only hint of complexity is his relationship toward his son, but this possible redemptive aspect soon dissipates. Plainview cheats people out of their land, strikes oil, gets rich, and matures into an overt villain who simply gets worse and worse for another two tiresome hours. Plainview is devoid of redeeming characteristics. He is a repellent character who goes from mean to meaner to monster.I am astounded that anyone enjoyed this movie. Are its admirers simply upset because they are paying $3 a gallon for gasoline? Do they hate Exxon/Mobil? Or do they think Daniel Plainview is a representative prototype of the entire race of evil, morally bankrupt and greedy oil company fiends? It's okay to think that oil men are terrible, but this is no justification for making a pointless, flat movie.


                
Unfortunately I couldn't disagree with the 10/10 - Best Film Ever brigade. I'll keep this review short but sweet, unlike the film.The music continued to build the film up to a crescendo that simply never appeared. While I didn't quite notice the 2 hours 40 minutes pass by, this was simply because I was expecting something to happen which never did. There was no conclusion, there was no peak point in the film, it simply dragged it's heals from beginning to end. It was like a 2 hour 40 minute introduction.A terrible film and for anyone calling it the best film of this year, you must be living on a different planet to the rest of us.
