The idea that this film is one of the top 250 of all time (let alone top 25!) is preposterous. This is the first review I've submitted, and I do so because I feel compelled to express my outrage that a movie such as this could garner such a high rating, and may by itself destroy whatever credibility the "250" list may have retained.Count me in the "Emperor Has No Clothes" crowd. Look, I loved "Boogie Nights" as much as anyone. It was a masterpiece, a work of genius. Nostalgia for that film is the only reasonable explanation I can construct to understand why so many have rated "Blood" so highly.Daniel Day-Lewis gives a fine performance, yes, but what else is new? Though well-acted, I found his character simple and uninteresting. I am stunned by those who seem to regard Plainview as a new and terrifying character, a soulless messenger of a new evil (I chuckled when the goat-ranching rube whom Plainview aims to exploit introduces himself as "Abel")"No Country For Old Men" and J. Bardem covered that territory far more effectively. Plainview seemed like a pretty straightforward sociopath to me.Paul Dano, who I think is a fine actor, is terribly miscast as the evangelical preacher. He lacks the charisma and presence to credibly portray a charlatan. He was shrieky, and bizarre, not smooth, charming,confident, or anything else that suckers people into falling for scams. He was utterly unbelievable in his role, and it was too large a part to make such a mistake, set, as it was, against the furnace that is Daniel Day-lewis.Which leads me to the kid who played Plainview's adopted son for the greater part of the film. I am loath to criticize a child, but I can only assume this boy had the "look" as a prop desired by the director, b/c he displayed no ability as an actor. When called upon for dialog, his stilted performance is painful to behold. I cannot believe there wasn't another kid who could've hit his cues more effectively, more naturally.I actually found the ending one of the few interesting, thought provoking aspects of the film, but by then it was far too late to breathe life into the bloated behemoth that had strewn itself out on the screen the previous 2+ hours.
I checked the spoiler box though I don't have any real spoilers.I've never written here before but I just have to with this film. I am a huge Daniel Day Lewis fan. I re-watched most of his movies before seeing TWBB just to get ready for it.Well, I was so disappointed. Not by DDL, of course he does a wonderful job, but the movie itself held nothing for me. Its been over a week since I saw it and I guess it succeeded in having me think about it. I keep thinking, why is this getting such good reviews? Am I missing something? The entire time I was watching the movie I felt horribly uncomfortable and just itching for something to happen. I actually enjoyed the music score (love Radiohead) and some of the scenes were visually pleasing. Like others have said the music made you think, ooh foreshadowing...or this is going somewhere. But it never really seemed to get there.The end was painful to me...should of been shorter. Some of the lines were great...and I enjoyed DDL's voice. I honestly enjoyed watching the trailer a hundred times more than seeing the movie.I keep reading that the ending is shocking...but I fail to see the shock factor. I assume I must of missed something. I have to say the movie kept my interest solely because i kept thinking...its all going to be worth it in the end? Nope, not for me.I typically do not mind long movies and the beginning with no dialog did not bother me one bit..I think my biggest problem with the movie was just the feeling that it went on forever and never really went anywhere. I might of gotten my expectations up too high with reading positive reviews and loving anything with DDL.See...even in writing a review of the film my words just go on and on leading nowhere.
No plot, and slow build up the entire movie. Plain and simple-a story about the life of a crazy old oil driller who's lost his mind. Very boring and drags on forever. Saw several people walk out of the theater. Daniel Day Lewis is a great actor, but this is a pathetic excuse for a movie! Don't waist your money. Wait till it comes out and rent it on DVD if you've seen all the other new releases! My friends are still ticked off at me, because I picked this movie over Rambo and they could not get their money back. You have been warned. You will be disappointed if your looking for a "Gangs of New York" kind of movie with Daniel Day Lewis.
In Europe they consider the novel a nineteenth century device, and they wonder why we Americans are still obsessed with the narrative format. The novel was displaced in the 20th century, by ideas, arguments and essays. But here we are in 2008 still noodling with stories. And in the absence of artists who know where to productively lead cinema, film-novels have been artificially raised to high importance, and film 'novelists' to similar esteem: Lars von Trier (after Dogme 95), Scorcese (lately) and with this movie Paul Thomas Anderson. Their approach holds very little appeal for me, as I have to sit through an hour or two of these completely obvious movies without any real ideas being put into play; without being asked to consider anything substantive.America is a culture which elevates individualism (for which stardom is the perfect emblem) to a freakish cult. I'm not one to gush over stars, and I don't agree that showy Method performances are the greatest thing in film today, but film aesthetes just love a grandiose, acting showcase. Here Daniel Day Lewis becomes the next to secure rave reviews by cranking up the Method machinery. The trick is getting old, but audiences, critics and industry people can't imagine what might dethrone it. Lewis as Daniel Plainview appears to be doing a showy impression of Walter Pidgeon for most of the movie. And because we're all familiar with Lewis from the big scorecard of great contemporary actors, we can compare how different the role is from the actor himself and say intelligent things like: "Wow. Isn't Walter Pidgeon not at all like Daniel Day Lewis?" and conclude therefore that we must be watching a great performance. But in 20 years Daniel Day Lewis will have ceased being a going concern, and new audiences will be asking each other "Why did people think this movie was important?" with puzzled looks on their faces. His performance will eventually have about as much meaning as Warner Baxter's performance in 'In Old Arizona' does today. Oh... you haven't seen that? He won the Oscar! Well how about George Bancroft in 'Thunderbolt.' Come on... you missed that one too? How can you talk about greatness when you've missed two of 1929's major contenders? They're this movies best context.'Blood' pads every shot with 60 percent dead air. There's no narrative reason to do so, or for this movie to be almost three hours long. If you had to summarize the story for someone waiting for you outside the theater, it might take you ten minutes... tops. It is without embellishment. It is the most arid, non-complex three hour movie ever made. Only the silence and the violence distinguish it from movies made in 1929. Sadly, "obvious" is the new "brilliant."The startlingly amateur & miscast Paul Dano plays the second annoying role here. The two beatings he receives provide the films sole interesting moments. I'd gladly trade three hours of tasteful restraint masquerading as art, for twenty minutes of intelligence, passion or creativity. Again, the logic seems to be "If it's three hours long, it must be art." Just because a movie isn't over-produced doesn't mean it's not over-inflated. This is a sermon.
Symbolic? Tried too hard...I get it already!!!!Masterpiece? Short cinematic shelf life...I don't care what anyone says, I can't imagine anyone WANTING to watch this for a second time.Acting? DDL again a wild-eyed meglomaniac. Got that one down...Ho hum. I'm back on board if he can pull off an endearing, loving Everyman in a light comedy. Oscar time!!!Paul Dano....dandelion fluff fighting an oak tree....too bad.The final scene....unsatisfying on all levels. Just because it's Paul Anderson and Daniel Day Lewis...let's keep our heads here....this wasn't great...it was barely, barely good.I was distracted and thoroughly entertained by the score however.


                
I am just coming back from this movie and I wish I could go back to 4 hours ago and chosen Rambo instead.The movie must have some deep ( and i mean deep ) symbolism and themes that I obviously missed. To me it seemed like one of the slowest movies I have seen in a while with bland preaching of the effects of oil greed.The story was completely flat, characters go in and out without any significance, dramatic music plays up pointless scenes... and conflict? you build one up and then they go away without closure.. What was the story about??? The music! if that's what you want to call it, noise is what I call it.The camera work, nice shots and environments, and Daniel's acting is the only thing that saves this movie from my bottom 5 of all time. But I wish I had my 2.5 hours back.


                
I've heard 'There Will Be Blood' described as a portrait of an unlikable man. Sadly that also makes the movie itself completely unlikable. It's beautifully framed and Daniel Day-Lewis is undoubtedly a consummate actor, however, as a piece of entertainment 'Blood' is weaker than water. It is ponderous, portentous and overly self-important. Other than the son and his wife who we hardly see, there are no characters to like or relate to. The scenery is repetitive and bleak, the colours are monotonous. The film drags along like an overly long opera <U+0096> or an epic funeral dirge. Which brings me to the award for the worst score ever. OK, I'm sure there are worse, but this movie contained some of the most annoying, inappropriate and ill-timed 'music' I've ever heard. From headache inducing modern classical <U+0096> which mainly seemed to consist of murdering the entire string section, to something I could only describe as horror suspense with detuned orchestral stabs usually reserved for budget slashers. It was like I was watching the wrong soundtrack - none of what I was hearing seemed to fit with what I was seeing. If you plan to watch this at the theatre, take your ipod and crank it up, otherwise wait for the DVD and hit mute. You won't miss much and your ears will thank you for it. Judging by the high rating the movie has here 'There Will Be Blood' is obviously high art and I missed the point. But I know what I like and this is one portrait that ain't going' on my wall.


                
I doubt that the writers of this film ever bothered to read Upton Sinclair's book. Who's got time to read in Hollywood? If they had they would have seen a social commentary, a chronicle of the times, some incredible Americana but what we get here is drivel. This film seems to have been scrubbed of all reference to greed, the struggle of working people to unionize in America, the complicity of law enforcement with the rich. What an incredibly disappointing film. So much effort and talent, time and money wasted. The team that made this movie had an opportunity to do much much more. "Oil!" is full of amazing scenes and characters and while it drifts like the film, at least it has something to say about life. 2008. What a perfect time to learn about oil. As we fill our gas tanks we might be thinking about how hard it was to develop this resource; to find it, release it, and tame it for our benefit. But that would be an industrial film. Of course that is also history, a theme Hollywood has a reputation for playing fast and loose with. Too bad we couldn't have gotten a story about a man with ambition who succeeds. What's wrong with that? Contrasted by his son who observes life and doesn't do much with those observations or his money (except enjoy himself). There are women characters in the book too (not like the film). The book has nudity, and lots of sex (not like the film). The book has some violence but probably not enough for audiences today, so I suppose that didn't sit well with the "suits" at the studio. Can't sell a film these days without killing of some sort can we? So let's get some fights going, and homicide might be helpful. This whole bum-numbing 2 hour mess was probably edited by teams who worked at different paces. But that's no excuse for such inconsistency. We get panoramic shots that never want to end and are boring as hell. It's like the team who shot the B-roll got to edit it!! We get Lewis erupting with no real motivation. What's he so worked up about? He doesn't seem to have any competition, at least not that I can see in this film.The book has elements of real people like J. Paul Getty, Howard Hughes, William Randolph Hearst, Marion Davies, and Billy Graham. These are people who helped define America (with the exception of Davies). But I guess these figures have been largely forgotten or removed from the record by some sort revisionist new-think ministry that is subtly altering America these days. I can't see any future life for this movie.


                
Here's the good news: Daniel Day-Lewis is the best actor working in film today.OK, not to be too over the top -- if he isn't the greatest, he's in the top 3.It's impossible not to be blown away by his performance. It's a masterpiece of power, yet remarkably subtle. A cousin to the monster he played in GANGS OF NEW YORK -- but never a copy or a caricature.I wanted to love the picture as much as I loved the performance.But PTA's adaptation of Sinclair's OIL is a messy and all over the place as the black gold shooting up from the land.Sinclair's favorite themes -- greed, religious hypocrisy, desire for redemption -- are here in full force. And, at times, the film hypnotizes you with it's depiction of a brutal early 20th century American wilderness.But at other times it is so impressed with itself that its story is overshadowed by its bombast.Still DDL might get the Oscar he deserved for GANGS OF NEW YORK. Well deserved.


                
Yes there are some great performances in this movie. But who cares. Some pretty scenes of the desert, like we haven't seen that before. The fact is that this was a movie about nothing. And most of the violence seems to come out of nowhere. Perhaps you might say it was about a horrible man, yes there is a horrible man in it but we know nothing about him, why he is horrible. If you want to make a movie about a misanthrope, at least make it interesting. Give me a reason to care or understand.I did not mind the slow pace, (and believe me when I say it is slow paced). But I hoped it would lead to something, and I don't mean a shootout, just some interesting revelation or change or SOMETHING. No just a slow, steady, pretty, NOTHING.Here we have a mish-mash of scenes about a horrid man, we might start to think there is some worthiness to him only to find out there is not. Again WHO CARES. There is no character development whatsoever.It is clear that the director was trying to make his own Citizen Kane. But while Citizen Kane is slow, it is at least intriguing. What I find most interesting is the huge outpouring of great reviews for such a poor film. Have these people not seen very many movies, are the starstruck by a great performance, or are they just sheep? Heck if he liked it maybe I should too.No this is not a good movie. It is in fact just a marginally watchable movie. But if you want to see it, rent it. When it comes out on cable, you will not be able to watch it without switching away at a commercial and never coming back.


                
About ten minutes into this film-- that's only one scene in Paul Thomas Anderson's world-- somebody in the audience said, aloud, "We get it, already. Digging oil wells is dangerous." Anderson never directed a crisp, concise scene in his life. "Boogie Nights" (155 minutes), "Magnolia" (188m), "There Will be Blood" (158m)-- that's 8.5 hours for three movies. And before someone points out that "Punch Drunk Love" was only 95 minutes, I would counter that it felt twice that. At least.Pascal wrote, "I am sorry for the length of my letter, but I had not the time to write a short one." Amen. It does take time-- and talent and discipline-- to sculpt and winnow an idea down to its most purposeful and powerful elements. But Anderson doesn't winnow, he wallows. He seems to think that if a four-minute scene is good, then it'll be twice as good at eight minutes, and three times as good at twelve. It's a wonder his movies aren't six hours long.The best way to deal with this endlessly over-rated film is with adjectives, starting with endless and over-rated. Then, of course, bloated. Slow. Fatuous. Loud. Unfaithful (to Upton Sinclair's original satire, "Oil!"). Sentimental. Confusing (Paul Dano's twin characters). Abrupt (the ending). And, finally and crucially, pointless. I didn't care about a single character, and the film introduced no new ideas or even flavors to the oil industry, family loyalties, ruthless ambition, misanthropy, religion, or bowling.


                
I am at a complete loss as to what this film has to offer. In fact, IMDb's rule of "10 lines minimum" is an enormous hurdle because there is so little to say about this train wreck of a movie. The story has no real value or importance, the characters are labored and boring, and the storyline itself falls far short of interesting.I am trying to think of something positive to say about the movie but nothing comes to mind.Do not use my quickie review to decide whether or not to see this movie. As a major fan of movies I will provide no information that gives the movie away. I can say that, much as I love movies, this insignificant little movie does not make my top 1,000 list.I want my time back.


                
Plot: Oilman chases oil. Clashes with comical preacher stereotype. Shenanigans ensue.Not funny enough to even compete with films like "Epic Movie" though Paul Dano's performance is simply hilarious. Some very heavy-handed mimicry of Kubrickian types of score choices but painfully clumsy, only good for a few laughs. The artistic polar opposite of Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon".I left during the ending scene in a little bowling alley, but what I saw as I walked out was embarrassingly funny, but probably not in an intentional way. Later I researched the final words, kind of glad I left when I did.Subtle, Paul Anderson is not...


                
I am a regular reader of comments on IMDb and trust their ratings more than any given by critics. But seeing this farce of a movie being listed int he top 250 has upset me enough to start posting my reviews, in the hope that I will save someone the agony.Acting: (Daniel Day Lewis)DDL give a good performance, nothing less than expected. Though I feel that he was better in "Gangs of New York" . The other actors are simply there just to fill the screen space or they are miscast (Paul Dano as the preacher). Its only DDL's performance which lends any sort of credibility to the movie.Music Score: I shudder when I think of what I had to go through for 2.5 hours. You could relate the sound to the constant whining in your head when the dentist is performing a root-canal.It is a shame that this movie is being called a classic. Please keep a Tylenol handy if you still plan on watching this one.


                
This was close to the worst film I have ever seen. Some interesting acting and a not completely predictable plot but so slow and basically boring. Plus the characters are disgusting to watch. People who are somehow interested in watching a film devoid of hope might somehow enjoy it ... I don't understand how.Personally I prefer uplifting movies that inspire or at least entertain. I left this movie feeling terrible and the person I was with liked it even less.Yes this film is not the normal formulaic studio release. Is that why people like it? It completely eludes me as to how it could get a high rating. Somehow because it is not the normal Hollywood fare people think it is artistic. Perhaps in the same way that making art out of dog pooh is artistic. But the bottom line is the substance from which the art is made is still the same and it stinks.


                
Wow, what a disappointing movie. It opened here in Dallas last night at this morning's 11:15 show at the only theater it's playing was packed to the gills- until a few people had the sense to walk out.It appears that the popularity of the film may be based on the fact that it bashes two unpopular institutions- the oil industry and religion.It is totally untenable that either of the psychotic assholes that are the respective lead characters here would ever rise to to such positions of prominence in this world, either now or 100 years ago. Psychotics don't become successful now and didn't become successful then.There are so many implausibles here that the whole movie is a joke. Would you let your child play on the oil derrick a few days after one of the workmen was killed on it? How in the world did Mr. Bandy happen upon Daniel on the morning after he did the dastardly deed on his brother? If Daniel was at all close to Bandy's place he would have been sleeping at home that night.Why was there a worker down hole to be killed anyway? The "cellar" on a cable tool rig is just a few feet below the platform. If Daniel never paid Eli, how did the new church get paid for? Why did HW lose his voice and not just his hearing? And possibly the biggest flaw- the score. Part of it was copied right out of the TV show Lost.The only thing worse than a movie this bad is a movie this bad that someone garners critical praise.
I think the last significant movie I saw that featured Daniel Day-Lewis in a significant role was "Gangs of New York." I was reminded of that movie somewhat. My reaction to "Gangs" was that it was dreadfully dull, although it did have a smattering of action here and there and at least I could see by the end that there was a point to the whole thing. Its high rating notwithstanding, I have to pin "There Will Be Blood" with the same dreadfully dull tag. The difference between this and "Gangs" is that there was precious little action to be found here, long stretches of nothingness (about ten minutes passes by at the start of the movie with no dialogue at all) and in the end I really couldn't see what the point of this was. Some parts of this movie are well done. The portrayal of the Old West was totally believable, the look at early oil drilling was interesting, the performances from Day-Lewis as silver miner turned oilman Daniel Plainview and Paul Dano as the charismatic preacher Eli Sunday were good and the final confrontation between Plainview and his "son" (Russell Harvard) was very emotional. Overall, though, to me the story didn't seem to flow all that well. It just completely failed to capture my attention, and trying to keep focused on a movie that is just plain uninteresting for two and a half hours is excruciating. For whatever reason I also found the musical score by Jonny Greenwood to be at times inappropriate in that it often just didn't seem to fit the mood of what I was seeing on the screen. Clearly I'm in the minority on this, but I just didn't find this to be a good movie at all, and I frankly can't go any higher than a 2/10 for it.


                
After seeing There Will Be Blood last night, I am filled with the desire to fetch the nearest sharp twig, run over to P.T. Anderson's house, and poke him in the eye, repeatedly, with it.Without getting into spoilers - not that there's anything to spoil, as the concepts of "plot" and "motion" are nearly absent from this film - I would venture that the only redeeming quality of this movie is Daniel Day-Lewis, who can act in the same way that Maria Callas could sing, Bill Robinson could tap-dance, Ted Williams could hit a fastball, or Warren Buffett can make money. The man is simply a prodigious talent. Still, even with Mr. Day-Lewis' tour de force, he could not save this stem-winding, meandering movie from itself. Ideas which were interesting were aborted in the womb. Characters with real promise and sparks of uniqueness were not fully fleshed out. Dialogue waffled between inventive and just plain weird.As a friend remarked, there's one sure tell that a writer is struggling with dramatic exposition, and that is the introduction of a new character halfway through. Mr. Anderson committed this foul, along with many others, in creating the failure that is this film. I did not like There Will Be Blood and I suggest to anyone who might be reading this that you take your money and spend it elsewhere.


                
Do yourself a favor and do not waste your time or money on this film. It was the longest 2 and a half hours that I have spent on a movie in a very long time. The movie is boring and very slow moving. They think they are clever and artsy by not having any dialogue for the first 25 minutes. Then when the dialogue does begin, you wish it was a silent film. The producer of this film should thank his lucky stars for Day-Lewis as he was the only thing to keep one interested and that is still debatable. In addition, like many movies of today, it also takes a bad view on religion and leaves a very bitter taste. This was a classless and tasteless movie and I am disappointed that Day-Lewis was a part of it.


                
First off let me just say that i went into this movie with excitement.. This may be due to what other people have posted or just all the publicity that this movie put out.. So im sitting in my seat watching the movie expecting brilliance.. well for about the first 15 minutes of the movie nothing is said AT ALL. So i think either this is gunna be bad or this is going to be very original.I could some this movie up in about one sentence but i find it is better to elaborate... anyways, im sure you already know the movie is about a greedy man and oil.. well it doesn't go a whole lot deeper than that.. The performance ddl delivers is one of a kind i will say that, but that is the best part of the movie.. it was like your sitting there the whole time waiting for something to happen and nothing ever does.. The music is very distastefull but i guess fitting in a different way.. im mean i was expecting one heck of a story and i felt like i got duped by all the HYPE. Whoever got the idea to put this story into film was completely ignorant and they must have very much liked watching grass grow.. So all in all don't listen to the HYPE because you will be sadly disappointed.. i personally wouldn't give this movie a score higher than a 5 Tops.. and i love and appreciate great movies and this just isn't one of them.... p.s this is not even in comparison to No Country For Old Mean.. Which i think was the best movie of the year perhaps the past 5.


                
I am mystified by the proclamations of greatness for "There Will Be Blood." No film has disappointed me as much in ages. When a film runs long, it is expected to provide quality. "Blood" is merely tedious. I almost laughed out loud at the "I drank your milkshake" part. The overacting by DD-L is ludicrous and unappealing. I half suspect that the attacks on oilmen (I have no problem with Luddite views if they are justified) and religion (if merited, fine) are the source of much of the raving on behalf of the film. But the silliness of "Blood" cannot be overlooked by intelligent viewers. If it is post 1929, why does Eli still seem to be 14? Why does the Sunday family not discuss Paul's absence? Why would a shrewd man like Plainview wait so long to test Henry? What happens to his sidekick (the former Julius Caesar of "Rome") whose skills alas are seemingly shunted to the cutting room? Why does HW speak like a person always deaf rather than like a person born hearing? Perhaps an actor who could sign was needed and the adult HW is portrayed by an actor actually deaf? As for the music, terrible. "No Country For Old Men" is so superior in its rendition of a nihilistic view of America that the two films ought not even be mentioned in the same breath.
I mean seriously,this has to be in my top 5 worst movies of all time. I'm not giving anything away other than it is 2:38 minutes I'll never get back. The Acacdemy must have had slim pickings last year when they voted this best picture--- Eye's Wide Shut with Tom Cruise was a master piece compared to this piece of garbage. Take my word for it---do not waste your time.!!!!! If you have insomnia then I would recommend this. If you are depressed--avoid this it will only worsen your condition. I have seen a lot of movies in my 50 years on this planet & I would like to think that I have relatively decent taste along with a wide variety of likes & dis likes but this again is one of the worst movies ever. I would have finished this along time ago but I had to write a certain amount of lines. Sorry.


                
Pros: They Kill the Annoying religious dude!!! The Annoying kid goes Deaf!!!! They kill the guy pretending to be his brother, from another Mother!!!! Cons: TOO Long!!! No Plot, No Story, Really stupid. Yeah Great Oil Man He burned down the Oil Rig!!! I Don't get it is the main Character supposed to be gay, He doesn't seem to show any interest in women, not that there's anything wrong with that. Worst ending ever!!!Like I said it's way too long, and nothing interesting happens! They don't try to explain the story. They show the Religious dude too much and he's really annoying. At least he dies in the end, but it still doesn't justify this piece of FECES Movie. Also the kid who's supposed to be his son goes deaf. which is good cuz he's the second most annoying character in the movie. The most annoying being the Religious guy. They never say why the old guy doesn't want to sell his land. well any way there are just to many things wrong with this movie, i can't remember them all.
If a big name talented actor or two are in a film and enough money is spent on hype a movie can be made to appear better than it actually is. Especially if it contains scenes ambiguous enough for imaginative people to make up their own story to fill in the plot holes. The lack of a clear straight forward plot will leave many viewers impressed by how "deep" and chuck full of hidden meaning the film was. They'll decide people who don't rave about the masterpiece simply don't understand it and are obviously of a lesser intellect.Many a mediocre film has been elevated to critical acclaim based on similar formulas.In short this was a movie that contained fine acting and little else IMO.


                
Wow. Where to begin. I hated this movie so much that I registered for the sole purpose of responding to all the 9 star folks out there. SPOILER ALERT-- Guy finds oil. Loves his kid. Drills for oil. Yells. Yells. Yells. Yells. Gets rid of his kid. Pumps oil. Pumps oil. Pumps oil. Yells. Yells. Pumps oil. At this point, I pressed "stop" on the DVD player. It took TWO HOURS to get to this point!! That was 2 weeks ago. The first TWO HOURS of this movie would make for a fantastic opening few scenes in a correctly paced movie. The actors did the best they could, but it must be tough to "act' when you don't have a plot or dialog. What a drag. Want a good, slow movie? Try Driving MIss Daisy. Better plot, better dialog, fantastic acting, and, while slow, really sucked you in. This movie just sucked. I would have given it a 1, but that is reserved for howard the duck 3 if they ever make it....
