With all of the hype surrounding Daniel Day-Lewis' performance (he was, in fact, given a Best Actor nod from the San Diego Film Critics Society, for whatever that is worth) in the P.T. Anderson-directed tale of early American oil speculation, "There Will Be Blood," I can only relate my extreme disappointment.This would have made an interesting 90-minute movie, but, unfortunately, it runs over 140-minutes, most of which is smeared with plasma and petroleum to the extent every character is sullied and unrecognizable as a human being.Perhaps Anderson wanted it that way, after all, it's really only Day-Lewis¹ character (the lubricious Daniel Plainview) that even comes close to developing; the others are simply there to keep him company and accept his violent tirades.Yes, times were tough in the early hardscrabble years of the American West, but this guy makes Jonas Cord ("The Carpetbaggers") look like Mother Theresa.We first meet Plainview in 1898 mining for silver in Arizona. After a nasty fall in which he breaks his ankle, he discovers oil in the shaft. After a few years, he has a crew and a few successful wells.One day, a fellow worker ­ there with his infant son (for some reason) ­is killed and Plainview adopts the boy, H. W. (Dillion Freasier) for no other reason than to have a cute face to show while he cons the public (see "Paper Moon").These are some of the movie's best scenes, with Plainview - and H.W. in tow - visiting backwoods bergs and convincing a gullible populace into signing away land rights for a fraction of what they were worth. Plainview, with a sinister soft-spoken demeanor plays psychological games until the rubes are all but ready to GIVE him the oil rights in perpetuity. Several years later, a visitor tells Plainview about a ranch in California that is soaking in oil, so Pop and son head out there, under the pretense of hunting quail. There they meet the Sunday family, addled dad, Abel (David Willis), a few non-descript females and an Evangelist son, Eli (Paul Dano, "Little Miss Sunshine").Plainview and Eli do not hit it off at all, and this is the conflict that sets up the second act. It doesn't take much to finagle Abel out of the Sunday Ranch, as well as the surrounding property, but several tragedies cause many in the town ­ especially the young preacher ­ to wonder if they made the right move in letting Plainview into their midst.When H.W. is rendered deaf in an explosion and disastrous fire, we wonder if the whole enterprise is worth it.Up until this point, I was willing to go along with this film as not only a historical drama relating the days of the early oil industry, as well as a chronicle of rural religious fervor, sort of "Oklahoma Crude" meets "The Apostle."The problem is, the picture does not continue to walk that thin line. We are now subjected to scene after scene of Plainview¹s descent into madness and murder ­ but with little or no motivation for either.For example, he beats Eli severely and mocks his church; meets a man who claims he¹s his brother; abandons H.W. and generally spirals out of control.He's business savvy, however, and plans to build a pipeline to transport his vast oil reserves to the coast (thus eliminating the cost of railroad shipping). To do this, though, he has to build through a local hermit's (Hans Howes, "Seabiscuit") land.The only way to accomplish this is to humble himself before Eli and the congregation and be baptized, obviously a fate worse than death to Plainview who seems to have no morals, whatsoever.Now that he¹s joined the church and gotten his pipeline built, does he enjoy even one iota of his success? Absolutely not.In one of Day-Lewis' many monologues, he gives us his motivation for being such a bastard, "I do not just want to succeed, I do not want anyone else to succeed."Still, that does not explain his psychotic, murderous frenzy, and the longer the film goes on, the less cohesive it became.I can accept his tirades early on, and even a bit of his unmotivated violence near the middle of the film, but Anderson pushes things to the extreme limit. He's even admitted that he watched "Treasure of the Sierra Madre" before beginning to film "Blood" - yet he still did not learn anything about coherent film-making.Friends, this is by far one of the most depressing and oppressive films of the year. In fact, it makes "No Country For Old Men" look like "Mary Poppins." Then, at the conclusion, after watching more than two-plus hours of this evil, hateful man succeed over and over again, we're treated to another brutal, pointless murder -­ this one coming out of nowhere.Like "The Last King of Scotland," in which Forrest Whittaker won the Best Actor award, this is another performance-driven, but deeply-flawed motion picture.Day-Lewis will certainly be nominated for this, and he may actually win, but that does not mean one will enjoy the experience of watching that performance.
Let's start with an understatement. Overstatements enough all around. This wont be the first you read about this film - this will be comment 124453. Unfortunately you probably spent some money, and more importantly, a good deal of time to see what's all the fuss about.Your reaction will be one of the three possible reactions to this film:1) Everyone thinks this is excellent! So I officially think this is excellent too! Especially since I am into art-house, I can not afford to call this boring piece of sh*t a boring piece of sh*t.. I will just give it a 10 on IMDb and next get something Spanish with tits in it to cheer me up.2) What's the fuss about?? This is a well done, well acted period piece that is worth my time if I would stumble upon it on a Wednesday night on TV.. It might make me go to bed late just to see where it goes. It has some freaky and unrealistic stuff in it (DDL stuffing the priests face with mud for no apparent reason? among others) but hey, they took the money and effort to re-enact the time period and set a slightly boring drama. 3 drops of blood will be involved in the very last scene. Ow sorry, spoilered anything there? :P The DDL that we knew from Gangs Of New York was asked to change nothing except costume and give it a go, gang leader and oil baron is basically the same ballpark anyway.3) The world has gone mad. DDL does an OK job, yeah alright, but does he save this little paper ship filled with heavy pretensions not to sink? No way! WTF is this film trying to tell us (me) ? It has NO character development AT ALL, which is pretty amazing for a piece that stretches over decades. Characters are defined from the beginning, and from there on static. Not exciting to watch them go around their unpleasant business for a few hours. (If they were even more unpleasant that might be the case, but it's all within limits, very decent middle-of-the-road unpleasantness) The few interesting bits are far apart, and exactly those are far-fetched. We have the "healing priest" guy, having those Texan (or what are they) farmers believe whatever he wants.. Farmers are usually the "wanna see first believe you then" type. Ah well I dunno, in Texas they might be like that :P But then the bit where DDL stuffs mud in the priests mouth for no reason at all! And slaps him around a bit! Interesting scene, maybe the best, but again.. WTF? There is no notion in the film that would explain this or whatever leads to it.And then we have the ending.. OK it IS nice, and well acted and all.. But it is f*cking ridiculous! I would welcome it in any film with a comical undertone.. But for this film that has been taken /taking itself so very serious, it makes no sense at all! DDL is victorious in the end, and confronts his longtime enemy with his victory.. and then instead of savouring it, he kills him off in (again) a mad unprovoked rage! well i can go on but i wont, bless you all :) i liked magnolia though.. that wasn't realistic, but didn't pretend to be either. and it managed to convey the sentiment it tried to.god i hope this will plummet some more in the ratings... but i am afraid that generations to come will check the IMDb top 250, see this scoring a 9, download it, and then decide that us "oldies" have no taste whatso-ever and just go get the newest pulp crap.thank you all pretentious farts for acting like you actually enjoyed this film. my children will benefit huge improvements in reaction speed for playing more games and watching less movies.
poor story, much too long, visually just average and most important who .... cares about this plot, I am really disappointed; think twice before risking 2 1/2 hours of your life for this. I really don t understand why any body is even considering this for an Oscar. Have we all forgot that some time ago a movie had a distinctive lightning, lines and messages? If a story needs 2 or 3 hrs, it s OK, but if time is wasted and all the evidence and explanations for the acting of the characters are focused in two or three scenes and the rest is neither visually stunning nor adds much to the justification of the story. Example: we know that the boy is not his real son but when both are alone evidence suggests that both come along quite well; after the accident we still get evidence that he cares for the boy, but is frustrated because he seems severely diseased .... in the end we learn that he just used the boy; OK, but then some earlier scenes (first visit to the ranch) makes no sense.


                
I can say that 'usually' I am pretty on par with what the general public think of a movie although I have been known to stray my own way with certain films but I am still blown away in reading all the reviews for this film which would have someone believe that this is one of the best films of the year...an opinion shared overwhelmingly with the Academy who has bestowed numerous Oscar nominations on this film so let me be the first to say that perhaps my opinion is not right this time. However, it is my opinion and I was blown away by how truly outrageously BORING and misrepresented this movie is. I don't consider myself unintelligent by any means. I think I can certainly enjoy a great intellectual, artistic picture, and I DO love a great historical epic but I had seen the previews for this film and they represent it completely different than what the film is. There Will Be Blood should have been titled by its origin of work which was "Oil" because that is the only thing this film is about. I get the title...its rags to riches, pulling himself from the very bottom through turbulence and trials and ends with him losing his mind basically but my god it takes him a long time to get there and everything in the middle is as boring as the sand around him.Daniel Day-Lewis is very good. I take nothing from his performance as Oil man Daniel Plainview who starts from nothing and ultimately creates an empire at no expense including his own sanity in the end. Considering his character arc covers many years and many different situations, he does a terrific job. Its just the fact that there isn't any real plot or point to the three hour film to help support him. He definitely is the focus of the film despite a small supporting cast. The only other stand out performance is that of Paul Dano, a very gifted actor coming from an awesome role in Little Miss Sunshine. His over the top, bursting performance as religious fanatic and 'healer' Eli Sunday is really something. Its comical in this dark and disturbing way. However the previews of this film imply some sort of great battle of wits between Sunday and Plainview which never happens. Instead Eli Sunday is like an annoying little bug which Plainview swats repeatedly. Dillon Freasier also does a decent job as young H.W. Plainview, who is learning the business from his father until an accident takes his hearing. Its a subtle and quiet performance but he does well.So you have these good performances, why did I dislike this movie? It is truly uneventful. I mean watching the Oil fields and the events surrounding drilling and making money is very captivating...for 30 maybe 40 minutes...but NOTHING else happens. Its the same for three hours! And then when all is said and done we have this emotional blow out between father and son after years of being apart and then the end of the film is so downright stupid and ludicrous, it just literally made me shake my head. In some ways it was the perfect ending to a film that was just a waste. I DO believe the film makers purposely mislead the general public to believe that this film is about this bloody battle between and Oil Driller and a preacher when it has nothing at all to do with that. I can't agree with anyone on this and seeing the words "astounding, gory, disturbing" in people's reviews make me say "What the hell were you all watching?" I literally had to fight to keep my eyes open. But to each their own...that's the beauty of art but for me this Academy Awards is shaping out to be a big disappointment. 4/10
Just came from the theater and I have to say that my confidence in IMDb as a useful rating source has seriously eroded. Incredibly, more than 51% of over 28,000 voters rated this movie a 10! I've been viewing movies for more than 50 years and this one is by far the biggest disappointment I've ever experienced.This from someone, mind you, who thinks very highly of P.T. Anderson! I consider Magnolia one of the finest movies ever made (underrated at IMDb) and I'm also a big fan of Boogie Nights, many scenes of which remain indelibly in my mind after a single viewing many years ago. But nearly everything about TWBB is wrong, wrong, wrong. The only element that worked at all was Daniel Day-Lewis, who added yet another brilliant performance to his portfolio.Where to start my critique? Well, first of all, Upton Sinclair must not only be turning over in his grave but vomiting up everything he ever ate. It's sacrilege for P.T. to claim that his screenplay is based on, or even suggested by, Sinclair's novel Oil! After reading Sinclair's work a couple of weeks ago, I can tell you that only a handful of truly superficial elements made it into the screenplay. Loved the novel, hated the movie. P.T. made no attempt whatsoever to adapt the novel. It's a travesty for the Academy to have nominated his screenplay in the "based on material previously published" category. Especially if you contrast it with Atonement--an extremely faithful and successful adaptation of Ian McEwan's outstanding novel.SPOILERS BEGIN HERE: Sinclair's novel is an engaging diatribe against capitalism involving two major themes. First, that unregulated capitalists can amass enough money/power to purchase and subvert supposedly populist governments. He wrote Oil! in 1927, just after the Teapot Dome Scandal of the Harding administration, and much of the book is a thinly veiled roman a clef that expresses his outrage over that affair. The other major theme is the rebellion of labor against rampant capitalists, through unionism and fledgling socialist and communist movements in the USA and via actual government takeover by the Bolsheviks in Russia, which had just happened in 1917 and was still playing itself out on the world stage.The Day-Lewis character in the book was in fact a very successful, mid-level businessman who specialized in drilling for oil (an oil operator, in other words). He was good at making sharp deals and at bribing officials at all levels of government to gain favorable treatment. He was not, however, a crazed murderer, or even a murderer at all! In fact, he tended to treat his employees better than most of his contemporaries.His son, called Bunny, was actually his son, not an orphan (the mother was separated), who remained very close to his father throughout his life. He was never deaf. Bunny was a major character and the overall narrator of the novel. Paul was another major character. He was an extremely principled and well-read do-gooder and labor organizer whom Bunny highly admired. He was not, as P.T. would have it, someone who would sell out his family for the proverbial thirty pieces of silver ($500.) Overall, Sinclair's novel richly characterizes a multitude of players and epicly describes the sociological forces that drive them. The movie, by comparison, is pitifully small and petty, with players depicted as inherently evil but with little motivation for being so.I could go on and on and on about differences. In reality, the only way I can understand how such a disaster as TWBB could have come about is to imagine that P.T. was on crack when he read the novel and/or when he wrote the screenplay. He and I certainly didn't read the same work--the novel by Upton Sinclair! Of course that may not matter to most viewers. I am guessing that less than one in 500 of you might actually read, or have read, Sinclair's novel. The crushing disappointment for me is how such an incredibly talented director could have spent so much time and money to make such a miserable movie from such a great book.Even when I try to judge the movie for itself instead of for what it could have been there are numerous things I hate about it. The music, for instance, is terrible. And I normally find most musical scores to be excellent. But in TWBB, P.T. is apparently going for some sense of tragic doom, which is highly inappropriate and ultimately annoying, particularly when devoid of any character motivation. Then there's the editing, which I found tediously long in shot after shot. The movie just drags, and for no valid reason.And there's the science of oil drilling, which P.T. gets completely wrong, apparently on purpose, since it is perfectly described in Sinclair's novel (not to mention that he could have easily hired a technical consultant had he wished to get it right.) I'm talking about basic stuff here, not anything esoteric. Most egregious is the depiction of drilling as piledriving--lifting and dropping a bar. As the novel so clearly states, drilling is just that--drilling. It's accomplished by rotating a bit, just like you would with a hand drill, but on a larger scale. Arrgh--how do such changes make any sense? If you don't agree with my review, I would ask that you reserve judgment until you: (1) read Sinclair's novel Oil!, (2) imagine that Clint Eastwood had spent the same amount of time and money as P.T. did to adapt it, and (3) compare your imagined Eastwood adaptation to the actual TWBB. Oh, to think what might have been! Please, P.T., go back to your original screenplays and leave adaptations to those more willing to sublimate their egos.
Daniel Day-Lewis, as always, does a fantastic job with his character. As for the rest of the movie, it was pretty hard to sit through. Let me comment on this as someone who likes to go to a movie to be entertained and not as someone who goes to movie so that I can comment on the editing or lighting styles. From an entertainment standpoint, this is borderline at best. The story moves very slowly, and transitions randomly and suddenly in 9 and 16 year jumps. It takes 10 minutes before any dialogue is spoken. Huh? As I stated, I'm not one to notice things like filming techniques or lighting. The background music in this movie, however, is atrocious. I knew there was a problem by the simple fact that I noticed it. The music's style throughout the movie is confusing and inappropriate. It is obvious that the director and the composer LOVE to use the violin to induce tension. The problem was, this happened during scenes where there was no tension or suspense.I'm sure the "art" in this movie is superb, and my inartistic eye can't catch it. However, if you want to sit down and enjoy yourself, try something else.


                
I have to say that this title had some solid performances. D Day and Rev Eli will amaze you with their collective abilities to draw you in, but the story is just too bizarre for words. So many things don't make sense and aren't explained and a great deal is so far fetched.I can truly appreciate a great many things about this movie, but clarity and quality are not two of them. Boogie Nights grew on me. Magnolia had me from jump, but this movies is a hodgepodge of confusion and does not deserve to be on the IMDb top 250.I think there is a reason more people are not talking about this film, it's not a classic by any means.


                
I'm giving this a 4 because not being compelled to leave in the middle of a movie is reason enough to give it some credit. Yes, I was mildly entertained. Mostly by Daniel Day Lewis's performance. I think his talent became more obvious as the film dragged (and i mean dragged) on to portray his descent into madness. (Is that a spoiler? If so, sorry.) After it ended, my wife turned to me and said "How much did we pay to see this?". I then realized we just wasted 18 dollars. It was a cold and stormy night, and sitting by the fire with a good book would have been a better use of our time.My problems with this movie:Soundtrack was annoying and repetitive. They used that discordant violin track heard in the beginning of the movie (for no apparent reason) too many times. Once would have been enough. And when the derrick caught on fire, the score sounded like it was lifted from Apocalypto or something on Animal Planet. Totally out of place. - Paul Dano - Terrible performance. I'm not saying he's a bad actor, he was terrific in Little Miss Sunshine, but utterly unconvincing in his role. - Other than those two, who else had any memorable role? Is this just a platform for DDL's talent? - Why weren't there any roles for women in this movie other than bit parts. In fact, I think the longest line of any woman in the movie is "Yes, Father". - Story line. Well, what story line. Local boy makes good. Man goes crazy. Seriously, I saw nothing in the relationship between DDL and Dano. It was just there to add another 30 unneeded minutes to this film.My advice, read the reviews. If you want to see a great performance by DDL, go see it. If you want to be captivated by a movie with a great plot, soundtrack and supporting acting roles, fuhgeddaboudit.
much about this film was very good - Daniel Day Lewis's performance as Daniel Plainview was super, as was the cinematography. I thought the music by Radiohead's Johnny Greenwood's was great - creatively original yet not gratuitously so. What let it down for me was the (lack of a) story line - at times it felt like a variety of scenes cobbled together, with only a vague sense of direction. Some scenes were just not credible - certainly not justified by the characterisation. I was also bored, looking at my watch 3 times during the performance. hugely disappointing after all the hype. my verdict: don't bother


                
Why did you like it so much? This movie did nothing to/for me! I did not make me: laugh, smile, cry, feel good or bad, like the story.I did however make me: bored, annoyed about the long scenes, think about the non existing story, wish I had not started watching this movie.I'm a big fan of PTA. Magnolia is one of my favorite movies. But this one - I did not get. Good acting will not make up the fact that the story was slow, lame and boring. Like other people I did not find the music that strange. I kind of liked it.As Public Enemy once said "Don't believe the hype".
Well, I just got home from this movie. I went with high expectations as I had read the IMDb boards. But... what a disappointment! Daniel Day-Lewis performance was, as usual, quite extraordinary. The scenery was wonderful. Unfortunately that summarises the good points. In the 21st century I expect more from a movie.The negatives of this movie are numerous. The soundtrack is excruciating. It begins slowly, but the grind on you gets worse and worse. The same agonising sequence over and over again. But the ultimate problem with this movie is waaaaay too long. It suffers from the tragedy of 'Dances with Wolves'. It can thank DWW that it does not become the pop culture joke that DWW has become in that respect. Ultimately this movie could have been told in an hour. Setting this movie at nearly 2.5 hours suggests that either the producer is trying to squeeze out a feature film from a tele-movie that want over budget, or that the director grossly underestimates the intelligence of most movie goers.


                
Normally I agree with most of IMDb user votings. But not on this movie.The story would have the potential to be an epic. But instead it is boring and depressing. Minutes of silence (hush) combined with most improper and depressing film music I have ever heard. The actors had faces like wax with as good as no emotion. Even the most emotional scenes are lifeless and sometimes the actors face expression seems to make no sense at all.The colors and scenes of the film are very bad and leave the impression of a B- or even C-movie.This movie is awful, boring, depressing, with no color and really bad music. A waste of time.


                
This movie has the slowest pace I've ever seen, and at 2 hrs 40 minutes, it's very unnecessary. Nobody says anything for the first 10 minutes, and the first two hours could easily fit into 60 minutes without compromising the character or plot development. If anything the slow pace lends a sense of the pace of that period, but there's a reason we've moved on.There is also a huge error in the oil rig operation. When the rig is allegedly drilling, only the pump is seen operating, even though there was nothing to pump yet. There is no drill or bits to be seen, except during one scene where a crewman is hit by a bit extension - but they were never actually drilling! Considering the extent they made everything else period-accurate and realistic, I find that horribly unacceptable.And with all the hype implying it would be an action-packed western, it was anything but. I can appreciate a good drama, but not in slow-motion! Daniel Day-Lewis transforms himself amazingly to suit the role, but why on earth did he put so much work into looking exactly like Tom Selleck and sounding exactly like Clint Eastwood?! It completely killed the realism of the character for me. Ironically, it was the most entertaining aspect for me, but at no point did I feel he was anything but an actor playing a role.Overall it was a huge disappointment for me, and the only Oscar-worthy aspect would be the cinematography, at best.


                
what a boring waste of three hours of my life...fortunately...i watched this on my laptop, and decided to take care of some online business that i needed to deal with. i have seen this garbage-can of a movie compared to the almighty classic Treasure of the Sierra Madre. where anyone got the idea to compare this rubbish and that classic is beyond me. thank god i didn't waste the whole three hours on this crap. again with the idiotic IMDb ten lines minimum. what a boring waste of three hours of my life...fortunately...i watched this on my laptop, and decided to take care of some online business that i needed to deal with. i have seen this garbage-can of a movie compared to the almighty classic Treasure of the Sierra Madre. where anyone got the idea to compare this rubbish and that classic is beyond me. thank god i didn't waste the whole three hours on this crap. again with the idiotic IMDb ten lines minimum.


                
With There Will Be Blood I was expecting to see something truly epic and memorable. What I actually saw was an excruciatingly long, often boring and not at all memorable let down. It's been a while since I've been in a cinema and people have walked out before the end of the film, but it happened twice during the movie and I wish I'd joined them.What began as excitement at seeing this film quickly evaporated and turned to mind numbing boredom, inter-spaced with occasional moments of entertainment. However these are few and far between and you'll be left wondering when the story is going to start and your mind is going to be engaged by what's happening on screen. The plot is uninteresting and incredibly slow and nothing seems to connect very well. At the end (if you survive that long) you will be left wondering what the point of it all was as well as what the hell happened and why.The movie is also accompanied by a truly horrible soundtrack which plays far too often and really grates. Imagine nails chalkboard annoying and you're almost there. The final nail in the coffin but also the one saving grace of the movie is that the serious bits of the film are actually really very funny, but be wary of laughing too loudly because you may annoy the people that are pretending to enjoy the film.As much as I wanted to love this film, I will always think back on it as being a hugely prententious disappointment and thats a massive shame, especially when you look at all the acclaim it received and in my opinion didn't deserve.


                
First, let me say I enjoyed watching "Blood" if only to see some of Lewis' tightly woven intensity after too long away.But wow, this film is a meandering, steaming pile of Figure Out Where You're Taking The Story Before You Release The Movie.I was alternately lost, confused by on screen developments, bored -- and occasionally mesmerized by a tight, powerfully done scene.Sadly, those powerful moments, which hold up very well upon repeat viewings, are sandwiched in and around a story going only somewhere sort of, with a purpose that is difficult to discern.Is this a parable for America's growth, or simply a slice of one part of the ugliness of it? Is there a story being told here, or just some atmospheric scenes being strung together to build a mood? Is the "battle" between Plainview and Eli really a plot, or more a distraction? And would those violins please stop that noise already?Any one of these answers would have been fine, and might have made for a really enjoyable movie. Unfortunately, I never got the feeling Paul Thomas Anderson knew the answer.A good director lets you know what part is for plot, what is for character and what is for atmosphere. The great ones, however, tell a story where all three work together more or less seamlessly. Here, I was never sure which was which, and they created no whole at all.Or as a friend said to me, it seemed like the parts were greater than the sum of the whole.Those individual scenes are great for trailers and retrospectives -- just don't watch the whole thing.


                
I liked the way the film was photographed....looked like some use of video format or whatever.coloring and angle's gave it a typical atmosphere which i could enjoy . liked the 'literary' darkness.... and enjoyed the use of music. But.....the story....either not a good story or not being handled good by Anderson.a bit of a mess.... all the time i kept hoping that there would be some sense in the things that happened in the movie.I still don't know. Am i right believing that the main message is that evil prevails? if so , the evil is not evil enough in the Plainview character and the good in the other folks is not clear enough too. maybe i did't got it.. but that's not necessarily my fault.


                
The movie had some good scenes early on; then dragged on with no apparent purpose. Daniel Day Lewis managed to carry the movie to its ridiculous ending. Kevin O'Connor turned in the only supporting role good enough to give Lewis a character to get some believable interaction with. Paul Dano contributed the worst performance to Little Miss Sunshine and here, as Ely, he is truly dreadful. His acting would have been comical in a community theater production. I can't understand how anything about this movie merited nomination for an award, let alone a win. This word is over used, but "pretentious" really describes this film for me. The other people who suggested this are right: watch No Country for Old Men instead. Heck, watch Happy Gilmore instead.


                
What is it with people and the IMDb? This rush to judgment is astonishing - the critics too, falling all over themselves to proclaim this film a masterpiece. Do words have no meaning anymore? The awful, awful musical score alone would remove this from the masterpiece category. I thought Daniel Day Lewis was terrific (and yes, channeling John Huston, clearly), and I liked all the other actors. It's nicely directed and happily none of the cast whispers, which seems to be today's generation's idea of acting. Some scenes crackle with energy and good dialogue. But, at the end of the day, what exactly is being said here? That greed and power exist? Okay, great. I had no problem with the length, but it just became repetitious after a while. I have to agree with the comment that this will not hold up to the test of time. Citizen Kane it isn't. Treasure of Sierra Madre it isn't. I'm sure some of this is shilling as someone suggests, which is why one can never take this site too seriously. Then there are the people who feel they must run home, fire up the computer, and howl to the world of masterpieces that exist only in their film study universe.


                
Two-thirds of the way through 'There Will Be Blood', it suddenly dawned on me that writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson must be a film student from "The longer the movie, the more seriously i'll be taken!" school of thinking. 'Important' film critics seem to lap up lengthy, historical epics as if they're objects that contain the meaning of life within, and judging by their hysterically over-positive reaction, they must have thought all of their Christmas' had come at once when this self-important ogre first came tumbling over the horizon.Despite pretensions alluring to an allegory of the Iraqi war, there isn't any story so to speak of other than a series of Mexican standoffs between a piece of pork (Day Lewis' thoroughly unpleasant oil-baron-to-be, Daniel Plainview) and a rash of bacon (Dano's equally unpleasant, charlatan preacher, Eli Sunday) who indulge in a self-serving handbags at dawn spat over some black liquid spillage in New Mexico circa 1898. These hammy confrontations are very entertaining and the two actors cheerfully chew the scenery for all their worth - but by god! - without them it would be interminable, as the sliver thin plot (adapted from a book no one's ever heard of, let alone read) is dragged out over TWO-AND-THREE-QUARTER-HOURS!!!In between Lewis & Dano's colourful interludes are vast, vacuous chasms containing some beige mountains, a crushingly obtrusive score by Radiohead's Johnny Greenwood and a disgracefully wasted Cirian Hinds, who has almost literally nothing to say or do for the whole movie. He's not alone however, as this elephantine husk has plenty more squandered opportunities waiting up it's flabby sleeve. A number of scenes whet your appetite for some great drama, but ultimately deflate you by fizzling out into nothing. Too often Anderson places the despicable Plainview into circumstances where his self-obsession threatens emotional fireworks & nitty-gritty theatrics, and too often they're just left dangling in thin-air and end up head butting a dramatic cul-de-sac brick wall instead. The segment involving the sudden appearance of Plainview's (alleged) younger brother, Henry (Kevin J O'connor), could have been an exception to this rule as it contains a beginning, middle and (very sticky) end. But Anderson executes it with such an arrogant disregard for timing and pace, that it ends up getting crushed pancake-flat beneath a cliff-face of tedium.Even the final scene takes the wind out of the sails of expectation on account of it just being plain daft. Time Out magazine commented that " the climax contains the lunacy of 'Dr Strangelove' and 'A Clockwork Orange'" which it does and, taken on it's own terms, it is (in a Monty Python kinda-way) actually quite funny. Yet, it's absurdly at odds with everything preceding it, leaving us by contrast with a silly, puny looking pay-off.Stylistically speaking, TWBB is at least free of the embarrassing Scorsese aping traits found in 'Boogie Nights' & 'Magnolia', and Roger Elswitt's sobering lens work is very fine indeed. On the other hand though, those two movies did at least contain a sense of life and (whisper it) fun, in their bones. So even though they unravelled into a big pile of nothing at the halfway mark, they did (if only for a short time) make a game attempt at proper audience engagement. TWBB just splutters & spurts on it's back for a third of the duration and spends the rest of it's time sound asleep. More likely than not, so will you. Lurking somewhere within this Death Star sized suet-pudding, is a lean, decent little movie trying to fight it's way out - a taut chamber piece that could have set the world on fire. But it wasn't to be. PTA obviously believed there should be excessive width to 'enhance' the quality and ends up gorging his baby into obesity, boring us sh*tless as a result. Much much less, could have been so much more.


                
That's what you say to yourself as the credits roll - Well, wasn't that stupid.I think this movie was written and edited by my pet cat. No, I got it, my pet fish Gourami wrote it and the cat edited it - they swear.It's a movie about a basically insane man who goes absolutely insane - The End.Oh there's this boy, who may or may not be this insane man's son. He goes insane, then becomes sane - The End.There is this other guy too who is also insane and pretends to know God, he gets killed by the absolutely insane man - The End. And yeah, there is oil and money and land and pipelines and some other insane guy that pretends to be the absolutely insane man's brother who also gets killed - The End.Everyone either dies physically or figuratively - The End. The End - credits roll - Well, wasn't that stupid.
Each year, there is one movie lauded by the critics as the best thing since sliced bread that not only don't I think is very good, but I truly think is bad. And the winner this year is..."There Will Be Blood." I honestly don't understand why people adore this film so much, and I was someone who wanted to like it...I'm a big fan of Daniel Day-Lewis. The first two hours were OK, but the last half hour or so was so ridiculous and so over-the-top that it swayed me to give this film a poor rating.I think it's time to officially say that the great "Boogie Nights" by P.T. Anderson wasn't the start of a great director's career...it was a fluke.


                
Daniel day lewis is incredible,he just won best actor in a drama on the S.A.G Awards and deserves it. actually the entire cast was Great. but like though out the entire movie i had no idea or even cared what was going on, if that sounds crazy, well you have the plot of the movie , all i know is that everyone was insanely greedy, i wanted to like Daniel day lewis character but the guy was a real a hole, like i said its worth it just for the acting alone , very intense thats all i really have to say hope i made sense "one nite im going to come to your house while your sleeping and slit your throat" crazy line in the movie but came out of no where


                
I kept waiting for this film to draw me into the story, to make me feel something! Day-Lewis' interchange with the preacher during the final scene & to a lesser extent during his 'confession' of his sins in the church seemed to me like something out of a bad Monty Python sketch. The man who see's the worst in people and has a rage in him just simmering below the surface always threatening to overflow, lacked the physical presence in him or the cool articulate menace that he brought to his butcher character in G O NY to make me fear him or what he could do. I like to root for Daniel Day-Lewis and the characters he portrays in film, Last of the Moahicans & Crucible come to mind. This character was contemptible in every respect, except his uncompromising, unscrupulous lust for money & power. I guess that was the point, I dunno. From the early scenes he appeared to be a caring family man, I do not fully understand how he came to think so ill of the boy he was raising after the accident deprived him of his hearing. "This picture is a very accurate depiction of the oil refining business of the time" So What? I'm here to watch a film, to be entertained!, if I want to find out all about oil I'll watch a discovery channel special or hire a book at the local library! I guess from the trailer, the awards & the way some friends lavished praise upon this picture, I committed a sin I almost never commit anymore: I got my hopes up about a film. Boring, simplistic and by the numbers, Very Disappointed.
I think that this movie is neither close to deserved to be in this ranking, #176 in the most prestigious list of movies from all times "top 250", with a rating of 8,1. In mi opinion this movie deserved to be in the worst 250 movies that i have seen. Doubtlessly that the amazing rating that the movie has make me great expectations, but never i had felt so disappointed. I didn't care if was a slow movie, but also is a movie that isn't well obtained. I believe that the idea got a great potential, it would be possible make a very good movie. In "there will be blood" the do not obtain to catch your attention, they do not obtained insert you in their drama. In order to finish i like to reiterate that in mi opinion this movie didn't deserved to be in so yearned for list.


                
