I can only assume that these positive reviews have been paid for, or are from people who have seen a very limited amount of shows! This is average, at best. To give my reasons:The overacting is incredible; from people visibly shaking to show that they are under stress, to manic grins and laughter at totally unamusing jokes. For a bunch of "professionals", the characters constantly make ridiculous, stupid decisions. I mean laugh out loud stupidity.The plot is paper thin after an intriguing start, and still managed to slow down to walking pace in the middle. There is misogyny and homophobia throughout. The plot holes are to numerous to mention.Having said that, I did watch it all, sometimes in disbelief, and mainly because my OCD won't let me stop half way. What a shame that a decent idea and set up could be wasted like this. How on earth people can make this a highly rated show I will never know. It is an insult to all the quality shows out there that could be enjoyed!


                
A way to pass time while exercising. The first few episodes drew me in but I find the characters unlikable as the story progresses.


                
Such a shame, close to being really good. Great idea, soooo many technical inaccuracies that even a child would notice. Are all of these positive reviews by the same person, all very similarly written. Sad. Oh well, some you win.


                
Had nearly everything to be a top class show, but fails horribly in the details. Plot is twisted and retwisted beyond any credibility. Cops are just shown as a band of morons, affairs between hijackers and hostages are quite ridiculous (as is also the affair between the professor and ladycop). But, above all that, the girl who plays Tokyo is absolutely insulting. Her acting is soooo bad I ended up fast forwarding when sh was on screen. it is really insulting.


                
The series starts well, a plot to pull off a spectacular robbery. However the whole thing is letdown by the subtitles. I like to watch foreign (to me) ie non-English films and tv series, in the original language. This seems to have had its subtitles translated by google as they are often clunky and bear no relation either to the original Spanish or to the English audio also provided. An example, where the chief police negotiator refers to the robbers as "heist men". Really? Could the producers not have found fluent translators to have written this stuff?
Later on it gets cliched with cookie-cutter plot lines and twists. Halfway through I am at the point where it would be as tedious to stop as go on, so I shall battle on, if only to see who's left standing at the end.


                
It's a 200 episode Tele novela compressed in 20 episodes. No logic in the action of the characters, they repeat the same cycles of mistakes they have done just an episode before. People get shot, loose a lot of blood, but in 4-5 hours they are back like nothing happened. So if you like realism, you can easily avoid this waste of time.


                
This is the worst production of special police forces I've ever seen. You have 50 trained officers, some are professional snipers, shooting at one criminal and none can shoot straight meanwhile the criminals throughout the entire production can shoot without shields and take down the SWAT team (sounds like they belong with the Star War's storm troopers). Yeah, that believable. No police protocol...that's another reality. Spanish police must be the dumbest cops on the entire planet. I paintball better than the police shoot.


                
There's literally not a single actress or actor in this series who doesn't annoy. it hurts, watching the series. it hurts a lot. The logic of the plot is completely beyond me.
there is one guy, the brain, the professor. he seems to be very intelligent, but then he selects a team of "professionals", who is the complete opposite of being professional. I mean, every single episode, you have to deal with at least 30 minutes, watching these guys behave like drunk teenagers on their first date.
this reminds me of mission impossible, or oceans eleven, but the complete opposite.
don't watch it. seriously. it hurts.
I've never posted a review before, but I must say I agree with the lowest ranking opinions. It's poor written and predictable, with zero charecter development.
I skipped from ep.3 to the last one and everything was as I expected. I still don't understand why the huge hype.


                
There are so many false dramatic moments because there's not enough to keep a person interested. It's probably the most unrealistic show i've seen in my entire life. From the fact that the police can't aim at all, to the fact that these amateurs can take on dozens of armed police and somehow come out on top each time (and never reload) and rarely get hit by the thousands of bullets shot at them. The police on this show are the single worst shots in history and apparently don't own flash bangs. It's also fascinating to see how a skinny 100 pound girl shoots rifles on full auto, one handed. This show is a cartoon.I can't stand how there are so many pointless "dramatic" moments. For example, two of the robbers will say something to each other and then agree "Let's do it!" and then rush down the hall and slam open the door where the hostages are, yell loudly and rack their assault rifles and point it at the hostages...and then walk out with a flat screen TV. At other times, they'll walk into the room with the hostages real relaxed with their hands in their pockets and joke with them.Every episode has at least 10 ridiculous scenes with moronic scenarios or terrible acting. The only reason I can imagine this show has a high rating is because I realize that most shows produced outside the US and UK are horrible. So maybe this is actually a good drama by Spanish standards? It has an 8.7 IMDB rating for that reason. Applying US standards, i'd say this show is closer to a 4.5
The plot of the series is intelligent and promising during the first few episodes, but after a while the story becomes more and more ridiculous: dozens of highly trained special police forces seem to be the dumbest and clumsiest police in the universe, firing thousands of bullets without hardly ever hitting any clear and unprotected targets, while the robbers never miss a single shot and are always 50 steps ahead. So ridiculous it become frustrating.


                
How to enjoy this show? - Drink till you slur your words and you need 5 minutes of thought to recognize your favorite Actor/Sportsman.Now you are at the IQ and attention level so that you won't be bothered by the plotholes, stupid characters and idiotic setups.If you have consumed all worthwhile items on netflix/hulu/youtube, and watched millions of cat videos, and looking for something to pass your time while your write your noble prize acceptance speech. You want to focus 99% on the speech writing and use 1% of your brain to keep track of the story, then this show is for you.


                
The idea is good but messed up characters with many points unconvincing. Deliberately prolonging the story.


                
English voiceovers destroy this show. The storyline is chaotic to begin with-add in mismatched poorly acted voiceovers, and the show becomes unwatchable. I'm not sure how it has a high rating-perhaps watching the original acting makes all the difference-but I can't see how the often weird and incredibly sexist dialogue or disconnected storyline carry even the original.


                
First season is really good but as of mid 2 things go out of control. This series is anti government, never have I seen police depicted so incompetant like hello kitties.I do not care about its anarchic leftist message... the intricacies and overall plot is very exciting yet their master argument is insultingly weak. Am I stupid to believe that armed career criminals (studying dutifully for 5 months :-)) are the solution to capitalist system's problems and Spanish police are stupid enough to forget disconnecting electricity? But hey, this is a .... "masterpiece" :-)Seriously I wish they could come up with something that's decent at ideological level instead of this floor mat that tries to create a 1970s style militant leftist rebellion at the age of blockchain. (Assuming the series owners are not smart capitalists collecting dumb people's money)And the pregnant mistress who fells in love with a violent thug (as officially depicted in the beginning) and finally turns into a machine gun toting criminal, how come she not turn into a giant spider and attack the city of Madrid :-)))))))This is a shame for Spain and leftist/anarchist ideology but it's facebook generation watching so let's give thumbs up LOL!!!
If one wants to learn how to NOT overact or go over the top, this one is for you . It has got its moments but Tokyo and Arthro take the award for overactive of the century..
...then stop reading this. I won't bother with the fact that the story progresses oh so slowly, nor with the repetitive music. I won't even fret over the amount of patience this series demands from you the way it drags certain scenes.I will just mention the 3 lapses of logic that baffle me.
Spoilers for Season 2 ahead1. The clown sceneMaybe if the scene took place in an open space, like a square, then it would make sense how a few clowns got the police confused. But the hospital has what? A couple of exits and entrances? And they were all covered by police officers. And when they saw the clowns, instead of lining them all up to question them, they just allow them to leave in peace. The most conspicuous of all the clowns was of course the cyberpunk Professor, who still managed to roam the hallways undetected. 
All the while 2 police officers were undercover in Angel's room pretending to be himself and his wife. And suddenly they see a doorknob turning...oh the suspense! The suspense built out of the logic that although all the hospital had cameras the one place the police didn't bother to cover was the hallway where their comatose witness was about to be attacked. And for all the disguised police force as doctors and nurses, not even one man was assigned to keep a lookout outside the room. Maybe a clown distracted them by making balloon animals.
2. I left you unconscious to prove I love youFirst of all, Salva, you are the worst boyfriend ever. Not only did you start this relationship out of pure self interest, you are so full of yourself that you feel the certainty that the woman is so infatuated by you, that even when handing her over a gun, she won't shoot you. A professional policewoman, that risked everything on this case, the one you betrayed and irreparably violated her trust, will let you go away, with not so much as even a bullet in your leg.
And you know what? She does exactly that. She actually lets him go. To what end? Even if she loves him, she knows that eventually she would get in trouble.3. Inspectora has a free pass because Casa de Papel LogicThe HQ is fully aware that the Inspectora has an affair with el Professor, so instead of interrogating and detaining her, they simple let her leave the premises. I was under the impression that in such grave situations when people's lives are on the line, even the slightest of suspicions are enough to keep a person in custody. But no, la Inspectora is only a suspect at that moment, and she also wants to go, so yeah, let her go. What could go wrong? After all she convinced you with the lamest line in all the series "I will prove to you I didn't know who that man was until recently, by giving up his whereabouts". Funny, because do you know who would also know this piece of information? His co-conspirator girlfriend. And when it turns out that the location she gives was not right (as any dedicated girlfriend would do in order to distract and delay the police) how do they react? They let her go, saying that only Angel can help them now. And she goes in the hospital, steals the badge and then Angel opens his eyes at such a convenient moment for the script that forces me to write all the above.La Casa de Papel has some likable characters and a promising premise. However, after all the slow progression even its good qualities start to wither and you are left with the aforementioned divorces with logic which are simply too much to swallow. The only way to enjoy this series is if it's the first one you have watched in you life or if you turn off your brain while watching it.
This is the type of show you can zone out and watch for pure entertainment. It's just so fake and difficult to believe that it's more like a fantasy movie. Who believes that a country's (Spain) national mint has 4 cops guarding it and no one responding to a robbery for 10 hours? The federal reserve in NYC has about 200 armed security and thousands more within a mile.This show also gets to me because they are trying too hard to be "cool" and pretending to be a hollywood movie and it comes across as just lame. For example, a bunch of cops hanging out near a forensics scene - nowhere near a dangerous area - will be wearing full protective gear and black helmets in order to look cool. A bunch of cops inside a tent will hear "Alright, let's get ready to go in" and they'll unlock the safety on their rifles with a loud click for dramatic effect. It's ridiculous.


                
