"La casa de papel" is an interesting case: a series that's written to be gripping and exciting yet at the same time doing it in all the wrong ways. It presents itself as the story of "the perfect heist" - a robbery so meticulously planned that the only way it could fall apart is if the people executing it botch their jobs really badly.Guess what happens? Six out of the nine people involved botch their jobs badly, including the mastermind.Fortunately, everything works out to the result of maximum suspense. Unfortunately, that happens at the cost of throwing away logic in more than one place. Not that you'd really mind if it were done ironically, or at least with a little self-awareness of the increasingly over-the-top developments. But the series insists on its own seriousness again and again, even when it has clearly gone beyond logic and went into A-Team ridiculousness.What holds this series together is a group of talented actors, if you do not count Tokyo, who seems to know only one facial expression, very much like a female Nicholas Cage, except when she's having a breakdown. All the others sell their scenes convincingly
Nowhere near a 9. This show is a great example of when the netflix hype-train runs off the tracks and I will tell you why.
The two main female characters are supposed to be tough and assertive but both become stereotypical "I have feelings too" characters you so often see in generic tv/movies. In the case of the police officer, we are talking about a career defining case that will take at most a couple weeks. We're talking about a 24/7 hostage situation which she is solely responsible for. Meanwhile you have a very young child at home who has said she doesn't want to live with you anymore. This is infuriatingly unrealistic. Let's just say for the sake of argument that the character is 42, and that she won't be having any more kids. She is a single parent, her mom who lives with her has Alzheimer's and both her mom and daughter's safety are basically in jeopardy by leaving them unsupervised. Now add in the 24/7 hostage crisis, working (for argument sake) around 18 hours a day. Instead of going home and checking on both of the only loved ones in her life, she frequently goes to get coffee instead of going home. So far, ok, people do shit like this, I can understand. The thing that really crossed the line is that she not only neglects her home life, but willingly divulges unnecessary information to a complete stranger. Again, we are talking about maybe a few weeks of what is really going to either define your career, or ruin it. The few weeks that will decide if your daughter will ever see you again. This entire course of events just seemed forced and unrealistic. She practised no discretion whatsoever (how did she get to the position that she is in in such a field?), her judgment is along the lines of a drunk college girl - spending more time thinking about getting laid then being an adult.The other main female character (the robber), portrays this stone cold vicious attitude, and while other characters also exhibit that, she seems to be ruthless. Guess again. The one person she loved was killed in front of her but that didn't seem to phase her. Her mother even turns her in, still nothing. So she gets involved in this seemingly too good to be true heist and all you have to do is be professional, and don't form inappropriate and personal relationships with your co-workers (which applies to literally any job). Again, ok we are all human she lost a loved one, had her mom flip on her etc. I could understand something like this if she fell in love, but nope. She certainly doesn't love the guy, and I can't imagine how she ever would. He is naive, and practices poor judgment, doesn't have the heart to do what needs to be done, is basically a liability. It just doesn't fit her character to A. act so unprofessionally, and B. risk everything for someone she isn't serious about. Same rules apply to the robber as the cop, we are talking a 24/7 heist, a couple weeks at most, a life-time of either glory, or ruin. And yet again we get the "I have feelings too" story-arch superseding an unfathomable amount of money. It just doesn't fit the character to jeopardize that, be a professional thief/robber, and exhibit this kind of behavior during such a critical small amount of time.As you can see this is beginning to become a pattern, and we see it again with the professor to a lesser extent. Basically (aside from the tough exterior) he jeopardizes years of work to get laid. I won't go into detail on the professor, but he really isn't that smart, but neither are the police, so I guess that's okay. I am not sure how the police do things in Spain, but the level of fuck-ups just seems uncharacteristic. We're talking about rogue officers jeopardizing dozes of lives, lack of discretion, poor police-tactics specifically during the raid(s), poor judgment (how the fuck can you not sweep for bugs when the government is sitting in and you obviously have a mole), and on top of that just overall incompetence from everything to PR to gross mishandling of evidence handling. The other detective drinking and driving to such an extent because he is emotional. It is all just so unbelievable, again though I am not Spanish so maybe that is the level of competence that their police show.
As you can see, this is just the characters alone I have I outlined, and why I feel this show doesn't deserve to be rated as high as shows like Westworld, Mad Men, House of Cards, etc. It is actually rated higher than a few of those and just absolutely does not even belong in the same league.The list goes on and I could make the case for other elements, other characters, etc. However, I will say that there are a lot of great things about this show. The plot is great, the 'idea' behind certain aspects of things like characters, methodology, behaviors, even things small things like the masks and fake gun rotation are excellent. The positives do outweigh the negatives, but not to the degree that warrants a near-perfect score.The point of this review was not to bash the show, but to provide a more unbiased opinion (imo) because I experienced it in it's infancy with no real information available (I actually had trouble finding it on imdb). Also, because I feel that someone needs to speak up as the show has obviously been put on a pedestal because Netflix put their name on it.I do recommend this show because on the surface it is something different, and has a lot of unique qualities. It is entertaining, but nowhere near perfect.7/10 at most.
If you are looking for logic and common sense.... this series is not for you.
Its still a big mystery how they are able to rob the bank. The script is flawed but its nonetheless entertaining and gripping at times.1. They have trained for 5 months together and yet they cannot even get along without pointing a gun at each other every 10 mins or so. While in the flashbacks, they are one happy family.... during the robbery they are the opposite.2. Its unknown when and how the Professor falls in love with Inspector Raquel and vice versa after two meetings. While viewers are mystified ... the Professor risks the whole robbery ( his goal in life ) because he has suddenly met the love of his life.3. Tokyo is unbearable. One does not know if Tokyo's character is supposed to be mentally retarded because she switches from sanity to insanity every 5-10 minutes. There is no explanation for her behaviour given the fact that in the past she has exhibited responsible behaviour and realises the seriousness of the situation.4. The last episode the police is ready to break into the bank, but Miss Nairobi wants to print more notes !! Berlin says no and what happens after that is something u see throughout the robbery....robbers attacking each other personally. Everyone is moving at snails pace while Rio and Tokya get engaged in a conversation about they will do at the beach etc etc. ( i skipped that... it was painful) This is despite orders from the Professor that the police is ready to break in and they should hurry up.
It all looks very forced.... because there was no reason for Berlin to stay there trying to hold the police back. Everyone couldve escaped comfortably. While the audiences can feel the urgency for them to hurry up.... the robbers themselves are in a world of their own. Even inside the vault Oslo asks Nairobi if they can share a flat...with the police a corridor away from the vault ! And then suddenly.. they switch to normal behaviour and realise they need to get the hell out of there..and Berlin decides to stay back to allow the others to escape. Unnecessary... even though they wanted Berlin to die... they could ve scripted it a lot better.
Its a bank robbery of 940( ? ) million Euros and we have been listening to their dreams of what they will do with the money. They trained for 5 months. This is the moment. This is it. Audiences can feel it.... but sadly the robbers cannot.And there are other hundreds of flaws in the script.... the characters are not well defined....but its entertaining nonetheless.
Good show for an average viewer who doesnt pay atention to details and waches the picture as a whole..
The story is great and had potential but they ruined it with silly descisions and unreal situations,like swat teams having 0 accuracy,police being realy dumb,silly situations all over the place that make 0 sense,made both by kidnapers and hostages :)
Main characters are lacking,Berlin killed it tho,props to him!..Profesor was decent,Father and son were both amusing,they brought raw emotion to the show,but the rest were meh,especialy Rio and Tokyo,oh boy,those 2 ruined the show halfway for me,especialy Tokyo,character with no point basicly but to be a sexy bad ass female,going around acting like a 13 y old girl on a period..and that motor bike scene almost made me quit waching the show lol
If the director used the power of logic,for example,if 10 police offficers are shoting auto rifles a bullet is bound to hit something,i mean they had years and years of training,or say,hey that person has a brain,no way hed think and do something as stupid and ilogical as that..
Or for example give more air time to Berlin and not focus on the "love story" and feminist bad ass super cool but constantly on her period Tokyo the show could have been 10/10


                
I have to preface this by saying that I have been quite impressed by the first few episodes of this show, so much so that I didn't mind the foreign language or the weird acting by some of the cast. It's certainly worth a watch, and the premise is very interesting.However, the action is at times less believable and the pacing is really all over the place. Add to that the flat characters that never react to anything and the plot which just seems to float from episode to episode on the writers' whim, and you get something with a lot of potential but poor execution.Without going into too much detail, it is probably obvious to everyone that this is about a plan which doesn't work out entirely as intended, or they wouldn't have multiple seasons of it. As such, sometimes the ways the plan moves along or doesn't are very out exaggerated and unlikely, and it really bothers me as a viewer for some master criminals to be this incompetent at times. The ending of the first season especially, makes things feel like the work of street corner amateurs rather than true professionals, and there is no plan A, let alone B or C. And the way some problems with the plan get resolved makes us ask the question: why wasn't that just part of the plan from the beginning!The pacing as well is very inconsistent, with episodes which are full of action followed by episodes full of minor character drama and flashbacks which really don't go anywhere.Another criticism I want to leverage is that the characters are very one-dimensional, and even their main traits sometimes don't even matter as they become cardboard cutouts of people. The most present hostage, for example, goes through immense emotional states but none of them seem to change him in any way. The same goes for the robbers, they never change, they are never really affected, they just keep being at times a badass and at times absolute amateurs.Finally, I feel the biggest problem is that the plot itself is in such stark contrast to the premise of the show. I get that they wanted to create intrigue and conflict to move the story forward and stretch it out to many seasons, but you can't have the greatest plan in the world be constantly foiled by crappy plot points and cartoony drama.


                
This TV show is like the best possible way to portray the concept of Heist. The backgrounds, the costumes, makeups, clever idea of using names of cities is genius. But most of the time they were not properly engaged with hostages, They were roaming around with handcuffs and all. That is a little casual. and that "hostage of the month" was awesome.


                
This series is great but it has very big flaws in IT and gunfight.
Really bring this down when you see big guns fired by Tokyo when running away, police with no aim.
Computer expert will cry too sadly.


                
This was my first foreign tv show , I thought it was a good show , however I had enough of listening to Spanish by the end of season 2 ! Worth giving it a go ..


                
Worth watching for the story and interesting ! the direction and some scenes not good enough, some times feel you are watching Indian action movie ..


                
Great idea but guess what! Already on 2008 movie Inside man!!
The fake tunnel and so on....
but actors are great.
Good copycat, obviously the flaws come with the new story the writers of inside man did watch less action movies and more mind games...
Good show that always kept me interested.The problem for me was that there weren't any long term plans going on. For example, the Hostage revolution; Very simple plan that gets shut down in the next episode. Cop finds out who the professor is; Cop has a car crash and falls into a comma. Inspector finds out about the professor; She's in love with him and lets him go.The only long term plan is the heist of course. But again it's presented in the same way. By answering every problem with a flashback showing that it was part of the plan. That is kind of cool at the same time, but you don't get the feeling that a major operation is going on, but rather that there is a mini problem solved in each episode.One of the things that I also didn't like were plot twists. I feel like they were either expected or forced. The inspector falls in love with the professor and turns to his side. Not really shocking. The blond chick falls in love with Denver AND picks up the M-16 to shoot the police officers? Too much.Also too much drama during the heist. I can get behind the thieves arguing a couple of times during the week they were in the building, but in this show people were pointing guns at each others heads at the end of every episode and were fine at the beginning of the next. It got tiring.Never lost interest though. Good show.
Early in the show I was regularly blown away by the cleverness of the robbers. As time went on I was occasionally blown away, but just as often smacking my head at plot holes or unrealistic scenes (which other reviews go into in more depth).I came to like most of the characters, and thought some of the psychological aspects of the show were a high point.So... watch it as long as you're willing to set aside your disbelief.


                
A very interesting series, with an original premise that is worn out with the passage of episodes. I mean, the series is too long for the story you want to tell and has chapters that are too slow or filling.
Even all this, I think a very new bet antenna 3, which as you are seeing this devastating Netflix.


                
Awesome premise, the concept and character roles are incredible. Part 1 kept me on the edge of my seat waiting for the next episode. Part 2 was a waste of time. Characters unravelled making bad decisions and infighting, screen time was wasted on useless talking time, you'd forget the cast was actually trying to get something done. It was entertaining to watch but limit your expectations. This had potential to be a truly excellent series.
Like so many TV shows with a core high concept, once it gets into its stride it ties itself into so many logical knots and procedural dead ends that it eventually loses itself in its own complexity. The set up in the first few episodes, inter-cutting the planning and the execution of the plan , works very well, but then the plot depends on the professor being incredibly lucky, and the police exceptionally stupid Much of his plan revolves around the police following their internal procedures to the letter - except of course for when the plot demands that they behave irresponsibly and do not. Sure, let's allow a stranger into the HQ, or to enter a crime scene without protective clothing? Let's drink alcohol on duty, let's not have a clear line f command for when he boss is off to rest or have sex. Let's spend so long suspecting the existence of a human mole but not try to identify them, rather than suspect the existence of a bug? Why did the professor's lessons not include anything about keeping his team's spirits together anticipating that they would start to argue, and make serous mistakes - apart from the few that are part of his plan?As a two hour film or maybe a 6-episode series this could have been truly great but the knots it ties itself into by multiplying the twists are just too much to get out of.Oh, and for such a mastermind with all the disguises, how come the professor only has one pair of fairly distinctively unfashionable glasses, and keeps his very identifiable beard? That annoyed me from the very beginning.That said, the series did pull me in very effectively and Ienjoyed wasting my time in its company.
The first season really hooked me with a very impressive idea for the perfect heist. However season two really fell apart. It was almost as if a different production crew took over. Way too much emotion, drama, love etc. The ending is not only awful, but totally unrealistic. There is no way some of the stupid decisions made by the police would actually happen, and no explanation is given as to how one of the key characters just walked away. Worth watching, great cast, but just a train wreck of an ending.


                
I really liked this and binge-watched in a weekend. Well directed, well acted, well cast. Great plot; many twists and turns. Really kept me involved. Something I haven't seen before. But....wow!!! Are they serious with this sexist, misogynistic dialogue?!? Some of the lines were straight out of a bad 1990's corporate sexual harassment training video. I didn't bail b/c the lines were few and far between. But they were so shockingly out of place in 2017/2018 that I was constantly taken aback. Really offensive and just...stupid, disheartening, unnecessary, and chauvinistic. Perhaps it was the English dubbing translations, but no matter the reason the gross sexist lines made otherwise riveting moments laughable and almost unbearable. I enjoyed it enough to keep with it though. When the misogyny was on display my husband and I just groaned and shook our heads. Wouldn't do that if someone said that IRL but nothing much we could do about this other than write this review to express our shock, dismay, and amazement that this made it to Netflix with these insulting lines.


                
It could have been a great tv show,and it started as one.but as the story progressed the holes in it and the unrealistic and non logical scenes accumulated to "come on!!! That's stupid"...many times. A shame because the acting,directing and plot twists were excellent.


                
The dialogue is very cliche other than that a decent show..


                
Interesting plot and some good acting but I have to say the show writers knew how to dramatize, and in order to achieve that dramatic effect they threw logic under the bus on many different occasions. Several self contradictory plot holes can be found.The show is still gripping in the sense the overall plot is pretty great and the actors have done well.But the biggest flaw in the show that i wanted to mention was Tokyo's acting. Was she supposed to be the protagonist? She was basically the character I least identified with, in fact i found her deeply annoying (the character and the acting).In the end, season 1 was really good. 9/10. season 2 was a drag, almost as if the show writers made the show with the intent of "stalling time".


                
There were some flaws but overall it was a good show. And the character development was pretty strong especially the professor.


                
8 episodes in and I regret starting, it had a good initial plotline thats let down by some strangely idiotic characters, but most importantly it is awfully dubbed with very poor voice actors which makes it much harder to engage with and get into and is not very gripping, might have been better with the original spanish audio and subtitles, dont understand how there are so many rave reviews for this, it is certainly not deserving of the 8.7 imdb score, its not in the same league as many other programs with lower scores


                
Exciting start but they cant't keep up the excitement during the episodes. I like to watch Casa, but it becomes predictable.


                
I have enjoyed Series 1 on Netflix. Good to see the latter putting out European drama at last. However, the excellent plot and cast are let down somewhat by the horrendous dubbing. Seriously, some of the voice-overs are totally wrong and really detract from the pacing of the plot and my understanding of the characters. I really would have benefited from subtitles. Also I don't quite understand why they changed the title. My vague understanding of Spanish leads me to believe that the title is 'Paper House' or similar. Why Money Heist? Sounds imfantile and does a great programme a disservice.


                
Good action, heart stopping moments, very nice acting. Pretty good overall!
 Gave it an 8 cause I hated Denver's laugh and the scene where the police couldn't stop Tokyo from getting back into the museum was a little unreal.
 Hype, but unreal.
