Could not stop watching this series. What an excellent set of actors fully into their roles in a natural way. Refreshing storyline unlike most other movies or series about bank robberies. Can't wait for season two


                
I found this Spanish TV series by chance, I really recommend you watch it.
It's one of the best series that I have seen lately.
A chess game between the police and the robbers, you will be surprised by its development.
You can not foresee anything.
(I hope that my review is correct, I'm not a native speaker)


                
SPOILER: Season 1 is simply great. Why?Great story.
Great acting (by most)
Great characters
Great pace There are some flaws here and there, true. But this is something one should watch with the mind switched off and see it as an adventure. If you look for the illogical and try to analyse the 'plan' one may as well skip this show. Example: The tunnel being build 5 years before, toward a federal building. Complete BS of course. But really, who cares? Just lay back and enjoy this GREAT ride....


                
Usually can't stand to watch something in another language, but with this action packed series couldn't stop watching episode after episode. Can't wait for the next season, and how come netflix hasn't uploaded the last two episodes!


                
Great series! Writing, acting, characters are on target. Crooks are both smart and dumb, like real criminals. You get to know the characters and come to like some from the start, like others early and then come to dislike them and two of them (for me) were never likeable (one a weasel, the other a bully). The plot twists and turns and leaves you wondering how this new problem will be resoved. Delightful.I recommend against binge watching this. Watch an episode a day -- kind of like a wonderful piece of candy once a day -- it's a treat.


                
Just finished watching season 2 in a stretch and I want more of this. This is a refreshment to the audience. The cast is very mature in its acting, dialogues are crisp and the background score is icing on the cake.The script is epic and screenplay is brilliant which grasps you til the ea=nd with the nail biting drama. You will keep asking yourself 'What will happen next ?'
You will connect to each of the characters in one or the other way. I just can't end my review without mentioning Pedro Alonso who plays 'Berlin'. A standing ovation to this gentleman. I won't go into the detail but you will love and hate him at the same time.This is a must watch.
Cheers.


                
Smart, original, suspenseful... the list goes on. Hooked me at the very beginning and kept me wanting more throughout the whole season. The whole idea is just great; 13 episodes, one heist. Highly recommend it.


                
I must say la casa de papel is an original series with great mind game ideas that will keep you hooked in all the episodes the ideas of the robbery plan are original and fresh.in my opinion it will be better if the producers worked more on the guns aspect, in some scenes we see robbers or police shooting from guns more then 200+ bullets without even reloading which clearly make no sense even for non guns experts. other then that it's a great series.


                
Better then much other series
I hope this series will be continued..


                
I pretty much never watch shows in another language, but this one peaked my interest and I'm glad I gave it a chance. It's really good. I'm hooked.I love how the story unfolds piece by piece and keeps you interested. And the casting and characters are just fantastic. What really strikes me personally as refreshing, is how believable the characters are. And all interesting in their own way. There's none of that typically forced American politically correctness pushing some obvious agenda that just ends up annoying you and ruining the immersion.Give it a shot! It's well worth it. I for one can't wait for Season 2.


                
If you like Prison Break, you will love La casa de papel because both of them are awesome police series that you can´t stop watching until you end it. Certainly the most impressive thing in the series is the plan that Professor created and the things that he knows and the ones he made up out of the blue. 
 Beyond the violence and the desire to steal the money, the series talk a lot about love, and forbidden love. A philosophy that the series shows is that in some cases love ruins everything because some people could not get involved, but some of them do, and this can be really bad for the plan.
 One thing that is really commented in the series is about how family is important; how some people can lose their minds if they do not have a present family and how people can fix their minds too with someone of his family by their side.
 In general this series is fantastic and really original, some of the things that happen there I would never have been able to think about by myself. I really recommend it.


                
I've read some silly negative reviews so I've felt compelled to write something for those who can't decide whether to watch or not and who might have given too much importance to otherwise lacking negative reviews of the show here. This show does not take itself seriously and that's its strongest point and that's why it's easy to forgive so many things that would be unforgivable if the show was made under pretense of a serious "perfect" heist of the century. if you expect such show you better skip this one - it's not for you - you'll be disappointed...most likely. All the main characters are broken and vulnerable people with a number of personality quirks, they are really caricatures of the professional master criminals. You could say that the show to some extent in that aspect parodies the genre especially movies and shows made in the US. There is no such thing as a perfect plan, it's human to err, it's human to love and fall in love, to sin and seek redemption. It's good when the show made in Spain gets soapy and adds some of that special Latin Telenovela flair to the suspense of the series. Well tempered melodramatic parts of the show work really well with playful cast who have obviously enjoyed themselves while on the set.The music theme of the show "My life is going on" explains the crux of the narrative.
it's a love story wrapped in the heist inside The House of Paper. ;)


                
More of the same on season 2 of this excellent Spanish film series, Just binge watched on Netflix,, it seems Netflix seem to do foreign language shows a lot better than the American or English made shows, none stand out when compared to mainland European, why this is, well I think there's just better talent outside the mainstream it tells its own story when all I can watch on Netflix is subtitled, oh ya money heist is excellent, if u seen season 1 u won't need me to tell u how good it is


                
I started watching this show because a lot of my friends told me to do it. I was curious about all the hype, so I gave it a try. From the first episode I just couldn't keep away from it. The plot is amazingly good. Of course it's not something that has never been done before, but I believe it has never been done with this kind of quality.Acting is on point, characters are unique and you can really connect with them, feel pity for them, hate/love them.Of course this is all subjective but I can't really understand how someone can give a 1/10 or 2/10 to these series. For me this is the best series I have ever seen. You should definitely give a try and see for yourself


                
I loved it , it is fun and you just want to know what is going to happen in the next episode
I read some of the reviews, maybe it has a few flaws not perfect, but it is fun to watch. I truly enjoyed it
Also I do not understand why some persons think that the good reviews are paid by netflix, every one of my friends who saw this show liked it , so it must be kinda the majority of the opinions


                
Criminals are not exactly the smartest bunch of people in the world as they don't have as many options to go to that line of work. So expect a ragtag group of people with several faults all held together by someone who isn't really a criminal but a planner. Things never go to plan and it was really interesting to see how he tried to account for many events and expected reactions of the police. Expect to eagerly await each series as you get drawn in to the many characters of the movie. Really enjoyed and can't wait to see more....


                
In the beginning ,I really hesitated to watch it,I thought that it would just be another thief story with the same start,story and end...and pretty much it was....but the characters,the storytelling,the way that the producers gave the story to the public was AMAZING!It kept me in the screen for a lot of hours day by day ,it made me think as I was a part of it, sometimes from the hostage and sometimes from the thieves side.An absolutely masterpiece that you should definitely try!If it had some boring moments,of course it had which series doesn't but all became past with this perfect end!And when I am talking about end I am talking about the half 2nd season!Thank you for this Netflix!I couldn't resist but watch the last episodes in a row,everyone should try it too!


                
Such a nice surprise ! A great story, a suspenseful plot implacably unfolding, a lot of unexpected twists.
A lot has already been said on the acting, which is impeccable. But what's most remarkable is the writing, so inventive and clever.I never thought that the story would keep being captivating for 13 episodes, but it did. And then some...In the beginning, you think it would be wrapped up in 2 or 3 episodes, what more can they come up with?But it never gets boring, not for a minute. 13 hours later, I'm under the spell!Well done, y'all !


                
I usually don't like non-fantasy themed series if they are not exceptionally good, but for this I made an exception since I've heard good things.All I can say is that I'm glad I did. It's one of the best series I've watched in a while and for sure it's the best non-american series for me.The cast is great, with great acting and the writing is incredible. You like most of the characters and you want to see what happens next for them. The concept is pretty simple but that's not bad. It's very realistic and it doesn't have many no-logic writing just to save the protagonists and that's always a plus for me.Worth mentioning: For me, a good series needs to have good soundtracks and I'm happy to say that they have the right soundtrack for every scene, action-packed, emotional etc.All in all, if you like the concept of a mastermind making chess like moves to win his opponent then you should give this a try.


                
I heard from different people that this would've been a very good series. The moment I got sick for a week I started to watch this series. And couldn't stop watching it. I got through every single episode of the first two season in just a week, which is very fast for me, since I'm bored very fast.It's not a 10 for me, but it is close to a 10!


                
I must admit this might be the second Spanish show I ever watched... I can see a good reason why this won an Emmy... The characters are superb, the story is intense and overall drama and action keeps you hooked on this until you need to go to sleep... All of this with a touch of Spanish spirit... A few shows come to my mind which would be as bold innovative and work on your mind like a dose of cocaine... This one is something like a mix of Experiment 2, Lost, Prison Break and Death Note...
You have that main mastermind Yagami Light style guy which constantly plays a game against a police detective... You have a bunch of characters which ended up in a situation where they need to learn to work with each other Lost style... And you have all of the Drama of Experiment2 and Action of the Prison Break... Bravo my Spanish friends, the world indeed will talk and remember you as heroes ...


                
I love the professor's references to Greek music and history, the script is excellent. It's funny and serious, clever and few times emotional... The dialogues between Moscow and Tokyo was truly intelligent but Berlin stole the impressions. The whole cast was fine except Arturito and Alison (they are annoying). All episodes are interesting, full of action and doses of mystery. I'm waiting season 3, i believe it's going to be as good as previous.


                
It has all the ingredientes a powerfull unique serie must have.i just couldn't Stop watching.


                
Tokyo is such a bit#h that I hate her.
This series is brilliant.


                
The writing on this is incredible, every episode ends with something awesome and makes you want to watch the next one. That's how you write a serie the right way. Rolls out just like the best series Hollywood ever made.The emotions are felt throughout and backed with a strong soundtrack (even more in part 2 with some traits of Interstellar thrown in the mix).Only negatives I found which is why I give it a 9 , is that the second part is 6 episodes and the end as good as it is, is rushed a lot. They could have done a 7th episode easily. Also , there is almost zero characted background in the serie except in episode 1 . Finally, a certain hostage which you would think would be a key hostage for the whole serie , become pretty much useless after the first half of part 1.However, the serie have so much positives, that I just thought about these at the end of all of it with a huge smile on my face


                
