Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times (1936) is the final film to feature the great actor/director/writer's most easily recognizable incarnation: The Tramp. Here is a character that is so ingrained in the collective conscious of modern film audiences that many recognize him despite the fact that they have not seen a single Chaplin film. Indeed, several iconographic studies have labeled The Tramp (with his worn hat, distinctive mustache, dusty suit, cane, and trademark waddle) as the single most identifiable fictional image in history.Still, the film that perhaps most influenced the creation and thematic realization of Modern Times was not even a silent one. The Jazz Singer, which debuted in 1927, five years before Modern Times began production, is perhaps the most important watershed film in the industry's century-old history. In the film, comic great Al Jolson stands up in front of the audience and...sings. And as Millard Mitchell said in Singin' in the Rain, the public was suddenly in a frenzy for "Talking pictures! Talking pictures!" Sadly, with the advent of synchronized sound and dialogue, the world of silent filmmaking began to slip into obscurity with audiences and studios now viewing it as obsolete and undesirable. Nevertheless, Chaplin continued his passion for the subtle craft by creating City Lights (1931), which many critics and academics consider one of the greatest films ever made, but by the time Modern Times was released, Chaplin was one of the last directors left clinging to a dying art.Modern Times is not an entirely silent film, (there are dialogue snippets and sound effects), but if you look closely, every character with dialogue (excluding Chaplin himself) is being mocked. Even when The Tramp opens his mouth (the only time he ever did so in a film), the words are nonsensical, defying the burgeoning convention that dialogue is mandatory for substance, entertainment, and quality.Despite the film's status as one of the greatest comedies of all-time, it is hard to ignore the political component. In his movies, Chaplin often exhibited a great mistrust for authority and progress, as often embodied through the social elite, the police, and wealthy entrepreneurs. The irony of the film's title, then, is two-fold. It connects with Chaplin's own bitter feelings regarding his moribund art form, but also refers to the plight of the working classes during the Great Depression (long working hours with little job security and meager salary, while the upper classes remain wealthy and bide their idle time) The world was changing fast, and Chaplin foresaw that many of these changes were far from beneficial.As we watch The Tramp struggle through the modern, mechanized world, we laugh at his antics and the absurdity of their results, but we can also feel pain and pity. He is clearly a man who does not belong. Indeed, The Tramp can almost be thought of as a misfit who has passed through a membrane from some alternate reality and unwittingly fallen into our familiar world (notice that he does not have a name or identification of any kind, and as far as we know, he has no friends, family, funds, or history).He takes on assembly lines, feeding machines, department stores, policemen and various other mass-oriented aspects of the industrialized world (all which demand and exhibit sameness and conformity), but The Tramp (and his symbolic extension, the individual) never seem to fit.This is, consequently, why Modern Times is also one of the most poignant love stories ever put on film. The only character who is on the same level as The Tramp is a young, homeless woman who is referred to as "The Gamin" and is played by Chaplin's then-wife, Paulette Goddard. These two are brought together by the fact they have almost nothing except the will to live and continue forward, despite adversity. Both are nameless, neither has a home, and they each have no money or material possessions.It is here that Chaplin makes his most poignant and saddening statement about modern living. The Tramp and The Gamin are the only characters who exhibit individuality and idealism, yet they are also the ones lowest on the social and economic food chain. The conclusion of the film, which most likely reflects upon Chaplin's own emotions, is tinged with sadness, but also a lingering hopefulness that resonates as loudly and clearly today as it did more than sixty years ago.Then there is, of course, the comedy, which is the stuff of legendary status. Some of the most memorable comic images in film history are found in Modern Times. These include The Tramp's bout with an assembly line (and his resulting twitches), his unfortunate encounter with "nose-powder", the moment when he quite literally becomes a cog in the wheels of industry, and his epic struggle to bring roast duck to an angry customer.In my opinion, however, the two standout moments are the scene in a department store involving a blindfold and some rollerskates (the most exquisite moment of comedy in the film) and the sequence where The Tramp is submitted to the mad whim of an out-of-control feeding machine (the most uproarious moment in the film).These are just a handful of moments that make Modern Times the enduring masterpiece that it is. On a personal level, the aspect of the film that resonates strongest with me is its appeal to the idealistic misfit in all of us. In our hearts, many of us long for the simplicity and exuberance with which The Tramp and The Gamin live life (with attention to the bare essentials and an absence of need for materialism and modern trappings).As Chaplin so skillfully shows, however, our modern times make this lifestyle a faded dream, lost among the sheep-like herds of men and women scurrying through a modern metropolis that only Fritz Lang could make seem darker and more devoid of true humanity. Still, the final image of Modern Times refuses to let the film end on an exclusively tragic note and demonstrates that the individual is still alive and may yet find his way in an ever-changing world.


                
It is difficult to review Chaplin's movies objectively because many of us have seen them, or at least have heard about them, since we were young. They have become part of our emotional and/or cultural background.Chaplin is arguably the only complete director: in most of his pictures, he also produces, acts, writes the script, composes the music, does his own stunts and edits. His talent and reputation generated numerous commercial successes, even when he continued directing silent movies after their time. "Talkies" were the only films produced after 1927, the few silent attempts afterwards were failures; yet Chaplin was an exception: "City Lights" in 1931 and "Modern Times" in 1936 were sensations worldwide (the latter includes a few sounds but they are marginal). This is remarkable since nine years is an eternity in cinema timeframe. Only in 1940 did Chaplin direct a talkie.*** WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS ***Is the movie a comedy? Partly: tragi-comedy is Chaplin's trademark. In my opinion, there are three levels of humour.1. Pure amusement, sometimes as in slapstick: the tramp eats all he can to be sent to jail and even buys more when he is with the policeman; he is drugged in jail; the tramp and the gamin imagine their life in an idyllic house; the tramp roller-skates close to an edge in the department store (fabulous stunt); he makes a lousy waiter but a great actor at the end. Again, I am not certain how much of the fun is derived from childhood memories and/or the fact we feel younger as we watch the film. To enjoy it fully, we must lay aside some of our adult critical sense, notably towards old-fashioned cinema.2. No humour, just drama: the gamin's father dies; her sisters are taken away; the tramp crashes his way through the crowd to get a job (an efficient illustration of ruthless competition). 3. Amusement with a dramatic twist: these are the most frequent scenes, and probably the best. We grin even as we laugh. The movie opens on sheep moving grouped (of which a black one: an allusion to the tramp?), that fade out to workers coming out of the subway. This must have been a shock for the audience during the Great Depression. Another example is one of Chaplin's most famous scenes ever: the tramp tries the eating machine. It is at the same time hilarious (Chaplin really gives all of himself here) and pathetic: a metaphor on ill-conceived progress, oppression of man by machine and conditions of workers obliged to comply with strange requests.Other scenes include: the entire first part in the factory, including when the tramp is stuck in the machine (inside shot, that became iconic), which also happens to a colleague later on (outside shot); the tramp launches by mistake an unfinished ship into the sea, with footage of an actual ship that was probably sunk because of the Depression; the tramp and the gamin make most of their shabby hut.The movie efficiently alternates these three levels of humour, as well as its rhythm. It famously starts as a whirlwind with dynamic tempo and music. And it ends like a roller-coaster: funny musical (the tramp sings), emotional (he is hired), dramatic (the police arrest the gamin), thriller (they run away as climatic music plays), melancholic (they are on the road, free but uncertain). The last image is rightfully double-edged: the tramp and the gamin walk away, but mountains ahead block their road. She looks like an elegant lady, he looks a bit like a clown with his funny walk and big shoes. We don't know where they are going, nor do they.Hence Chaplin's ambition was far more than to just divert. Themes depicted eighty years ago are still modern:Crisis, redundancies, strikes, inequalities, social unrestWorking conditions in factories, even though exaggerated by humour and symbols: productivity, control, burn-outTechnology that dehumanises: chain-working, the eating machine, video surveillance (a science-fiction element at the time). Remarkably, the only sounds of the film are coming from devices, not humans: screen, phonograph, radioSuccess with talent, work and some luckThe law. The topic is prominent (the police are omnipresent) and ambiguous. Can one steal food to survive? Chaplin seems to excuse this behaviour. The tramp is on both sides of the law: he steals food but helps the police arrest villains in jail. And the police's role is complex; notably, they shoot an unarmed man, followed by the ironic card: "The law takes charge of the orphans"Violence and drugs in prisonThe universal dimension of the movie shows by the fact the main characters have no name: the tramp, the gamin. Chaplin will be blamed for its social topics during the McCarthy era, among other grievances, and he will be forced to exile. Considering it now, this seems ridiculous since the message of the film is not communist: the tramp and the gamin want everything but change society; they search for a job, a home and respect. Note also Lincoln's portrait in the tramp's cell: he is a patriot.The movie does not take sides. Workers can be friendly or violent. Policemen can be friendly (e.g. in jail) or violent (one purposelessly pushes the tramp outside the factory). Prison inmates can be honest (the tramp) or villains. Women can be attractive (the gamin) or not (all others, actually). This double-sidedness also divides individuals. Big Bill was bullying the tramp in the factory, but later sympathises with him. The gamin steals and then becomes settled. The tramp will do anything to protect the ones he loves (the gamin, children), but can abuse almost anybody else to achieve it: a recurrent feature in Chaplin's pictures.The underlying message seems to be: people are not good or bad, it mainly depends on their conditions. Yet another modern theme.
"Modern Times" is in my top 5 films, and #2 in my list of favorite comedies. Charles Chaplin is arguably the most talented human being, nevermind film maker, that ever lived. I first saw this treasure about 8 years ago, and I watched it again recently to make sure that it really WAS funny, and that I had not given it too much praise because it was simply a Chaplin film. "Modern Times" passed my test with flying colors. I laughed hysterically from start to finish. Each and every scene is innovative, well thought out, and executed with the genius that only Chaplin possessed. Among my favorite scenes are the "automatic worker-feeding machine"; the jail scene in the cafeteria when The Tramp accidentally sprinkles cocaine on his food, thinking it is salt; and the roller skating scene in the department store. No special effects or computer animation, just pure, simple, genius.The storyline in "Modern Times" is purposefully naive, a trick Chaplin used time and again to bring a profound humanitarian quality to his films. Watching this film is comparable to watching a Warner Bros. cartoon, which coming from me is a sincere compliment. The level of physical comedy in "Modern Times" is on par with the masterful short films of Chuck Jones, Friz Freleng, and others.Finally, as was the case with most of his later films, "Modern Times" is a serious social commentary. Its message is as relevant today as it was more than sixty years ago when it was released. In fact, it is arguably even more relevant today, and unless the world changes drastically in the future it will continue to be. "Modern Times" is essentially the story of a simple but extremely kind man caught in the traps of industrialized society. The opening scene, which compares a crowd of workers boarding the subway to a flock of sheep, is Chaplin's warning against standardization, mechanization, and other facets of life which rob men and women of their individuality. Chaplin always tried to speak for the downtrodden, because despite his enormous success and wealth, he never forgot where he came from. In the end, "Modern Times" is a reminder that no matter how bad things are, you can still smile. Charles Chaplin has made more people smile than almost any other, and his legacy of love and laughter lives on in his films. Its up to us to keep his legacy alive.


                
Favorite Chaplin film. Packed with social commentary that is still relevant today. Chaplin does a superb job of representing the average worker of the time and the mental impact that the daily motions of what we consider normal in society. Such as the opening of the movie in which a scene of a morning rush of people going to work fades into a herd of sheep. Chaplin hilarious slapstick comedy is also present in this film while still keeping serious undertones. The best example of this is the eating machine. This particular scene was a perfect representation of the problems in our society (a machine meant to further regiment the day of a worker only to break in the process) while also causing a laugh out loud reaction. My favorite part of this film is definitely the ending in which Chaplin sings a song and dances. What makes this scene so great is not only the fact that it was the first time Chaplin/The Tramp ever spoke but that it was also a stance against "talkies". Although Chaplin sings the lyrics are complete gibberish but the audience understands regardless. All in all I believe Modern Times is Chaplin's greatest film, this was the first Chaplin film I had ever seen and since then have watched all of them and found a great respect for Chaplin and silent movies overall.
It is a testament to Chaplin's filmmaking skills that he is able to impose such significant meaning on what really boils down to little more than a series of comedy skits strung together on an apparently flimsy clothesline of a plot. Indeed, the cinematic value of Modern Times is unquestionable, but it is ironically noteworthy that such a simple and even blocky plot is made into such a memorable film experience and delivers such a strong, time-transcending message about poverty stricken populations.
It is no secret that Charlie Chaplin was more or less dragged into the sound era against his will. In the early part of the 20th century, he had built a tremendous career as a silent film actor, and had created a character, the Tramp, that was purely a silent film character who could not be transported into the sound era. Charlie had built his career and his popularity with the Tramp, and the coming of sound to the cinema meant the end of that character (as illustrated by Robert Downey Jr.'s Charlie Chaplin in the 1992 film Chaplin, `The Tram CAN'T talk. The minute he talks, he's dead.'). Chaplin delivers to the world a cynical satire about modern technology as well as his own ode to the silent film with Modern Times.Charlie plays the part of a man who works a dehumanizing position in a factory in which he is little more than a component of a machine, and he is controlled like a pawn by the menacing boss, who we see mostly as a looming face on a tremendous television screen. Clearly, the most memorable scenes in the film involve something to do with the factory, such as Charlie's brief trip into the innards of the machine, as well as his warm-hearted efforts to feed lunch to a man who has inadvertently become lodged in a machine, with only his head free. However, there is a very noteworthy but fairly subtle subplot that quietly reveals Chaplin's fondness for the silent film.The first and most obvious thing is that for the most part, this is a silent film. There are intertitles, there is precious little dialogue, and the film's main character doesn't utter a sound until near the end of the film. But there are also a lot of other things that more subtly hint that silent films are better than sound films. For one thing, the only intelligible words spoken in the film are done so through some sort of barrier. There is the factory boss speaking demandingly through the television screen, and the feeding machine company speaking through the radio as they try to sell the feeding machine to the factory boss. This becomes the most obvious by the fact that anyone speaking on screen - such as the factory boss as he tells the men that the feeding machine is not practical - only does so in intertitles. We know that dialogue can be put in the film, but Chaplin chooses only to do this in a detached and mechanized way.There is also a very strong example of Chaplin's endless sympathy for poor people at several points in this film. The most significant example of this is his interactions with the Gamin, played by Paulette Goddard, as well as his nearly constant contempt toward the police. After the scene where he gorges himself at a small diner (note that the window said `Cafeteria: Tables For Ladies'), he casually calls an officer into the diner and tells him to pay the tab, unable to pay it himself. As he is handcuffed to the officer, he gets a cigar from a nearby vendor and hands some large candy bars to a couple of small children nearby, who look to be the type of children who are never sure where their next meal is going to come from.
Charlie plays a hard working, lower class man in Modern Times, and no matter how badly he just wants to get some good work and earn a living so that he can buy a house for himself and Paulette, things constantly seem to go wrong for him. It seems that this bad luck is used to suggest that poor people are not poor as a result of their own shortcomings, but because they just can't seem to work their way up to a better life, no matter how hard they try. This social commentary is intertwined with such skillful intricacy with the story about Chaplin's love of silent film that there is really no switching back and forth between the two. Modern Times strikes me as especially memorable because it is a very simple story that is punctuated by a series of comedy skits, yet it also delivers several different messages that are important to society as well as to the filmmaker himself. In this way, the movie almost seems to deliver these strong messages without the audience even being aware that they are being presented with these issues. It is a great way to mix entertainment with important societal topics, and Charlie's decision to finally have the Tramp utter vocalized speech is done so in an endlessly watch-able song and dance scene, adding to the immeasurable number of film skits for which Charlie Chaplin will be remembered and loved.


                
This movie is a must see for anyone who loves comedies.  Charlie Chaplin is at his all-time best as the Tramp, and he has wonderful chemistry with Paulette Goddard's Gamin.  Together, they provide an hour and a half of non-stop laughs.  My favorite parts are when he is fed by a "modern" machine that goes awry, and then when Charlie goes crazy in the factory.  The situations and expressions are hilarious!  Please see this movie soon...you definitely will not regret it.


                
Chaplin's "Modern Times" has influenced the 20th century as much as any other film could have. His portrayal of man vs. machine, individual vs. group, love vs. industry...is the framework of classic modern American "anti-progressive" thinking. Gilliam's "Brazil" is the late century equivalent. But Chaplin hit it right first, insuring generations would have the chance to relate to the challenges of their own modern times.


                
This is absolutely the finest film Charlie Chaplin ever made-which, considering the overall quality of his work, says a great deal for the quality of the film.  Genius is a much over-used word, but in Chaplin's case, it's use is apt.  This is one of the classics of cinema and one of the greatest films ever made!  The scenes in the factory are hilarious. You have got to see this film!  Most joyously, totally and highly RECOMMENDED!!!!!


                
Somehow, this very old film is particularly modern today and the exaggerations are not really sooo extreme compared with the real world. The humans, enslaved by the machines and by those who control them, become more and more small and insignificant, like the hero of this very funny comedy (one of the best in the history) that speaks about very ugly things in a very amusing way. The Tramp, is not a tramp in the beginning. He has a real job in a modern factory, that almost kills him, as the factory becomes more and more modern. He becomes a tramp when he stays without a job. Picking up red flags in the street can get you in a big problem with the police, who are there to serve and protect the rich. An honest man can stay honest even in prison and get benefits from this. Even a new job. But honesty is not really enough. Trouble is always around the corner and modern society doesn't permit you to make a new start easily.Love gives you wings, or at list hope and the power to continue. A beautiful girl of the streets is more than our hero is asking for and he is ready to do whatever necessary. Even put his safety in danger to take care of her. And she, appreciates this. In the end, when everything is lost once again, all they are left with, is each other and that's all they really need.For the first time is his cinema career, our Tramp will find a girl that will stick with him and support him. (Chaplin obviously felt with Paulette Goddard something that he didn't feel for his earlier women, and I don't blame him).And this story of modern times, like all of Chaplin's films will end up with an optimistic feeling in a unhappy end. Never is everything lost.With obvious inspiration from Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" and maybe René Clair's "À nous la liberté", it made the strongest point about THE where we 're going, in all the cinema of the 30's (I think) 8) and with only Marx bros' "Duck soup" being able to stand anywhere close to it. Maybe the most complete, funny and mature creation of the best comedian of the seventh art, with a lot more than a non stop production line of great jokes to offer. If made without a single joke, this film would still be one of the greatest of all of our modern times.


                
The hands of the cinema clock were set back five years last night when a funny little man with a microscopic mustache, a battered derby hat, turned up shoes and a flexible bamboo cane returned to the Broadway screen to resume his place in the affections of the film-going public. The little man—it scarcely needs be said—is Charlie Chaplin, whose "Modern Times," opening at the Rivoli, restores him to a following that has waited patiently, burning incense in his temple of comedy, during the long years since his last picture was produced.That was five years ago almost to the day. "City Lights" was its name and in it Mr. Chaplin refused to talk. He still refuses. But in "Modern Times" he has raised the ban against dialogue for other members of the cast, raised it, but not completely. A few sentences here and there, excused because they come by television, phonograph, the radio. And once—just once—Mr. Chaplin permits himself to be heard.Those are the answers to the practical questions. They do not tell of Mr. Chaplin's picture, or of Chaplin himself, or of the comic feast that he has been preparing for almost two years in the guarded cloister in Hollywood known as the Chaplin studio.But there is no cause for alarm and no reason to delay the verdict further: "Modern Times" has still the same old Charlie, the lovable little fellow whose hands and feet eyebrows can beat an irresistible tattoo upon an audience's or hold it still, taut beneath the spell of human tragedy. A flick of his cane, a quirk of a brow, an impish lift of his toe and the mood is off; a droop of his mouth, a sag of his shoulder, a quick blink of his eye and you are his again, a companion in suffering. Or do you have to be reminded that Chaplin is a master of pantomime? Time has not changed his genius.
Modern Times owes a lot to Metropolis, despite the difference in tone. You can see this especially in the first half, with the giant gears and flywheels of the monstrous factory, as well as the two-way TV intercom the boss uses to give orders.Although there is a lot of serious content - strikes, riots, poverty, police killings - the serious and comic elements blend seamlessly. You never get the feeling you're being lectured about anything, you're laughing too much.The element of tragedy lurking in the background makes the comedy that much stronger. When Paulette Godard comes into the picture, the tone changes from industrial to romantic. And it must be said that she is one of the sexiest heroines to appear in an American film, more surprising since it's a farce. I'd go so far as to say that Godard out-performs Chaplin in this picture, even if her later career was less notable.You have to see this movie before you can understand anything about the art of cinema.


                
This is where I decided to have a look at Charlie Chaplin and his famous "Modern times" - we are all familiar with scenes in a factory but honestly there is much, much more happening later and it truly surprised me that film turns into a such epic saga. Another example of things I just assumed I know. It charmed me instantly, of course, because Chaplin was a true genius and magician - his creation, "Little Tramp" is easily understood to anybody no matter what background and we love him dearly, for all his sweetness, clumsiness and old heart. This story apparently happens in Metropolis-like factory where work, machines and buttons are parodied mercilessly until we (audience) roar with laughter - I was honestly surprised that something filmed almost a century ago was still so fresh and funny. Basically, everything after the first start on the fast track was new to me and I laughed and laughed, until I found myself rewinding scenes and enjoying them again. What a genius!Once Little Tramp looses his job - there is a whole unspoken atmosphere of unfairness, poverty and depression around - he quickly ends up in a prison, from which he doesn't even want to leave. However, he gets Cocaine in his salt, (Charlie Chaplin on a Coke!), saves policemen from escaped criminals, meets minister's wife (very funny scene) and gets release from the prison, with job recommendation letter. And this is still just a beginning of the movie! There is much, much more coming up later - it really goes on forever but its wonderful, heart-warming and joyous to watch. I almost forgot everything about myself and my whereabouts while I was so deeply lost in this masterpiece. Film is so immensely rich with characters, stories, little details and magic that I honestly think its one of the best things I have ever seen.


                
A delightful film with one great scene after another, Charlie Chaplin's "Modern Times" is hilarious, thoughtful, and timeless.  Chaplin combined his silent film skills with creative use of sound effects and music, and added a wide variety of interesting and entertaining settings, to create a film that is very pleasing to watch.  Chaplin's own fine acting is complemented by a delightful and charming performance by Paulette Goddard.  And the story itself, filled with twists and turns, is a timeless commentary on "modern" life, much of which is applicable to any era.Charlie's "Tramp" character joins up in this one with a lively, orphaned gamin (Goddard) to help each other through a lengthy series of setbacks and triumphs that reflect the stresses of fast-paced modern life.  Most of their adventures are hilarious, but many also contain serious social commentary that is still just as relevant in any age.  Chaplin and Goddard make a delightful pair who win the complete sympathy of the viewer in their fight for survival.The movie has one great scene after another, from some wild sequences in a steel factory, to a set of sometimes breath-taking antics in a deserted department store, to the incomparable climactic sequence in a cafe, and many others in between.  The settings are done with great care and wit, and the action makes full use of the props and possibilities at hand.This is a wonderful movie that anyone who likes vintage cinema will enjoy. Even those who are thoroughly jaded by the excesses of modern cinema should at least give "Modern Times" a try.  This is one of the great masterpieces of Chaplin's or any other era.


                
Could any other actor recycle the same character so many times and make it fresh and insightful each time? I think not. The Tramp (Chaplin) does what most people would really like to do to the assembly line that underpins modern industry that we love for its bounty and hate for its dehumanizing characteristics; he thumbs his nose at it. For that his character pays the price. And, yes, he pays the price for some of the usual perils of 1930s life -- its poverty and its desperation. He takes the blame for stealing a loaf of bread that a damsel in distress has stolen so that she could sate her hunger. Picking up a red flag that has fallen from a lumber truck, he becomes by accident a communist agitator who ends up in jail for what was then a serious crime. He keeps his humanity in a world that punishes assertions of humanity with hunger and humiliation.To put it simply, Charlie Chaplin masters, as no comedian since has, the art of saying as much with the fewest words; insteadhe expresses himself physical comedy that nobody since can imitate. He demonstrates as nobody else could the absurdity of the harsh realities of the assembly line that dwarfed persons in his time -- and that there was still some life to the esthetic of the silent movie. He offers double-barrel laughter: we laugh at the circumstances, but laugh with him, with a twinkle and a trace of a tear. Nobody else has succeeded at that since. Today we see more talking heads, more people resorting to body functions, more self-pity, and lots of four-letter words and blasphemy. Yet it is Chaplin who puts humanity into humor as few others before (Mark Twain? Will Rogers?) and few since could. We laugh with him, and laugh at the things at which he pokes fun.


                
Splendid.. The second's of Chaplin's best. A Modern Times, where it's beauty will be remembered in our next generation. No matter any new movies appear later, Modern Times have It's self-perpetuating charisma to stand still as a beautifully-written classic. All the universality exist in this black and white moving picture. You can watch it anytime, anywhere, and with anybody without any age range.From incredible lead performance, where it's script was unspoken. With a mind-blowing writing about politic, hard-work, and sacrifice, no other comedies could stand any chance to compete to Modern Times. They will be discretely forgotten rather than Modern Times which always haunt the audience's mind for a longgg time.. With a remarkable cinematic ending, no one dare to disgust. Worshiping Chaplin as a beyond is very very easy.. Because all of His creation is just... All Masterpieces..


                
A put-upon little man tries to make it in an increasingly manic and confusing world and always seems to fall victim to circumstance, but he meets his soulmate in a poor girl of the streets and together they team up to take on what may come.Chaplin's final silent film and the final film in which he plays his iconic "Little Tramp" character is not only consistently hilarious, but is a perfect commentary on the struggles of the common man during the Depression. He plays one of the hordes who slave away for low wages while the upper classes while away in their idleness.Charlie is at his best here and the film contains many memorable scenes, including his being caught in the giant machinery of a factory, his inadvertent leading of a protest march which lands him in jail, his blindfolded excursion on roller skates, his delightful song in the cafe and the memorable final scene as he saunters arm-in-arm down the road and into the sunset with his wonderful costar, Paulette Goddard, as the picture fades out. The have nothing but hope - and each other.The film is brilliantly performed by Chaplin and the supporting cast, masterfully directed and superbly shot and edited. Even though the film is largely silent, save for sound effects and a few snippets of dialogue, there are few title cards. This is because the film is so expertly acted and directed they are not necessary. The story can be easily followed with only the bare minimum of titles.Everyone has their own favorite Chaplin film (mine is "City Lights"), but this ranks with the best of his work. It is a masterpiece of cinema.
Modern Times portrays Chaplin as a factory worker employed on an assembly line. There, he is subjected to such indignities as being force-fed by a malfunctioning "feeding machine" and an accelerating assembly line where he screws nuts at an ever-increasing rate onto pieces of machinery. He finally suffers a nervous breakdown and runs amok, throwing the factory into chaos. He is sent to a hospital. Following his recovery, the now unemployed factory worker is mistakenly arrested as an instigator in a Communist demonstration. In jail, he accidentally ingests smuggled cocaine, mistaking it for salt. In his subsequent delirium, he avoids being put back in his cell. When he returns, he stumbles upon a jailbreak and knocks the convicts unconscious. He is hailed as a hero and is released.
A timeless classic, just as relevant today as in 1936.You have the usual Charlie Chaplin ingredients. First you have the incredibly funny and creative visual comedy. Pure creative genius. Plus you have the usual emotional content. Chaplin's previous classics - The Kid, The Gold Rush, The Circus, City Lights - all had these and are fantastic movies.However, Modern Times trumps all those. Not only is it hilariously funny and bitter-sweet but it has social commentary too. Chaplin takes aim at the dehumanizing effect of factory work, and the general way workers are treated. While the picture he paints makes us laugh, rather than make us angry, behind the comedy there is a lot of truth. This satire is still relevant today. It doesn't have to be factories, it could be any workplace.Superb direction by Chaplin. He is more known for his acting antics and creative scripts but the camera-work here is fantastic.Other than the all-round Chaplin brilliance, the other standout in the movie is Paulette Goddard, who plays his love interest. Beautiful with an endearing waifishness, impishness and sense of humour, she matches Chaplin step for step. (She was to become Chaplin's third wife shortly after the movie was released).An all-time classic.


                
We like to think that comedy has evolved since the time of silent film. We like to think that with the advent of sound and the injection of modern technology in all aspects of film production has made just about everything better. Indeed, it's hard to argue that so much of today's fun and farce just can't exist without a sound mixer and a few boom mics laying around. Ask yourself, if you put The 40-Year-Old Virgin (2005) or The Hangover (2009) on mute, would you really get anything out of it?By 1936, sound had long taken the film industry by storm. In fact, if you listen closely to the moment Al Jolson uttered "You ain't heard nothing' yet," in The Jazz Singer (1927), you may have heard the careers of many shattering in earnest. Never has there been a piece of technology so seamlessly adapted to an industry before or since. To name the number of noteworthy films made after 1929 that were silent would be to name perhaps a dozen.Yet with this adoption came growing pains. The cumbersome size of the Photokinema sound-on-disc machines and their components meant cameras had to stay bolted down. Actors had to not wonder too far from the mic or worse still, find a way to wear several pounds of bulky microphones under their garments. What once were dreams, stitched together by editing cuts became pale imitations of stage plays. The grammar of film essentially took two steps back.Seeing this, silent era superstar Charlie Chaplin decided to stem the tide. In 1931, he directed, produced and starred in City Lights, a romantic masterpiece of stagecraft and pantomime that to this day is one of the best examples of the beauty we lost. Seeing the writing on the wall by 1936, Chaplin decided to give the Tramp one last hurrah before retiring the character. One last bow before the tendrils of technology transforms his career into a shadow of its former self.Modern Times is at once one last bow, one last look at innocence lost and one glorious masterpiece of cinema. In it, Charlie's lovable Tramp struggles to adapt to a modern technological age while causing light-hearted mayhem everywhere he goes. Throughout the film he tries to conform to working as a security guard, a longshoreman, a factory worker, a mechanic etc. yet his peculiarity prevents him from being at a work site for too long. During his struggles he befriends an woman named Ellen (Goddard) who aids him in his quest for fulfilling work. They of course, fall in love in the chaste innocent way that couples did in the films of the time.Modern Times is infamous, for among other things, a soundtrack that includes the earworm "Smile" composed by Chaplin himself. The most famous cover was crooned by Nat King Cole whose astringent voice had the poorly covered scars of a life harshly lived. "Smile" to Modern Times is perfect; both as a bittersweet anthem and as addition to the American songbook. It perfectly captures the Tramp's uneasy monachopsis while hanging onto a buoyant hope of finding purpose. It's at times sad, at times triumphant but always life-affirming.Modern Times is also known for large, unique and detail filled comic set-pieces that despite being around for eighty years still coaxes laughter. One after another, these moments capture the absurdities of industrial life no other film does. Whether it be Chaplin toiling over a conveyor belt of widgets or literally being engulfed by a mechanical do-dad, He always has the perfect expression to reaffirm his humanity in the most inhuman of situations. It's pitch-perfect pantomime done by a true master of the craft.Of course, being the film advertised as "the one where The Tramp speaks," Modern Times does succumb to the encroachment of sound. And unlike in City Lights, Chaplin decides to inject it as part of a large theme as opposed to a target of mockery. The film is book- ended by two moments of sound, the first of which is his factory boss yelling at him through a large projected screen. "Get back to work!" he yells while the Tramp struggles to find a moment of respite. The inclusion of sound as an oppressor, even a personified one is an effective means of identification. Those who have heard the phrase "If you have time to lean, you have time to clean," will no doubt sympathize with Chaplin's character in that particular moment in time.The second time sound is used, is to affirm Chaplin's Tramp as a unique individual amid a crowd of onlookers. Late in the film, Ellen finds a job for the Tramp at a restaurant as a singing waiter. Right before his debut, he struggles to remember the words of the song he's to sing. He decides to put the lyrics on his detachable cuffs. Invariably, he looses the cuffs and, thinking quickly, begins to sing in gibberish. It's a prank pulled on audiences clamoring for the Tramp to finally speak on screen, yet it's one that's so incongruously Chaplin that one can't help but admire it.With Chaplin having a hand in every aspect of the film's production, one can write an entire book fawning over the exploits of a genius so ahead of his time, we still feel his influence. Modern Times showcases that genius, filling the celluloid with beauty, pathos, humor and humanity. Years after most of today's contemporary comedies fade into obscurity, those centuries from now will still fondly remember Charlie and his lovable Tramp. I guarantee it.


                
The opening credits show that Charlie Chaplin was more than just a funny little actor. He wrote and directed this film. He composed the musical score. He even holds the copyright.Brilliant satirical look at industrialized society.Currently, this film ranks #6 on Rotten Tomatoes' "Top 100 Movies of All Time". I've watched every film from #1 to #6. The Wizard of Oz, especially the colorized version, deserves its #1 position. However, I don't understand why "Modern Times" isn't #2. Although I dutifully finished "The Third Man", "Citizen Kane", "All About Eve", and "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari", the experiences pained me, and I looked forward to "The End". Not with "Modern Times"--what a pleasure to behold!Interesting notes* Charlie Chaplin gets high on cocaine during the film* The film includes both audio dialog and intertitles* The ending is inconclusive at best, maybe even pessimistic
Chaplin apparently once said to Einstein that "People love you because they understand you and they love me because they can't understand me." I would like only to that very accurate observation that there was also this factor their adulation from the crowds because while Einstein showed us the possibilities of how much we could possibly be, Chaplin grounded us with hilarious, thought-provoking work to always find happiness in small things no matter where we are. I do not know how to find a flaw in this movie or in anything I have ever seen that was acted and/or made by Charles 'Charlie' Chaplin. Thus I cannot give it anything but a 10 out of 10. There is a consensus about numbers in reviews being abstract and arbitrary and not being necessarily able to back up the words, feelings and emotions of the review as it might be too mathematical, and in turn, ironically, way too inaccurate. Luckily, a 100% percent in math and in encompassing every other thing means just one thing - Perfection.I have recently started watching a continuous series of Chaplin material which do include his best works, agreed upon by a general consensus. I will try to write reviews but they won't inform you too much beyond how much I enjoyed those movies and how essential it is for you to include those memories in your life, possibly ;p.As far Modern Times is concerned, my opinion as is similarly reflected by rating that it may very well a timeless masterpiece. It immortalizes the story of the times of industrial progress and how it affected the various people, even though only two characters (It is enough considering their talent). Chaplin and Pauline Goddard don't utter a noise, as was necessitated by the genre of the film and the choice made by Chaplin, and yet tell a story so profound that it might bring tears to the corner of eyes in reaction to the clog in your throat as you subconsciously contemplate if this is just one of the greatest films in the comedy genre. Lastly, thanks to the people at United Artists and everybody who made the re-release possible. It shows the appreciation and love you felt to bring to every who couldn't witness it beforehand; it may or may not changer their lives but it will leave with a precious laughs and a better picture of what movies can be at their best.


                
I saw this as a child and my laughter at the feeding machine scene was so WILD that I have never laughed so hard at anything again in my entire life. I literally slid out of my chair to the ground gasping for air. The whole film is absurd and brilliant, crisply realized by a comedy genius but for me that one moment transcends even greatness and touches the sublime where is poetry and God. Seeing the 'feeding machine' again as an adult there are tears mixed with laughter. To eat is to live, it is the personal realm and the invasion of the authoritarian state into the personal realm is so arrogant and pompous that it frightens me a lot to see how far it has gone as 'they' regulate our speech, our food, our sex lives according to the latest PC doctrines of 'nice'. Chaplin would not have recognized this new world of ours where the working class he represents here is ruled by progressive billionaires spouting inanities.


                
81 years after this movie was produced i was honored to watch it and it was really worth it.A marvelous view about future of industrialization which (by the way) is our present day reality when machine takes the lead.But still humanity is in the struggle as always was for justice and in war against poverty and social crises.


                
Everywhere people look, there is someone staring at a machine. Computers have become more popular than they were ten years ago. Gameboys and iPods are constantly used by young people the world over. Even "mom and pop" stores rely on machines. Who predicted that all this was going to happen? One person did in 1936 and his name was Charles Chaplin. The world's greatest director said all this in his best film Modern Times. Obviously predicting the future wasn't Chaplin's only intention. He also wanted to take his beloved Tramp character to bigger and more exciting settings. The gags are important for all of Chaplin's comedic pictures and Modern Times is no exception. Finally, the Tramp was given a real love interest and one who the viewers want Chaplin to get together with. Modern Times stands as not only one of the funniest, but also one of the most important movies of all-time.One of the most famous images from Modern Times is one showing the Tramp in the middle of a group of cogs. What most people don't know is what occurs after, which involves the Tramp becoming crazy and being sent to a mental asylum. This represents something that was happening to factory workers at the time. Chaplin understood the workers' problems and was able to show what was happening to them on screen in a comedic, but respective manner. However, the main reason that Modern Times has become timeless is because it is still relevant in today's society. Technology can be found everywhere nowadays, so much so that people are now obsessed with getting the newest game system or portable video device. Chaplin feared that that would happen and he used his film to show the future decay of society. About a decade before the publication of George Orwell's 1984, Modern Times featured a factory president barking orders and spying at everyone using a television. What is even more impressive is that the television did not enter the world until the 1950's. Now, while Modern Times is a silent film, people are heard speaking, but only from electronic devices showing Chaplin's opinion on the "talkie" revolution. However, since this would be the Little Tramp's final appearance, it was time to give more space for more gags.Charlie Chaplin's short films concerned mostly simple gags repeated throughout its short course. When he made the large leap to feature-length films, he allowed the Tramp character to grow far from what he considered a comedy to be. He had said to Mack Sennett while leaving Keystone Films that all you need to make a comedy is "a policeman, a park and a pretty girl." Yes, Modern Times does have various policemen as well as a pretty girl, but it has moved far beyond the park. Chaplin's wonderful idea to lampoon Henry Ford's assembly line involved him moving the Tramp from the park into the factory. He also renamed him the "factory worker." People are so enthralled by the factory worker's actions due to how well constructed the story is. Chaplin's screenplay is so entertaining and thrilling. This is a story that makes one think and laugh at the same time. Only the Tramp could go through each job and fail miserably, but already be ready for a new adventure involving a new girl.In Chaplin's previous works, the Tramp is mostly seen going after a girl and trying to win her heart. However, there is always an obstacle in the way, whether it be a big bully also fighting for her affection or blindness. In the end, he never does get the girl and walks off into the sunset. For Modern Times, the Tramp and the gamin are a team ready for new adventures. With Chaplin not trying to get together with her, it actually works out better for him. Paulette Goddard's performance is very nuanced and she is a girl the audience likes and was probably the smartest female character in Chaplin's film. The Tramp and the gamin's combined knowledge of hard-knocked life make them fight the oppression of the world. Even when they're down on their luck near the end of the film, the Tramp gives this important piece of information: "Buck up - Never say die. We'll get along!" The Tramp was always not only raising the viewer's spirits, but the characters in his films as well. The gamin was the last character he'd give his advice to and it was probably his best. Anyone down on their luck should have a positive outlook on life, because it won't get better if someone mopes all day long. For those with negative minds will lead a horrible and unhappy life. These are the ideas that people should carry with them everyday.While one of Charlie Chaplin's main intention was to make people laugh, he also wanted to educate viewers about the problems facing people in America. Modern Times is a masterpiece where the Tramp fights depression, gets the girl and makes people have a jolly good time.


                
This movie is so good,I laughed so hard that I cried and I tough that I was going to get a heart-attack!!!are these movies remade on DVD's?I really wont to buy them!They are the best!!! Please a beg you,if you don't see this movie,see it!!!!You shall be surprised,this movie is a classic,everyone must love this movie,it is a masterpiece.No one is so good as Charlie.The thing is,that it is so beautiful,that the movie has no special-effects.It is just a simple silent movie.And I really liked those!He is the best.He is the biggest comedian.He is...Charlie Chaplin!!!!CHARLIE CHAPLIN RULES!!!!!!!!!


                
