"Modern Times" begins with a shot of sheep going down a runway followed by a shot of workers entering a factory<U+0085> Charlie is set down in the midst of industrial civilization, which is dominated by machinery and in which men are organized into mechanical units, Capital and Labor<U+0085> Charlie's real enemies are no longer the Cop or the Boss, with whom he can always enter into some human relation, but a vast impersonality, invisible and invulnerable<U+0085> "Modern Times" offered a variety of minor attractions: it featured Chaplin's wife, Paulette Goddard; it had wonderful gags; it indulged in tricks of sound which came to the very edge of being dialog<U+0085> But what did the picture mean, what was it trying to say? Because Chaplin charged his usual enormous percentage for it, and because of foreign receipts, "Modern Times" made money, but exhibitors were not happy at the limited audience turnout<U+0085> For the majority, the new Charlie was too serious; for the minority, not serious enough<U+0085>Since the picture seemed to be about the dehumanizing effect of machinery, intellectuals called upon Chaplin to join them in reorganizing machine culture to some more human scale of things<U+0085>Off the screen, Chaplin said nothing<U+0085> On the screen, his anarchic hostility for any kind of machine culture expressed itself in scenes like that in which Charlie is fed by a machine and that in which, crazed by the assembly line, he runs into the street, his arms moving convulsively like two pistons<U+0085> Charlie the rebel, Charlie the poet, Charlie the invincibly human, had been turned into a machine<U+0085>
I love these black and white, old classics! Why does it seem like they did more with their films when they had less technology available to them? They don't have that ~Hollywood Magic~ that does their effects for them, it was all camera tricks and carefully strategized, one-chance-to-get-the-shot filmmaking and it is beyond impressive.I enjoyed watching this! Full of cool and clever special effects and plenty of moments to make you laugh. Chaplin did such a good job of creating such a silly little character. The story was creative and fascinating, with imaginative concepts and energetic cinematography. It was a fun watch for sure. Delightfully absurd, yet it did give voice to the woes of unemployment and the voracious appetite of capitalism at the price of some disposable human equipment. Silliness with a sting. I recommend it! 8/10 Bye love you


                
In the 1930s, technology was increasing faster than people could've imagined 30 years ago, and factories were simply becoming normal at this point. The world was moving faster than ever before, and I'm sure the workers at the factories couldn't help but feel like they were being used as just another cog in the machine. "Productivity" became more important than the workers well being and big company bosses - as well as the machines themselves - seemed to be controlling the workers. The machines seemed to be taking jobs from the actual human beings and this feeling is perfectly conveyed in Charlie Chaplin's great "Modern Times".I don't need to go into an in depth analysis to point out the parts of the film that convey these points but the most impressive aspect of this film is how genuinely funny it manages to be while making this point. From the lunch machine and the Tramp's mental breakdown to the entire jail scene, this is by far the funniest Chaplin movie I've seen yet, and one of the funniest silent films I've seen.Speaking of the lunch machine, the film's main point is perhaps portrayed with more clarity and hilarity in this scene than any other scene in the film, and that point is this: Humans aren't machines, and machines aren't perfect, and neither of those should be treated as such.As well as that bit of commentary it has a sweet story involving a young homeless girl and the Tramp and an optimistic ending in which they literally walk off into the sunset. It may sound trite, but in this story there's no telling if they'll be OK, the important thing is that they believe they will and they shouldn't stop trying, and that seems to be the most important thing to Charlie Chaplin, who seems to convey this message in one way or another in every film he makes.
This very well written story never lets down from the very first image we see, flocking sheep compared with rushing urban human crowds, to the very ending. Excellent criticism of the Taylorism/capitalistic through humor relevant for any age, nationality or time; story-telling that would touch anyone alike in a universal fashion, every now and then sparkled with Chaplin's unique and deeply influential sense of humor and on-screen comedy. Hilarious in moments, and unique. A man of many talents clearly, and excellent at those. Overall this depicts quite a zany approach to life, one that is pure in essence and profoundly antagonistic with the current ways of the time, and ways of today still: a life dominated by one-track thinking, rigid and stubborn social etiquette, and the enslavement this new world has brought in so many aspects to the human species. Finally, it highlights the importance of never giving up; EVER; and the preciousness of love.


                
Chaplin's ingenious critique of modern society and industrialization. Writer - Chaplin, director - Chaplin, music - Chaplin, male leading role - Chaplin, female leading role... Chaplin's wife. One man's show that doesn't get old.8/10


                
The fear of Chaplin and his tramp Carlitos is the fear of the common man. The uncertainty of a world that in the measure of its modernity, excludes the individual and the spaces for the human feeling."Modern Times" uses the facet of satire and at certain times of the parody to result in a critical and conscious comedy. It promotes a laughter contained in a world where the population is comparable to a flock grazed by large corporations and corporations, and even being a film scripted and directed by Charlie Chaplin in 1936, has a strong prophetic or futuristic character, timeless and certainly helplessness, when we reflect In the position of the contemporary world.Chaplin in "Modern Times" already philosophized on so many important issues that when reviewing his films, we were amazed by his futuristic vision in terms of technology with surveillance systems monitored by cameras, a mix of reality show with face time, (Such as Skype), voice messaging (WhatsApp), digital recording, and the interference of man's banal activities, such as having lunch, being interfered with by machines and everything to ensure more work efficiency, Wasted time with human activities.In addition to the technological advances, there is in the film, or at least in its first part, an analysis of the effects and reflexes of modernity on man and the world, expressed by relations of subordination and power, by the totalitarianism of business groups and by the inexpressiveness of trade union movements Which result in meager advances and are brutally repressed by the police force. A well-presented paradox in the film is how man has managed to advance in technological modernities that, on the other hand, only increase the differences of social classes, generating groups concentrated by industrial power and a whole mass that is at the mercy of a great employment opportunity Part exploratory and enslaved. Living in miserable conditions, in a daily struggle for survival and without the prospect of a better future, there is nothing left but a passive position of the people, who fulfills their expectations with dreams and fantasies of consumption and a life less unworthy.The critical character of "Modern Times" knows how to measure well the moments of comedy, in fact, they mix in a homogeneous mass so well structured that allows the public, if it so wishes, to stick only to moments of comedy, but if you want, Just look more closely and we can see and see our world through a critical humor perspective. Perhaps the fear of Chaplin and his tramp Carlitos is the fear of the common man. The uncertainty of a world that in the measure of its modernity, excludes the individual and the spaces for the human feeling.Particularly, I believe in an attempt by Chaplin to soften his critical stance, for, in structuring the script of "Modern Times," the story is divided into chapters that resemble chapters, and which can, as a filmmaking feature, be relocated without Major implications, since the dependence of one chapter does not strongly interfere with another. This structure that border the sketch or "sketch", are, in my opinion, a weak and harmful feature to the film. So much that the resolution for this is a passage of days, there are no missing cards that inform the next action (chapter), it occurs ten, seven, five, two days later or within weeks. This division is so explicit that we can structure the film in the following way:Chapter I - Factory; Chapter II - The Prisoner of the Tramp Chapter III - The Life of the Poor Girl;Just in the middle of the movie, we have an unfolding of this critical and political comedy for a romantic comedy that nothing resembles the initial idea proposed to the film. The only vestige that remains of this trait is in the labor relations, the search for a job and a change of life.With the proviso to the slip of his narrative structure, you had a great work, and one more impeccable work of Chaplin. When "Modern Times" was made, cinema already had the sound feature, but Chaplin, mainly for his ideologies of creating a universal art cinema, which was not hampered by differences of languages <U+200B><U+200B>and other motives, remained faithful to the comic of mimicry , Which made him deservedly famous and admired all over the world.Conversely to those who say of their fear of using the soundtrack, we have in this film a Chaplin conscious of the advances of the sound and that knows to take advantage of that, the sound is presented as a technology that allows the sending of recorded messages, in the sound games like beats In the door that serve to confuse the actions, in the use of a radio to inhibit the sound of the gastritis and where the radio announcer remembers exactly to take the medicine to heal this evil and especially the sound, like match point of the history. If the hobo can not get a joint job, how about trying life as an artist? But for this it is necessary to sing, therefore he who never speaks. The result


                
Spoilers herein.Here's a strange opinion: I think `City Lights' is one of the best and most important films ever made. It will always be required viewing for cineliteracy. This one is superficially similar, but not nearly as enjoyable or novel.Yes, the factory sets are well architected to participate in Chaplin's ballet. Yes, the then current Mrs Chaplin has an aggressive feline sensuality. Yes, Charlie's energetic approach and commitment is admirable. Yes, this is highly visual, especially compared to the word gags of the Marxes. But too many elements have become already formulaic.In `City,' there was a clear dependency of concept, clear to us as viewer but built into the story as well: we knew that at root this was a coherent statement coming from one mind rather than the common case, films designed by committee.we knew that the goal was to amuse us in the tradition of the British stage: fun at all costs using clever extensions of extremely familiar notions and techniques. The world of abstractions into which we agreeable enter was known beforehand and part of the amusement; how they are bent is part of the amusement.clearly subservient to all this was the creation of the character in a context of social situations. The relative importance of those was important: `City' was intended as a creative endeavor whose success depended on a collaboration between him and what we brought. But look what has happened to `Modern.' The situation: the Tramp, the technology  and personal context of the movie, social injustice all have taken on lives of their own and become additional participants in the contract. No longer can we `let our guard down' and participate. Now we have to worry about how to receive the `message' of the movie.In this project, the hierarchy is all reversed. There is an element of overt social commentary, something that would become even more evident with the Hitler film. But there it is so bold and imaginative it is admirable in its own right.There is also the elevation of the familiar over the novel. There is no innovation here, in fact the whole idea is to emphasize the familiar. He himself is guilty of the same mechanical thinking he criticizes.
That's the strange thing for me: the same recipe in two films with the slightest variation on emphasis: one is transcendental, the other amusingly troubled.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.
I must now shamefully admit that as a self proclaimed lover of movies,that this is in fact the first Charlie Chaplin film I have viewed from start to finish.I had always been aware of the genius of Chaplin,and had seen him in bits and pieces over the years,but had never viewed a piece of his work in it's entirety.Modern Times made a tremendous impression on me.Chaplin's knack for physical comedy was nothing short of impressive,and his talent did not stop there.In Modern Times,he not only displays that area of his genius,there is romance and a genuine tear jerking sweetness to his character,the Little Tramp that he no doubt displayed in the other films in which he portrayed the character,which I plan to view in the future.Another thing I admire about this film was that it was 1936.Sound had long been incorporated into films by then,yet Chaplin was still displaying his silent magic here,though it isn't completely silent.Chaplin placed sound where he felt it was needed,and even the way he did that was nothing short of genius.If there were a Mount Rushmore for comedians,Charlie Chaplin would indeed have a prominent place on it.


                
First we need the definition of a 'gamin', the role that Paulette Goddard plays. (gamin, n : a homeless child who has been abandoned and roams the streets.)  Much of Chaplin's 'Modern Times' is a parody on modern manufacturing techniques -- assembly line and efficiency studies, the need to keep up with competition. That was 'modern' in 1936, and it is still modern today. It is interesting that years before commercial television came into use, this movie uses large TV-type screens for the factory boss, who works jigsaw puzzles in his office while workers slave, to monitor his workers, and for them to see him as he gives instructions. So what we have in this little movie is a commentary on working conditions, and a lot of typical Chaplin slapstick comedy. Looking at it fresh, I suspect that Rowan Atkinson got a lot of his inspiration for his Mr Bean character from watching Charlie Chaplin's 'Little Tramp.' Great old movie, but impossible to rate against all the fine movies made since then. Chaplin still preferred his movies 'silent', and most of it is. However, whenever there are announcements in the background, we hear them. When he dances, we hear the shoes slide along the floor. When he sings the improvised song, we actually hear his voice. The whole thing works very effectively.SPOILERS, for my own recollection, don't read any further. OK!? We first see him in a very fast-moving assembly line where is only task is to tighten two bolts as plates pass by. Later we see him on the moving belt, then sucked into the machinery, then he passes through the giant gear wheels. He loses this job, is unemployed, end up in jail and has it pretty good there. Several times, after he gets out, he tries to get back in, it is the best housing and food that he has had. When the girls' father dies her two young sisters are put into homes, but knowing her eventual fate she runs away, and is pursued by the authorities much of the second half of the movie. She and he meet, take to each other, and the movie ends with them walking together, away from the audience, down the middle of a rural two-lane road.
Still funny, this film had a more serious plot and was pretty easy to remember post viewing. The actress was attractive and bubbly and the film flowed nicely despite being silent.


                
The times have obviously evolved but it was already depicting the risks of deshumanisation. Although I did not particularly liked Charlie Chaplin, I must admit that this film is spotting one of the main issues that we still can feel nowadays: the seek of productivity at any price.


                
A metaphor with a deep message simplified to the highest level.


                
The title of Chaplin's "Modern Times" reminds us of the novel "Hard Times" by Charles Dickens. In fact, both masterpieces are examining the same subject, that is the mechanization of human beings that came with the Industrial Revolution. However,this mechanization is criticized in different ways. Charles Chaplin makes fun of the modern times which is around the Industrial Age, with a satirical tone. He puts smiles on the viewers' faces throughout the movie. So not going into further detail about the technicalities of the movie, it can be said that it makes you smile and think at the same time. Therefore, if you are a Charlie Chaplin fan and want to smile and maybe even laugh, then go for this movie. Because it is one of a kind.


                
It's 1930s America. The unemployment rate is sky high, the strikes are constant, and the unions and police force are in an undeclared state of war. Adrift in the chaos, the Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) wanders in and out of jail, from one short-lived job to another, at the mercy of his nerves and his penchant for explosive accidents. During one of his many run-ins with the cops, he meets up with the gamin (Paulette Goddard) a poor but feisty patron of the streets. In love, in abject poverty, with nothing to hold onto but each other, they struggle to carve out a life for themselves, in spite of the odds and the brutal demands of a slapstick comedy.Unlike City Lights, my favorite Chaplin film, the screwball moments in Modern Times began to feel extraneous, and had me glancing at my watch, waiting to get back to the meat of the story. I've always loved Chaplin, but loved him for his skill as a director and actor, for his uncanny ability to make beautiful women look natural and unadorned, and for his knack at presenting poignant satire without ever sounding preachy, and not because I find him especially funny. The childish romp through the department sore is whimsical, heartwarming, and more than a little forlorn, but less can be said of the Tramp's accident-prone attempts to aid the master mechanic, which, like many sequences in the movie, feels overdrawn, and a little superficial compared to the weightier material it supplants.Sometimes I found myself wondering if the film could benefit from a hack job or two, yet it was never irksome enough to get between the movie and its reputation, for indeed, Modern Times is every bit of the classic it's purported to be. Chaplin was a man of great endings, and the ending of Modern Times <U+0096> first its triumph, then its tragedy <U+0096> leaves little to be desired. Also great are the opening scenes at the factory, which feel just as creepy today as they must have felt in 1936.


                
Laughter was a scarce resource in America during the great depression, which lasted nearly ten years from 1929 to 1939. Unemployment was extremely high and many families struggled to get food on their dinner tables. The world's economy was in shambles and many countries were on the verge of war in 1936 when Charlie Chaplin released his silent comedic movie "Modern Times". Just as many of Chaplin's movies he directed, produced and starred in this comedic masterpiece. Similar to his past movies Chaplin uses his "little tramp" character to illustrate the different trials and tribulations many men and women where facing during that time. This is one of Chaplin's first political themed movies. "Modern Times" is a story in which still relates to our everyday lives. As technology improves there will always be people similar to the little tramp character of "Modern Times", just not as hilarious as Chaplin's antics. This hilarious movie follows the Little Tramp as he attempts to find means to survive. Once he is laid off from his factory he is mistakenly identified as a communist protest leader, and quickly incarcerated. The hijiinks continue for the Little Tramp within the prison walls, one such instance was when he mistakenly consumed cocaine during lunch. As soon as the cocaine hits his system lunch is over and the prisoners must return to their cells, while he is being transported from one room to another a prison break erupts and he is once again thrown into the middle of an intense situation and he has no idea. Unknowingly he breaks up the prison break and is award for his brave actions with a pardon, once again he is free man, and however he is still broke, hungry, and homeless. Determined to get imprisoned again where he will receive three meals and a place to stay becomes his number one priority. Instantly his dream to be imprisoned again comes true as a young orphan girl whom is also dearly struggling to survive is caught stealing and as she fled from the police she ran into The little Tramp. He quickly takes the blame for the theft and is arrested. Once released from jail he his re-introduced to the young girl whom had escaped the police. The two of them immediately create a bond between them and vow to do whatever they have to do to survive. Chaplin eventually returns to work at the factory, and even though he's really not good at anything he still makes a valiant effort. His factory career doesn't last long before the workers go back on strike; once again he's unemployed and hungry. He eventually gets a job as a server/ entertainer at a local café where his young friend is performing at. Similar to all his other professions, Chaplin is thrown into the hectic lifestyle that was prevailing at the time. The increased industrialization and modernization was a huge conflict for The Little Tramp, whom was incapable of adapting. Ultimately he finds his calling, without the intrusion of technology he perfects his natural calling of an entertainer.
Modern Times (1936), filmed between 1932 and 1936, it was directed, written, and produced by Charlie Chaplin. This was Chaplin's first film after his successful City Lights (1931). This film is Charlie Chaplin's protest against what is lost from silent films through the sound industry revolutionizing the film industry. There is no traditional voice dialogue in the film - but voices and sounds do originate from machines (e.g., the feeding machine), television screens (i.e., the authoritarian on the screen in the lavatory), and Chaplin's actual voice is heard singing as well as special sound effects are used. Set during the Great Depression, the movie's main concern reflected the millions of Americans in the era - joblessness, destitution, and famine. It had a number of marvelous and memorable scenes that showed the frustrating relationship between man and machine in the Industrial Age and social institutions. The scenes of the Chaplin's character Tramp is alternated between scenes as a factory worker, a shipyard worker, a night watchman, a singing waiter, or a criminal put in jail. The Tramp also deals with various authority figures during his abuses: a 'Big Brother' factory boss, a minister, juvenile authorities, a sheriff, a shipyard foreman, a store manager, etc. Under the overlaid credits, a clock face approaches 6 o'clock. The preface explains the film's topic: "'Modern Times.' A relationship between industry, and individual enterprise - humanity exploring a median between efficiency and happiness." The film starts with an overhead shot of a flock of sheep crowding their enclosure, and rushed through a shaft. Instantly, sheep dissolve into a related overhead shot of industrial workers pushing out of a subway station on their way to work in a factory during their commute. Modern Times by Charlie Chaplin is a milestone film, showing numerous changes in Chaplin's film making. It is also one of Chaplin's most famous films. It contains quite a few first attempts by Charlie Chaplin. It is Chaplin's movie used to make a social remark. It introduced Paulette Goddard, his partner both on & off screen. It is his first true talking film; in keeping with the movie's topic of the dehumanization of society, all of the voices in the film came from non-living sources (radios, a phonograph record, etc.)


                
I didn't look the history of Metropolis but Modern Times is very similar to Metropolis. Only one difference is that Modern Times isn't just a musical, there are some speeches.A cruel boss about working conditions of workers, a poor girl and the other factors. But there are some scenes that make you watch. For example; the machine that feeds workers without giving a break or the song which Chaplin said are unforgettable.After watching this film, there are no top 250 film that I haven't seen. All these films are product of Chaplin's smart intelligence.Chaplin deserve all praisal words...
Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times is a wonderful little film. It is in effect a series of shorts strung together and connected by the two leads, Chaplin's tramp and Paulette Goddard's gamin. The tale is about how the machine age has taken over industry, throwing men on the streets with no jobs or money to keep their families afloat. In a brilliant stroke of ingenuity, Chaplin decides to scrap the idea of making this a "talkie" and allows only machines to have a voice. For instance, if the boss needs to bark orders, he does so through a TV screen and if Mr. Billows needs to explain how his feeding machine works, he plays a record containing his full speech. The sound effects are great and the visuals stunning, especially while at the factory. What its essentially a silent film at its core, Modern Times is so much more. A commentary on technology and the dream of making a home for the ones you love, it is also a very sharp comedy that will have you laughing throughout with its physical gags.During the course of his travels, Chaplin's tramp gets mixed up in some impressive set-piece jokes. From the assembly line shenanigans, to the giant gear trappings, to the feeding machine, inadvertently leading a Communist march, a couple stints in jail, a department store disaster, a dilapidated house, and the struggles of waiting tables, he always finds a way to get out of trouble. With all these things happening, the film can appear a tad disjointed, but as his character continues to evolve and the title-cards give us elapsed time, it still holds together as a complete story. A king of physical laughs, Chaplin never holds back either. His nervous breakdown at the plant shows his dedication to the comedy by being unable to shake the arm motion of his job even when he is outdoors and, of course, the rollerskating stunt later on is impressive. I'd be interested to see how that was shot, either composed post-filming to add the drop, or if he really was that close to the edge.You can't deny the man's gift as an artist. How each vignette plays out is inventive and humorous on its journey. Even the moments with the beautiful Goddard are funny in their own right. Her manic facial expressions and piratelike mannerisms while stealing bananas on the docks during her introduction bring some good laughs. Her character is used pretty much as a straightman to Chaplin's lunatic, but she plays the part well. The dream sequence of the two living in a nice house with fruit hanging at every window is priceless and the final scene at the restaurant is a riot. With her trying to help him out in getting a steady job and him mucking it all up to end up needing to sing in gibberish, it is the best part of the movie.While I feel people of all ages can appreciate the film on its own merits<U+0097>the comedy is broad and kids will enjoy the stunts and bodily harm stuff<U+0097>it does contain some adult situations. Besides the Communist march mentioned previously, there is a short scene with Chaplin drunk along with a more lengthy part with him after imbibing some "nose powder." It is never actually labeled as being drugs and the scene could be effective still without knowing what the powder is, so one should not use it as the sole reason to not show it to children. Modern Times is a classic on many levels and has proved so by standing the test of time for seventy years thus far.


                
Mr. Chaplin's pièce-de-résistence, MODERN TIMES is his last silent feature, but rendered with an innovative adulteration of sound voices solely from mechanical devices, barring Chaplin's near-end humorous performance of THE NONSENSE SONG, for the very first time, audience hears the maestro's real voice from the screen in a gibberish ditty, one could only imagine the hype and excitement at then. MODERN TIMES introduces Chaplin's iconic screen alter-ego aka. little tramp as an assembly-line worker in the Depression era, the factory's pristine props hark back to Fritz Lang's METROPOLIS (1927), but less futuristic, more realistic in its scale of grasping capitalism under the efficiency- prioritizing doctrine whereas a proletariat like the tramp, has no means to secure an auspicious future and is inescapably subjected to the exploitation by the industrialized society, picked as a guinea pig for a novel lunch-feeding contrivance, constantly under the duress of the ever- accelerating assembly-line, after being engorged by it (a brilliant surreal light-touch), he is driven mad and wreaks havoc on the machine and is sent to hospital, subsequently, being mistaken as a Communist and thrown into the prison, where he accidentally becomes a hero by thwarting a jail- break attempt, but ironically because he is high on cocaine, which he mistakes for salt in his lunch. Yet, whenever he is given a new lease on life, reality will cunningly squash his effort although in some cases, he has only himself to blame for. There is a skewering political spin aiming at the modernized assembly line, the humongous machines, the callous industrialists and the oppressive authority, being buried underneath the surface of bang-up farces, which has been scarcely actualized in Chaplin's works before. The plot mainly consists of a string of superlative skits de rigueur, which is completely in Chaplin's elements, the tramp's free-flowing pantomime, delightful slapstick and ingeniously devised set pieces (although the stomach-churning duet crops up as a head-scratcher) are typically endearing to watch, what is more astonishing is how he can make tough stunts look incredibly effortless, in particular with sleight of hand, an arresting trompe l'oeil is accomplished when he roller-skates blindfold against a matted painting which puts viewers at the edge of their seats for his safety. The story also presents a fiery heroine, the gamin (Goddard), a recently orphaned girl who is anything but a damsel-in-distress, Goddard, although is not endowed with Chaplin's bent of physical comedy, is impeccably elemental in foregrounding the gamin's gallantry and loveliness, takes on a weighty counterpart against the tramp's unostentatious playfulness, together, they help each other out in the difficult times, share bitter-sweet moments. A self-encouraging coda might betray Chaplin's precaution that comedy has its built-in calling to look on the brighter side, by and large, MODERN TIME is a reverberating showcase of Chaplin's competence which further transcends its time and context.


                
If you are among the audiences who have heard some points about the story but do not know how it will be told, you will most probably hope to watch a political and social film which talks in a 'political' way, to not to touch and disturb anybody else, especially anyone with a political and social power. As an accustomed cinema audience, who never expects a Hollywood film to tell about real life, I had prejudices about Modern Times before watching it. But all my prejudices have cleared out with an unexpected astonishment in the first scene of the film: a flock of sheep moving ahead with a strong and obvious oblivion compared to a huge group of labor at a rush hour peak. There could not be a more honest and brave way of explaining such a message: if the modernity, technology and the ambition for more money, that is 'Modern Times' turn the people into industrialized, standard and identical creatures, and make them forget their humanity; the society that they constitute will not be a society, but a herd. Just for this first scene, I can claim that there can hardly be such a film, which knows and explains what it wants to say without any fear of all the world powers watching.First of all, we watch the Modern Times through the life of Charlie Chaplin as the Little Tramp who works in a factory assembly line and the gamine who is terribly poor and has to live in the streets. Between these two, the audience cannot decide which one to have pity for: Tramp is in a better condition compared to the gamine; at least he earns money and has clothes to wear on. The gamine seems to be in a terrible condition with her bare feet and dirty face. On the other hand, she has something that Tramp does not have: her own willpower that she can use to choose what she wants to live. In contrast, Tramp even does not have a chance to go to toilet comfortably, because he is seen as a machine- a part of the assembly line he is working - by the system, and a machine can not go to even a toilet. The system, or the Big Brother as the icon of the system in the film, believe that making the production more effective goes on the way of turning the labor into machines. In his opinion, effectiveness of production only means 'producing as fast as possible'. You can increase the speed of a machine by using its buttons, but what about labor? At this point, the Big Boss chooses to see and behave the labor as machines. The way he gives his orders not physically but through the technology- those big screens and especially in the scene of the feeding machine, we can clearly see the mistake of the system about the labor class: working 'with' the machines does not make them machines.With the fact that Modern Times was shot nine years after the speaking films have started, it becomes even more interesting to see that Little Tramp still does not talk. We cannot say that this film is a totally silent film, because we hear voices and some specific people talking. But these specific people are the ones who have social status and power. Just as in the real life, we can hear only the powerful people of the capitalist system in the film. This is a genius contrast, because this film was made to be the voice of the people- the labor, the poor, the gamine - who do not have the chance to talk in real life as much as the boss, the rich- people who belong to the upper levels of society due to their monetary power. On the other hand, they still cannot talk even in this film, which is their voice. By this way, the Modern Times becomes the 'quiet scream' of those people, which makes this film even more dramatic and stronger. Another contrast is that when we hear the voices of those specific characters, such as the Big Boss and the feeding machine company, we do not directly hear them talking. Their voices come to us through an artificial tool, such as the big screens, the loudspeakers and the radio. As the age of technology, this is another criticism made to Modern Times. With all those tools that are named as technology, Modern Times kills our humanity. It becomes a barrier in front of us that hinders our communication and empathy. That is why the bosses start to see their labors as machines. That is a trick that Modern Times has made us since the day it was born: to kill the consciousness of being a human.To conclude, the movie Modern Times will certainly have its place in the cinema history, as one of the most brave and honest films, which warn the humanity against the danger of 'Modern Times' turning into 'Mean Times', that may bring unconscious, standardized societies full with people who have turned into easily controllable sheep.
Modern Times is Chaplin's take on the desperate employment and fiscal conditions that people faced during the Great Depression that hit the world between the 1930s and lasted till the late 1930s or mid-1940s. Charlie Chaplin took the depression and the problems it caused and found a way to make you laugh it off. Modern times is an addition to the classic movies of the last 100 years, as it stands out as one extremely funny movie, that you have to see before you leave the earth.Modern times is a movie done in 1936, that depicts Chaplin's take on the modern world and what industrialization brought with it. Set during the Great Depression era the movie's plot is about how the tramp was coping with the depression and with him was an orphan who too was struggling with the causes of the depression.Our Tramp also discovered that life in jail is better than life outside.Chaplin had long been against "talkie" and his last film before this City Lights (1931) was a silent film and he began preparing for this flick in 1934, and it was supposed to be his first "talkie", but he later abandoned the idea of making a talkie because he felt the world was not ready to hear the tramp talk. The movie does have some dialogue, but that can be found in the early scenes soon after the movie went back to the silent film genre. Nearing the ending there is a scene where Chaplin's tramp had to sing to keep his job, this scene was the first film where Chaplin's voice is heard in any movie. The song that the tramp sang (the song is known as The Nonsense Song) was Léo Daniderff's comical song Je cherche après Titine. This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie as Chaplin's version of Léo Daniderff's song was all gibberish with the lyrics being a mixture of French and Italian words in a nonsensical manner that it made no sense but his comical gestures tell the story of what he actually meant.The movie's opening scene shows where the tramp was in a factory and he had to keep up with the speed of production, this scene has been used by many filmmakers even Disney and in the sitcom I Love Lucy used the idea.Modern Times, is my 2nd favorite Chaplin movie after City Lights and the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition) rated the movie78 in its list of 100. There is no reason why you should not get a feel of one of the best Chaplin's film out there, so find it and watch it.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Though I grew up knowing and seeing glimpses of Charlie Chaplin's work, this was my first viewing of a full feature film. I am glad I picked the right movie. I mostly am strict about not watching movies released before 1960s since I neither can connect with them nor appreciate the technology used. But this movie baffled me on both fronts dealing with everlasting topics like employee management, changing times, love and hope bundled in beautifully orchestrated scenes like the blindfolded skating, video teleconferencing and automation. Considering the frame rate, scope size, loud background score, this movie didn't put me off as much as I thought it would with a large help from the screen presence of beautiful Paulette Goddard.A Factory Worker (Charlie Chaplin) works in a large manual assembly line and due to his hypnotic work schedule goes into a temporary nervous breakdown causing havoc in the operations. When sent to jail, due to a freak accident and a bizarre incident ends up thwarting an escape plan by fellow prisoners thus building a rapport with the police. With the outside world crumbling in union strikes, unemployment and hunger, the little tramp seems to be making a good life for himself inside the prison walls. When the day finally comes for his release, he makes up his mind to do something to get back to prison which is when he meets a beautiful but down on her luck young girl A Gamin (Paulette Goddard).Chaplin's entire screenplay revolves around coincidences, pure good or bad luck and how he deals with his positive outlook. Though loud, light hearted and in your face on the outset - the power of human spirit, current political satire and hope are always the underlying themes of most of his movies. The perfection of the finished product is easily seen in most of the scenes which actually looked quite technologically superior for its time. Paulette Goddard looked gorgeous and her pleasing presence elevates the likability of the movie. The background score has some melodious tunes but mostly spoiled by the loudness and acoustic nature of the sound available at the time. The comic choreography is very imaginative and actually has a very solid plot even with very little said.Brilliant comic choreography with a story relevant to this day


                
The first half hour might be the best critique anyone ever did on the society of the 20th and maybe 21st century. Chaplin was surely inspired by "Metropolis" here, but evolved the idea and made it understandable for everyone. We all know, Humor is the best way to tell the ugly truth. Even the first picture of the movie with the sheep and the men in the subway is epic.Another reason to see this movie is the sexiest woman I've ever seen on screen. I mean Chaplin always knew to pick his actresses, but this one is just breathtaking. Another reason: his dance and singing at the end of the movie. I really enjoyed that.So, "Modern Times" isn't as funny as "City Lights" or as touching as "The Kid" or as important as "The Great Dictator"(which achieved something, nobody had ever done before. It managed to break Hitlers heart), but I can promise that you will enjoy these 83 minutes of your life.


                
In which Chaplin demonstrates his mastery of his medium in instinctively reverting his would-be talkie debut to a mainly silent piece reliant on skilled writing, timing and direction in delivering an indictment of the "modern times" he was living in. It's a brave movie for much more than just flying in the face of the prevailing Hollywood "The Silents are dead" trend, in indicting the soulless dehumanisation of factory-working, imprisonment and on a deeper level the suppression of individualism in society, yet makes its point by making us laugh at all this and more in a succession of hilarious set- pieces reliant on the great man's genius for mime, slapstick and comic invention.Interestingly, the movie does employ some speech, but only from the detached, inhumane factory owner, in an almost eerie prediction of Orwell's "Big Brother" from 1984" penned a full 12 years later. There're also background sound effects and the musical number near the end is given voice too. However Chaplin's little tramp central character and Paulette Goddard's "the Gamin" utter nary a word and indeed old- fashioned title cards are used to convey speech as well as scene-changes.There's little to criticise here other than an episodic feel to the narrative, like so many silent-sketches knitted together, bit when the quality of the sketches are so well-done, this can be forgiven. Even Chaplin's much-criticised over-sentimentality is reined in somewhat (and Goddard never does get reunited with her two younger siblings who are put under the care of the court) with an open-ended finishing fade of the two-against- the-world deciding to take the hard road back to fight for the conventional house-on-a- hill dream of most Americans, all the more so given the background of The Great Depression.Some of the scenes are sheer genius, including Charlie's depiction as a cog in the inner- workings of the industrial machinery, his guinea-pig forced participation in the automated feeding process experiment if a dotty inventor, his foiling of the prison jail-break, the hilarious protest-march, his French song and dance routine near the end and so much more. In fact the only comedic scene which missed its mark for me was the tummy- rumbling scene with the visiting senator's wife. I also liked the more adult humour he introduces to give the lie to his cuddly family image as his traumatised factory-worker looks to tweak the dress-buttons-as-nipples of a passing female's clothing.Chaplin's direction show him at home in combining old-time fixed-camera slap-stick with sight-gags using combinations of imaginative camera-shots. His body movements and facial expressions are wonderful throughout. Goddard is beautifully fresh-faced throughout and successfully acts "older", which thankfully lessens the "cute" factor, if not quite belying the old criticism of his penchant of employing too young an actress as hi female lead.For me then, this movie shows Chaplin confronting the modernising of society (and Hollywood itself) with complete mastery and redoubtable courage, not to mention plenty of laughs too.


                
I had never heard of Modern Times until we watched this film in my modernism class. When I saw that we were watching a silent film, I prepared myself for two hours of boredom. I was extremely wrong. This is one of the funniest films that I have seen in a long time. And, not only is this film funny, it also contains a still-relevant theme. The tramp battles with the troubles of the times. This includes hunger, need for a home, unemployment, and public unrest. Due to the current political situation, some of these issues are becoming relevant again today. Another part of the movie dealt with the advancements in technology and factory assembly lines. The tramp is affected by the machine and goes slightly insane. This part of the film is still relevant today due to the huge technology boom that has occurred. Cell phones, laptops, iPods, and electronic books have greatly changed human actions, just as the machine changed the tramp.
