Part satire, part slapstick comedy, part melodrama; the great pioneer of film, Charles Chaplin, has created his own monument with this film. At the same time, 'Modern Times' was Chaplin's last goodbye to the era of silent film - which, remarkably, had already ended almost a decade earlier.After nearly 80 years, this screen marvel still makes me laugh, cry - and think about the ongoing automatization of practically every trivial little thing in our lives. Modern times, indeed. To me, this film is as entertaining and funny today as I imagine it was then, and it's certainly as relevant as it was then. The tramp still rules. My vote: 9 out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Modern Times" (1936) is my first movie which i saw that features Charles Chaplin. Saw it first time in 2015, but nevertheless it's a great movie. Comedy here is truly funny, and it's not just a comedy. It tells a story, with some underlying themes that are still kinda topical till this day – technology is changing, evolving, and if you are not keeping pace with it, you will have some hard times like our hero of this movie.Acting here is very solid, actually i was surprised of how well acted this movie was – no one overreacted. Story itself is interesting and movie is very well paced – at running time 1 h 27 min it almost never drags and is entertaining from start till finish.Overall, "Modern Times" is a black and white silent movie (there are some sounds actually) which safely can be viewed for the first time even in 2015 – 79 years after it's original release. It has some truly genuine comedic situations, it tells good story and pacing of picture is very solid. Maybe it is not possible to review this movie correctly now because it's very old, but great movies are great movies – they can be viewed no matter what.


                
The mechanized and standardized world made of levers, bolts, department stores and lifts is too difficult, or probably too ordinary, for the "honest and trustworthy" Charlie Chaplin, who always ends up trapped in his times. But did this world really change a lot when nowadays we walk to the subway (or we drive in crowded streets) like cattle in order to reach our working place? In fact, what Charlie Chaplin and the beautiful Paulette Goddard (a close up of her face after The Little Tramp is arrested for the theft of a loaf of bread is magnificent) really wants from modern times is a small, decent house where to have dinner together, an apple to grab by stretching your arm outside the window and fresh milk from a cow. Charlie Chaplin doesn't need to speak on the screen (while talking pictures were already widely produced since late 20's) to deliver his brilliant view on 1936's world; and even when he does talk during the floor show towards the end of the movie, we don't need to understand what it is said to appreciate once more his talent and genius. There are two moments that stand out during the movie: the feeding machine that feeds The Little Tramp on the assembly line in the first part of Modern Times (note also some similarities later when the mechanic assistant feeds his boss). And the splendid final scene when before fading out, The Little Tramp invites The Gamin to smile while walking on an empty street at dawn; a scene that alone is worth a full movie, a smile that becomes the essence of the use of trying. This last moment is full of hope and full of humanity; things that we still struggle for in our modern times.
Usually you watch old films trying to be generous with your criticism because of the huge difficulties the directors and actors faced those days. This one is a miracle. A comedy that stands tall even in today's cinema, starring perhaps the best comedian who lived on earth. At some parts it is hilarious, but the social message Chaplin wants to pass is always there, making Modern Times even more important. The love story is also very sweet and Paulette Goddard is a remarkably beautiful woman! So what to say about this man's genius? Charlie Chaplin acts, directs and even composes the music! And by all means he does a magnificent job. You can find great symbolism and a lot of political references, we all have to remember that Chaplin was accused of being a communist (which of course was a pride for intellectuals, given their accusers). I have unlimited respect for the Great Charlie Chaplin.


                
The Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) is just a cog in the modern machinery. He is unable to keep with the production line tightening bolts. The owner picks him out for testing the automatic feeding machine. By late afternoon, he gets lost in the machinery. He can't stop tightening causing great damage and they send him to a mental hospital. He gets out but he doesn't have a job anymore. A red flag falls off the back of a truck. He picks it and a massive march starts behind him without he knowing it. The police grabs him thinking that he's the leader. In prison, he helps thwart an escape attempt and is released. A Gamin (Paulette Goddard) is stealing food for the children. Her unemployed father is shot dead leaving her little sisters sent off to the orphanage. She steals a loaf of bread and runs into the Tramp. He tries to take the blame but she's caught anyways. He prefers life inside and deliberately gets caught stealing. They get thrown into the same wagon and escape getting thrown out together.This has the iconic factory scene with the Tramp in the machinery happening early on. The story is slightly random as the pair has one misadventure after another as they struggle to have the American dream. The Tramp is making a statement of sorts as he gets swept up from one thing to the next. He's the cog that never really fits in the machinery. This is a sound movie with sound being used for specific and interesting ways. The Tramp is actually singing but it's a lot of non-sense. This definitely has a social commentary but it's still funny message movie.


                
"A story of industry, of individual enterprise - humanity crusading in the pursuit of happiness" <U+0085> In the opening scene we see a herd of moving sheep which morphs into a mass of humanity (the working class) rushing to work in the early morning. Everyone in the throng is anonymous, like a vision of 1927's "Metropolis." In the president's office of a modern factory, the Electro Steel Company, the magnate occupies himself with a puzzle and reads his newspaper. He turns on his closed-circuit television to check out his workers in the vast complex (yes, TV was already available in the 1930s although its use was limited).Our hero Charlie is struggling to keep up his repetitive job on the incredibly fast endless conveyor belt. What is the uncaring mogul's response on the intercom to the turbine operator? "Mack, section five, more speed!" Charlie, who tightens bolts on a plate, becomes a nervous wreck, and staggers away on break time. There are absurd moments like the Billows human feeding machine, which is designed to feed men fast without wasting time on an entire lunch hour, improving production. Charlie is the guinea pig, and the machine fails (spilled soup, fast- spinning corn, desert shoved into his face). When he returns to work, his foreman is merciless (work, work, work). Charlie is forced on the conveyor belt into the insides of the gargantuan machine, moving along large gears. Although Charlie is helped out, he becomes a madman. Sent to the psycho ward of a hospital, he has his nervous breakdown cured. He is without a job, however. Trying to avoid excitement in a busy city is difficult, especially with fire engines, traffic noise, crowds, etc. Charlie picks up a flag (likely red) that fell from a lumber truck and inadvertently discovers that he is leading a Communist demonstration. He is promptly arrested.In a parallel story attractive Paulette Goddard (a 30-year old gamin, far too old to play a juvenile) steals bananas at a wharf and hands them out to poor folks. She and two younger sisters (the smaller one is Gloria DeHaven, who grew up to be a beautiful actress) are motherless, with the father unemployed. The depression rages and the girls' father dies in a demonstration. The gamin's two sisters are sent to an orphanage. Meanwhile in prison Charlie is exposed to the effects of "nose powder" (cocaine). Subsequently, Charlie thwarts a jail break, an action that first gets him a comfortable cell, and later a pardon. As he is unemployed he does not really want the pardon. While Charlie is walking the city streets, the hungry urchin steals a loaf of bread and runs into him. Charlie and the gamin meet for the first time, and Charlie helps her out of trouble. He takes a fancy to her (as he did in real life). In the meantime Charlie gets a job as a department store night watchman. After hours he lets the waif in, to eat and sleep courtesy of the store (lots of slapstick here, with Charlie floundering on roller skates). Charlie fails after lasting the night and is arrested again.After spending ten days in jail he is released; the gamin is waiting for him. She is thrilled to tell him that she found shelter in an abandoned shack by the ocean. There is more slapstick here: Charlie dives into shallow water; a board falls on his head inside the shack; his chair crashes through the weak floor. When he discovers that factories are reopening, he rushes to one of them and gets a job as a mechanic's helper. The machinery that they work on is as dangerous as they come: huge exposed gears and rollers with no guards or covers (or machinery lock-out procedures in place). The mechanic is soon trapped neck down between gears; Charlie tries to feed him his lunch during the noon break. The message? Machines dominate the working man. Before long the workers strike and there is a riot. Charlie is arrested yet again. Meanwhile our waif gets a job as a dancer in a restaurant/café. Finally, out of her rags, the gamin looks clean and glamorous. After Charlie is released she helps him get a job at the establishment as a singer/waiter. Charlie passes as a singer, but you just know that the duck dinner will not make it to the customer (more slapstick)! They soon lose their jobs, but Charlie tells the scamp to cheer up. In the last scene, as they walk away together from the viewer along the center stripe of a rural road – two bindle stiffs – we hope for something optimistic. What will happen to them? Not only does the Tramp not conform to the modern world, but also Chaplin implies that the deck is stacked against the poorer classes. The waddling vagabond himself has no support system: family or funds or stability. As they disappear into the sunset, we say goodbye to the Tramp for all time. Note that Charlie Chaplin, well into his forties, walks away with a supposed teenager. Of course, in real life that's just what he did; Charlie always liked young girls. For instance, at age 54 in 1943 he married Oona O'Neill, who was age 18. The movie has mostly title cards with exceptions. Talkie sounds (sound effects) - that seem to be dubbed recordings, not synchronized sound - come from the radio, intercom, barking dog, Charlie singing, people clapping (but no speech). Chaplin obviously did not enjoy progress; sound killed The Little Tramp. Yet its lack is not detrimental to this particular motion picture. Chaplin – writer, producer, director, actor – made only two films per decade from the 1930s through the 1950s, and only five after "Modern Times." All in all, "Modern times" is so well done that it probably belongs on USA's Top 100 listing along with "City Lights" (1931).
This classic film is a masterpiece of the genius called Charlie Chaplin.A true piece of art with great acting and humor (as always ). Chaplin's vision was beyond his time and he clearly show us in his film how machines will turn humans to useless beings who can't even eat by themselves. In a scene, especially we see Chaplin inside a machine.That's something that I find pretty accurate with how we all are so addicted to smartphones etc . I totally recommend everyone to watch it .You will enjoy it
I was actually about to completely write off this movie until I actually realised the genius that went into creating it. In a way Hollywood simply does not make movies like this any more, particularly where the creative genius of Charlie Chaplin is the writer, director, and star of the show. Sure, Chaplin is one of those actors that I have heard a lot about – he is one of the greats of the early years of Hollywood – but I never paid much attention to him believing that the only decent movies of the silent era came out of Germany (and to an extent Russia). However, a friend at work was talking about a film called The Dictator and a part of me decided that maybe it was time to actually sit down and see what Charlie Chaplin was all about. Well, I have to admit that I am glad that I did.The film itself doesn't have a plot, but rather is about the struggles of two people in the great depression and an age where technology is taking all of the jobs. However, Chaplin is a genius in how we satirises everything about modern life from automation, crazy inventions, the union movement, and even communism. On one level it simply seems to be nothing more than slapstick, though it is one of those movies that you have to take a step back and think about what is being said to really understand the true satire that Modern Times actually is – in a way it works on two levels, the slapstick for the lowest common denominator, and the satire of those who are actually willing to sit down and think about what is going on. Even then the slapstick itself is really clever – I am not going to forget the scene where he carries a tray into a restaurant to have everybody suddenly pile onto the dancefloor and then getting carried away with the crowd.What really impressed me was how versatile they were when it came to making silent films. Sure, by this time they had started to produce talkies, and you could tell that this film did have a sound track (and Chaplin even sings), however it is clear that you don't actually need sound, or even a lot of words, to be able to see the action that is happening, and to work out what is being said despite the fact that no words are coming out of the actor's mouth – only their lips are moving. In a way this type of film is actually far, far superior than many of the films that we see floating around today with all the great computerised special effects and clever stunt doubles. In fact all of the stunts in this movie would have been performed by Chaplin without any special effects whatsoever.Yet it is also interesting to see how much hasn't changed. In a way we look back in the days of our parents and grandparents and see a world where everybody had a job, and that you could drop out of school at year ten and walk straight into a career. It was also a world where people had money, and things were much more peaceful. However, Modern Times gives us a different glimpse into the great depression, where automation was taking all the jobs, and that unless you were skilled you were unable to find employment. Also notice how people are being sent to gaol simply for stealing a loaf of bread, but not only that but people will actually pursue somebody who is only trying to feed themselves. Yet we also have that dream of home ownership – and in a way it is painted that owning a home is a sign of wealth, a sign of achieving the American Dream – and the ending is interesting in that it gives the idea that no matter where you land up the dream is still alive.Having a job is a key to living the dream – as we see with the heroine. When Chaplin gets out of gaol the third time (it seems that he is always landing up in gaol – as if ending up there is just a part of life, however it is also just a minor inconvenience on the road to living the dream), she has found herself a job, and is now dressed well, and has possessions. In a way that reminded me of when I got my first job – suddenly I had money that I could spend, and I could go down to the shop and impulse buy an Iron Maiden T-Shirt. However, there is a catch, something that is not indicated in the movie, and that is the trap that the modern society creates – to survive you must work, but once you start working you suddenly have access to credit, and what credit, or more so debt, does is that entraps you in that daily cycle of forever going to work.Yet we also have the capitalist idea of forever producing more and becoming more efficient. The factory bosses are looking for ways to cut down on break times, so they create an automated feeding machine (which basically doesn't work). Then we have the assembly line going faster, and faster, and faster, until poor old Chaplin has a nervous breakdown and eventually sees bolts everywhere that must be turned. Yet this is still the case today, where employers are looking for more and better ways to become more efficient, to get more out of workers, and to eventually increase the bottom line. This is more so since, like in Chaplin's day, we have entered a period of a new normal after the Great Recession.
"Modern Times" is an exceptional movie, also being the last silent-ish movie produced by Charles Chaplin. As we all were accustomed with his depictions of every day lives of ordinary people, this movie brings to life the hardship of a working man during the Great Depression of 1929.This depiction of the working man during a economical state is "flavoured", enhanced by the skills of the producer. It depicts the life of a very ordinary working man, with a job in a factory when the economical state is damaged by the event that occurred in 1929.It is a very beautiful depiction of how a persons life can change when the life they know is completely ruined by a major event and how they choose to cope with the fact that their lives may never return to its original state.Another great and amazing thing about all of Charles Chaplin's movies are the other characters in all of the movies. You can sense that all of the characters of this movie were, in some way, affected by the Great Depression and that emotion is transmitted on the silver screen.The last thing I want to say was how long was my smile at the very end of the motion picture. The flow of emotional feelings was immense and there is some truth in the last lines of the main two characters: Never Give Up on something.
Modern Times is a hilarious, and equally brilliant Formalist Film about the rise of technology in the world, and the American dream. Directed, written by, and starring Charlie Chaplin. The film boldly made statements that at the time would have been, very controversial, and remain relevant today. However, the film is at its most impressive when one considers the care, and shear brilliance that went into the making of this film.It seems straightforward to call Modern Times a Formalist Film, the ideas take clear precedence, while the narrative is very character driven. To further that, it would seem the main purpose of this film is to make a statement, technology and the business like approach of filmmaking are ruining the art form, however it's ingeniously hidden behind hilarious humor. The fact that the statement is so well hidden makes it all the more powerful when you realize what it is. For instance people who staunchly disagree with that opinion could laugh at, and enjoy this film without even knowing the film is making this statement.The motifs are ones that don't age poorly as some may. Chaplin chose such vague areas, that we can watch today and relate many arguments to modern day film issues. For instance the technology argument is still present today in the form of "Digital Filming v. Film Reels", or "Computer Generated Images v. Practical Effects.", etc., both modern arguments hold similar issues with the "Talkie v. Silent" argument of the 1930's. Chaplin consistently shows motifs such as the outcast being exiled for a more uniform approach (the black sheep imagery helps parallel this), the overly complicated, often dysfunctional way Chaplin sees technology , or his pessimism towards society, through a showing of eternal optimism. It's similar to when a filmmaker makes you empathize with a character you've grown to hate. All of these motifs are subtly hidden under hilarious gags, so they don't feel preachy, or heavy handed. This approach requires care, and talent, some of the best directors today can't even send a message as subtly as Chaplin did. Part of the reason Chaplin did so well hiding his views was his ability to, for the most part argue his point objectively. By that time colors were being used to influence audience opinions, red made audiences feel uncomfortable, while blue emphasized happiness, Chaplin avoided any colors. Not only did Chaplin avoid coloring his film, he showed the contrasting views, something most filmmakers wouldn't do. It's the brilliant subtlety, and balance that makes Modern Times such a great piece of art. Chaplin carefully crafted a film with a message, but made his film enjoyable for all, which is a true accomplishment. It's truly amazing to see a film that can send a message through the opposite viewpoint, and I can't stress how truly brilliant it is.


                
Definitely, one of the best movies of all time. If you are young and meet with Chaplin for the first time, it is the first movie that you need to see. I am sure you'll find this movie very unique and great. With the aid of this movie, you may change your perspectives through people and maybe even your life style. It's a difficult job to foreshadow 21th century in 1936 but Chaplin did it with a perfect way that's why I adore him and his movies.Furthermore, it represents many features of capitalism -today's economical and social model- with a satirical way of point. You may watch very "direct" political movies but don't like them because they focus on a specific kind of audience. However, Chaplin directed/wrote his movies for all sort of audiences in a very repressive time. He risked many things to make us watch these masterpieces.


                
Without a doubt, the best film by Charles Chaplin, a comedy that is impossible not to like. I loved it, one of the best movies I've ever seen. Without a doubt a movie to see and review several times.


                
Nice....................,..................,...............,.......
There is something fundamentally sad about Modern Times, by the very fact that it shows an unparalleled genius making his last move in the now-defunct art form with which he made his name. Charlie Chaplin, undisputed master of silent comedy, had managed to bluff his way through the awkward early days of sound, but by 1936 the talkie had got its act together, and screen comedy was dominated by the witty wordplay of the Marx brothers and the smart sass of screwball. Slapstick had all but lost its market, and the picture is saturated with a feel of "One last time<U+0085>" And Chaplin expresses his feelings with scathing satire. Modern Times is quite plainly a blast at many aspects of industrialised living, especially unemployment and Fordist production management. However the picture also takes several sly swipes at sound film itself. From the beginning, sound is associated with the mechanical, the authoritative, and the austere, with the few bits of spoken dialogue being via some piece of technology such as a radio or the boss's speaking tube. Sound effects too are reserved for nasty clanking and scraping sounds of machinery and things breaking apart. Finally there is Paulette Godard's pronouncement that "The words don't matter" as Charlie forgets the lyrics for his singing waiter act. Chaplin was of course very good at nonsense voices, as this and his Adenoid Hynkel act in The Great Dictator demonstrate, whereas meaningful verbal comedy was his Achilles Heel.Despite all this vehemence, Chaplin is making one or two concessions to contemporary cinema. Modern Times features a lot more camera movement and close-ups than we see in his previous pictures, where he tended to stick to static long shots to preserve the best flow of physical comedy. The more technical approach here is always done for a reason – for example whip-panned close-ups are used for emphasis, and there is often a change of angle to punctuate a gag such as the half-built ship slipping out of dock. While they do draw attention to the funniest moments they disrupt the purity of the routine and are most likely concessions made by Chaplin for an audience not used to silent comedy. Modern Times is also much more variable and fast-paced than previous Chaplin features, skipping from factory to prison to department store and so on.And yet, of all his feature films, Modern Times includes perhaps the most protracted bouts of silent comedy, far more than the story-driven City Lights. Despite its linking plot, the various settings in which the little tramp finds himself each provide fully-fledged slapstick routines, and there are very few moments in which point or poignancy are allowed to overrule the comedy. The picture is in some ways like a compendium of the non-stop gagging two-reelers he was making in the 1910s. Modern Times may not be quite the tearjerker that The Kid or City Lights were, but it is the master's final great showcase of his primary talent.


                
By 1936, Charles Chaplin was already an anachronism <U+0096> albeit, an anachronism who was also treasured as an artistic genius. The arrival of 'The Jazz Singer (1927)' did little to curb the director's enthusiasm for silent cinema, and, though he considered at length the commercial implications of converting to synchronised sound, his first film in the "talkie" age was almost completely silent (Chaplin compromised by composing a musical score). Nevertheless, the critical and commercial response to 'City Lights (1931)' was strong, reaffirming Chaplin's status as a cinematic master, and vindicating his decision to linger with an otherwise extinct medium. Thus, 'Modern Times (1936)' was to follow in the same mould, despite a synchronised soundtrack which includes a musical score, sound effects and several lines of spoken dialogue (always spoken through a mechanical "barrier," such as a record-player, radio or loudspeaker). The film is historically significant in that it was Chaplin's first overtly political work, raising concerns inspired both by the economic hardship of the Great Depression, and Chaplin's growing interest in socialism.The title 'Modern Times' is used to deliberate ironic effect. Traditionally, to be modern was to be at the forefront of human progress, a step forwards in Man's noble attempt to assert his dominance over his environment; in short, to further distinguish our species from the lower animals. Yet Chaplin believed that such widespread industrialisation was a step backwards for society. Even from the opening shot, he draws comparisons between the hustling crowds of factory workers travelling to work, and a flock of sheep being herded through a corral. The dehumanisation caused by the workers' monotonous factory work is played for maximum comedic effect, with Chaplin's Tramp eventually driven to a nervous breakdown by Frederick Taylor's apathetic brand of scientific management. In these conditions, direct human interaction is minimal, and almost always channelled through an mechanical mediator. In a scene predating Orwell's "Nineteen-Eighty Four (1949)," Chaplin is reprimanded by a telescreen in the bathroom, the image of his boss looming overhead like the spectre of Big Brother.Chaplin may also have been remarking upon the rise of the Hollywood studio system, which by then employed a comparable assembly-line approach to film-making. Chaplin, who was given full artistic control through his co-ownership of United Artists, worked in complete opposition to these practices, though it could be argued that his perfectionism and often improvisational style was so inefficient that only an artist as wealthy as he could have gotten away with it. Truth be told, there's nothing particularly distinguished about Chaplin's direction <U+0096> despite his strong reliance upon actions over words, his silent films were never as visually accomplished as that of Murnau or Lang, for example. However, his greatest talents as a filmmaker were concerned with the plight of people, and, however much sentimentality he liked to dish out, there can be no doubt that, in Chaplin's characters, one found individuals with whom they shared a very real human bond, of empathy and compassion. For all the director's criticism of modern society, he possessed a genuine belief in the value of human spirit.When Chaplin came under fire for alleged "communist sympathies" in the late 1940s, the content of 'Modern Times' was scrutinised for evidence to support the allegations. Certainly, within the director's distaste for industrialisation one may discern an underlying dissatisfaction with capitalism, but Chaplin was definitely not a communist; after all, a prime motivation in his choosing to continue producing silent films was to retain his commercial popularity in foreign-language markets <U+0096> that's the capitalist spirit! Nevertheless, Chaplin was eerily prescient when he included a scene in which his Tramp is falsely accused of being a communist, mirroring his own intense political troubles, which concluded in 1952 with the retraction of his US re-entry visa. Though he was initially hesitant about breaking his screen silence, as Chaplin's political convictions grew, so too did his desire to have himself heard. For that, he would, however reluctantly, have to embrace the technology of sound, and, for a mouthpiece, he would choose the most hated man in Europe.


                
Another masterpiece by Chaplin, as usual. WIth intriguing social commentary, side-splitting humor, and tender performances from all involved, this is a MUST for anyone who enjoys comedy, and drama in equal measure.


                
The final scene in 'Modern Times' is stunning, and in many ways. There is a message of hope amidst the poverty of the Depression, with Chaplin's responding to Goddard feeling overwhelmed and defeated by saying "Buck up - never say die. We'll get along!" (and lip-reading after that, perhaps "Smile, C'mon!"). We then see his signature move, walking off down the road, but this time he isn't alone, he has Goddard with him, which could be viewed as overcoming through love and togetherness, or perhaps Chaplin's real-life marriage to her. The most tingly interpretation for me, however, is as a symbol of end of the silent era. Chaplin retired his the character of the Tramp with this film, and while he uses sound in some very creative ways, it's mostly silent. Long after almost all other movies had become talkies, when I see this iconic character walking off down the road, I really feel like it's a final good-bye to an era, which gives me goosebumps.Chaplin is also absolutely brilliant in the film's very impressive opening scene. He's an assembly line worker who tightens bolts to some non-descript part as they rapidly stream by, having to work very hard to keep up. He and his fellow workers have been made into machines, watched over with technology ahead of its time, with his boss able to see and talk to him via giant monitors, including one in the washroom. In a hilarious scene, his boss uses him as the guinea pig for a new device meant to improve efficiency - an automated feeding machine. Chaplin is strapped in and must endure the machine going haywire through various courses of a meal. It's one of the funniest sequences I've ever seen. The film seems like it may be heading for a critique of automation, with Chaplin dehumanized, humiliated, suffering from repetitive motion, and breaking down, but it expands in to more than that.Through the character of a gamin (Paulette Goddard), we see the poverty of the times. It's ironic that the efforts made by engineers to develop an automated feeding machine are soon followed by Goddard stealing bananas for poor children and her family. It seems to be saying that the best minds should be working less on maximizing corporate profits by attempting to automate the most basic of human activities, eating, and more on making sure that everyone has enough to eat. Eating is a recurring theme in the film, with machines 'swallowing up' workers at times, and a thief explaining "we ain't burglars - we're hungry." Chaplin realizes at one point that he's better off locked up in prison, where he has a place to sleep and gets fed.The film touches on other aspects of the times. Chaplin is inadvertently swept up into socialist strikes. He also accidentally consumes some "nose candy", and in a very amusing, cocaine-fueled frenzy, he stops other prisoners from escaping. Later he'll also accidentally drink a lot of rum. In addition to the comedic effect these things have, perhaps it's showing us that sometimes people are just in the wrong place at the wrong time, and that while socialism and drugs are such serious topics, there is a silliness to the things we do. The House Un-American Activities Committee took a dimmer view, however, believing the film to be further evidence of Chaplin being a communist. It's ironic, because if you think about it, Chaplin's character doesn't really have a problem with getting jobs, he just loses them (usually through incompetence), and his message at the end is one of hope. He's not saying let's overthrow the wealthy and levelize society, he's just saying let's treat people with humanity and respect, including those at the bottom of society.While it has social commentary, the film feels very lighthearted, and has many charming moments. Chaplin is a very graceful roller skater during an extended sequence, and has some funny dance moves. His 'nonsense' song towards the end is fantastic, and I was impressed that he also composed the film's score, which is quite catchy and was the basis for the Nat King Cole song 'Smile'. There are of course slapstick elements and pratfalls peppered throughout, some of which work better than others. Overall, it's a brilliant film by a true giant in the industry, and a must-view.
I can't even count how many times I have watched that initial factory scene on classes that I have being to, but this was the first time that I actually saw the whole movie, and man, it's clear that is prety damn important for cinema.For me, what builds a real masterpiece is the fact that it is timeless, no matter how old the movie is, I still can what and enjoy it (not only with laughs, but also analysing it, or even being thrill by it). And Modern Times is definitely a masterpiece. For my surprise I didn't find the movie that funny, it's for a good part "cute", like, I can't be sad watching some scenes, but you not necessarily are laughing too. But, the topics it approaches are incredible important, and relevant even nowadays. If the whole "captalism destruction" back then was something, imagine how it is today. I love everything with Paulette Goddard in this movie, she delivers a such powerful performance, she is charming, funny, but also can provide a raw and brutal sadness, you just fell for her.Even though at some point they just forgot about her sisters fate, the themes her family's plot talks about are real, and make us think about our own lives, and how we're blessed to have what we have.And again, Chaplin is amazing, you can almost see his dedication to the role, and everything else surrounding the movie. The guy was a genius, and even thoug Silient Movie was in a way "dying" in 1936, he still made a 90% Silent Movie, with writting words and stuff, and it was great.In fact (didn't know that, I was reading the trivia section here on IMBd and saw this) this is the last American movie with that style, and, the last dialogue title card of the film, and in a certain way, the entire silent era, is from The Tramp, who says "Buck up - never say die! We'll get along.", coincidence? Anyways, the movie is just cinema history being written on screen. I've said that in other silent movies I've reviewed before, I really don't know for sure how am I supposed to grade a movie like this, if I had to say on issue that I had with the movie it would probably be that some comediac scenes seems "too long", as I said, I didn't find the movie that funny, so for those scenes were just trying to get more laughs from me, when they actually hadn't even got the first one. But anyways, it could probably be the "common style" of the time.To wrap up, Modern Times is an amazingly important movie, that has some prety serious and dense subjects, but is done in a subtle way with a cleaver and lightful approach.9,5/10


                
Some of its relevant, and some of it not. This takes a look at the mechanization of society intermixed with the slapstick humor and physicality of Chaplin's acting. There's a reason why people still love to this day. Its part of my film history class that we watched it. Give it an honest look. For a silent movie made during the talkies era, surprising that it did so well.


                
Charlie Chaplin had resisted the influence of 'talkies' for over half a decade, but not even an artist of his enormous talents (and ego) could stall the march of progress indefinitely, and so the Little Tramp's swan song shows the strain of a compromise between the freedom of silence and the straitjacket of sound. The distinction may be subtle, but 'Modern Times' is not so much a silent film as it is a sound film without sound, and Chaplin's tramp is all too clearly an anachronism among the humming dynamos and labor unrest of the 1930s (he might have called the film 'Changing Times'). Enough echoes of the old days remain to qualify it as a classic (including the mad dance through the factory and another great roller skating routine), but after his earlier 'City Lights' his sense of humor would never again measure up to his social conscience, and the hope with which the Little Tramp faces the future at the end of the film is not nearly so clear as Chaplin's regret at leaving silent film behind.


                
Before Sir Charlie Chaplin made his first sound picture in 1940 with The Great Dictator, this was the last of his classic silent films where he played the Tramp we all love. Basically a factory worker, let's just call him the Tramp, is struggling to keep up with machinery of the modern society, specifically tightening bolts on plates. He is at one point selected to try out a new experimental employee feeding machine to speed up production and breaks, but of course the boss is unconvinced. It is when the Tramp gets stuck in the large cogs of the machine that he has a nervous breakdown, where he has a laugh mucking up, and this takes him to prison. Meanwhile an orphan girl known only as Gamine (Paulette Goddard) faces going into a home with her sisters, but she manages to escape and is scrounging to get by. When the Tramp has been released he is immediately put back in when he is mistaken for the leader for a communist parade waving the red flag. In prison he is out of place, but at the same time he prefers to modern society, and when he mistakes cocaine for salt and he unintentionally foils a breakout he is rewarded with release. This release leads the Tramp to meeting Gamine stealing a loaf bread and trying to take the blame to go back to prison, and again getting himself loads of food without paying. He does get arrested for this and sees Gamine in the paddy wagon, but it crashes and they tumble out to make something of themselves, specifically the Trap getting a job in a department store as night watchman. After initially starting out well, the Tramp is caught in a pile of womens' clothes and arrested again, and when he is released ten days later Gamine meets him to show him their new home. She has found a run down old shack house almost falling apart, and while hanging in it and breaking some planks, the Tramp reads a new factory is hiring, and he manages to get a job. Soon enough just after starting, and getting a co-worker caught in a mess, they finds out the workers are on strike, and he gets arrested again because of a brick. Two weeks later, the Tramp is released and finds Gamine working as a café dancer, and she tries to get him a job as a waiter/singer. He fails at the waiter job getting a duck all over the place, but he proves a worthy singer with his own improvised piece which proves a hit. In the end, Gamine is wanted for arrest, but she and the Tramp manage to get out of the café, and the films ends with them starting a life on the road. Also starring Henry Bergman as Cafe Proprietor, Stanley 'Tiny' Sandford as Big Bill, Chester Conklin as Mechanic, Hank Mann as Burglar and Stanley Blystone as Sheriff Couler. Chaplin is lovable, Goddard is lovely as the troubled love interest, the feeding machine scene is great fun, and the other slapstick moments are memorable viewing, so it is a must see silent (there are sound effects and some dialogue) comedy. Sir Charlie Chaplin was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 24 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, he was number 38 on The World's Greatest Actor, and he was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 81 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 33 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good!
Modern Times is a satire on capitalism; it highlights the drawbacks of the Industrial Revolution and how machines have burgeoned into a menace, dominating all aspects of human life. It is the story of an industrial worker who is trying to cope up with the various social and economic changes; generated with the advent of industrialization. It portrays how capitalism can push an individual to the periphery of the society. The first shot transforms from a flock of sheep to a crowd of people .Idea associative montage has been used to portray that human beings have lost their individuality and their lives are dictated by a social dogma. The movie was made when the world was going under an economic crisis and the political undertones employed, in this movie, are very conspicuous. Charlie Chaplin is shown as an industrial worker who is trying to cope up with the industrial and social changes. The movie is about his constant conflict with capitalists, police and the society in general; the movie is definitely a landmark in comedy. The impeccable humor timing of Chaplin makes him one of the greatest entertainers in film history; but despite being a comedy one cannot help but wonder about the various political and connotations made in a satirical and humorous way. The movie, in a subtle way, highlights the plight of the working class who are often exploited by the capitalists. The movie was made after the great depression during which thousands of people were unemployed and many families starved to death. The movie was light years ahead of its time and delivered strong thoughts in the form of humor; the movie has a lot memorable scenes which make us laugh and think at the same time. This movie is undoubtedly one of the greatest comedies ever made; made by a genius who was not only a great film maker but also a greet visionary. This piece of art has stood the test of time and has been appreciated by people of all ages. This movie serves as a testimonial to the artistic and creative genius of one of the greatest entertainers to have graced the celluloid screen.


                
Charlie Chaplin's "Modern Times" was released on February 25, 1936. This film would be Chaplin's last silent film. Charlie Chaplin reprises his role as the Tramp in this film set during the Great Depression. Chaplin continues his mastery of silent theatric humor in this film, whose storyline many people would have a hard time finding humor in. This film is fittingly produced in black and white. Modern Times is based in the midst of the Great Depression. The main theme of the film is to make the viewer aware of the conditions of the Depression and how they affected most people. This film raises our awareness of issues such as poor work conditions, unemployment, poverty, hunger, and the harsh reality of broken families during this time in history. Charlie Chaplin plays the Tramp who recently becomes unemployed after having a nervous breakdown, as a result of being worked too hard. The Tramp struggles to find and keep a job in these tough times. Discouraged, he resorts to trying to get thrown in jail so he has a place to sleep and food to eat. During his attempts to go back to jail, the Tramp meets the Garmin, played by Paulette Goddard. The Garmin is a young runaway orphan who recently lost her family, as a result of her father being shot in the street. The Garmin and the Tramp are now homeless, hungry and poor. They come find hope in each other and find a new determination to survive together and beat the odds. This film follows their struggle to overcome the odds, earn an honest living, keep nourished and maintain hope throughout all of the obstacles they encounter. Charlie Chaplin wrote, directed, composed and produced this film. Chaplin's masterful use of sound draws the viewer into the scene. In this film, sound is vital in establishing mood and atmosphere of scenes. One defining scene in the film that is a perfect example is a scene where the Garmin loses her father. The Garmin and her sisters are on the dock collecting wood (happy, joyous music is heard), next a gunshot is heard and the music becomes frantic. The Garmin sends her sisters off and she rushes to see what happened. She arrives at her father lying in the street and takes him in her hands as the music turns sad and she mourns her father's death while holding him in her hands. Chaplin also uses masterful body language to portray the emotion and tempo of the film. This is a vital component to this film, like so many other silent films. One good example of this is when the Garmin and Tramp are sitting on the side of the road. The Garmin suddenly comes to tears and dramatically places her head in her arm to cry on. The Tramp and the audience are fully aware of her mood at that moment. This films overall theme is similar to that of Cinderella Man. Even though these films were produced about 70 years apart, they share a theme. Regardless of the circumstances you are dealt, you should never give up. While Cinderella Man is based on a true story of the Great Depression period, Modern Times is based on Charlie Chaplin's unique portrayal of the period. I would strongly recommend viewing this movie to gain a better understanding of this period in American History.


                
Charlie Chaplin is one of the actors, who gives us his body and his soul playing for the audiences in series of pantomimed movies. It is easy for all of us to express what we think, feel, and are concerned of by simply opening our mouth and speaking out, but Chaplin shows us that the ability to communicate with the other actors and the audience can be accomplished not only by the verbal speech, but also by the body language and our inner intentions. In the movie "Modern Times", he gives us a show of his sarcasm towards the fast-paced technology and the inability to catch up with the modernization in the world he lives in. The technology he describes and is concerned of supposedly should help us in our daily tasks as well as improve our life for the better; miserably it not only creates difficulties for him, but also makes it emotionally unbearable for him to deal with. He tries to be as fast as he could be when screwing in the nuts of the machines; he tries to adjust his attitude and physical body to perform and give his one hundred percent, but unfortunately he is left with disappointment when catching up with the rapid environment he is surrounded by. His skills and mind become rusty as he works only on one part of the assembly line over and over again like a robot without a break. His body is beaten- up from work and there is either no excitement at the work place or no direct benefits from the technological advancement. He tries to work hard and by the acceptable norms of the society, but his happiness is diminished as his soul and his inner self suffocate by the cruel demands from the management of the factory he works at. His dedication to accomplish his work requirements creates not only a problem for his co-workers and his superiors when slowing down the factory production, but also creates a nervous break for himself that only makes him physically and mentally weak and vulnerable when he foolishly plays around and annoys others by spraying them with machine oil. Throughout the movie Chaplin shows to us the dysfunctions of the new technology and he sadly transforms the difficult moments in his work career into comic laughter for the audiences. The situations he develops in front of our eyes make us question the advantages much argued and discussed to us about the positive influence of the new machinery. Back then human persona suffer to adjust to the new world which created obstacles and frustrations with the technology. The humanity was challenged by the new and changing future of the technological expansion. The movie shows us different unexpected scenes and aspects that the working class was dealing with at the times of scientific adaptation. Was it worth it or not for the human race to pass through the discomfort and discontent that the future had in store? Deeper insights are needed when conducting a formal or informal research on the case. Chaplin acts astonishingly in order to maintain his view for the present and future evolution concerning the human attempts to improve and benefit the society; and the movie brings us to our senses in observing the reality of the advantages and disadvantages in the new worldly- and quickly- changing technology.


                
MODERN TIMES (United Artists, 1936), was written, produced, scored, directed, and stars Charlie Chaplin in what was to become his final role as the Little Tramp. It also marked the close to the silent screen era. In fact, MODERN TIMES, though not essentially a silent film in a sense, but more like some made between 1927-29 equipped with underscoring, sound effects and talking sequences. While silent movies officially ended by 1929, Chaplin kept that genre going with CITY LIGHTS (1931) and MODERN TIMES, demonstrating that silents is still golden. Chaplin, having come a long way from London music halls to American silent comedies dating back to 1914, not only developed his character but established the greatness in his work. Reportedly in production for two years, possibly more, Chaplin's ability to perfect comedy routines into a simple story like MODERN TIMES is amazing. Supporting Chaplin is Paulette Goddard, an movie extra since 1929, now awarded the opportunity in a major role opposite the comedy legend. Unlike Chaplin's other leading ladies of the past, Goddard is reportedly the only one to become successful, especially during the 1940s following her second pairing in Chaplin's first talkie as THE GREAT DICTATOR (1940).The opening credits super imposed in front of a clock, indicates time as now, while its opening title that reads, "Modern Times is a story of industry - of individual enterprise - of humanity crusading in pursuit of happiness" indicates something else, a satire of the machine age, past, present and future, while in fact being one story with two related themes. The first revolves around two people of different backgrounds facing uncertainties with their present lives while the second half turns into a love story between these two same people who have fallen through hard times of the Depression. Before their devotion to one another occurs, their introduction begins with Charlie (Charlie Chaplin), a factory worker of the Electro Steel Corporation where he tightens bolts on moving belts. Unable to adjust to the advanced technology as a tester to a a new type of feeding machine, he acquires a nervous breakdown that has him committed to an asylum for a rest cure. Next introduction is on the Gamin (Paulette Goddard), a waterfront girl whose unemployed father (Stanley Blystone) is killed in a riot, leaving her two younger sisters to be sent to an orphanage while, after escaping from the juvenile officers, struggles to survive in the outside world. Caught stealing a loaf of bread by the law, Charlie, who has since been released from the hospital and struggling himself to find work, comes to her defense admitting he stole it. The lady and the tramp meet again in the patrol wagon that soon breaks down in an accident, leaving these two strangers to make their escape together into the world of uncertainty. Their uncertainty finally turns to hope when a cabaret owner (Henry Bergman) hires the girl to work as a dancer while Charlie is employed as a singing waiter. All's well until the juvenile division track down the girl to have her arrested.For one of Chaplin's most admired films, there's no spoken dialog, at least from Chaplin's standpoint. Talking sequences comes from the factory president (Allan Garcia), who, at one point, yells at Charlie to "get back to work." Other sounds include a radio announcer's voice, police sirens, a barking dog and stomach churning. Chaplin, who preferred to keep his tramp character silent, did offer audiences the opportunity to hear his voice for the first time, in song, for the cabaret sequence, doing some double-talk rendition to "Titina."   While MODERN TIMES has become relatively known throughout the years, it was rarely revived until Chaplin's reissued it some time prior to his death in 1977. Having attended the 1980 theatrical revival of MODERN TIMES at the Regency Theater in New York City where it played to a full house, I witnessed patrons, young and old alike, laughing hysterically and watching with amazement at many key scenes being the feeding machine sequence; Charlie roller skating around the department store blindfolded; and his method of feeding lunch to his employer (Chester Conklin) while stuck inside the machine's safety wheels. Considering MODERN TIMES to be not quite so modern by today's standards, it demonstrates how comedy never grows out of style. Acquiring less pathos than CITY LIGHTS, MODERN TIMES is most memorable in the way it bids goodbye to Chaplin's world of silent movie making through its underscoring to the sentimental "Smile (Though Your Heart is Breaking"). MODERN TIMES, along with other Chaplin features and short subjects, were distributed on CBS Home Video in 1989 to commemorate Chaplin's centennial year of his birth. Though frequent revivals on various cable channels, ranging from Turner Network Television (1989), American Movie Classics (1991-2001), and Turner Classic Movies (as part of "The Essentials") assures how this and many other Chaplin films are to remain in view as long as there are those around to appreciate his art and style the way he originally intended it to be, through laughter and a little tear, especially during these modern times. (****)


                
