How is this nominated for an Emmy? This is the most predictable unintelligent story I have ever seen. The acting is terrible. The show is cheesy and sappy. The worst television show I have seen in years. From the guy who made Crazy Stupid Love. Well this show is stupid so I guess he is good at making a stupid show popular.


                
This is garbage, this is a joke, this is boring ... this is us


                
Boring is not a strong enough word for this show. I have not intentionally watched this show but my wife has had it on because she too is indoctrinated by the driest program I have ever seen. It is drier and more dull than thanksgiving turkey. I don't see what the appeal to this show is, I'm not apposed to drama. It's not a thrilling neck breaker they adopted a black baby the night that their third triplet died upon birth. The show jumps around with no sort of creative cohesiveness at all. The two biological kids look absolutely nothing alike. I guess I'm not suppose to get this. Not everything is for everyone but good Christ these stories are so boring.
I can't understand why this show has a 9 rate on 10 WHY???
It started ok but quickly i realized that nothing really happens. No real drama , this is boring and cheesy : Sterling k brown is gettiing on my nerves : fake smile , bad overacting , ( i thought he couldn t act worse than he did in " army wives" but he did.... Justin hartley s character is only based on his looks as a consequence , whatever he does , it seems artificial...plus his acting is poor...
Milo Ventimiglia is trying his best .
This show should have been called : this is Cheesy and boring 
I think there must have been a lot of money spent on it because it is unexpainably OVERRATED!!


                
How is this a 8.9, this is a disgrace to the English language. I wish I could give this show less than 1, I am only 17 and yet I can recognise every cliché in this atrocity and I haven't even fulfilled a tertiary education. This is the downfall of humanity, the fact that shows like this have had regular consistency in TV. This show doesn't even try to be original, whenever I try to explain the plot to one of my friends they CRINGE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
This soapy soap opera was assembled using rusty spare parts from a fictional family constructor kit. The days of Leave It to Beaver and A Family affirm are long gone and totally forgotten. Identity politics where all of us not only play well with each other, but also live with each other in blissful harmony and diversity, now rules the day. This show "lied to me" in terms of providing an honest product about honest and real people.


                
Does this happen to anyone else? I can look up anything, or anyone, and then, down in my search history queue, is this show's icon. Are there not enough viewers watching this show that they have to resort to autobots (or whatever they are called) to instill its image in my search history when I haven't searched for it ever? It's like, I guess they think I'll see this show's icon and suddenly break away from creeping on Judy Greer's career (she's on TV right now in Jurassic World) and want to find out all about it.I wonder how long this phenomenon will continue? I wonder if IMDb will post this message? I wa-wa-wa-wa-wo-o-onder.....


                
Overly emotional vomit. Daytime soap operas are less overly dramatic.


                
Really, who cares? Drones on and on with twee guitar twanging in the background to further emphasise the never ending succession of big, bigger and biggerer emotional moments.


                
Season 3 has completely fallen short. Really getting sick of this whole "Randall does good" act. Very tiring and the storyline is stale. Zero emotion or chemistry left for this show. Seasons 1 and 2 were so refreshing, now it's just boring. Swing and a miss.


                
At first It was great. But it's extremely depressing to watch. For me at least. I lost my dad suddenly and I never thought that my life is ruined because of it. It's life. Most of people with similar experience "made lemonade out of the lemon " but this show shows you how to create a volcano out of it! I started to feel if i was "heartless " cause I didn't let my father's death turned me into anything dramatic. And like "Jack" , i was growing up listening to family members and his friends talked of him as if he was perfect or God like. But i just grew up. Normal life with somewhat ups and downs and wished l had a dad to lean on to. But so what, i knew I wasn't the only person that lost a father while young. But this show almost made me want to punch each of the characters in the face and scream! Get over yourself! How pathetic are you lot! If my father was like Jack! He would be rolling in his grave knowing his love and effort had gone in vain that his kids stuck in the past for 19 odd years! Shame on you lot! Waste of All of his wise advice and love. Obviously none was taken in and you lot were not worth it of such a great father's sacrifice!


                
I can't believe what I'm watching, after reading some raving reviews and hysterical ratings. This is utter schmaltz, flat, badly acted, terribly written melodramatic drivel! I seriously thought the plot line - that one which nobody wanted to spoil - was that the entire first seasons were a parody. Now I finally know IMDB ratings means nothing! (I should have known this a long time ago though, a lot of hit and miss here). An 8.8 IMDB rating in fact could mean that the series looks like it was made in someone's garage. Or with cameras that come from someone's garage. Or written by a bunch of college drop outs. Anyway, if you have any liking for layered characters and tantalizing dialogue and plot, try watching Mad Men yet another time perhaps instead, or the first season of the Handmaid's Tale or Westworld.


                
The only somewhat interesting character is jack. I tried getting into this show, so far gave it 10 episodes, its just boring & left me confused as to why people actually watched the show. The characters are boring & unoriginal except for jacks character who's the only one that's interesting. Otherwise I find the cast to be so boring its almost annoying. The storyline of the adopted son is so common & redone. I really gave it a shot, because I found jacks character to be mysterious, but the storyline isn't there. We see 3 adults grown up, 1 grew up to be rich & successful but still looks for his birth parents even when he grew up w/ the most love in the world. The other wants to become a serious actor & the other one was overweight her whole life. Theres nothing about the characters that seem mysterious, they don't act like brothers & sisters, its hard to see them that way. The storyline shows how much the father & mother loved eachother & their kids & always gave them whatever they could. Which isn't interesting for more than a few episodes. Think it would have been better as a movie, seemed like the first 10 episodes was just the same thing. The storyline shows that one kid grew up w/ less attention than the others, but seriously thats the worst thing, every kid had that so whats so interesting?
A modern soap opera. There is a lot of tragedy and sadness in the world, so why not add to that by deciding that we should be entertained by a slow motion time killing emotion jerking tv series, Thinking back to the beginning, they could have started with 2 newborn babies and 1 adoption. That's not enough emotion, so let's just kill off one of the babies at birth and then adopt one so they still need 3 sets of baby futniture, etc. Great writing for maximum emotion, as the series is launched and then drags on and on, much to the pleasure of many with a different opinion and lots of time to spare.


                
By far, the most boring thing I ever saw in my life, filled with awful characters and stupid drama. One of the worst TV shows ever.


                
I'd like to begin by saying I really enjoyed series one. "This is us" managed to make something which in reality is quite small feel like a major twist. It was escapism in what has become a cynical world......then season 2 came along...All of a sudden it feels like all the niceness is being rammed down your throat. The Pearson family are so sickeningly perfect you'll need an antiemetic just to stomach each episode.
Even when Jack's fate is revealed (albeit a very emotional episode and not a spoiler because its revealed in season 1 episode 2) this is ruined by giving you a Jack's greatest hits in his old car episode the following week. When they killed him off they should have left him off the show to allow the viewer to feel the loss. Instead he's in it more afterwards then he was before.
Kate is overweight which seems to be the basis for every storyline she has. Chris's Metz has more than proved her acting chops on this show so can we not give her a storyline where the main crux isn't because she has weight issues.
The saving grace of the show is Kevin because at least he has some flaws making him the most relatable. He's the most watchable out of the "perfect Pearsons".
I've read ahead about series 3 which doesn't seem much better from now on I'm out.


                
It's rare to find a show that promotes values, and it is even rarer a show that promotes good values AND that it's good.It has strong family values reinforced throughout difficult times and through life in general. It has some areas that to many wouldn't be accepted, but if compared to other shows (pretty much any other show out there today) it is a return to old fashion morals, ethics and values that our society needs so badly.


                
Garbage garbage garbage!! this is like a daytime soap opera thats super boring and heavy handed and preachy and lame and boring


                
