All too often one ends up writing a review about a show that is less than amazing, often out of frustration, annoyance or plain old bored at yet another half as*ed attempt to get viewers to tune in with little effort on plot, dialogue or acting.I'm so pleased to say, this show is the opposite of it all, it is a delight to have found amongst the tedious modern take on entertainment.The tale is one of life, of seemingly unrelated people who share something in common, well that is the opener, the twist reveals itself blatantly at the end of episode one, and I didn't see it coming, so far episodes 2 and 3 have not delivered quite that surprise, but what they do deliver is excellence in acting, excellence in storytelling, and a compelling narrative and the continued potential for greatness.The characters are increasingly well developed with main and side stories in abundance, it has so far kept me interested and perhaps most importantly for a show, invested in who these characters are, and the journey they are on.There is something spine tingly about the show, as others have stated it can be an emotional journey, with moments of humour and moments of laughter and joy. It is merely 3 episodes in, but I am hoping we continue to explore the stories being told here, that the cast continues to deliver compelling acting and that the script writers take us on a human journey with all the typical highs and lows that involves. I am looking forward to more, much much more.If you hadn't noticed, I'm impressed by the acting cred of these people, with a couple of exceptions these actors aren't one's I've seen before, but they are doing an awesome job here.So for a change, i'm so please to commend this show to others, to say it needs to be watched with patience, with curiosity and and open mind and heart.


                
I don't write many reviews I'm often tempted but don't get round to it. It might be because most of the time when i'm tempted it's because a series or a films is really really bad, so instead I decided to spend my time tying to find something that's good to watch. Now, I have only watched the first episode and normally I would want to watch a few more before making my mind up but I the case of "This is us" I feel compelled to comment on the pilot episode.I LOVED IT ! It was wonderfully written, cleverly written, well acted with a good cast. I felt for the main character, they werre interesting and I want to know what happens to them. I was going to go into details about the main characters but I don't wont to spoil anything for you, all I will say is watch the pilot episode I will add that this is not the type of programme I tend to watch "family's struggling in the modern world" the "ups and downs of life" but after one episode I cant recommend this series enough I just hope it continues in the same manner.


                
STOP EVERYTHING YOU ARE DOING AND GO WATCH THIS SHOW. Beautiful, Simple and heart warming, this show is one emotional roller-coaster. I've been awed, shocked and surprised, crying and smiling to myself. Loving it.One of the best pilots i've seen in a while, giving me the best quote, "There's no lemon so sour that you can't make something resembling lemonade." it's simply amazing. It's very rare to feel amazed and fall in love with the show just by watching it's pilot, this is one of them. Two episodes down so far and it has given two amazing and shocking ends, and i just can't wait how it will turn out. Trust me, Go watch it and you will not regret it. :)


                
Wow, what a come back for TV Drama. This is a multi layered, moving and totally relate-able show and so so entertaining. I am already so invested and have only watched two episodes. The leading cast are amazing with some of my all time favorites (looking at you Milo) and supporting cast seem more than adequate to keep up. The writers have their finger to pulse of what is really important to people today and throughout all of time... LOVE. It ticks so many boxes for me. I have been waiting for a show that I can safely watch with kids in the room, without soft porn, violence, bad language, and in general inappropriate story lines. This incredible show proves to be not too soppy, funny enough to break tension, loads of character diversity, Mandy Moore, I mean so many more reasons to fall in love with "This Is Us". That is all. Peace out


                
Well I did It!My first review.And i am glad that this is my first review.Because....After i watched the pilot episode i thought of only one word...PERFECT.The show caught my attention from the very first frame.I really enjoyed all the emotions,love,family...And the second episode topped the first episode by a mile.The way the past explains the present makes up a really satisfying watch in the second episode.I am eager to know how the stories move forward and i hope that the show maintains the standard that it set forth from the very first episode.


                
A great show with no supernatural events, no one with special powers, not about politics, medicine or any thing more than LIFE. I have not seen a quality show like this one where all characters are important to the plot. Everything in this show happens for a reason and is explained, if not in the same episode in a different one. The detail of the show is incredible and the characters are ones you get to know like friends. Everyone has their own problems and issues, just like we all have in life. This is just my opinion and you don't have to agree with it but with all the negativity out there it is refreshing to see a nicely written show like this one.


                
This show is the best thing ever! On top of my list.
Other TV series don't even compare...
I was laughing and crying in almost every episode so far..
Story is amazing and cast is right on point!
<f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+009C>


                
I just finished watching the entire season and I am stunned. This series is so effective and emotional yet extremely original. You will fall in love with each character as they are all completely different. I can't help but feel empathy for all of the major characters. You learn about their flaws but also the attributes that make them so unique and crucial to the show. The plot of this show is like none I've seen before and the pilot episode will have you hooked for the rest of the season. It has moments where you just want to ball up and cry but it also shows you the importance of family. It makes you want to call up your loved ones just to remind them how much you love them because life is so short. Apart from it being an intense emotional roller-coaster, the series a must-watch for anyone of any age.


                
I was hooked from the 1st minute of this show. The acting is stellar and Gerald McCraney was impeccable. When he was sitting in the chair next to Jack telling how he lost his first child, i could not hold back the tears... it was beautiful and touching. The best part for me was the ending. I just LOVED how they went back to the 70's (hence the smoking in the hospital and the outfits) to show where the 3 grown adults ( Kate, Kevin & Randall)are in life and to then disclose that they are all related (Kate and Kevin I knew) but Randall being adopted by the parents to make it the three they vowed to bring home, was amazing! I cannot wait for Episode 2 :)
I've never written a review on anything. Not a toaster I bought and especially not a TV show. But I felt the urgent need to write this, maybe reach the production teams, to tell them that their show is just the best thing I have ever seen. And give them a respond actually that their show means something, actually means a lot....The struggle is real. this common phrase is perfect for this show, though in its true words meaning. Life is a beautiful messy struggle and this show captures it more honest and authentic than I have ever seen on TV or in theater, and that (I know this sounds stupid) means something, since I have seen a lot. In my experience this show is authentic and it touches you and it makes you laugh.The characters are some complex and well developed and the actors play them so well, you can see their feelings in their faces and their body language. The flashbacks or rather the storyline which explains episode after episode how they got to where they are, why they are who they are - its a smart thoughtful and endearing setup. Jacks love for Rebecca and his kids is visible not just through is behavior, which is so well written though, but in the actors facial expressions. The true, common hardships they have to endure, and the love they have for each other its not dramatic or superficial. Its not a quick adrenaline, dopamine rush you get by watching this show, its something way more. Kates experience that another person is not gonna be fill the void, that its not just about her body but her "mind" or "soul" that needs to be mended, that was just ... it was so so heartbreaking beautiful to watch her discover and take this important step.I could go on and on about every single character and how truly great they perform. Or about the beautiful well written script or the down to earth, authentic way and the detailed merging concept. Thank you for making such a great show, I deeply hope you won't stop soon
THIS IS US. Is a great weekly show.. it can relate to so many people.. I love the show and the characters are wonderful.. There has not been a show on TV like this and I am so glad to see TV is bringing back a show worth watching with so much feelings.. I look forward to watching THIS IS US every week.. I hope it continues on for many seasons.. people need to watch it as it has something for everyone..The show has so many heartfelt scenes.. you feel like you are a part of this family.. the cast has great report.. I'm sure they have great friendships with each other.. this is such a great show and I do hope everyone watches it..I can't wait to see what happens each week.. if I can't watch it I definitely record it.. I don't want to miss any of the episodes..


                
We all had been waiting for a TV show like this for the last decade. You will cry, laugh, then cry again, then laugh again. Heart warming story, great actors and actresses, makes us believe in a possible good world. Too bad there is only one episode a week. I like the fact that they address real problems of real people and that you learn something from each episode. Could be considered a family TV show, but personally ,I cry like a little baby so I would rather watch it alone. You will relate to each character in a different and special way, and It will be hard to chose your favorite one. Thank you guys for sharing your art with us and I hope "This is us" will stick around for many many seasons to come


                
Ten years ago, I stumbled upon a T.V. series whose title I initially had no idea as to what it was about. Breaking Bad? I thought....what the hell does that even mean? About 3 shows in however, I was hooked...totally hooked, and it has remained the greatest T.V. show I have ever seen, flawless in every aspect, from the acting, to the direction, but mostly, the story itself, the narrative and the way that that narrative juggled both our expectations and our realisations. It was as close to perfect as any show could be, and although I've watched a hell of a lot of T.V. shows since over the last ten years, nothing has ever really come close...until now!
I haven't written a review for IMDB in years, but I feel compelled to now. This show is just....it's just...well, it's as perfect as any show can be. The cast are simply wonderful in their roles, and bond together so organically that it's hard to imagine them leaving each other at the end of a days filming. The acting is sublime, the direction faultless, but the real star of this show for me isn't the writing, (which is in itself, simply incredible) but the structure. The way it takes us back and forth, in and out of each character's life, whilst simultaneously remaining linear in its narrative progression, is simply astounding.
No other show has EVER made me FEEL like this one does. It is the most emotive experience you could possibly wish for. I'm laughing hard one minute, and almost sobbing the next. It's constantly surprising, almost shocking in places, nearly every episode has a twist that although you almost saw coming, you're just too invested in their lives at this point to think about until it happens. If this was any other show, I would say that it's a case of patience being rewarded, but with this it's different; the little twists and turns, the signposts that you look at but don't see, appear as little bonuses, rather than any kind of fully-fledged significant events in the story. The way that the writing sometimes misleads us and our expectations is absolutely superb, I have finished many an episode shaking my head in disbelief and saying 'wow'.
The soundtrack too, accompanies the storyline with a relevancy that astonishes. I'm half way through the second season and I've had to start pacing myself, rationing the episodes almost, so as to not finish it too quickly. It is quite simply the most emotive, heart-warming and emotionally intelligent show I've ever seen. It's perfection....almost genius!
This series gets better and better. I've seen many tv series over the years (I'm over 70) and I think this is the best written and acted program I've ever seen. It pulls you in, is realistic and really special.


                
I have really loved most of this series. Now my husband says "Let's just watch it and get it over with" every week. It's got great writing, actors and rich, textured characters. But it has become an emotional suck! Most of the episodes this season are stressful, grim and foreboding. Loved it, just NO MORE <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A2> BYE


                
What an amazingly written show, filled with such skilled actors that have developed a deep connection with one another. From the youngest of actors to the eldest, their commitment to their roles is what's been missing from television. This show grabbed my boyfriend's attention while he was playing on his Xbox with huge headphones on! The smallest of details are what I love the most. Great film crew to capture Mandy's tear drop from her eyes, down past her hand where she was rubbing her necklace, last episode of season 1. This show makes you think about your life and of those you love. Everyone has a story that has partially happened and that is still continuing to be written.


                
Fortunate, i consider my self to have stumbled upon this masterpiece TV series.The writers & creators of this TV series have been able to diffract the life of one family in such a beautiful spectrum of life events in every episode, its breathtaking to see it all happen.Roles played by most of the primary cast in this series is so different (and so intense) than the previous roles that each of them has played, which just exemplifies the talent in the cast. Most of the events that a person faces in a life time includes a series of 'non verbal communication' which takes place between the current state of mind, influenced by the peers and the judgment call, molded by the experiences faced by that person in the past - for example when a stranger becomes a part of your family, job pressure coincides with duties as a father, mother, brother, sister or as a friend - what will a person do then.The thing to point out here is the 'non verbal communication' part that the directors and the editors have been able to throw a spotlight on (and which has made many movies of the past legendary), makes this show Authentic.Every show vibrates at some cultural frequency to mimic or amplify that fantastic or realistic story driven by the certain perception in the society. And after seeing this show, what makes one proud is to admire the fact that we are finally in that amazing phase emerging in the society where we can learn to live in the moment in what ever form life has to offer and learn to adopt the same in our lives.And the last thing that i want to add here is the surreal background songs chosen, never knew those artists and that music existed.


                
I am a man but I am not ashamed to say that I love this show being overweight myself I relate a lot to the over weight couple of this show but I do think that the show is everything that you would want in a family show just watch with the extremely young kids I say let your tweens watch it yes it does have sexual situations and language but aside from that It is a perfect show about life and I recommend you watch it with the family the kids go trew problems as well as the adults I love the overweight woman man and little girl watch with the kids so you can talk about the situations in the show


                
I am very emotional when I watched this is us.Is an amazing story about a family , I love the story , the casting , all the set , the writers and the soundtrack in every single episode.I am waiting the 3 season so bad, well done!


                
I am absolutely blown away at how good this show is! It's definitely a emotional rollercoaster, but so worth the ride.
Everyone plays their parts exceptionally and I have been gripped since I started episode 1
Such an amazing family, even with all their quirks that at points you could slap them silly for. It's very real, things that happen to them, could very easily happen in real life.
I still cannot believe he goes back into that house for the damn dog (I love dogs as well) I was screaming at the TV set when he did that, and could actually imagine my own Husband doing that for our Daughter, oh man, the effects Daughters have on their Fathers!!
Such a tragic part of the story!
But...all the way through even season 1, you know it's coming at some point.
This is gonna be one of my favorite shows, and that's down to everyone that's in it
I like it so does my wife because it Doesn't all only show happy endings... It's really like real life there's good times there's worst times their struggles and there's compromise


                
Well Actually I'm pretty sarcastic person but this is us really sold me wholesomeness<f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+0099>thanks for healing some parts of me.


                
The people complaining about the "unnecessary" "constant" drama clearly have a perfect life. <f0><U+009F><U+0099><U+0084> I found Kate and the baby storyline very realistic and incredibly sad, but loved it! I lost my baby girl at 24 weeks last year and this story hit home for me. It triggered a good cry missing the fact I didn't get to bring my daughter home when Kate brought the baby home. I also have family members who have struggled with alcoholism and Kevin's story is very realistic as well. Randall and Beth's story sounds very similar to a few people I know. Why people are saying it's "too much drama" I won't ever understand. Life is full of drama. Get over it.
A big big credit goes to Dan Fogelman for crafting the series so beautifully and also to the whole cast who gave life to those characters. This is a must watch series. This series kinds of fill in posivity in life and also
makes you love a person completely with his/her flaws. It's so real and heart touching. Really loved it <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D> this series shows us the real meaning of life.


                
Many fans are disappointed to season 3 after cancellation because they could find some ideas to cooperate story. Lanh in Vietnam flashback with Nicky blew up me story upsetting but it was tear jerking. Unfortunately what happened to Lanh's mom in Vietnam. Need to see more Anne Pearson and Miguel's children.
