The "Pilot" episode follows several story lines including pretty boy actor Kevin (Justin Hartley) looking for something more substantial in his career and life, Chrissy Metz as his sister Kate who is struggling with her weight and looking for love, young couple Rebecca and Jack (Mandy Moore and Milo Ventimiglia) who are expecting triplets and Randall (Sterling K Brown), a successful business man looking for his biological father who abandoned him as a newborn.Performances all around were solid, especially from Hartley and Brown and a guest appearance from TV vet Gerald McRaney. The writing of this episode was so cohesive with everything and everyone connecting in some way, and the unexpected twist towards the end of the episode is brilliant and pretty mind-blowing. I will definitely be keeping a close eye to this series. Hopefully the strong viewership the Pilot got will continue to keep this series alive.


                
I am very loyal to the the shows i like n generally like to finish what i stared but i don't have any motivation here.. i really really loved the first season .. evry episode made my cry badly .. i lost my father very young so it made huge impact .. but how long can you encash same script .. i feel i crying for father In diffrent ways for 3 seasons .. just not interesting.. there s nothing to look forward to .. sorry guys .. though i love jack pearson ... He s the father evry daughter wants .. and husband evry wife wants.. but please either bring something new or end it


                
Very well written show with great characters and plenty of talented actors. But with each show, it grows further from being realistic. Its evolving into a fairytale of bs. There's nothing worse than seeing good actors pour everything into their characters, only to be playing someone that couldn't possibly exist. I give examples, but there are too many. Plus, I'm sure most recognize the direction the show goes by season 3.


                
I love this series....having said that....I have a major critique!Vietnam Episode......would it really have been that difficult to put the actors in the correct uniforms?
It is so difficult to watch Veitnam soldiers who should be in OD Green fatigues, in modern BDUs. The Vietnam era uniforms fit much more closely to the body....and did not have all the pockets of the modern uniforms. Sigh....it is less "believable" because I know the difference.More importantly.....These soldiers have been consistently disrespected and ignored, this another example of the lack of respect for them. Bad choice.


                
I really liked the pilot probably because this was such an easy watch. But after four episodes the neediness of everyone in this series is getting really old. There is a plot surprise at the end of every episode which should keep most viewers interested, but it seems like a very dysfunctional family recap week after week.(Dear God, my only review and I'm going to have to amend it from a 5 to an 8.) Yes, yes, yes, I see the point now. It is still cheesy but endearing and charming and well-written at times. The docs cynical responses in ep10 clinched it for me. So "This Is Us," I hope all is forgiven.


                
I totally binge-watched this series: started on a Saturday afternoon and was done by Sunday evening. So the first thing to say about it is that it IS binge-worthy and that the overall experience is gratifying. I also cried A LOT.The Pilot episode is excellent. Perfectly paced, with a great ending, where everything magically falls into place.The whole first season is well-made. It doesn't have any major ups and downs, so I'd say it's a pretty solid season (18 episodes). Towards the end, one of the story-lines (Randall-William) dominates the plot and it is the one that delivers the season's climax, also coming to a full circle. The other story-lines have some flaws: Kevin and Kate's trajectories have a few too many back-n-forths, as if the writers are not too sure what to do with them, whereas Jack and Rebecca's story is dragged a bit past its natural ending point, clearly because it had to continue for a second season.The overall feel of the series, as I said in my title, is a cross between Shonda Rhimes' style (Grey's Anatomy) and Jill Soloway's style (Six Ft Under, Transparent). Maybe there's other family drama series that are more comparable to "This is Us", but since I am not too familiar with other series of the genre, my impression is that it combines features from the aforementioned creators: It made me cry in nearly every episode, appealing directly to my emotions. This only ever happens to me with Grey's Anatomy, which has always been my "guilty pleasure". This means that the series is sentimental, not in a bad way (not melodramatic, that is), but it does place more emphasis on emotion rather than intellectual intricacy.It shares the dark humor and quirkiness of Six Feet Under and Transparent to some extent, although in a much more family-friendly/watered-down way. It touches upon the popular 'dysfunctional family' theme, although it likes to emphasise how the described families are probably as loving and close-knit as they come.It's a little bit on the soapy side, but it is rescued by its humor, originality, and authenticity of emotions, as well as some great performances (I'm not too keen on Milo Ventimiglia and Mandy Moore as Jack and Rebecca, but I like everyone else, especially Sterling K. Brown, Susan Kelechi Watson, and Ron Cephas Jones as Randall, Beth, and William).One last thing to say about the characters: although they are by no means one-dimensional, it is very interesting how they are all very good people. I assume it is done on purpose and I find it quite interesting how none of the characters are even average on the scale of niceness, they're all just super super nice and really loving and generous, despite everyone of them having to fight their own demons.I'm looking forward to seeing where this is going next and how the characters are going to develop, despite some reservations that I have going into season #2, especially when it comes to dragged-out story-lines (and maybe slightly forced, e.g. the new Sophie arc, which kinda came out of nowhere).


                
This is heartfelt. And Its not real.. between unlikely success and whatever else doesn't make it relatable. But it is heartfelt. There must be at least a moment in the first season that gives you some flashback to your own upbringing.Here is a show that really tries its best at tackling the issue of family and it does so in a way that keeps hitting close to home. Its not perfect, but that's why it works. If you get stuck with cheesiness or other such bits that aren't for you, that's fine. Then maybe you're not who this show is made for. Or maybe you are.This is a show that is soft and malleable, and it handles its characters the same way it handles you. Give yourself up to some unbelievable things and take a shot at enjoying this mess that is messy life.


                
I definitely wasn't sold on the synopsis, but the pilot... Gotta say YES!!!! No, seriously, I right down loved that episode! And I have to say that not a lot of pilots get my approval, and hardly any were ever close to bring a tear to my eye, when "This is us"'s did.So you may ask, why wouldn't I rate higher? The answer is simple: apprehension. What I mean to say is that I'm definitely not sure about the format: add twice as much scenes to the pilot (in which each almost seems to have been shortened, but maybe that's just me..) and you got a GREAT movie!!!! But a TV series? Personally I am a little bit skeptical, or should I say in the uncertainty of what will come next.I will totally keep watching, at least for the few next episodes, but you've set the bar high!
..they really had it going most of the way pretty good in the pilot episode. There were several sub-plots pushing the believably boundaries, but for the most part they didn't cross-over... and acting overall was solid. Then it came to the first episode ending, and they really didn't do themselves any favors at all (and it really wasn't necessary). Now they've got to work at getting the thinking audience back on track. With that blunder, they dropped a rating notch or two, for it opens the door to a possibility of more of the same, and that could send a good portion of the audience off to the exits. Time will tell, fortunately we don't have to wait long.


                
I love Mandy Moore and I was excited to see her in this show. At first, I thought this show was good and alright and I didn't see all the hype about it. But as episodes went on I saw the heart and compassion and energy and love that this show has. All the actors really give their all to their characters and all of the stories flow perfectly. I love this show and it I have teared up at this show and I rarely tear up at anything.


                
This must be one of the most interesting shows of 2016.Acting, superb. Story, superb. Characters, superb.A series to watch with your better half, a series to enjoy together on the couch.Action, none. Humor, dry and subtle. Storyline(s) intriguing and captivating.I am not going to explain what it is about, as that would instantly spoil it for those who haven't seen the pilot. The Pilot left me wanting more, and going forward I was surprised how they managed leaving me to want more and more. Even now I wonder, will there be a second season and if so, how on earth will they keep this high quality product a high quality product. They did thus far and that's why 8 episodes in I wholeheartedly recommend this show to everybody!
I never ever wrote a review on here, however, this show is well worth one. It is simple and seems very ordinary at the surface, but, boy, this show shows exactly the synchronicity of life, life itself and the connections between good moments and bad moneys. On the comment board I see the most ridiculous topics about the superficial labeling of the characters that completely bypass the big picture of this amazing show. It gets me emotional every time, and I do not get emotional very easily. It's brilliantly made. As the episodes progress you see the way things are all connected and people in the world are all connected, no matter what background, color, form or profession. It doesn't just say "This is us" it says "We are all one", an absolute wake up call to humanity and a must watch ...IMHO


                
So far there are quite a few good points going for this new show.Interesting structure with the 2 time zones leaves a lot of room for plot development.Gets you quite involved from the first episode. Doesn't happen often.Likable cast of characters. In the past a couple having triplets. The 3 siblings in the present are successful African American orphan reunited with biological father, the TV comedy actor having a crisis, his fat twin sister in over eaters anonymous. The actors are quite well cast. Mandy Milo Justin Sterling are all quite good.The only thing is it seems heavier on the drama than comedy so it shouldn't really be classified as a dramedy or comedy drama.
This is such a great show. The characters are so real. There is not a lot of profanity or nudity in it, which I find refreshing. I really look forward to watching the show every week. I was so disappointed that the show made the decision to make the father bisexual. Why does the gay agenda always have to be stuck in our face on every new show? It really put a damper on the show to me and my family. I prefer to educate my family on sexual choices. I am not homophobic but I prefer not to see that lifestyle. If only 3% of the population is gay, according to LBGT statistics, why do you offend 97% of your audience to placate 3%. If it gets much more involved I will have to stop watching.


                
This Is Us is entertaining and a dramatic emotional rollercoaster, (now 2019 SAGaward-winning series). It has put me through all levels of emotions including happiness, anger, and definitely sadness. It journeys a family, their beginnings, and then individually stories each cast member. The narrative is told in parallels with flashbacks, flash-forwards, & present day exploring topics of alcoholism, adoption, obesity, cancer, sexuality, poverty and the list goes on. I found myself sympathizing & empathizing as I was taken on this ride of why & how! If you want to watch a series that's not short of amazing, this is definitely one to check out.


                
I binge watched Season 1 in 3 days. Season 2 is going a little slower. I think it is interesting how a previous reviewer dumped on the Rebecca character. Jack and Rebecca are part of the reason I like show! I also like Randall and Beth a lot. Kate, Tobey, and Kevin drive me freakin' up the wall. Liked Kate at the beginning, but less and less. Both she and Tobey are just too inconsistent with their personalities. Kevin-you can tell he has a good heart, but the "woe is me" story when the guy is handsome, rich, and famous is getting really tired. No tears and I'm definitely invested, but I urge the writers to treat the audience as intelligent. We are! And if things don't improve, we're going somewhere else.


                
I love the show like pretty much everyone else in America, but the mom Rebecca (Mandy Moore).......I cannot stand her. I pretty much hate her character. She is never positive or happy. I am a mom. I understand it's hard sometimes, but not all the time. She takes herself way to seriously. Rebecca plays the martyr waaaay tooo often. She needs to take a chill pill. I am still working my way through season one. I hope her character learns how to count her blessings and be content. Whew!
I try not to wince every time she comes on. I know why Jack turned to drinking.


                
