This is the only movie review I have ever written on IMDb. I watched Casablanca witch high hopes. I KNEW I was going to love this movie after hearing for years how it's "the best" and what an amazing, moving, love story it portrays. I was very excited and ready to be swept off my rear end by this classic everyone adores. Casablanca is one of the movies I disliked the most. Actually I think it's my number one most disliked movie. It's not that I don't like old movies or I have a short attention span. I've seen Gone with the wind multiple times and love it. One of my favorite movies is a *1951 Indian, BLACK AND WHITE, ROMANCE* (!!!) movie, I've also seen that numerous times. Casablanca is as boring and plain as a movie can get. It's 102 minutes of nothing interesting happening AT ALL. Gone with the wind is a slow movie that needs patience to watch but lots of interesting things happen, there is a traceable story line and the characters are not plain and one-dimensional like in Casablanca. What happens in this movie? Is there anything interesting happening at all that anybody can point out to? I don't think so.It's just 102 minutes of random boring people talking about random boring stuff. When I read good reviews of Casablanca I have never seen or heard anyone point out to anything interesting actually happening in this movie. Just how pretty Ingrid was, how cool Bogart was, how well done the movie is, how impeccable the acting is, silly meaningless quotes like "here's looking at you kid" and just that it's a "timeless classic". I just think this whole Casablanca thing is a gimmick and a case of "the emperor's clothes". There is nothing to be well acted or well done because there is nothing happening during the whole movie. I think it would be way more interesting to just film random conversations between random people in bars.And the love story between the two main protagonists has to be the least believable I've ever seen. I enjoy and get emotionally moved very much by a love story, it doesn't even need to be very good. I cry when I read Hans Christian Andersen's "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" for eff's sake. There is absolutely zero chemistry between the two main actors. Their "love story" is completely artificial, superficial and there is zero emotion portrayed. They seem to be acquaintances at best, not even friends, not to mention lovers. I've seen better simulated "attraction" or "love" in porn dialogues than in Casablanca. No, forget that, I can detect more love and attraction when two butterflies dance together or I see rabbits mating. I'm not even kidding or exaggerating.This movie made me feel nothing at all, absolutely nothing except boredom. It's unique in this particularity. There is no other movie I can remember that made me feel NOTHING AT ALL. Bad movies at least amuse me. Casablanca is completely devoid of any emotion. Casablanca is the cinematic equivalent of a mouthful of sand. There was no character I could empathize with in the slightest way as there were no real, humane characters to empathize with. Just artificiality. I'm completely mesmerized about how can people adore this movie so much. It's boring, plain, bone-dry, story-less and features the least believable love stories I have ever seen. Excuse me, I'm not a connoisseur like you Casablanca lovers, but I have common sense. And common sense tells me a movie doesn't have to be necessarily very "entertaining" but it needs to be ENJOYABLE, reasonably ENGAGING and just in the least to have some INTERESTING things happening. Casablanca has none of this things in the slightest. Please leave aside your love for this movie, imagine for one minute you don't know who Ingrid and Bogart were and this movie was completely unknown. You've never heard a thing about this movie your entire life and you just watch it not knowing anything about it or the actors. Would you enjoy it? I guarantee you would be bored out of your mind. That is why it is not a "TIMELESS" classic. Here's two movies I would consider timeless classics: Papillon and The Good, The Bad and the Ugly. Not this bore fest. I would give Casablanca a negative rating if I could.
Why is this film considered so brilliant? How can it be a classic? It is just another shallow, formulaic, cliche-laden Hollywood love-story, typical of pre-war Hollywood. For me this film is almost undistinguishable from that other 'great' romance of the time, the nauseating 'Gone With the Wind'. At least Casablanca doesn't go on for several hours. The usual plot of old lovers reunited after many years, once again in some Hollywood interpretation of a gratuitous exotic location. Bogart looks depressed, Bergman looks pretty. And that's about all there is to it. No depth of thought or character. Flat, commercial acting from the leads, even flatter and more commercial direction and script. If you like old movies from the 40s, why not watch Citizen Kane? There's considerably more thought and originality there.And I've never understood why people think the lines "Here's looking at you kid" or "Play it again, Sam" are *so* quotably witty.


                
So I finally got around to watching Casablanca, one of the greatest movies ever made, or so I've always heard. Does it live up to its hype? In a word, no. It was maudlin and melodramatic; Ingrid Bergman was homely, no matter how many softening effects were used in the close-ups of her face (did a rodent gnaw off the sides of her nose? To say nothing of that masculine jawbone and those underdeveloped lips...); Humphrey Bogart was about as slick and charismatic as the Hunchback of Notre-Dame; and the story was undisguised war propaganda. One would have to have the mental age of 5 to think this movie was in any way great. Watchable, yes, but not great, and certainly not deserving of being on the IMDb top 250.The movie was fast-paced, which was both good and bad: good because it would've been unbearable to watch otherwise, and bad because it didn't give the viewer time to get attached to any of the characters (which is just as well, since as I've said, it was war propaganda and so the less effective, the better).Apart from a few good one-liners and patches of clever dialog, the only other positive thing I can say about it is that it was technically well made, in particular the lighting and the dynamic camera work (though I'm not personally a fan of this style of camera work, as I find it detracts from story and atmosphere). It was, however, irritating how the lighting would change whenever there was a close-up on somebody's face. What was the purpose of this? To try to mesmerize the viewer? Talk about corny.If you've never seen Casablanca before, don't feel you have to, because you ain't missing much, "kid." It's about as overrated as it gets.1 out of 10 stars, to offset the deranged "I'm giving it 10 stars but I wish I could give it more" reviews this cinematic mediocrity has been getting.


                
This movie is one big yawn after another. It concerns an illicit love affair and a lot of sitting around doing nothing for two hours. Humphrey Bogart wears a mac and smokes while various characters mooch around trying to look war torn. I fell asleep several times during watching this cheese fest and was told I never missed a thing ( except for a few characters smoking cigarettes). Also, the ending is very contrived as Bogart is dragged to the electric chair screaming and begging. The only interesting moment is the airport departure where Bogart is hanging on to the wing of the plane as it takes off shouting:" Here's looking at you, kid!" through the window in a vain attempt to stop her leaving. The only truly enjoyable scene in the movie.Very, very overrated, Sam.
I'm always baffled by the way that this film is held in such high esteem. Is this because it's old? Maybe it's because it's in black and white? Whatever the reason, it's certainly not because it's a great film. In fact this is one of the funniest films I've ever seen. Wooden acting by wooden actors on wooden sets, (what about that ridiculous cardboard aeroplane? LOL). Forget what people say about this movie. Ignore the romantic gushing. Why? Because it's just plain rubbish. It's not even good enough to be labelled a 'B' movie. Quite possibly it's a 'C' movie, if there is such a thing. Nope, they certainly don't make 'em like this anymore.


                
Style?  What style?  This had no style, and the script was one cheesy line after the other.  It is the perfect soap opera, it fooled people to believe it is more than what it is.  And aside from Bogart and Bergman, the cast was overacting to an extreme. It all feels Disneyesque, with a touch of musical wannabe.  Also, I can't help but laugh at the special effects involved in this film, and the bad editing at times.  Talk about hurrying a film's production...Don't get me wrong.  I've enjoyed "The Godfather", the "Star Wars" trilogy, "Lawrence of Arabia", "Citizen Kane", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", "A Bridge on the River Kwai", anything by Stanley Kubrick, and many others that are on the alleged "classics" list.  But this one I detest.  Burn it now, I say...


                
This movie was not "a masterpiece", it is actually a piece of something else.  It had a weak plot, atrocious acting and a pathetic ending.  Also, it was very annoying.  Only people swayed by the almighty popular opinion would claim they like this film.


                
The acting is cheesy (Bogart is his usual plastic self), but acceptable considering the time it was made.  The dialogue is only good if you pretend that it's done tongue in cheek (which it isn't -- and if you are of the opinion that lines like "Is that cannon fire or the beating of my heart?" and "I can't think anymore, so you think for both of us!" are not laughable, then you are wallowing in self-denial.  I'll bet you saw Titanic more than twice in the theaters, too...)This is often called a war movie, but don't be fooled -- it's even less about war than Gone With the Wind, which is to say that there *is* a war happening, but it's largely irrelevant as a plot contrivance (which, incidentally, is entirely inaccurate from a historical prospective.  There was no such thing as a letter of transit).In essence, a glorified chick-flick which will hopefully fall away into nostalgic obscurity as my generation continually thrusts spectacular films by Kubrick (may he rest in peace), Fincher (well, Fight Club and Seven, anyway)and Ridley into the forefront.


                
OK.. I don't understand why people praise this as the best movie of all time? I just don't find anything special in this movie. The film starts real sloooooooow and I almost fell asleep waiting for Bogart's character to appear and I waited half an hour for Ingrid's character to appear. A real disappoinment!


                
The movie is predictable, the lines are predictable, Bogart chain smokes all the time. The ending is predictable. The acting is stiffed. People watching the plane flying over looks like they were acting.I went to comatose over 10 times. Rewatched it by hanging myself upside down with my pet bat and still couldn't feel anything for the movie. I was again forced fed to watch to understand why these monkey brained movie critics liked about the movie and I still couldn't stand it. It is obvious that Ingrid Bergman is running away, and why is it that Bogart don't get a bit suspicious? He could get suspicious and just still like the woman with a double feelings for her by reminiscing that incidence.Oh yeah bitter Bogart, and yeah cynical Bogart became idealistic in the end. And good friend the stupid cop also decides to become idealistic also, but what are the mathematical odds against this scenario? But isn't that stupid? Isn't the ending a bit messy for Bogart and the cop just for just silly women? I mean the ending is so predictable and I guessed the ending of the movie since the beginning of the romance, breakup and welcome back and another (I will not mention the ending)... but you could have guessed.Couldn't the ending be like this: Bogart doesn't even have to sell his entire business - he can just get a partnership and still retain the interests, and what happened to poor Sam the piano player - throw away an old pal and cop and Bogart become fugitive? No way! Even in real life, it would be fair to say that if I were Bogart, I would dump the woman anyway since she had a previous boyfriend. It just not credible. And what to do if Bogart shot the police who tries to inform the authorities? Simple just pay your local cop under the table and it's business as usual.Do you really need to sell the ownership of Cafe Americain? That would be a stupid idea. Even if Bogart was under house arrest, he can still escape and yet still maintain his control through his old pal the Piano player Sam and if that's not possible just get another partnership to run the show. He can also retain control by through his banks and his check signing, etc. without having to be physically present at Cafe Americain.Again poor choices of Bogart a cynical man should have some business shrewdness like him should have been a bit more practical in his business affair without having to sacrifice any idealism for love, romance or anything else that comes his way.Is there other ways to NOT SELL Bogart business? Yes there are other ways. You can lease the business on a 10 year basis with furniture, equipment, Sam the piano player etc. and once the lease is over, he can get the ownership back. Or how about another idea, franchising? Just franchise Cafe Americain to your competitors and collect royalties. I mean there are a lot of ways out here, but no one who watches the movie tries to imagine the best way out for these poor creatures (Bogart, cop and Sam). The cop in the end of the story is very unlikely to run away, but he can be just part of the cover-up. In fact there weren't any witness anyway. And why would he do the cover-up? Simple: he also gets the commissions from the Roulette wheel.Because of the messy ending and see-sawing of story, I can see clearly that the writers were a bit messy and undecided and therefore decide to put every trash into the movie and crossed their fingers, while making sure the main point of the "fair ending" is o.k. but did not clear all the loose ends.So much for a story that is poorly written! Get real. The story is not even close to realism!


                
I admit that most films before 1960 usually leave me cold since the acting is almost always stagy but I though I'd give this and The Maltese Falcon a chance.  Oh well.  VERY stagy acting, with an awful, pretentious soundtrack. It all came off as rather silly.  I just couldn't buy any of it.  I get the same impression from any film by Kazan.


                
Casablanca is want so many claim to be the best of all time. Whenever I listen to this movie and I hear "As Time Goes By", I start to blubber. The script, direction, and camera work is absolutely amazing. Bergman and Bogart were amazing also and looked like they were meant for their parts. I found it so gripping when they were on screen together. What a dynamic duo. The story between Rick and Ilsa was so compelling in every way. The story also led into the narrative of Victor Laszlo (Henreid) and Sam (played by the superb Dooley Wilson who sang "As Time Goes By"). Another great part of the movie was in Rick's bar club where Ilsa and Rick met again in Casablanca. But as far as the songs, plot and characters go, I thought the utmost part of the movie that made me think "wow" was without a doubt the ending. The ending was so action-packed and heart-pounding it almost took my breath away.Overall, Casablanca is a timeless classic that will never go by our minds.


                
I wish I could give no stars to this film as it was so rubbish. It was so boring I thought I was going to cry. The film is about a man who runs a cafe in Casablanca (where the film gets its title), but instead of hot drinks his cafe serves actual alcoholic drinks, as demonstrated in several scenes where people act drunk after drinking them (either from a glass or the bottle).He meets a woman but instead of falling in love with her husband he falls in love with her and they make plan to escape together and go to America. That's it. That's what the whole film is about. I told you it was boring. The actors look miserable except the piano player who is the man's friend who looks happy.It's also pretty bad to be filmed in black and white at a time when colour was invented already which just made it more boring.


                
Casablanca(Spanish for White House) is one of those old classics that every movie-fan should see once, and I saw it for the first time recently.  I wasn`t expecting much of this movie since it was very old(1942), but the movie still managed to impress me.  All the actors are good but I wasn`t impressed by Bogarts stiff character in this movie(I have not seen him in other movies). 8/10


                
