I'm not going to slate the film any more than that, as millions still love it now, so it must be me that's in the wrong, but it was such a hard film to watch.The acting was faultless. But that's it really. The ending going against typical Hollywood happy ones, is the only other praise I could give this.The 1st half hour or so of Casablanca wasn't bad at all & set up some fairly interesting premises. Likewise the last 15 minutes was an ending that still stands up well today. But the period between 30-75 minutes was 3/4 of an hour of chronic boredom. There was no character to connect to or like until the finale & what plot there was, was in no way enjoyable. Good cinematography, romance & Nazi's together seem to account for the popularity of this, but in reality it was poorly executed & lacked a plot that could hold the viewer's attention.There was too much dialogue sometimes & seemed an attempt to cram as many 'cool' lines into the film as possible. Some of them were good & fitted in well, but others, particularly "here's looking at you kid" don't hold up well at all, & by the 3rd or 4th time, made you cringe.A 50 word review of the film makes it seem fairly straightforward. Granted, the main plot was, but I had real trouble understanding the sub-plots & relevance of some of the secondary events & storylines or characters.Though this wasn't an awful film at all & may go up a mark or two more with another viewing. But like Citizen Kane which I found far worse, it seems another one thats liked because it's been drummed into everyone for 50 years that it's a classic & so we're supposed to like it. But then what do I know, I'm just an ordinary bloke.3/10


                
I found this movie mildly engaging, and that may be a gross overstatement. The characters are cliché, with very little depth. There is nothing I could see particularly insightful or original in this movie. It was as bland as a baked potato with no garnishings, not even some salt. Perhaps this is the type of movie that people who don't like to have to think to much, like. The plot is not so bad, it had potential, but seemed to be left to wither in the hands of a weak script and somewhat inept acting. Who is Bogart supposed to be, James Bond with a broken heart? Trying to put this ultra cool James Bond character into the "real" world, just doesn't work for me. I never really find Bogart's character believable, so I never really connect with the character. The catch phrase lines, like "Here's lookin' at you kid." are as profound as Schwatzenager's "I'll be back". If this was an action type adventure story like Raider's of the Lost ark, I could overlook some of these things. But this movie seems to be first and foremost a love story. And in that sense, I think it fails. I could go on with much more criticism of this movie, but I don't want to beet it to death. It is not an awful movie, more of a very light cute little thing. But one of the greatest movies of all time??? Eeeh Gods, how can that be?!!! Perhaps Hollywood is not so off the mark when they dumb down movies for the general public.


                
I read all the other "user's comments", and found out there are only 3 among those 54 who didn't like this movie!! Well, I will add to that short list. Ever since I was a kid, I heard of Casablanca as "one of the best movies ever made". Sorry, folks. I watched it three times, and the more I watch the less I like it.The characters are as empty as sea-shells. Bogart (whom I never found a bit attractive anyway) mumbles through the story, as a one-dimensional "cynical with a big heart" (my god, what a novelty!!), Bergman cries a lot, but as a compliant female does what she's told and follows her husband: Rick is a man, he knows what's best for her, and her husband needs her support, he's a war hero!! I would rather be alone, anyway, if I had to  choose between dull Laszlo and cowardly Rick!Fortunately Claude Rains can be funny, though utterly unlikely as an officer who at the last moment chooses to "be good". Nothing is convincing!I have nothing against "classics", as Parca (another user) said before: I love Lawrence of Arabia, The Night of the Hunter (now THAT is a movie!!), Gone With the Wind... But Casablanca cannot be worshipped as one of the "best ever". It's the forties' version of a pop-corn movie. Should you see it if you haven't yet? Yeah, why not? Otherwise, how can you judge?Just don't think you HAVE TO love it.


                
Who can't help but to like this film? It has a rugged, square-jawed hero, bad guys (not just Nazis, but the French who would betray their own country to the Nazis), a pretty girl (very pretty), exotic locales, and lines that everyone can recite, a la Rocky Horror Picture Show. Lots of fun. However, the fact that this is on the IMDB top 250 is sad. There are at least 250 films better than it (notice I say "better than" not "that I like more," nor "that you like more"). Degustibus non disputandus est. I will grant that. However, art has tougher criteria than "I like it, and my opinion counts because I am Me!" Casablanca is a disjointed muddle of a film. It is cliche ridden, as subtle as a ton of dynamite, and does not come close to true masterpieces of film art. Want to see a good wartime film with good heros and bad villains? See Rome, Open City or La Notte di San Lorenzo.For a better, deeper critique of what is wrong with this film, I suggest reading Umberto Eco's essay on it. It is (I think), found in How to Travel with a Salmon or Travels in Hyperreality.


                
Okay...I have watched Casablanca over...and over...and over again thanks to Early afternoon movies on free TV and rained out ball games and the like. I know I'm not going to get a lot of love from my review but...sorry folks, this film does nothing for me.To be fair, I will admit, I don't possess a great affection for movies with love stories. In fact I am probably the only person who didn't cry watching "Love Story" and my ideal film of unconditional love with overcoming problems is "Rosemary's Baby".The greatest American picture of all time? I can't give it my vote. I like "Gone With the Wind", "The Wizard of OZ", "Sunset Blvd.", "Ben-Hur (the remake)" and a few more. Casablanca is way down the line for me.Okay...boy meets girl again, boy has bar, Sam plays the piano..girl is married to WWII guy...boy lets girl go. I was ready to drop kick her on the plane myself. They BORED me! Now...it could be that I am not really too astute with WWII and this romance being a backdrop of it. Way before my generation and that could be why I am socially retarded on grasping this one. But just like with "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof", I'm just not feeling this film and I think it has been very much overrated.


                
First, the cast - full of those annoying "comic-relief" that studios stuck in every movie from the 30's. Yes, I said the 30's, because Casablanca is much more a product of that decade than the 40's, which would deliver some truly great films. Those "funny" characters make Casablanca more like a menagerie than something with an intelligent plan. Humphrey Bogart - a great actor in The Caine Mutiny, Treasure of the Sierra Madre, and even Petrified Forest...but not here. Totally unbelievable and unconvincing as a romantic lead. He doesn't even deliver as an anti-hero in this worn-out, overrated piece of pre-WWII propaganda. Ingrid Bergman - a beautiful lady, and a hundred times better in everything else she did...but a cartoon here. Claude Rains - typical 30's supporting role...goofy, but with a big heart; goes "straight" in the end. 30's nonsense.The story - lame and predictable. Why did people love Casablanca? Because it stirred their patriotism at a time when Germany was threatening to bulldoze Great Britain and everywhere else. It never was a great, much less an exceptional film.Nowadays, Casablanca coasts along on its shaky reputation, held up as a "masterpiece", but smelling like the aged soaper that it is.


                
This movie, frankly, does not deserve its high ranking. The plot, such as it is, is that Rick is trying to run a cafe in Casablanca, refugee zone, where Victor Laslo and his spouse Ilsa, a former lover of Rick, show up during World War 2. Victor must get out, but Rick, who has accidentally gotten some papers of transit (which are widely known to be a nonsense concept in reality) Somehow, Victor's got to get those papers, and we're supposed to be entertained by a lot of people just standing around trying to be witty, and often (except Claude Rains a few times) falling flat on their face. This has got to be the worst possible way to approach a story about World War Two. It's about a LOVE STORy, and, of course, a Hollywood type where affairs are justified so long as the parties are attractive enough. No real explorations into what was going on at the time are made, and frankly, the "All Nazis Are Bad, But We Allies Can't Help But Be Good." stance frankly was old by then: it's TRIUMPH OF THE WILL reversed only not as well made. I mean, yes the Nazi Party was the most blatantly evil in existence (maybe the Japanese one was as bad if you study what happened in China) but that doesn't mean every nazi was ready to shoot at a moment's notice, and not every officer a more arrogant version of Colonel Klink. Wrapping up: This movie is obsolete trash not worthy of your time.


                
I'm sad to say it, but I found this film to be extremely boring. In my opinion, it dragged on. It did it's job in making you dislike the oppressive Nazi soldiers, and making you want Rick and Ilsa together; but as for holding my attention, it didn't do so. Watching Rick develop as a character was nice to see, as he was very monotone in the beginning and his feelings came up more and more by the end. The best part was the very end, where Rick shoots the German soldier and Renault lets him get away with it. The scene was put together smoothly and really made you like the characters.Another good compilation of scenes were the flashbacks between Rick and Ilsa. Rick's personality was completely different from that of the present. When he was stood up, it made you feel bad and then completely understand his cool composure through he rest of the film. He's a smart guy, and under his hardened exterior lies a loving and caring person.
Let me start by saying that I understand the allure of this film. It's a classic. I get that. However, I did not find it very entertaining. In fact, I fell asleep toward the end. I have never been a fan of black and white movies, and this is exactly why. The storyline moved quite slowly with very little action. The acting was predictable and hollow. The love story seemed rushed. You never get the sense that the two really cared about each other while courting in Paris. In conclusion, I would not recommend this film to anyone who isn't a true film buff as those are the only people that can really appreciate a picture like this.
I love movies and I don't care when a movie was made, I rate them on its substance. I don't understand people who say "it's a good movie for it's time". What? The time is now and u rate the movie at the time u watch it. And if it a movie loses something for you over time then that says a lot about the movie. So say u watch a movie when you are s teenager and you live it, but then watch the same movie in your 40s and think the movie is horrible, most likely the movie is horrible you just didn't know any better when you were a teenager.sorry but Casablanca is slow, boring and the dialogue is terrible. Now maybe the problem with most the older movies is the didn't have a lot of money put Into production, so every movie is like watching a play on the big screen. They relied heavily on dialogue, charcter development and good acting. Casablanca fails on all of these.


                
"Casablanca" is definitely a movie that I would need to watch more than once. Each scene is so jam packed with information about either the love story between Rick and Ilsa, or the café, or the Nazis. Each scene is very busy with so many people; your eyes do not know where to look first. It is almost as if it is too many stories in one film. All the the sets of the film were rather beautiful. In the city of Casablanca there are stone sidewalks, and dim lights. Ricks Café and the Blue Parrot are just two of the many "cool" places to be in Casablanca. The characters also fit in well with the story. Although I did not care much for Ilsa. This is because it always seemed as though she wanted to "have her cake and eat it too." She was married to a caring and loyal man, and she decides to cheat on him with the mysterious Rick. For this reason I very much so enjoy the ending when Rick forces Ilsa to go on the plane with her husband. We expected the opposite out of such a suave love story. For being known as a "classic" I truthfully expected more out of this film.
Im lost; is pretty mush the feeling I had until about an hour or so into the movie.You can figure out some part's, like rick owns the club, and the Germans are invading, and there some girl that he use to know has just returned. Thats about all I understood until ricks little flashback scene to Paris. I enjoyed Rick's character and the character of the piano player but other than that I was not impressed. One thing this movie made clear is that they use to drink and smoke a lot. Just about every scene there doing both, constantly. The relationship between Rick and Ilsa Lund does get a little more interesting when you find out there history but in the end Rick doesn't end up with here so who care's? yeah he did the right thing because he knew she'd have a better life with Victor Laszlo but that just ruined the movie for me. Maby is just me but I wanted Ilsa to end up with Rick. I thought movie should have given a little more background info a little earlier and the film would have been much more enjoyable.
Everyone rating it 10/10 so saying its a perfect film. I feel people do it to inflate their own ego to seem well educated and follow the same sort of rating system as the critics. Its got hammy acting and is very slow the film can be taken down to 20minutes


                
