Once in a while you find yourself stumbling upon a film whose reputation precedes it . It doesn't matter what anyone on this site or out in the wider world says about it . CASABLANCA is a case in point . Anything I or anyone else writers here is entirely superfluous because any insight has already been said and anyone saying anything negative is instantly considered a contrition merely for the sake of it . CASABLANCA is cinematic legend . End of . It should be noted however that despite being broadcast on a relatively regular basis in the 1970s on British television it hasn't appeared very often in recent years . It might be wrong to point out that it was a mainstay in the top ten of the IMDb top 250 but nowadays it's sliding down the list as more people are exposed to it and perhaps think its legendary status isn't as deserved as it could have been . Perhaps I too belong to that camp The reputation means so many people have actually forgotten what the film is about . Slightly patriotic flag waver where the forces of democracy get one over on the vile Nazis , slightly romantic pot boiler , and very much redemption plot it's a film that does have a feelgood factor . The story revolves around Rick , an embittered cynic who is only interested in profiting from the war and as events turn out he's about to discover that there's somethings far more important than money . Everything could have been done a little bit better especially when you consider Michael Curtiz is very much a contender for best film director of the 20th Century who made a lot of differing genre films and was always very good at what he did . His problem was that his films weren't marketed for a bitterly cynical audience in the 21st Century and seem a little bit too old fashioned when seen today . That said the up side is you enjoy classic Hollywood with its emphasis on stardom , dialogue and feel good factor there's a lot to admire in CASABLANCA but you have go in to it with the certain knowledge that it's not quite the masterwork its legendary reputation suggests it is That is the main problem with Michael Curtiz in general and CASABLANCA in particular . A film like ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES doesn't contain one single scene or line of dialogue that can be classed as realistic in anyway and a film like that which has lines such as " Okay fellas let's say a prayer for a kid who couldn't run as fast as me " would see pop corn and drinks thrown at the screen in 2014 . You have to meet these classic Hollywood movies on there own terms and sometimes cynicism gets in the way


                
At last I found the chance to see this time-honored movie.(I am just twenty-one)How could I describe Casablanca? It is a thriller that has an unpredictable ending?It is a romance for people who have stuck between Scylla and Charybdis to make a hearth-breaking choice at least &#305;nce in their lives? It is a drama for everyone who has lost a love in their long lives? Well Casablanca is actually cannot be included in one genre, it isn't just a romance either. It shows that romance is not all about a slushy emotionalism. It is all about feelings yes but it includes drama,a realistic nature,a realistic fight for love in a war-torn French soil. I guess that's why people still like it.Just because today some people still think romance is just about mawkishness we don't see a new Casablanca around and it's highly possible possible that we won't see again but Casablanca will be always with us.


                
The widespread popular reverence for Casablanca is rooted not in innovation, but rather in perfection. One would be hard-pressed to discern anything particularly radical about the film's primary components. Though captivating in their own way, the story, the characters and the direction are modest and unassuming. Yet it is a modesty tightly wrapped in excellence and precision. Simply put, this is as good as conventional cinematic storytelling ever gets. During the height of World War II, Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) is the impervious American owner of a Casablancan nightclub, serving as the epicenter of social unease in what is still unoccupied France. The unexpected arrival of Czechoslovakian resistance organizer Viktor Lazslo (Paul Henreid) and his dazzling wife Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) forces Rick to revisit his painful past and take sides in a war he had previously tried to ignore.The alluring, cosmopolitan backdrop of colonial North Africa compliments a remarkable cast of three-dimensional characters, who exhaust and renew their humanity amidst war's cataclysmic turmoil. Negative elements, including the unfortunate absence of native characters, as well as the demeaning treatment of the nightclub's black entertainer (Dooley Wilson, condescendingly referred to as "the boy" despite his advanced age), are not strong enough to withstand the overwhelming intensity of a truly exceptional film. Seven stars out of ten.


                
To me, it only deserve a score of 8 out of 10 at most. The story is not so great, not so moving, though it is a good movie to watch. Since so much people ranked it so highly, I guess the reasons are: too big a time lap between WWII and the start of millennium, and too much of the movie copied by various other movies.


                
Casablanca is about a club owner (Bogart) who has in his position to paper that will let anyone leave WWII Casablanca no questions asked. Bogart tries to keep everyone happy, which included the French police, Nazi officers, customers, and his one competitor. Through out the movie Bogart is is debating weather or not he should help the husband of his past lover, who happens to be a leader of a large underground movement against the Nazis. In the end he helps them escape just in time, before the Nazi officers arrive at the airport, and he and the police chief become friends once again. I give this film a 7 out of 10 because I didn't like the movie that much but i did find it enjoyable.
War is not that bad, I get defeated, you occupy me. How dare they are, with the world crumbling, they pick to fall in love. there is war out there, there is pain, sorrow, hopelessness.but surrounded by death and fear, they decide to set their hearts free, to enjoy their very life no matter how much overwhelming. In any category sorted by anyone, Casablanca definitely is included as one of the classics. Its genre is combination of war, romance and drama, and that is exactly what makes it so delightful. Humphrey Bogart (Rick) undoubtedly was one of the finest actors of all time and unanimously speaking, Casablanca is his best. Rick is an excellent epitome of a guy who gets tough and tougher without loosing tender. His former love leaves him high and dry in a train station in Paris and after countless restless nights of pining and sorrow he has moved on and began to run a night club in north of Africa. He is a prominent man in the town ,witty, arrogant, disdainful, clever and showing no interest for politics in spite of his former records .but deep down inside he is so heart-tender ,one of a kind lover and caring about people's lives. Then, one they out of blue, Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) , his ex, walks into the bar, with her husband, demanding Sam(piano player) to play "as time goes by", and what is more instigating than a piece of music that reminds you of a sacred memory?! Greater the love, greater the tragedy when it's over<U+0085> In this movie there exist two distinguished epic scenes that emotionally for sure will change your heart beats. Once approximately in the middle of the movie there was a scene aka as 'The Battle of the Anthems' in which a group of German soldiers had come into Rick's cafe and were intoxicatingly singing the German National anthem loudly. Victor Lazlo(Ilsa's husband), the leader of the French Resistance, cannot stand this act and while the rest of the club stared reluctantly with fear at the Germans, ordered the band to play the French National Anthem, accompanied by a confirming nod from Rick, the band begins playing, with Victor singing at the top of his voice as a pioneer. This inspires the whole club to begin singing along and the Germans are forced to surrender and sit down at their table, humbled by the crowd's dedication. In my book, this was the most appealing part of the movie.In the second place, in the half way through the film a Bulgarian girl comes to Rick asking if Captain Renault is trustworthy. She and her husband are refugees. there is war in their country, they have left their house, they have no money, they are fleeing from death, from misery from fear. they need visas or something and it is inferred that captain Renault has promised her to trade the paperwork they need with couple of minutes of her time<U+0085> .now she is in a dilemma. Frightened, hopeless and fragile. suspended between their security and her self- esteem, now she wants to know if she grants her body to Captain Renault will he do them the favor back or not. And in the case if he does in Rick's opinion what she is going to do is forgivable?! Ilsa flashes in Rick's mind and he replies the Bulgarian girl in a line:" go back to Bulgaria". Stating that in his idea it's better to suffer and murdered than selling one-self. Though he afterwards he does a marvelous thing and helps the husband to win in gambling and provide the money they need to regulates their migration.To put the whole thing in a nutshell, Casablanca is a mixture of all life giving elements. overlapping of humor and drama, love and war, toughness and heart-tenderness. And hell yeah it is amusing.
Casablanca cannot be fully appreciated until its audiences realize just how much it relates to history. Being one of this movie's audience members of today robs me of exactly what the feelings of society were when this movie came out. During my cinema history class, we discussed the significance of this film which served great importance. Although the movie had a bit of a dark view to it (well, it was in black and white) and it seemed a bit confusing at times, it was overall a great movie. I must admit, I did get a bit lost and I felt that the storyline tended to be a bit clear. However, this tale of a war-based romance is gripping and intriguing. The main character, Rick, faces huge life hurdles<U+0085>including facing and finding his long lost love. It is a universal theme of abandoned love, with a historical twist of World War II. Overall, this wartime romance and adventure is worth the watch.


                
The widespread popular reverence for Casablanca is rooted not in innovation, but rather in perfection. One would be hard-pressed to discern anything particularly radical about the film's primary components. Though captivating in their own way, the story, the characters and the direction are modest and unassuming. Yet it is a modesty tightly wrapped in excellence and precision. Simply put, this is as good as conventional cinematic storytelling ever gets. During the height of World War II, Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) is the impervious American owner of a Casablancan nightclub, serving as the epicenter of social unease in what is still unoccupied France. The unexpected arrival of Czechoslovakian resistance organizer Viktor Lazslo (Paul Henreid) and his dazzling wife Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) forces Rick to revisit his painful past and take sides in a war he had previously tried to ignore. The alluring, cosmopolitan backdrop of colonial North Africa compliments a remarkable cast of three- dimensional characters, who exhaust and renew their humanity amidst war's cataclysmic turmoil. Negative elements, including the unfortunate absence of native characters, as well as the demeaning treatment of the nightclub's black entertainer (Dooley Wilson, condescendingly referred to as "the boy" despite his advanced age), are not strong enough to withstand the overwhelming intensity of a truly exceptional film. Seven stars out of ten.
This is considered to be one of the greatest movies of all time. I loved this movie but I found that there is a lot of hype surrounding it. The hype does not say that the movie is better than it is, but rather tries to entice us to watch the movie when we don't need it. Casablanca can and does stand on its own. It is a movie that does not need advertising for if it appears on television people will watch it.The year is 1942 and France has fallen to Nazi invaders. People are fleeing Europe to America to escape the war and it is only through Lisbon that they can do that. So they go from Paris to Marselle across the Mediterranean and then across the Sahara to Casablanca where they catch a plane to Lisbon. Casablanca thus becomes a refugee city and a haven of pirates and thieves and people desperate to get to Lisbon. The only way out is by plane which is controlled by the local police through the Nazis. Casablanca is called neutral territory but in reality the Nazis have a lot of control over the city.The movie is based around a man named Rick (Humphery Bogart) who runs the Cafe Americain. He was a mercenary who fought for the Royals in the Spanish Civil War and ran guns into Ethiopia during the Italian invasion. He now sits in Casablanca, after fleeing France, remaining strictly neutral. The movie is about how Rick is pulled by both sides and the desire he has for a woman that is forbidden to him. A woman who he knew and lost in Paris and now returns with her husband. Rick is torn by anger and frustration with the woman that he loved who left him alone in Paris.Rick struggles with the side that he is on. He is a successful business man but he remains aloof from his customers. His only friend is the piano player Sam (though the line "Play it again Sam" does not seem to appear in the movie). He has been emotionally hurt by this woman and because of this he cannot have any other relationships. Yet we see his character change when the woman appears. The chief of police notice this when Rick sits down and has a drink with her and Victor Laslow, the head of the resistance. Rick struggles with love and hatred for this woman to come to the end realising that his love for her means that he wants her to be happy and that is to have her leave with Victor. Even though he wants her, and suggests betraying Victor so that he might escape Casablanca with her, he realises that he cannot and sends her off in the airplane at the end (though the airplane scene at the end isn't as sad as people have made it out to be).I don't think I need to say how great this movie is. It stands up on its own. It is a movie where the characters interact in a real way and grow and change. They have a solid background, one that rises up and brings them great pain when they face each other again. Casablanca is not as dark as the Maltese Falcon, yet it is a great movie and little more needs to be said.
I would like to say first that this movie is not super realistic or would I consider it the best of all time, but it is a very very good movie, despite some unrealistic factors, and I find it so ridiculous reading some of these comments from people who rate it with 1 star or something of the like who write about it as if they have never seen it. I read things such as "Ilsa is seen almost jumping out of the plane to get to Rick".. and i think "did you actually watch the movie? or did you want to just say you didn't like it because everyone else does?" You should really watch it before you write down comments about that make you seem like a child. Sure, some people don't like it because of the accents, the black and white, or for their reasons, but a lot of people do and you sound stupid talking about things that never happened in the movie. Black and white is okay in movies, there are a lot of good black and white movies, and a lot were made when colour was around but they wanted the effect of black and white. Directors and producers have their reasons, and the Casablanca would look stupid in colour anyways. Think before you talk because the people who like this movie, don't appreciate your useless aspects of a movie that you seem to know nothing about.


                
Casablanca is included on the list of the top ten movies that everyone should see in their lifetime. This is a classic movie that is loved by many. The plot and genre is very appealing to many people and I believe that Casablanca is definitely worth seeing.The plot of Casablanca is a classic love story and focuses on a women torn between two men. This plot has been demonstrated in many other movies and books, but it is presented especially well in this film. Even for people who do not enjoy a good love story, this movie is still appealing. It takes place in Africa during World War II and can appeal to audiences who enjoy films in this setting. The plot depicts the trouble that people went through to come to America and be free during this time. Overall, Casablanca is attractive to all audiences and is accepted as a classic movie.To enhance the excellent plot of the film, director Michael Curtiz used many filming techniques to make the movie more appealing. The cast was carefully chosen and the actors and actresses did a very good job in depicting the characters that they played. While the film is older and there are not many special effects, Casablanca is still appealing to younger audiences today due to the plot, cast, and other techniques.Many other filming techniques used in Casablanca that help to enhance the movie include the use of sets, scenes, shots, and lighting. All of these characteristics must be present to make a good film and all are apparent in Casablanca. The lighting in the movie is especially well done to enhance the mood of each scene. Without even listening to the dialogue, a movie viewer is able to decide the mood being conveyed through the lighting of the set.Flashbacks are also an important part of this film. Instead of starting the plot in France when Ilsa and Rick first met, the writers began it when the lovers met a second time in Casablanca. Effective flashbacks were used to show the past and make the movie more interesting. Through the use of fading from one time to another, the film has more excitement and keeps a readers attention.Overall, Casablanca is an excellent film that should definitely be seen. The movie uses many good techniques to appeal to viewers and is a classic love story and war video.


                
'Casablanca' exceeded all my expectations, when I watched it this morning! I mean before I didn't think I would like it at all, but I know it's revolutionised cinema, and I can now see exactly why. I watched this film in my Film Studies Lecture at Kingston University with about 200 other people. I haven't seen many films that are that old, but I now appreciate that these films were for another generation, and used all the technology available at the time to it's fullest, and if it wouldn't of been for these films, we wouldn't see the sort of films we love today. I thought Humphrey Bogart was extremely good in this film - he came across as a very cool character, and by the end I wanted to emulate his unforgettable lines such as: 'Here's Looking At You Kid', and of course the very final line in the film. This film also teaches many valuable lessons, that all of us can learn from. Finally, I recommend this film to everyone because of the epic values it portrays. Believe all the hype surrounding this absolute masterpiece!


                
I specifically watched this movie because I had heard so many good things about it, most of them coming from imdb. I went into this movie expecting something good because of how many people (including my parents) said it was great and since it was up so high on the top 250 I had much confidence for it to be great.  I am only speaking honestly though when I say that it wasn't that good. I mean I guess I could say I enjoyed it and all. But I just don't see what everybody is so crazy about.  It had some good moments and all but what else was so good? I didn't even think Bogart was that good. This is the first Bogart movie I've seen though so maybe he has better performances. I just recently became interested in movies and I am trying to watch many of the really old greats.  I recently watched The Third Man, Ben-Hur, Gone With the Wind, and Lawrence of Arabia.  Comparing all of these to Casablanca, they are all better.  And Casablanca and Gone With the Wind are constantly feuded over and I have to say even though I didn't like the four hours of Gone With the Wind, it was still a better movie.  I mean I think saying number 6 is so wrong.  There is no way it could be number 6. But please I would like someone to e-mail and give me some of their thoughts and maybe we can talk just movies.Overall Rating for Casablanca: 7/10


                
There are some undertones of male dominance to the romance that don't necessarily work, especially considering that there's only one proper character involved, but the rest of the picture is a layered, vibrant and sometimes quite dark portrayal of a unique setting that's heightened when you remember that the flick itself was made long before it was clear that the Nazis it portrays weren't going to win the war. 'Casablanca (1942)' is a cynical but well-drawn piece with a gruff lead who's callously charismatic and charming in that straight-talking kind of way. It manages to make you care for quite a small story while highlighting that, no matter how insignificant it may actually be in the grand scheme of things, it means the world to the characters caught in the middle of it. 7/10


                
My dad loves this movie. He truly loves it. He has tried to get me to watch it with him many times, although, I'll admit, I have been resistant. He even says that it is his favorite movie of all time, despite having it come out more than a decade before he was born. I did like it. As always, I tried to pay attention to as many details as possible, and also, as always, I found it easy to find my favorite characters (Both of them more minor, in this case). I was not particularly fond of the topic, mainly because I at first did not see much conflict in the movie, but I understood it further as I went on. I did admire some of the shadow work throughout the film and Humphrey Bogart gave a great performance. I personally greatly enjoyed Sam, the Piano Player, and I thought that the romance that occurred between Rick and Ilsa was a nice touch. In conclusion, I say that it is definitely a movie worth watching, and that it is a classic movie for good reason, I also greatly enjoyed the ending.


                
Having often heard this title thrown around for years it does live up to its hype. This takes place in the south of France during WWII. The main character is an American who has chosen to start up a club in the city of Casablanca. Humphrey Bogart plays Rich, the American as he is split between choosing the love of his life or saving her and her husband who is a resistance fighter against the Nazi's. The movie was a little controversial because it was released to the general public after the attack on Pearl Harbor and after we entered the war against the axis powers; but before we knew that we were going to win the war.This is reflected in the movie and shows our hopefulness as by the end of the film Rich chooses to step up and fight against the Nazi's as he once did before opening his club.I believe this was a reflection of the WWII era as his actions reflect the action the USA took during the years prior to Pearl Harbor. What I mean by this is during the early years we would sell guns and supply the allied powers with aid but when the war came to our doorstep we stepped up and did what was right. I think movie goers at the time really enjoyed this movie for that reason. Overall I would have to say this was a very good film for the earlier 1940's era of film making. The use of light in the film was done brilliantly as an almost precursor to the Film Noir genera which would come later in that decade. By this I mean the use of light to set the mood of the scene as either a dark gloomy feel with very little light and the use of shadows to open shots with much light to show a lighter more comical side of Rich.


                
I have spent years upon years being told that this is one of the greatest movies of all time in detail. And while, now that I have seen it, I can absolutely see where those feelings are coming from, they didn't translate for me personally BECAUSE of the detail in which people discussed this film. I knew the big ending and pretty much the entire plot going in. It made it a little harder for me to get emotionally connected to what was happening. The best surprise for me was just how much I loved the relationship between Rick and Louie. I can see now why this is an iconic friendship. Tied to this, I loved the message that every ending has its own beginning as Rick and Louis walk off into the mist together. It's a nice change of pace in a day where the end of every film ends with the couple riding off into the sunset. Here, we have the opposite, but it didn't leave me feeling remotely sad or cheated. I was satisfied with knowing Rick had made the right decision and that he had Louis at his side.
Just watched Casablanca and really enjoyed it! I like the atmosphere of Casablanca itself, a place where no one intends to spend much time but many people get stuck. I like how we meet the characters first and then find out the events that have shaped their uncomfortable looks. Rick is a great character.Casablanca has tons of classic lines - here's looking at you, of all the gin joints, maybe not today maybe not tomorrow, etc. Also, Ingrid Bergman is gorgeous :) A very chivalrous ending too. Humphrey fooled me - I didn't think he would abandon his chance of happiness. Sam is brilliant, an intriguing character as he follows Rick around the world.
After watching this romantic drama set during World War II, it is clear why it has been named one of the best movies of all time. First off, the acting is brilliant. There is a deep feeling of raw, pure emotion that basically the entire cast convey convincingly. Secondly, the cinematography is captivating. The dark lighting and heavy shadows add a dramatic feel, while the use of close-ups help focus the viewers attention and get a better understanding of the thought and feeling behind the story. My only problem with the film was that at times it seemed a bit hard to follow. If the situation hadn't been explained to me beforehand, I might have been completely lost. The good news, however, is that I can watch it again. Classic!
Casablanca is a good film, however to me it isn't a film I'm going to remember as something great. For people who are more emotionally attached to the events of WWII, I am sure this film provides much more enjoyment.It feels like it drags on too long. It has a lot of scenes that just feel to me like filler, as they don't contribute in any truly meaningful way. The action, especially the shooting, felt stiff and unnatural. Also the way that the officer calls for backup, but then helps Rick after all seems contrived to just show some conflict at the end. He changed his mind for no apparent reason.
Casablanca is a beautifully written movie. Anyone watching this can relate to the characters due to the fact that its about a man and a woman in love, and forfeit their love for a greater purpose. The cast, the plot, and the direction of this movie make it one of a kind and all around brilliant. Bogart and Bergman create a love that keeps you on your toes and makes you feel like you're experience what they're experiencing with them. The way they talk to each other and the expressions they give towards each other makes you feel like these characters truly are in love with each other. With the tight budget that they were placed under for this movie they did an excellent job with the production of it.
Rick Blaine needs to make a choice. Will he stay on the sidelines and play turn a blind eye or will he pick a side? Such was the question for the United States of America before Pearl Harbor. I thought the film had a Noir feel to it. The movie was somewhat predictable, but well done and also an interesting concept and I liked the underlying meaning.Humphrey Bogart is very polished in this movie and I thought Ingrid Bergman was superb as well. A story about choices, love, and selflessness, you will gain wisdom from watching this movie. Although not my personal favorite, Casablanca is one of the greats.
By the end of Casablanca, I was well aware of where certain famous quotes originated from. I was pretty surprised to keep hearing lines that I've heard before in other movies or TV shows. I was excited to see the famous airport scene. One thing that really confused me was the transition to the time Rick and Ilsa spent in Paris. I must have zoned out or was thinking of something else, because I could have SWORN that it was a flashback into it, but then it never seemed to get out of it. Like there was a flashback, but it continued on to the rest of the story. I'm not sure what happened there. The characters were interesting enough, though. The romantic aspect of it was enjoyable and the twists at the end. It wasn't really my kind of story, but I liked it regardless.
This movie was not as good as I expected it to be. I think that the cinematographer's moves were great though. He had a lot of techniques involved in it. He used a tilt shot, showing the plane in the sky then the camera was tilted to show the men and women watching the sky. I thought it was a nice move, it was missing any pieces there because it was a nice clean shot. They use low key lighting, were the shadows were almost over emphasized. The women were highlighted and shown in a beautiful way, especially Isla. They also made sure she didn't have too many harsh shadows on her face. They had the perfect tonal range in the light, that helped show the emotions of the characters the best. The director had used a lot of minor characters , which confused me a bit. I was confused between Rick and Victor, I found that there was not much a strong difference between the two of them that really stood out to me.The cinematographer always used the best techniques to show of the characters, in the beginning showing off Sam in the restaurant they start off at a far distance, but then gradually zoom in almost as if it is a slow motion shot of Sam singing and playing the piano.
The director of this really knew what he was doing from lighting to camera angle. Every shot seemed well planned out before they even started filming. In some movies you can tell when they just threw in another scene here and there but not in this movie. Also the lighting on the each characters face was right on the money and allowed the viewer to really connect with every character. the camera angles allowed you to really enjoy the back ground as much as the characters in them, giving you a whole new spectrum of feeling. The feelings of World War II is also well shown in Casablanca (1942). The they talk about the war and the actors really doing a good job channeling the feelings of war and really there characters. Over all I would highly recommend this movie to anyone!
