To start off; This is the one and only film that kept me quiet for a whole 5 mins after seeing it. I literally couldn't close my mouth, and yet there wasn't any sound coming out of it. Oldboy had such an impact on me that words are too little to describe that impact. Therefore this film is definitely in my top 3 films ever made. It belongs there because it has a massive ingredient that a lot of films seem to miss out on; a divine plot. Even though the acting and screenplay are world class, the plot is really the cherry on the cake.When it comes to screenplay Park Chan-Wook is unique (at least for western standards) in his way of filming. The colours are so vivid and it seems like he wanted every shot to be a piece of art. One tip: If you like the shooting in 'Oldboy', have a look at 'Sympathy for Lady Vengeance', the third part in Park's revenge-trilogy. It's even superior to the camera-work in 'Oldboy'. Don't, however, expect a story like Oldboy's, because you would be very disappointed.When it comes to acting and the music, this film is also one of the better films ever made. The music sticks in your head and every time I put in my Oldboy-DVD and the theme-song comes up, I'm just flooded with good memories (even though the plot doesn't have a single reason to be happy about). The characters are also presented very well by the outstanding cast. Especially Choi Min-Sik and Yu Ji-Tae set a very convincing performance. I really appreciate this film being respected as it should be, by having a place in the top 250. If, however, it was up to me it would be even higher in the ranking. I don't see why films like 'The Usual Suspects' or 'Memento', which are fantastic pieces of film-making and which without a doubt deserve a place in the top 250, are higher in the top 250 than 'Oldboy'. They serve the same cause; a fantastic plot. But those plots can't stand in the shadow or even come close to the plot of 'Oldboy'. The one and only reason is that those two films are better known and from a western production company. If we were all living in Asia, no doubt 'Oldboy' would be in the top 20 of all time. My advice to people who haven't watched this film yet: Go see it! This is definitely a must- see. If you have a weak stomach, pull yourself together and still watch it. Don't be as shallow as a lot of people here tend to be. Look beyond the violence and see the things I mentioned before: world class acting, cinematography, music and last but certainly not least the plot. Once you've opened yourself up you'll find a whole new world of cinema. Enjoy!


                
I looked at program for today and I saw movie "Oldboy". I read plot and I liked it. What I expected is decent thriller from very good South Korean cinematography,something like "Salinui chueok ". But once again I was wrong. "Oldboy" is masterpiece, so unusual from all other movies. I've seen lots of violence on screen and to me this isn't nothing new but I think that people under 18 really shouldn't watch this one. It's because movie is brutal and I don't think that younger ones would fully understand this one.To say something about plot is quite impossible because I don't know where to begin. If I start talking about the movie I could tell few important things and I know that people often read other comments because they didn't watch that movie. So,I'm going to say only what I read before watching this movie.On his daughter's birthday, Oh Dae-su gets drunk and soon he's arrested by the police. His best friend No Joo-hwan somehow manages to get him out of jail and when No Joo-hwan is making a phone call Oh Dae-su disappears. Someone kidnap's him and puts him into room during 15 long years.But one day he's released.That's the plot. Very interesting, you should watch this movie and then judge it. By the rating on IMDb this movie is in top 250 movies. Now I can understand why. This plot that I wrote doesn't reveal the greatness of the people who wrote the script. I bow to them because this movie is so good, with all those twists and it really represents a whole new wave of making a movie, of writing a script and of acting in it. About direction and actors I can say only good things. Director Park Chan-wook won prize Grand Jury at Cannes. That's enough about direction part. About actors. I can say that I'm impressed by one actor:Choi Min-sik. He's amazing in major role and he showed great potential. I hope I will see him again in some good movie.I cannot say anything more because I could reveal some secret and I don't wanna do that to all new viewers. Only a recommendation. Beautiful, intelligent masterpiece of movie that I highly recommend for everyone with strong stomach and too all of you who want to see one excellent, but sick story. 10/10


                
After going through the comments, i must say i'm impressed how many people out there don't have a slightest clue of beauty or intelligent screenplays. there are so many comments from people that totally disliked the movie. which is plain and simple not possible, if you got an open mind and a open heart (and are not drunk). I would compare it to chocolate. You may find it too sweet and prefer bitter chocolate. or you like white chocolate more. Or you got diabetes and can only sometimes eat one. But people that totally dislike chocolate scare me to death. Same goes for Oldboy, you gotta admit some of the genius art-form it contains. Its everything in there. Its heartwarming , disgusting, intelligent, beautiful and lead with outstanding performance of any actor . You HAVE to like something, cause it wont get much better. Its chocolate. If you disliked the movie so much and on a constant basis, why even bother to write a comment? My guess is you just could not follow the movie at all. which is my only guess actually. well enough rambling.:::::::::: Bottom Line :::::::::If you call common sense, and a human heart your own and like "challenging" movies, go and see it NOW.(i recommend the original korean version with subs)I also recommend the pre- and sequel to this movie. (just browse Chan Wook Park) If you think "The Fast and the Furious" is the best movie ever made, please do not even bother to watch Oldboy, and spare others your "brilliant" reviews.


                
Yes this is a twisted movie with plots that unravel slowly and sometimes there are scenes that are slow. But over all it's incredible. Some of the symbolism behind the scenes are stunning. You have to go deep to appreciate it. There is a lot of gore and violence that can turn you off, but I was simply amazed by the depth and width of some of the scenes.Without giving anything away, once the main character is released he meets a man with a dog. It's seems to be an irrelevant scene, but put yourself in a cage for 15 years and think about how you would act? What happens to that man? Isn't he also in a cage? Aren't we all? What is the symbolism of that man? How about the dog? Revenge to the main character in this movie is his life. Why? And you don't question it because you know what happened to him. He doesn't question it either.To me this was one of the greatest depictions of Oedipus or other Greek characters I've seen this decade in a movie. Nothing is new. If you liked "Requiem for a Dream" or "Blue Velvet." Consider this one.


                
While Hollywood is slowly choking to death on clichés and unrealistic budgets, the movie lovers turn their attention to Asia. Especially interesting is Korea's emerging movie industry. Japan has a long tradition of quality horror and anime and China dominates the epics with state-sponsored spectacles. Which place Korea will take we don't know but if Oldboy is any inclination it would be intelligent, disturbing drama-action movies.Oldboy has an extremely intelligent and edgy script, which will make you think and question your morals. It would NEVER be picked up in Hollywood. Even the initial concept of being locked up for 15 years without apparent reason would be deemed to strange for the audience. Thankfully, the Korean producers could see the brilliance of the script and give it a shot. It's budget is some $4 million, which is amazingly well used.Oldboy is very much the child of it's director, Chan-Wook Park, who's name should warrant a lot more fame than it does. The camera-work and pacing is amazing. There are virtually no dull moments. The fighting scenes are used to compliment to movie, not to give a reward after half an hour's boredom.The lead actors are no less amazing. Min-Sik Choi is a perfect anti-hero. Unlike the Western antiheroes, he even has the looks of an everyman, which makes his transformation so much more spectacular. The lead actress is a bit understates in my opinion, but memorable never the less. The best one is by far Ji-Tae Ju, the charismatic villain. He dominates every scene he's in, a sort of Korean Christian Bale American Psycho.Music and choreography is great as well. All the details and the grit makes the movie really come alive. At the end, you are in awe, a rare feeling for a movie. The feeling stays with you for days. Occasionally you will think of the movie and shake your head, unbelieving someone could actually pull it off.So do yourself a favor, watch Oldboy. You will not be disappointed.
In an age of American cinema where our biggest blockbusters are based on films already successful overseas, this is one movie that needs to be seen by more American movie goers. This is the movie that got me hooked on Asian revenge films. Oldboy is an original movie that shows what happens when a man's freedom is taken away and he doesn't know why, or by whom. He is sudden thrust back into society where he must track down the person that took away his freedom. Along the way come multiple plot twist and surprises that you just don't see coming. It's a shame so many American film goers refuse to see foreign films, because this movie is genius. Who knows, maybe someday the movie will get remade for audiences here in the U.S. and the main character will be played by Mel Gibson or Bruce Willis. If you want to stay true to the Asian vision, I even think Jackie Chan could be a candidate.


                
Oldboy is one hell of a movie. It is a film that is characterized by surrealism, gritty violence and raw emotion. The theme is about revenge and how it destroys one person. After viewing it, it left me silent for more than five minutes to contemplate on what I have seen. It was simply a masterpiece. It has proved that Koreans are one of the most creative when it comes to cinema. But mind you, this film is not for everyone. Especially for the weak at heart. Aside from revenge, it touches subject on incest as well. Nevertheless, it is a MASTERPIECE.The acting is world-class in this film. Choi Min-sik and Yu Ji-tae were simply amazing as Oh Daesu and Lee Woo-jin respectively. Credit should also be given to Gang Hye-jung as Mido. The characters are given emotional depth that one could sympathize for. They were not simply categorized as either good or evil but they were allowed to feel raw emotion. The direction was also spectacular from Park Chan-wook. And the soundtrack was mesmerizing. This is definitely a must-see especially for people who love another kind of entertainment. I could have given this a 11 out of 10 rating if only I am allowed to.


                
Oldboy is the kind of film that the cinema was invented for. It doesn't patronise or insult it's audience, it keeps the audience on their toes, constantly engaged in suspense, drama and mystery. Watching this film is an emotional roller-coaster. The cinematography is dark, yet breathtaking, the music accompanies all of the drama and action beautiful, in an almost operatic sense. It's graphically violent, but not gratuitously so, the acting is first rate and the plot is intricate, intelligent, filled to the brim with many philosophical and human ideas.It's perfect for multiple viewings, it's a good laugh to watch with your mates, it was desired for the really big screen and the experience of watching OldBoy is unforgettable, right up until the very end. Genre defining, it is Kafka-esquire, it's Hitchcockian, Polaski-esquire and plays out like a modern day Dumas novel, all in one. FIRST RATE. loved it, it is a film that can be classified as just pure cinema.


                
Oldboy is one of the most intense movies you will ever see. Breathtaking, brutal and easily one of the best revenge movies ever made. The acting is amazing, especially Choi as the main protagonist Dae-su Oh. All the actors did great but his performance was powerful and emotional (all you need to do is see the infamous squid scene). Chan-wook Park gives this movie a very unique style with his direction. The plot starts off like a fairly standard revenge drama but he slowly makes the movie darker through a series of beautifully shot flashbacks and a huge scene involving nothing but a family photo album.If you can't handle extremely strong violence, torture, sex and language and can't stand subtitles it's best you stay far away from Oldboy....if you can, though, then watch it! It's an incredible movie with some of the best performances, a moving score and a disturbing but unique plot with twist after twist.5/5
The first time I saw "Oldboy" I watched it by myself on a rainy evening. When the credits rolled at the end I think I actually stood up and clapped. It's been a long time since I've seen something so original. The film is gripping, it grabs and never lets you go.It starts out with a man who is locked inside this room and doesn't know why and blah blah blah...sounds almost cliché. Read the back of the DVD case for a summary. The last fifteen minutes of "Oldboy" are the most intense fifteen minutes I've seen in any movie. By the end, you are so eager to know what happened to this poor guy and why he has been punished. And the film takes a twist that makes every hair on your arms stand up and it remains satisfying. It's not one of those twists that leaves you scratching your head. It makes sense! A film like "Oldboy" is humbling in that it makes you realize that America is no longer turning out the most cutting-edge stuff. But it's also nice to know that someone out there still has the guts to do a film with no barriers that makes you stand up and flip off guys like Tarantino and go, 'that's what I'm talking about.' 10 out of 10, kids.


                
From the "Vengeance" trilogy by Pak Chan-wook, Oldboy is probably the best, followed by Sympathy for Lady Vengeance. Simple story, "low budget" and actors you already know from Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance. Although I am a fan of Korean movies, when I've heard about this movie and it's plot for the first time, I thought "oh my god, another sponsored-by-tomato-factory movie". I watched it for the first time two years after it was released. And to be honest, I was surprised. Since then, I watched this movie more than ten times and I still find it interesting. To me, Oldboy the best Korean movie ever made. Maybe best Asian movie in the last 20 years.I recommend you to watch this, along with Sympathy for Lady Vengeance and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance. You'll be also surprised to find the same actors.10/10


                
Old Boy is my favourite film. As far as I can see, no amount of superlatives could explain quite how much I love it. After my first viewing, (all on my lonesome) I realised I probably hadn't blinked during its entirety and I could quite possibly have been burgled during its course and been none the wiser, such was the extent to which I found it totally and utterly engrossing. Obviously a review consisting of very little other than me spewing praise would be a fairly dull read which was why I never bothered to review Old Boy until after my second viewing, with my Po'. My father being the eternal sceptic that he is turned out to be an extremely worthy person to watch the film with, and his response to it opened my eyes a little as to why I love it that much.The plot itself is as follows. The protagonist Oh Dae-Su is one day captured and finds himself locked up in a makeshift prison. After a brief spell of anger and spewing hatred for his captors, he resigns himself to his fate, and after 15 years of shadow boxing and suicide attempts he wakes up from a gas induced coma on top of a tower block where he was initially seized. He then proceeds to try and find out who did this and why, and the film basically charts this quest.The first word that springs to mind when thinking about this film has to be graphic. There are certain scenes which will make those of nervous disposition recoil until they are firmly wedged between the back and seat of their sofa, and they are likely to spend much of the film there as violence is frequent. In most of the extreme cases it is simply the implication of violence and the viewer's imagination when left to its own devices like this will cause its own disgust. This hurdle was a huge thing problem for my dad, who considered some of the violence to be gratuitous, which I can somewhat agree with, although certain scenes are completely integral to the plot. The best way I can justify these scenes is simple. It is all about sending a message, and these do just that. If you can cope with this then you will break down the initial barrier the film leaves lying in the way of your enjoyment.Another barrier will be the massive culture shock experienced when viewing the film. This is a Korean language film adapted from a Japanese animé series, so there are obviously large cultural differences to the western world. Some of the images used will require quite some thought to fully understand, and the script on translation does lose some of its flow, as any animé or graphic novel fans will associate with. For my father, this made it hard for him to settle into the flow of the film, and I can identify with this slightly from my early days of watching animé.Many of the themes you will pick up on and the method of direction is very synonymous with Quentin Tarantino. There are devices used in this film which have obviously taken inspiration from Tarantino's works, in particular the Pulp Fiction- esquire use of camera angles, and the famous dotted line sequence. However, Tarantino is himself a huge fan of Old Boy, being its main advocate to win the 2003 Palme d'Or (where it eventually lost out to Fahrenheit 9/11) and has stated Park Chan-Wook as an influence for his directing style on the Kill Bill series, as well as on his later grindhouse works Death Proof and Planet Terror. Chan-Wook takes on a policy of "trust the director", and leaves many questions throughout the film which gives it a somewhat disorientating feel at times. This method of directing can seem quite inaccessible, however all loose ends are tied up very satisfactorily in the enthralling and shocking climax. This is an ending to rival the classic Kaiser Sozé twist in the tail of The Usual Suspects.What really separated and elevates Chan-Wook's work above and beyond Tarantino's however is very simple. Much of Tarantino's work is undertaken as an exercise in direction and film making, and therefore his work can therefore feel shallow. Old Boy however is a film which assesses the deepest corners of the human heart. The middle of three films which make up Chan-Wook's Vengeance Trilogy it is undoubtedly the masterpiece, with a more powerful message than Lady Vengeance and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance. This film has power because of the depths to which it explores the flaws and forces the human heart possesses, stronger and more destructive than any wisdom can overcome. The performances of the main cast and most importantly the director to send this message to the viewer leave this film as about as close to perfection as I can see any film getting.


                
Having just experienced the breathtaking Oldboy, I can only have words of praise. I have always been reticent to write reviews on IMDb but I feel this film was totally worth writing about, so this is my first review In many ways, it reminds me of the also fabulous Fight Club, mainly because of its grittiness, touches of surrealism and fantasy, and thickness of the plot. I had been constantly pushed by my friend to watch Oldboy and he had always insisted on its brilliance. For quite a while, I refused to watch it believing that it would simply be another excessively gory and graphic Asian film, but I was so wrong. I have read many reviews of people criticising it for its violence, and have to admit I am not a fan of gory movies per se. However, I am okay with the occasional gore as long as it is not the main focus of the film. In Oldboy's case, violence is just a small (and necessary) part of a much bigger all. The film takes you away on a roller-coaster ride of human emotions, a brilliant plot, and sheer brilliance. The acting is absolutely superb, from the smallest to the biggest character, and has you believing all along in the storyline. The directing is beautiful, with fantastic and dark photography and a sense of "doom" throughout the film.Even though the plot is at the beginning difficult to grasp, eventually it is just impossible to stop watching as the film draws to its inevitable conclusion. Oh Daesu and his plight are the central themes, but the underlying theme is that of Asian society, its rigidness and the importance of saving face. Also interesting is the director's ambiguous position regarding revenge, which is treated as an analgesic and as something to be avoided both at once. Human endurance in order to achieve goals is also an important part of this film, as Daesu is put through hell and more in order to find out the truth and bring forth his revenge.Even though this is not a film for the light hearted, or for those enjoying light-hearted entertainment, it is however a masterpiece and wonderfully original in a time when films are just looking to sell well at the box office. It is a must see for those who enjoy quality cinema at its best, and as such, fully deserves the highest praise. I have given this film 10 out of 10 and thoroughly encourage everyone to watch it, since it would be a tragedy to miss out on such fabulous film-making.
I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a film as much as this one.The key premise is original, which is rare enough by itself, and when you add to that some good writing you get a great film.There are some deliberately hammed up comic moments to lighten the mostly very dark mood of the film and these are genuinely very funny.The action is often over the top, but not in a gory way, and it is interesting to watch the story unfold with the viewer having no more idea of what is happening and why than the protagonist.The pace is quick enough that you never get bored and the ending is dark and nasty and twisted and surprising.There is nothing bad I can say about the film.


                
I just saw the movie yesterday. The most disturbing movie I have ever seen. Its a masterpiece but very confusing.Those who cares for the movie will find this movie a brilliant piece of work. I have seen Mr. Park's "cut" part of the movie "Three...Extreme", but I dint know that oldboy is one his work. Its a sad movie after all, destroying a man part by part, a sick game of the character "wo jin" who played the villain here. A sick story of vengeance.After all i nthe end, what daeso want to forget? that he ever met mido? or that he knows mido is his daughter? director ends the movie for viewers open interpretation . When they hug each other at the end daeso act so strange, so here are my questions for all who have seen it, 1. does he wanted to forget mido is his daughter or 2. he wanted to erase every memory about mido? It cant be supported to erase only the secret that she is his daughter, cause even after that they will lead a sick life which cant be acceptable by me. so the decision about the forgetting was so important to me.I cant see it again, it wont get out of head in a month I think. So re-watching the movie for finding answer is not a good idea to me. It will make you sad more.
I would not talk about anything on the plot, acting, whatever. It is a kind of shock to you, and was a shock to me. If you need something very different, but still very interesting, this is for you. I can see some flaws. But would not mention it. I don't want to ruin the goodness by those flaws. The positive aspects were so impressive that I don't want to lose any of them. This is the kind of movie that you feel it is different from any other movie. (Even though it is not that different in small parts.) Once you see it, I can't guarantee you feel good as in usual dramas. Nor will you feel relieved as in horror/thriller. The feeling is very complex. I couldn't even say what the movie was intending to say. Maybe it can be a flaw. But can't it be another goodness?


                
Everything about this movie is perfect. Acting, soundtracks, story, everything. Easily the best South Korean movie ever. No need to talk too much, go watch it.


                
I know nothing about this movie before watching it. Now I can tell that this is one of the best movies ever.


                
Its a very creative movie which gripps audience as it moves ahead main actor has given a powerfull performance its music create a beautiful atmosphere and a suspenseful tone everyone should watch this movie if you are not watching you are missing something great in the whole movie you should think why why why and when the answers come your mind goes away


                
I know my title might sound a little dramatic but it is true. This was one of the first Korean movie's I had ever seen and after that I was hooked. The story is original and beautifully shot. I never understand why people write a synopsis in a review. You can watch the trailer or read what IMDB already has under description. Moving along the movie is great. Good story, drama, fights, and twists. It's on Netflix so catch it while you still can. Stay away from the atrocious American remake. That movie was garbage and a mockery of this Korean classic. Hope this review helps.


                
A Vengeance Movie from "the Vengeance Trilogy" by the Philosopher, Chan-Wook Park. The first movie was Sympathy For Mr. Vengeance. So this movie's about vengeance.Chan-Wook's feature about vengeance; "Venegance's a huge might and a sense that needs passion. A man who runs after vengeance have to put all the pleasure of life aside. The Venegance brings a different pleasure within but in the end this pleasure is not useful.Though the man takes his revenge on aim, he can't bring what he lost back. Here is a great paradox about the sense of vengeance. The man's focusing an event that leads nowhere in the end with his all power and pleasure interests me."


                
Oldboy was the first film that i have seen of the director Chanwook Park and for me this one of the best films of this decade.The film is about a man that is kidnapped and after 15 years is finally out. He has now money, a cellphone and other stuffs but he want to know the reason of his kidnapped and have a revenge. But what he don't know is that this 15 years was the revenge against him.This plot is one of my favourite stories ever and the way Chanwook Park make the film, with an intense beginning and a violent and amazing end is nothing but great.Of course a film like this is not for all audiences but i highly recommend this film to anyone who loves Asian films and loves Quentin Tarantino's films because Oldboy won fame at the Cannes Film Festival and also distribution in all the world because Tarantino gave Oldboy the grand prize of the jury. I don't care if it won prize but i know that if Oldboy doesn't be in Cannes maybe in Mexico this film wasn't in DVD region 4So in few words: Oldboy is a modern masterpiece and for me is one of my favourite films of this decade.
Sometimes in life, one can face awful situations than death. Here in oldboy, we witness a situation like this..I heard many people saying about Korean pictures, watched sm of it, and i can honestly say, dis korean stuff, is truly amazing, we could be thrown into shadows of sadness for many hours even after watchn d film. This is rare, very rare, for a man like man to remain sad aft watchin a movie, so wht will be d condition of others? I can't even imagine that..Truly painful, but brilliantly twisted story, it is d best twisted film i hv ever seen..


                
Let me just say first and foremost, that anyone who cannot stand heavy handed violence, language or sex should probably miss this film... for the rest of us, this film has it all! One of the most incredible performances ever by Choi (the acting all around is spectacular, but he stands out above the rest), great directing, the corridor scene is just pure glee, one of the most ingenious plots and story line twists of all time, and believe it or not, the movie is extremely funny in some parts (the whole, "now let me tell you my story" part is hilarious, just to name one example). However what really shows the quality of OldBoy is that it's not just a excellent conglomerate of all those things that make a movie good, it was how it affected you. OldBoy is a extremely deep and psychological movie on the level as well as the carnal level, and it gets better every time you see it. If you think you can handle the content, and don't mind subtitles, then this film is a absolute must see. Overall, this is quite possibly the best revenge drama of all time.


                
First and foremost, I loved this movie. It had me glued to the screen and when it was over I felt satisfied and passionate, so much so that I decided to write this review. What I love about this movie is its darkness and how certain scenes, like when he is turning the pages of the photo album, just make your stomach drop.Second, I really cannot believe the amount of people that dismiss this movie because of its violence. It just doesn't make sense to me. The only violent parts in the movie are the teeth pulling, the corridor fight, and the tongue cutting. I have seen much more violence in other films that have not been bashed this badly. And as for the octopus, I can understand how that would bring up some issues in the US and other countries but I think it would probably be considered even humorous in some Asian countries. I once saw a man bite the head of a snake off on the discovery channel but I didn't hear anything about that the next day. I actually liked the octopus scene, although it wasn't vital to the storyline, it was just very interesting to watch. I'm sure someone will, or has, come up with some type of symbolism for this scene, whether realistic or far-fetched.I think what turns people off from this movie is the theme of incest or they simply didn't understand, and claim that the message of the film is to "keep your mouth shut." In my opinion this film was about blind love. Woo-jin Lee fell in love with his sister, society immediately disagrees and his sister is led into suicide. He then devises a master plan (very unrealistic but entertaining) to teach Oh Dae-su his feeling for his sister by tricking him into falling romantically in love with his own daughter. We see how Dae-su actually empathizes with Woo-jin Lee (even though attempting to kill him on more than one occasion) by wanting to be brainwashed at the end so he can continue his love with his daughter. By doing so he is showing that he actually wants to be in love knowing that she is his daughter, however, without having the pressures of society weighing over him. He fell in love with her, just as Woo-jin Lee fell in love with his sister. The only difference is that Woo-jin Lee knew it was his sister and Dae-su did not know it was his daughter. The reason why the relationship between Dae-su and his daughter actually works out in the end is because Mi-do is unaware and Dae-su is brainwashed, so society cannot judge them as the catholic school children judged Woo-jin Lee. This film could take another theme with the same message dealing with different social classes, races, or other things that society looks down on in relationships, but it would definitely not have the same impact as a taboo subject such as incest.This is simply my take on the movie, everyone takes something different out of art, don't let anyone else define what you perceive.P.S. - I do not agree with incest, it's a movie, the message is its beauty.
