Try as I may I cannot for the life of me understand the slack given to the type of rubbish like this. Let me rephrase, it's more than slack, in some cases there has actually been critical acclaim. For what?! Please stop it with the references to Oedipus Rex, Beckett, Count of Monte Christo, Hitchcock or whatever. This is a C grade exploitation film, poorly cast, poorly directed, poorly shot, poorly edited, poorly everything. It is one small step better than another waste of film that came out a few years ago which I believe was called "Audition" I think by a guy named Miike Tadashi. (Too lazy to check now). The amount of attention that crap got blew me away. I remember when Japanese cinema used to be acclaimed for Ozu, Oshima, Kurosawa, Mizoguchi, Ichikawa, Teshigahara and others. Those were real filmmakers. Miike is nobody.That's as far as Japan goes. Surely there must be some South Koreans who are doing better things than this Sickboy. The only reason I give it a 2 instead of a 1 is because the very initial premise IS indeed interesting but is handled so incompetently and sophomorically that you might as well be watching a snuff film. In fact, if the octopus counts, it is somewhat of a snuff film. Just as violent and just as juvenile as Tarantino but without his (for lack of a better word) "talent".Basically a completely vile and disgusting exercise that should be relegated to the cutout bin.


                
...but this was the most immature cinematic trashcan I've seen in an age. It's a spotty teenager of a movie - all sensationalist shock and no substance. Quentin and his Cannes Jury gave this film a prize, which is the sole reason I didn't walk out of the screening, vainly hoping to see some justification of this accolade. It didn't happen. I endured this film right up until it's bitterly lame and frankly laughable Scooby Doo ending. I won't be running to stand in line for the sequels/prequels, but then apparently, due to the film's critical and box office success (which I'm truly at a loss to explain), I won't be missed.


                
*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS* I don't know why this movie has such high rating . Maybe it's because Quentin Tarantino likes it , so people feel like they have to like it too ? Who knows. I heard rumors that Hollywood wants to make an American remake of this one . Spielberg is supposed to be the director and Will Smith the main star . I can't imagine that , but hey . The whole world is getting crazier with each day , so why not .The movie is based on comic book I haven't heard or read . It's manga , so expect a lot of kung fu fights , shouting and twisted psychology.I treat "Oldboy" as a thriller . When I'm watching a thriller I'm expecting logic . I don't know if the viewers who liked "Oldboy" treat is a some sort of fantasy , but for me it was a total disaster in terms of realism and logic.1) Our hero is a prisoner . He's been locked in a apartment . In the middle of the city . The WHOLE building is a prison , where EVERY apartment is basically a cage. And I thought that when you kidnap somebody you hide him outside of the city limits or something like that<U+0085> 2) Our hero for 15 YEARS EATS THE SAME MEAL for breakfast , lunch and dinner . What about vitamins , proteins and so on ? After a week he would be sick . After a month he would probably die . Yet , he's alive and in good health . Magic , I guess or he's a terminator.3) You can't hypnotize anybody AGAINST HIS WILL . You need the patient to cooperate with the hypnotist.4) You won't learn kung fu if you will be PUNCHING THE WALL WITH ONE FIST FOR 15 YEARS.5) I guess eating live octopus is a deep symbol of something 6) You can rape a woman in the elevator and walk away with no problem . Despite having at least two witness , the police wont be even searching for you.7) The love between our hero and the most important female character is nonexistent , despite what the movie tells us 8) Our hero is in the same age as the villain . They went to the same school , same year , same class . Yet , our hero looks like 40 or 50 years old , while the villain is maximum 30 years old. Judging by the look our hero could be his father ! 9) The sex scene is one of the most awful sex scenes I've ever seen.10) You can defeat army of opponents with no problem , yet when you are angry one guy will defeat you without the problem.11) Who's that woman ? Why she helps the villain in the beginning ? Why she helps the hero in the end ? Does she have personal reasons ? 12) The ending message is beautiful – incest is good as long as nobody knows about it. Brother and sister or father and daughter should LOVE EACH OTHER NOT ONLY EMOTIONALLY , BUT ALSO PSYCHICALLY What is wrong with you people ? What about logic or good taste ? This movie feels like an adaptation of one of those porn fan-fiction that Internet is full of . Incest appeared before in one famous movie from the 70's , but that movie never said it was a good thing ! That's the only "message" I saw . The authors of the comic book , the creators of the movie and the fans of the movie need to be locked in mental hospital.I give it 2/10 , because the music is beautiful.
i carefully watched this from the beginning to the credits. The first half of the film raised my expectations of masterpiece and of deep insights to the top, but the rest turned out to be a major disaster. the only thing that left me with my mouth open is the question: why? i'm not pretending to be any moralist here, but why try so hard to make a "hardcore puke" look so beautiful<U+0085> if higher goal of this "masterpiece" is to make "vomit" attractive then this is a complete success - art for the sake of art at its best. IMHO, it doesn't matter how much realistic or surrealistic, or sophisticated can be a "porn-for-your-brain" it gives nothing but distict feeling of disgust in the end (for a sane person).


                
Reading some of the high marks for this movie leaves me shaking my head. If this is what the world thinks of now as human emotion, I feel sorry for the future. It is at best comic bookish. I assumed it was based on a video game because the characters are so hollow and story void of any real human emotion. I can appreciate the stylization of some of the scenes, particularly the fight scenes, and the winter forest scene at the end, and some of it is interesting to look at (after all, I made it through the whole stupid thing), but in the end I didn't care at all since there was not one redeemable quality in any of them. Mainly, I watched this movie because I read Spike Lee was doing a remake. I hope it's better than this drivel.


                
Tasteless? Heck, yeah! But if you can laugh at Divine eating dog-poo at the end of Pink Flamingos....Actually, what's wrong with this film is that it actually takes itself seriously. These people are just silly! They apparently have no lives to lead, which makes trashing these lives pretty darn easy.That makes them all very unlikeable. And without concern for the characters, much of the shocking stuff was just... boring. While some guy was eating live octopus, I was swallowing down a brew with hotdog, wondering if this would bother with my digestion. I decided it wouldn't so I went out and cooked up another hotdog. Then my sister called, and I talked about my niece's school grades (they're improving), then I cracked open another brew. By the time I got back, the movie was over. I didn't feel I missed anything.


                
In this short review I not only review the film itself, but also comment on the tiresome cult following that it has acquired over the years.I gave the movie a 2/10 simply because it is too contrived. It tries too hard to be everything. In its attempt to visit the entire emotional spectrum, it just becomes a mess and a hodgepodge of convoluted events. With all the "poetic" story elements and significant moments I just got tired of it all.I get that the soap opera plot is just there to help put the viewer through that supposedly profound emotional wringer. For me, it was just disappointing. A gauche and ostentatious emotional manipulation that lost its appeal after just a few moments.Which takes me to my comments the films' predictable and frankly, rather rabid fans. Since the film does have a heavy, clumsy impact, I see why so many are spellbound by it. They're swept up in its maladroit attempt at profundity and can't seem to take a step back and see it for what it is: overrated trash. Instead they think it's one of the best movies ever made and any dissenting opinions are attacked with the vehemence that only unimaginative fans in great numbers can muster up.


                
