I don't go to see a lot of movies anymore, despite the fact that when younger I would see easily 5 movies a week, two or three at the movies and the same in rentals.Now, I usually only go to the theaters a few times a year for something special, and when I see an interesting DVD, I just buy it, I don't rent.So, somehow I came across this film when reading things online and noticed a very high Rottentomatoes.com rating. (that should have told me something right there).The "Kafkaesque" description intrigued me. A guy wakes up in a prison, everything is controlled, and literally years go by. He is framed for his wife's murder. Why? At first, the dubbing seemed distracting, a little too "bright", but I got used to it. In fact, right away, you could see a lot of effort when into the camera work for this film, and the music. It was compelling.The story starts to slip when the guy gets out of the prison. First, this guy is hard to look at, just kind of wacky. He refuses to listen to another man (had he just been released too???) and when that man falls to his death, it is done for comic effect. I started thinking, uh oh.Next, he meets a young woman and eats a live octopus. Not clear why. Perhaps a metaphor that those with the power will consume the lives of those that they can dominate. See, I remember film school too.Anyways, the absurdity of why this guy was locked up, and who is really seeking revenge on who are plot details better left unsaid, but are actually quite disgusting. In fact, this movie is nothing like what I thought it would be.I thought there would be a lot of stylized action. Either the director doesn't know how to stage action, or I don't know what. There could have been a great fight sequence at the beginning with the young punks, but the camera just turns away. Later, at the "big fight scene", Oh fights off literally dozens of guys with sticks, armed with only a hammer. There is no fight choreography, no real action, just a slow camera track. Oh is no fighter, but somehow beats up all on-comers, often not really connecting with them but they fall over anyways. At one point he is beaten down but just keeps going in a very odd fashion.At another potential fight sequence, he is simply pushed down by another gangster, and cannot even coordinate standing back up again. By this time, I knew there was not going to be too much action by this guy.This is not an action film. There is plenty of blood and guts, and the "twist ending" comes way before the end of the film. The lead character is so degraded, he begins to degrade himself. And when his ex-best friend laughs at how silly he behaves in his self-degradation, his laughing and attitude makes no connection to what he does to himself in the elevator a few minutes later. If this is all he had to live for, why not lock the guy up again? Here are the problems I have: 1) At some points, Oh can kill 50 people at once; the next scene, one guy can overpower him.2) What's the point of the film? Incest is OK as long as you shut up about it? 3) Why would OH make the choice he did at the end, knowing who the girl is? 4) Doesn't a normal restaurant delivery service question bringing tons of food every day to a building that has rooms and screaming coming from it? 5) Wouldn't you eventually die after being gassed every night? 6) Hypnotism has limited powers, and only on people who WANT to be hypnotized. By now, everyone over the age of 10 knows that, so what was the deal here? 7) I don't buy films where the good guy or the bad guy are in some way omnipotent. Or where a character has to have chosen an exact path from a whole series of variables to arrive at the outcome that the other parties--and the script...are expecting. This was the problem with films such as Arlington Road, Seven, The Game, and dozens of other titles. I believe it is a result of lazy or untalented writing.8) Never, ever go see a movie that Quentin Tarantino recommends!So, if you thought this film might have great action, forget it. Martial arts fighting? No. A decent story? Uh uh. Nice shots of the mountains at the end? Yes.
After having suffered through the major part of this film, I finally stood up and walked out of the theater. And mark my words, that's the first time I did that. With that not said that it's the worst film I've ever seen at the cinemas, but first there are the regular bad films and then there are the films that really overwhelm you in their surprising amount of empty meaninglessness. I was apparently misled by the great praise this movie has been given here in Sweden by reviewers that I normally trust, not to mention the award in Cannes.The film does not work at any level, with a possible exception for the settings and the suggestive coloring. All I could see was a repugnant protagonist that stumbles from one out-of-place and pointless scene to another, maybe he was out to have his revenge on somebody, or maybe was he just adding to the confused and weak script with his own confusing actions, it does'nt really matter since the film did'nt really communicate anything substantial at all.


                
Oldboy is set in Korea & starts as a drunken Dae-su Oh (Min-Sik Choi) is bailed out of the police station by his friend only to be abducted, Dae-su wakes up & finds himself in a small room which he will be imprisoned in for the next fifteen years. Dae-su is fed & looked after by his unknown captors but is never allowed out of the room, Dae-su begins to train himself to avenge himself after he gets out which he intends to do by scrapping away the cement from the brickwork with a chopstick. However before Dae-su finishes he is gassed & rendered unconscious, when he wakes up Dae-su finds himself free on the roof of a tall building dressed & all moneyed up. Dae-su instantly sets about trying to find out who imprisoned him, after meeting the pretty Mido (Hye-jeong Kang) the two fall in love & together with her help Dae-su finally finds what he is looking for but the truth comes at a price...This South Korean production was co-written & directed by Chan-wook Park & has gotten any number of glowing reviews (the sort that distributors can pick quotes out & plaster them on the video box) & even won the Grand Prize of the Jury at Cannes while it was also nominated for the Golden Palm so surely Oldboy is a true classic? Well not for me it isn't since as I can't understand why it's so liked & I would go as far as to say I pretty much hated it apart from one or two isolated moments. For a start I couldn't get into the story at all, I just didn't like it as I thought it was slow & boring & while many out there would have you believe Oldboy has the bestest most shocking twist ever I thought it was rather plain & not very well executed either. The ending in which Dae-su goes to the New Zealand Alps to be hypnotised feels tagged on as well almost as if the makers wanted some sort of happy ending. At almost two hours I almost fell asleep I was so bored, the violence is tame & it's the thought of what's happening that I would imagine most people have a problem with rather than what is actually shown. In fact Oldboy has a very low body count of about seven & one mild sex scene, it's really not that graphic or memorable. I didn't warm to any of the character's & while I accept Oldboy has an alright concept & premise it fails to deliver & it's one film that I will never understand why so many people seem to like.Based on a Japanese Manga of the same name Oldboy the film looks alright, there's one or two nice visual moments here although while everyone raves about the hallway fight that takes place in one continuous shot I was pretty unimpressed & thought the fight choreography was quite dull. The actual on-screen gore violence amounts to very little, Dae-su eats a live Octopus which is apparently quite normal in Korea anyway, there are some fight scenes, a severed hand, someones teeth are pulled out & there's a bit of blood at the end.The budget was supposedly around the $4,000,000 mark which is actually a fair bit, filmed in South Korea & New Zealand. The acting looks alright but it's hard to tell when actors are speaking a different language.Oldboy is a film that I found an absolute chore to sit through, I don't mind subtitled films or foreign films or paying attention to the plot as I followed the thing perfectly but I just didn't like any of it & it's as simple & straightforward as that. Apparently the second in director Choi-wook Park's revenge trilogy which also includes Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance (2002) & Lady Vengeance (2005).
Some people people have described the South Korean film OLDBOY as challenging . For me the word " challenging " is perhaps most associated as challenging someone to a duel . You see a man walk down the street arm in arm with a woman who is far too good for him so challenge him to a duel . You cross swords literally and kill your opponent where hopefully the woman won't want his death to be in vain so she gives you her heart and soul for all eternity . There can be nothing more romantic than disemboweling or decapitating a man over a hot chick and if you think my way of thinking is grotesque or perverse please watch this film before casting any judgment over my character OLDBOY is hardly original . Its central core revolves around an anti-hero gaining revenge against someone who wronged him . This is a story influenced by the western genre , the French New Wave and New Hollywood but one suspects this type of plot has been going on since before cinema . The protagonist Dae finds himself confined to a prison of sorts for 15 years where he's occasionally gassed by " the gas Russians use on Chechen terrorists " . Would that be the same gas that the Spetnatz used on a Moscow theater that killed a third of the hostages they were trying to save ? Right away you're drawn to an unlikely plot hole where if Dae is getting gassed over a period of 15 years surely his captors would eventually cock up and give him a fatal dose ? The premise of being confined for 15 years might have worked better in a short film if only because we'd either see the reason for it be revealed after 10 , 15 or 20 minutes or have it left totally enigmatic . Unfortunately we have to endure another 90 minutes of nonsense The director Chan Wook Park insists on alienating the audience by introducing concepts such as graphic violence such as Dae performing dental surgery on someone's mouth without him being a qualified dentist , surrealism such as a woman seeing a six foot insect sitting on a tube train and most infamously of all animal cruelty where a live octopus is eaten . Park might deserve some congratulations on staging a fight sequence with Dae and a dozen protagonists that was obviously shot in one take but is so over the top , especially considering Dae has been stuck in a cell for 15 years all credibility vanishes after the first couple of blows The big revelation at the end is to be fair in keeping the rather nauseating tone of the movie - Dae's nemesis is a former schoolmate who had sex with his own sister , got her pregnant and she committed suicide when Dae found out hence the reason for his imprisonment . Some people have complained about the schoolmate appearing 20 years younger than Dae but I suppose the years of solitary confinement have taken a physical toll on Dae . But there again Dae as I said can wipe the floor with a dozen thugs so has the confinement really been bad to him physically ? On top of that why let him out after 15 years ? Why leave him there for eternity or just kill him ? For a film that has a high entry in the top 250 IMDb movies list OLDBOY is bitterly disappointing . Some people will claim because it's so different then it deserves its placing . The fact is there's nothing unique about it . The plot is something Jean Luc Goddard could have come up with decades ago and the graphic violence is an everyday occurrence on the torture porn sub genre . If someone wants something really challenging then just show me your girlfriend and a pair of swords and I'll give a proper challenge
A movie without ideas or theme that is long on cinematic style (but then, so are MTV videos and most successful commercials) and short on recognizable human interest (unless you are a first-world adolescent, in which case you will idolize its sadomasochistic cool and eye candy, not to mention the fact that its emotional center appears to be high school). Let's not even talk about artistic merit. Quentin Tarantino (maker of one, perhaps two great movies and a couple of good entertainments) is the most obvious salesman for the view that pulp junk, polished up and translated by cinematic trickery and fascinated with its own pop cultural hipness, is valuable (and Tarantino was on the committee at Cannes that gave this film the Grand Jury Prize). Park steals here from some of the greats (film noir specialists like Hitchcock, absurdists like Bunuel, masters of cinema cool like Kubrick), but lacks any feeling for what made *their* movies worth seeing. Put simply, it lacks wit (unless by wit you only mean slapstick), and its ideas are like bad homilies no one understands. I keep encountering this in the newer Japanese and Korean and Hong Kong cinema that seems influenced by Tarantino: comic book themes and characters pass through high-polish celluloid/digital trickery and a ironic pop filter (all borrowed). I hear Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance, which I have but still haven't been able to force myself to sit through, is much the same. Avoid.


                
Too bad most Asian directors all turn towards the same violence like movies. The idea of such a scenario was pretty good, but I expected much more from this movie. I had heard great comments about it, but please stop comparing this movie to other ones like Memento, Irréversible, or Seven. The movie's plot is actually good, but the explanation of the whole thing is really shallow. In this sense, I agree with many comments that were previously written about this "Old Boy": why wait all these years to revenge from a common high school event ? Nice try, but disappointing explanation. I would rather have only watched the 1st half of it !
If you've watched a few films off the Saw franchise, you probably know what it is to watch a "torture porn" film with a completely ludicrous, ridiculous story, with a style ripped-off from awful MTV videos. Oldboy is exactly like that, with the difference that the style is actually brilliant and gorgeous beyond words. But what's the use of great cinematography, mood and beautiful imagery when its sole point is to deliver a story like this? I have NEVER seen a story so richly pointless, absurd and unrewarding. Yeah, I can deal with films that make "no sense", that have "no meaning" or things like that; sometimes that's what the director is going for. But the trouble here is that you, as a viewer, is supposed to RELATE to this story, to feel attached to it, as if it could be actually happening. You're intended to connect with the protagonist, or something like that, and that is simply unimaginable. The story is written with the sole purpose of being shocking and disturbing, and that's ALL there is to it. Trust me: the twists and surprises along the way will give you no reward whatsoever, it's just there to shock and disturb you. And if you want to be shocked and disturbed, why not go watch films that address TRULY shocking and disturbing things that are happening around the world, instead of a stupid "torture porn" fantasy of a filmmaker? Yeah, Oldboy is not "torture porn" in the same strict sense as Saw and Hostel, but in the end, that's pretty much what's going on. And actually, it is doubly so: not only the characters are being tortured, but so is the audience. Ignore the hype and leave this Asiatic garbage aside. No, the beautiful cinematography is NOT worth it.


                
Oldboy is a Korean film, so it has the Hong Kong feel, but there's something different to it as well. There is a feel of film noir, but it's also got quirky humor and the obligatory kung fu scenes (although not extended). The story begins with the protagonist being abducted and imprisoned for 15 years. When he gets out, he must follow the clues to find out why he was there. Things get really weird and really twisted.What I thought about it: I really can't say anything about the over-dubbing that was sub-par because it's to be expected from foreign films. Of course when I turned on the subtitles, it didn't match the dialog - it seems as if the subtitles was a direct translation and the dubbing was a cultural equivalent with artistic freedom. It distracted me, so I turned it off. The acting might have been believable in Korean, but without actually hearing the actors' voices it was laughably bad - like some of the people you see on American Idol who put too much into their singing where it sounds ridiculous and not natural at all. The dialog and soliloquy were filled with pop-culture hackery. "Laugh and the world laughs with you..." and other stolen lines repeated ad nauseam trying to fill the story with philosophy, yet ultimately adding nothing to the story artistically or dramatically. Of course the twists, turns and revelations are all pretty original, yet it ends with the dreaded deus ex machina.In conclusion, this isn't a movie I'd necessarily recommend to anyone unless you're interested in foreign films, Korean camp, or if you like movies that take you one way to throw you another when it all fits together.


                
Oldboy has a wonderful setup for a revenge film, it is on par with the Count of Monte Cristo. While the main character was imprisoned I was transfixed. Who was doing this too him? Why? I was ready to be shown a good revenge film. What I got was a convoluted mess.I loved the first half of the film. Once the main character was released from a suitcase, wearing a particularly cool suit, I was fully expecting a tale of violence and revenge. Justified revenge. I knew they would throw somethings at me, but I wasn't expecting gibberish.This is the second Asian film this year that screwed up a wonderful set-up, the other being Infernal Affairs. For the whole last hour the viewer is bombarded with illogical plot devices, twists that have no real meaning either to plot or as a parable to the viewer, all stables of Manga, that do not translate well to film. Asian cinema does not like to paint characters with the sides of good and bad. The heroes are sometimes worse than the villains, they usually have something seriously wrong with them, either mentally or morally. Many of the criticisms regarding this film come from viewers who are blinded by the conventions of Western Cinema. I was not expecting it to be a conventional film, where revenge is reaped with no sacrifice to the protagonist. I was expecting destruction and madness. The conclusion however is neither of those. I don't know what it is, it just is what it is. It cannot be satisfying to anybody, even to those expecting a un-satisfying conclusion.


                
** contains spoilers ** We can call formulaic a movie which develops according to a well-established, consecrated and successful formula and obey some kind of narrative pattern. It can be a good rendering or version of the established formula or a bad one. In either case, it lacks originality. The logical corollary is that any formula, no matter how brilliant and awe-inspiring it may be, is prone to be depleted sooner or later. When you sit through a movie and you find it disturbingly boring without knowing the reason, it may well be the case that you've seen it before <U+0096> one, twice or a dozen times. That's exactly the problem with 'oldboy': from Freud's works and Kafka's Process to Angel Heart, Memento or Spider, we've already seen or read way too many stories about someone who's trapped in a mysterious plot without knowing why, forgets a good deal about his life and then goes to hell in order to discover what's going on with him <U+0096> just to find out in the end that the big secret lies in his own past, usually a dirty or tormented past which has been done away with by the character's harried mind. What changes from a movie to another - apart from the camera work and all the formal qualities which a movie may or not possess <U+0096> is the past dirtiness: a murder, a rape, an incestuous relationship. You name it. I'm tired of it. ;-)
This movie let me down. I'd read promising reviews for it online and actually found it in the 'employee picks' section of the rental store. I'd already seen Park's "Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance", so I had an idea of what I was getting into. Oldboy is better, but not by much.The graphic violence seemed cheap and unoriginal. I think the movie tries not-quite successfully to be shocking in the same way Miike's "Ichi the Killer" was. Actually, some of the best scenes in "Oldboy" (e.g. the penthouse one) reuse elements from "Ichi", which is a better movie that came out 2 years earlier (2001).The story has an original twist I didn't see coming. That may have been because I nearly fell asleep before the surprise was revealed. The plot beckons back to events that happened in high school (the title 'Oldboy' = 'alumni'); this was a mild detractor for me since 'high school drama' strikes me as trite. If you can stomach high school awkwardness and are already reading subtitles anyway, you might be better served by 'Battle Royale'. I'm told Park's "Joint Security Area" is nothing like "Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance" and "Oldboy", which means there is still a fair chance I'll check it out.


                
Fortunately for a self-trained action hero your enemies conveniently attack you one at a time while you ignore the effects of a stabbing in the back, in the most comical fight scenes akin to Peter Griffin fighting the giant chicken.An then there's the entire premise of this film: An elaborate revenge scheme 15 years in the making, where the bad guy imprisons a father and then raises his daughter for 15 years before using hypnotism to make the two fall in love. Reminds me of "Have the protocol driod's mind wiped." What a convenient way to cover a ridiculous plot.I feel for the octoped that had to die to make this rubbish.
Tonight I worked out while in front of the TV watching Oldboy. If you've thought of watching it, DON'T - be warned. It was recommended to me by a friend and was ranked in the top 250 movies of all time on IMDb, so I decided it was time to watch it. HOLY CRAP did it leave a bad taste in my mouth. It started amazing, the cinematography and music were incredible, I couldn't turn away (which is why I gave it 3 stars instead of 1)... but it took a VERY DARK and disturbing descent at the end, (mind you, it was pretty dark throughout) and I truly regret having seen it. I wish I'd have read this review first from another IMDb user, it sums it up pretty well: "A good plot twist should leave the viewer going "wow, why didn't I think of that?" not "OMG what kind of sick %#@$% would even begin to think that?" It's a really F#$%ed up story, I didn't see it coming, I wish I hadn't seen it at all.


                
i don't understand all the fuss about this movie..i just watched it because of the high rating..it's a good movie but relax people it has major flaws...what i didn't liked : hypnosis doesn't works that way guys...and the biggest bullshit ever,HOW ON EARTH HE DIDN'T REMEMBERED HIS DAUGHTER OR HIS DAUGHTER REMEMBERED HIM..?? i have returned to my homeland after 17 years and still remembered every person and i left as a 5 year old kid....and also Dae-Su and Woo-jinLee seem to have like 15-20 years age difference how come they were classmates..?? i know prison can make you look older but i don't think that much...last thing,Woo-jin Lee looks like a maximum of 30 year old guy so it took him 15 years of Dae-su prison and i would assume that after the school it took Dae-su about 5 years to make a family...so to sum up Woo-jin must have been like 5-10 years old when he made out with his sister and Dae-su would be a 15-20 years old guy going in primary school....major flaws guys
I give this movie 3 stars for a compelling beginning and interesting story progression, and a few very amusing fight scenes.I deduct 5 stars for the nihilistic incest fantasy at its core.Any review that doesn't grapple with this sickness at the core is a sign of a morally inexperienced or bankrupt reviewer. How do you not warn the viewer that the supposed redemption of the character comes when he pays a hypnotist to wipe his memory in order to permit him to continue carrying out one of society's greatest (and most sensible) taboos, against HAVING SEX WITH YOUR OWN CHILDREN.That's right. This "Count of Monte Cristo" revenge tale has the erstwhile prisoner unknowingly becoming involved with his own daughter, who he doesn't recognize due to his long imprisonment as well as post-hypnotic suggestion. The writer lacks the courage to give our prisoner only one excuse (time passing) for sleeping with his child...the post-hypnotic suggestion seems added to give the prisoner further justification for just going for it.Think "The Count of Monte Pedo." I'm posting frank spoilers here in an attempt to stand out from the reviews that avoid spoilers and say, merely, "YUCK," because I wish I had been warned against this. The person who recommended this movie to me laughingly told me, "It goes to places you would never expect." The more accurate description is, "It goes to places it shouldn't, and wallows there because it can't muster the courage or imagination or moral clarity to say anything about it once it gets there." I am not closed-minded against challenging cinematography or story developments. What bothers me about this movie is its attempt to justify these developments with a kind of "See, here's how he can go on sleeping with his daughter" happy ending.Persons with weak moral compasses or who don't look deeply at this material may find the nihilistic progression of this movie compelling. I remind them that anybody can destroy his own world, his own life, and his own mind in order to justify any behavior. Do you want to live in a world where the willingness to destroy the world is all it takes to get what you want?
A film that discusses a vast range of human emotion and moral questions, Oldboy is merely a plot-driven tale of revenge. The film is composed of extremely rich characters of intensely described emotions and personalities played by very apt actors. However, these characters become consumed in a confusing, but well-woven, web of events, flashbacks, and choppy explanations. The depth of these carefully created characters built by Chan-wook Park is hidden by the carefully created story built by the same person.The subject matter is full of potential no matter how it is presented due to its intensity and brooding venture into the human soul. But the viewer is rendered unable to connect with the plight of the characters due to the several twists and delicate plot points. While the story is solid and unfathomably interesting, it severely detracts from what should be the major point of the film: the exploration of the human soul.The filming and production of the piece is beautiful. The director carefully builds his story with perfectly inserted flashbacks and David Lynch-style scenes. The acting by the primary cast conveys the emotions of the characters to a fine point. The writing manages to render dialogue for the film that remains realistic, characterizes, and displays emotion, despite the fantastical situation and many variables. The composition accompanying the film is exceptionally brilliant, mixing classical and modern instrumentals together. The music effectively accentuates the intense emotions portrayed in the movie. Additionally, the filming and design creates a beautiful visual experience. Oldboy is a visual masterpiece, like 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), but all of it detracts from the main purpose and raw emotion of the movie.It's like Memento (2000) on steroids, or Room (2015) with even more intensity. Yet it misses the mark completely. The emotion is felt, and then lost in the confusing whirlwinds of the story. Park throws the viewer into the Land of Oz and is lost wondering where Kansas went. Tears should be shed for the tragedy of Dae-su Oh, but instead tears are wept for the lost potential of this visually perfect, but emotionally incomplete film.


                
Oldboy didn't work for me. It's pretension cranked up to 11. For some, I suppose, it's "Look how the octopus struggles to survive even as it's being eaten. How rich a metaphor." For me, it's more "Whoa! Never saw that before!" Visually, it's a feast. The cinematography is something that will be pored over by film students for years. Park and his team love putting the camera overhead, like a God's eye view. But even the long pan on the fight scene just seems to scream, "Look how cleverly we are filming this fight scene!" It just takes you out of the movie. Another fight it staged in a room full of glass stuff so that we can see artfully shot smashing glass.It's a meta-movie. A movie about movies. The vengeance plot, with it's big reveal at the end, seems like a dare it is so preposterous. "We dare you to swallow this." It's absurd in the way many opera plots are and I suppose, in that sense, it's over-the-topness should not matter. But it did to me.It also cops out at the end. What are we to think will be the future of Dae-su and the girl? What does the ecstatic look on his face mean? What is he anticipating? Park knows full well the audience is too embarrassed to admit it is thinking of one possibility, so it chooses a more noble motive.A more courageous director would have put a leer on his face.
I have been catching up with Korean films since I viewed I SAW THE DEVIL a couple of months ago. That film blew me away. It was a very violent revenge story. The film was uncomfortable to watch but the story was compelling and emotional, not just violent. I had read a lot of great things about OLDBOY. I didn't know much about the plot, but assumed that it would be good from all the great things I read about it.After seeing this film I really don't get why it got such accolades. The basic outline of the story is that a man is put in an isolated room for 15 years in a cell that looks like a hotel room. He escapes the cell and begins a frantic search for truth and revenge. All of this sounds promising doesn't it? We it starts out very well. But as the film goes along it gets so convoluted and strange that it just lost me. The film stars Choi Min-sik as Oh Dae-su, the man that is imprisoned. When he gets out he is given a cell phone in which he gets a call from his captor. His captor refuses to tell him why he was imprisoned. What follows is a web of violent revenge and deception. His captor wants to make Oh Dae-su suffer. Again, the basic story could have been very involving but this film is done in such a slow meandering and overall weird way that I just didn't care for it. I won't give away much, but this film is so pretentious and self serious for it's own good. The violence in the film is very brutal, but without the emotional connection it just seems gratuitous. I've read reviews of this film hailing it as a masterpiece, I just dont get it? It is well filmed but so outrageous that it lost me. Not for the faint of heart. I won't see this again.


                
Dae-Su is a terrible drunkard released on bail from the police station by a friend. After talking to his daughter from a phone booth he disappeared. He was abducted from the street and wakes up in a cell, where he is retrained of his liberty for the next 15 years, he is constantly drugged, human contact is unavoidable, framed up for his wife's murder and provided with only the television as company. And then, suddenly released, he is invited to track down his abductor. At first I thought that I will be watching a revenge movie considering that the main character was imprisoned for 15 years without any legal basis. I was expecting an action film that turned out to be a comedy with the main focus is incest. The incestuous brother main purpose in life is to stalk the main character. The incestuous brother raised the main character's daughter since she was three only to set them up for incestuous sex. The movie is sick. What a waste of your precious time.


                
