Hi! I am a South Korean national student here in London, and would like to give you some clues why the main character, Oh Dae-Soo, was kept in the private prison for exactly 15 years and why he ate the live octopus as I hope you all understand this film a little better.Firstly, his wife was killed one year after his being kept in the privately run prison. Obviously, Oh Dae-Soo didn't kill her but was suspected of murdering her. It must be done by Lee Yu-Jin who planned to have his sister's revenge upon Oh Dae-Soo. In South Korea, criminals of unsolved crimes including murder cases are forgiven/overlooked by law 15 years after the crimes were committed, which means a murder suspect wouldn't be charged or get punished unless the suspect is caught within 15 years after the murder. This is why Oh Dae-Soo was released 15 years after his wife was killed. Thus, he wouldn't be disturbed by the police investigation and Lee Yu-Jin could play with him at his own discretion.Secondly, nobody in the country eats live octopus like the way he ate in the film. It seems to me that the scene shows his uncontrollable anger against the man who he talked with on the phone and didn't say anything about the reasons why he was kept in the prison. If there was a piece of cake or a bowl of rice in front of him, I guess he would probably eat it in the same way he did with the octopus. So, please don't get it wrong that eating something alive is part of Korean culture. It should be understood itself in that extreme context.I saw this film several times with my friends. I didn't quite understand it in the first view but came to like it in the second time and it's one of my favourites now. I like the complicated plot and the shocking ending. As I'm studying translation of English and Korean, most of my classmates and friends are English who spent some time in South Korean and they liked this one the most among other Korean films.I hope my talk helps.
I've scored this a 9 but I think I may have been a little harsh! I have just read a review that says the reviewer cannot understand the hype. I can see no hype. Everything the film promised and more was delivered. This is a truly wonderful film. It is beautifully acted, brutally and painstakingly directed and as good a display of raw emotion as I have witnessed in any language. The story is gripping, the characters believable and well rounded, the emotion human and the feeling I was left with at the end of the film is one of awe. And that was after I had watched it twice. Honestly, this is a truly, truly wonderful film. Do not miss it under any circumstances!


                
I haven't written a comment on IMDb for about 3 years but was inspired to with this film. It is not very often that I come across a film by accident (World Movies on cable) and the spend the next day scouring the internet to find out information about it and can't get it out of my head! Anyway, yep there are plot holes, but Old boy borrows a lot from surrealism and you are meant to suspend your disbelief! I don't buy comments when people say "it is so unrealistic because he should've done this ..." because it is a surrealist film and meant to be unrealistic! For me the sign of a good film is if it sticks on your head! THis one surely does (althought I did have to look away a few times ... ) Loved it!!!! Work of cruel genius!!! (HOLLYWOOD - Please don't ruin it by remaking it!!!)


                
I decided to check this movie out after Ebert's 4 star rave review, and the cult status this movie has received (and was also intrigued by the sexy-looking Ultimate Edition), so I decided to rent it. I was VERY surprised at how different it was than I expected it to be - I expected a ton of violence and not much in the way of writing or acting. The first time I saw it, I wasn't blown away, just kind of like whatever.When I watched it for the second time, however, I really started to notice how well it's made, in addition to liking it more. Every shot is bursting with background detail, a great amount of attention on the production design (the theme of a certain color in a scene was restrained, yet perfectly balanced). The actors really gave it all, especially the 2 male leads who really blew me away. The music is a varied mix of beautiful classical music and some pretty cool techno. The screenplay is brilliant; the characters are developed very well, extremely complex, and the plot is not only ingenious, but the payoff and twists are 1000x better than any Shamaylan movie.Simply put, from a technical point of view, it's one of the best movies ever. From a critic's point of view, it is a very well-done movie that goes a little overboard in sex and violence, and is just a little strange.


                
I feel compelled to defend this film from some quite frankly unwarranted criticism. Although it isn't without its flaws, and all films have a few,it certainly isn't a one star film.What this film has is the ability to be sublime, shocking, ridiculous, mildly amusing and visually stunning which is some feat for any film.The sheer scale of the comments here suggests that here is a film that gets to you in one way or another. This film is as far away from Maborosi as you can get yet both films are up there as great pieces of cinema. I wont divulge the plot or end this comment with a Latin quote to reinforce my self importance i'll just say go and watch it, preferably if you're not too squeamish and don't mind subtitles.This film left me thinking about it the following day which is normally a good thing (atleast it shows my memory is working!)


                
Oldboy takes a hammer and "batters" its American equivalents, leaving them as pulped as a chewed up squid. Park Chan Wook displays what America misses with his ultra-stylish, ultra-violent thriller. Why watch Ben Affleck fail spectacularly to summon any displayable talent, when Min sik Choi serves up a memorable role as the disturbed, vengeful Dae Su Oh, in the second of the Vengeance trilogy. Park skillfully creates a compelling plot that will have you guessing through the entire film, up until the final shocking revelation. The Cinematography expertly done by Jeong-hun Jeong, who also worked on the follow up to this film, Chinjeolhan geumjassi. Everything about this film is done in style and panache and creates a memorable experience, and has many memorable scenes.Many people accuse this film of being "unrealistic". These people forget that this a film, not a documentary. No one complains About Star Wars being unrealistic, and rightly so. Films have a right to stretch out reality, don't forget the reason it does this is to be entertaining.Although the film has strong violence of a graphic nature, I advise you to watch it, if only to broaden your perspectives of world and Asian cinema.


                
The first time I watched "Old-boy", I was half-amazed, half-disgusted. I wasn't quite sure how to rate the movie in general. I knew 2 things: 1. From a visual point of view, it's one of the best movies I have ever seen. Cinematography & scenography are nothing short of perfection. 2. I had problems with the plot, some holes in it, and a general feeling of injustice, as crime seemed to be pretty lightweight compared with the punishment.2nd time was a weird situation. A girl I knew tried to get into the film school, and the day before her exam she asked me to supply her with some movies that were interesting visually. 2 films we watched were "Natural Born Killers" and "Old-boy", and, especially the 2nd 1 was a revelation.Knowing the plot, it was easy for me to concentrate on the visual side, and my friend always consumes the movies this way. Results of paying attention to the tiniest of details were stunning. I don't think there's 1 scene in there shot without an idea, without something happening in the background, or without an image responding to the theme of the scene.Don't be a baby crying about violence - camera turns away in key moments. Don't be a smartarse, picking on the shortcomings of the plot - think about Hitchcock or Chaplin and how they gave a flying f... about plot. Appreciate the work of the whole crew, and for best effects watch it a couple of times. It's worth it.


                
I will start out by saying that Chan-wook Park is a film making genius, maybe Quentin Tarantino of Korea. The plot was original and the character development and cinematography was really well done. This is a revenge story that grips you from beginning to end, especially at the end. This movie is a must see, even if you have a weak stomach go watch it anyways, cause there will be those "thats f***** up" moments, the fight scenes are few but realistic. I am not going to ruin anything about this movie or give away the pot, all I can say is just watch the damn movie. Korean film making at it's best.9.2/10


                
The movie is one of the kind. If you watch it and don't like it u r an idiot. Amazing revenge story (actually the best ever). A' class acting. Sick ending. Hall of fame :)


                
I'm sorry, I can't understand why some of the users on this site shun Oldboy so much.I think this is a brilliant film, and yes it does have artistic and avant garde tendencies. If its not your thing, don't watch it.I, however, think it is a masterpiece. The levels of engagement that the actors are in to create the story is brilliant. People are simply overlooking the fact that incest is a huge tragic flaw. there are brilliant, slightly surreal moments, and I think this is what makes the film.The camera work is something creative, and has moments of paying homage to the comic, and other films.I love it so much so, that I have taken the story into physical theatre and created something new. I have done this to pay tribute to such a phenomenal film.Brilliant, no questions asked...


                
This is an amazing film. I have to say though, if you are American and don't speak Korean, than it is crucial that you watch this with someone who is. I know I wouldn't have been able to understand a lot of the subtleties if it wasn't for my friend having to pause the movie occasionally to tell me what just happened. This is a very disturbing film at times and I probably cringed enough for my liking. I'd have to say that its strongest points were the acting and the script. Every character was utterly believable. Especially the main character, Oh Deseau. I have rarely sympathized for a character in a movie as much as I did for him. 15 years? That's ridiculous. As far as the script goes...wow. It's probably one of the best scripts ever written in the history of film. And the ending is just too much. If you had to compare it to anything else I'd say that it's a lot like Audition meets Seven. I highly recommend this film to anyone with a strong stomach who loves thrillers and surprises.


                
Unfortunately, not being a native speaker, I cannot comment as profoundly on this movie as I would like to. But still, some of the reviews here inflict pain just by reading.I, personally, primarily appreciate the film because of its aesthetic value. The camera perspective, color, and musical underlining are in fact brilliant, as is most of the acting; but this is a question of taste and not to be part of a rating.What actually seems to be widely misunderstood is the "story" or "meaning" of this film. Actually, the point IS that there is none; that the main character is both almighty and powerless; that both violence and appeasement lead to nothing; that all characters are one-dimensional and completely determined by their surroundings; that every twist of plot seems to come out of nowhere. This movie is plain nihilistic - there is no point in trying to change anything, as the ending is already set up by some mysterious force. Complaining about senseless violence and sex scenes is just downright stupid in this context. Life can be perceived to be just like that, and this is the perspective this film wants to offer. If it doesen't correspond with yours, I understand it must be pretty harsh on the viewer.My recommendation: Maybe, reading "La Nausee" by Sartre (or seeing the other two pieces of the trilogy, if you opt for graphical display) will help to understand the this masterpiece. If not, well, whatever.
Oldboy is what you can call a sick master piece of the south Koreans. The Film is very well plotted and the direction is excellent. This is one of the films that should never be allowed by Hollywood,Bollywood to remake. It is an original.This is Asian cinema at its best.In the realm of revenge thrillers, you'd be hard pressed to find more ultra-violent vengeance and psycho thrills than in the creepy story of Oldboy. Do watch the film and do not be offended by it,look at the greater aspect of the movie and enjoy it.Oldboy deserves to be watched and appreciated.


                
Amazing work..no words to say..it makes you weep..


                
I saw this movie for the first time on a pay per view channel together with my dad. He thought it was not bad, but I was entranced. The second I got home I bought it (it was one of the first DVD's that I ever bought).I've shown it to over 50 people by now and they all agree on one thing, it has some amazing parts in it. Even people who really didn't like the movie, loved the fight scene in the middle, it has comedy, extreme violence and some good old fighting.This movie is in my top 5 favorites of all time and the only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because after watching it as many times as I have some scenes get a bit boring.This movie has it all, plot twists that would make M. Night Shyamalan confused, action that would make john woo proud, sex scene's that are worthy to be in a porn, and action that should've gotten an Oscar.If you haven't seen it yet, do so now. If you've seen it but didn't get it watch it again. And if you're like me and love it, just watch it for the fun of it again.


                
Can we get a truth which tells us "who must be blamed"?The answer is 'NO'. It's void to follow the sin.I guess the director spits out some kinds of nihilism and cynicism.But at the same time, there must be 'a right to live' as saying >


                
I am saving the second half of this for another day.It is marvellously funny, and not a little peculiar, even for a Korean film.Eating an octopus alive isn't the most obvious way to remedy a vitamin deficiency, and relying on your ability to distinguish one particular dumpling from hundreds to get your revenge is uncommonly optimistic.I'd have gone for kimchi soup myself, even though it has fewer tentacles.Having a remote control to your pacemaker so you can stop your heart when you feel like it might be quite a popular option. I think my father would have liked such a remote, near the end of his life.Then there's the case of the third chopstick.. and the homage to 'Marathon Man"....and to Kafka, though seeing an empty carriage on the Seoul underground is probably the bigger surprise.
An alcoholic father and husband is captured and kept in captivity during 15 years without knowing why. When he gets out, he's hell-bent on revenge and discovering why he was imprisoned. This is a powerful movie with strong dramatic performances. It's intense and constantly keeps you on your toes. The story is amazing and full of twists and turns until the very end. Speaking of twists, the film is a bit twisted in itself by the themes it portrays. It does make us question what is moral and acceptable in revenge. The directing is bold and inventive.There's a long fight scene without cuts in a corridor that's practically an anthology piece. Other memorable moments involve teeth and a tongue. Notice how the director often plays with our expectations showing relatively little but creeping us out nevertheless. The story also plays with our perceptions of the characters, making them more or less sympathetic. The main character has quite the character arc transformation, completely changing physically and psychologically during the course while keeping the viewer on edge because he's a bit unstable... So, it's overall quite fascinating, intellectually stimulating, viscerally gripping, and heartily recommended provided you don't expect a simple, typical revenge movie and you keep an open mind.Rating: 8.5 out 10 (remarkable)


                
Rated R for strong violence including scenes of torture, sexuality and pervasive language.After a year of pestering from a friend, I finally watched Oldboy.Oldboy is the second film in the Chan Woo Park Vengeance trilogy.The first film in the series is Sympathy For Mr Vengeance and the third film is Sympathy For Lady Vengeance.The films are all in one trilogy but have nothing to really do with each other, besides the fact that the films are all about revenge.I did not see lady vengeance but I didn't really care for mr vengeance that much.I found it to be a bit boring.It was an alright film though.Oldboy is much much better.The film is much more interesting, thought-provoking and entertaining than the first film.A man mysteriously gets locked up for 15 years.When he is released, he seeks vengeance on the man who locked him up.There are many plot twists in the film and you will find yourself on the edge of your seat when you watch it.Even if you didn't like Mr.Vengeance, Oldboy is worth a look!


                
I am not Asian nor pro-Asian. I do not live in Asia. I try always to be objective.And objectively this film is really very good. A masterpiece.I believe that it is the first time that I comment on a film and gives 9/10. I NEVER give 10/10 cause NOTHING is perfect. But this movie is near perfection. This Korean film is remarkable. WOWWWWWWWWWWWW !!!!!!!!!!!!!All is good in this film. Actors and actresses, photography, music, and of course the history (the scenario).That made well at least 20 years that I had not seen a film of this kind.It is well one of rare Asian films where nudity is seen (without vulgarity of course).I would give a Oscar for this film. But unfortunately it is not as that which that it's work in Hollywood. It is necessary to form part of the "Hollywood Clan".I hope that the authors of this film will continue to make also remarkable films and that it will not make like Hollywood. To make turnips and to only think of the money.In any case Korean gives a good cinematographic lesson to American.I you council highly to buy this film because it is a rare masterpiece since they are 25 last years.It's good to see a film where we don't know all the story even before to have it. It's good to see they are again some (but few) people who are able to use their brain to make remarkable movie. It's good to see people who make movie who don't think that people who watch movies are all idiots...


                
What can you expect from this film? A gripping story and great cinematography, some very graphic scenes. You will forget its a subtitled film if you only speak English like me. If you are a little squeamish is maybe not a film you should watch. But all the violent scenes I found to be well done, even a bit of comedy added in to boot. The films real strength is the story, it unfurls perfectly with just the right amount of pace. I am sure some people will have some bad things to say about this, but I think it is a great piece of work, and it is thoughrouly enjoyable.It kept me glued from beginning to end, and for 30 minutes after as I had to just sit and go over the film again in my head.


                
Not having seen any previous films by this director, I went in with an open mind. While I was in Korea in 2004, I asked a few Korean friends, what movies they thought would be worth watching (subtitles permitting!). All of them suggested Oldboy.This film is quite slow to get going but its fitting that you get eased in to the film. It's a very disturbing film and extremely graphic in places. However, I do think its all in keeping with the storyline.To me this is a must see film as a result of the acting, the twists throughout and overall difference that the film puts out to the standard US based movie! If you don't mind some violence and general disturbing content based around torture and violence, then you wont be disappointed. Fantastically executed with great camera work, give it a go!


                
This is one heck of a film experience, a cinematic joyride unlike any in recent memory. A well-crafted tight package it is, of electrifying acting performance (Choi Min-Sik is simply great), innovative cinematography, unbelievably warped story line, bone-jarring action, black humor, all fortified by a moody and captivating music score(it tends to lodge in the recesses of one's right hemisphere, and won't leave). A role that demands a tremendous emotional range, Choi Min-Sik gives one of the most memorable acting performances in recent years. We see a man brimming with bottled up rage for vengeance barreling his way towards the inevitable encounter with his nemesis, and when the moment arrives, we are witness to a heart-wrenching transformation of a broken man pitifully begging for his mute mercy. If there ever is a measurable scale to the emotional spectrum of acting, then Mr. Choi's performance pushes through the untested limits of infrared and ultraviolet. His brilliantly inscrutable and ambiguously formed sweet-and-sour smile(Mona Lisa would be proud) near the end is the singular summation of a tortured soul who has just been reminded of the unbearable cost of his hollow victory. Perhaps it is the smile beneath which a glimpse of the "monster" can still be seen. Many will ponder.Throughout the movie, the viewer is treated to some striking imagery which effectively appear almost embossed onto the film. Some of the more memorable scenes appear to be lifted right out of its dramatic Manga frame composition. Dramatic pose of our protagonist holding back the man and his dog, Mr. Han's momentarily frozen Judo form, the "Great Wave"(poster) of emotion towering over Dae Su.. There is no stylistic over-byte here, just enough dramatic essence distillation to stick. Simply brilliant. Of course, this is in sharp contrast to the infamous hallway fight scene, an all out, no cuts, make-your-palm-sweat realism. This is largely due to Mr. Park's mastery of his directorial craft to match the subject drama and acting.Those cineastes who like their cinematic Martini "shaken AND stirred" will no doubt discover a winding, twisted emotional vista, one that we rarely see. A rock and a grain of sand may sink the same, but surely this cinematic de la creme will ascend to its rightful notice. Indeed a stylistic substance and substantial style.


                
That's how big an impact "Oldboy" made on me! The opening of the movie alone is perhaps the coolest opening I have ever seen because when that music started playing and the first scene starts rolling I was in movie heaven. It was one of those perfect moments I guess, and it was all the much harder to believe, because I am no Asian-movie fan. Actually I avoid Asian movies as much as I can because I don't like their storytelling and directing, plus I never remember the faces because they all look the same. I have, since seeing "Oldboy", changed my opinion on that. How could I not, the movie has more style that the first two Matrix movies combined, visual effects that are more than equal rivals to any big-budget Hollywood movie, actors that I was somehow able to recognize were amazing, despite having to read the subtitles all the way through, and a music score that has been playing in my head for many days now. And I haven't even gotten to the true core of this movie. It's a story that blew me away, it's a hardcore revenge movie that won't leave you cold. Put all of this into exactly two hours of pure entertainment at it best, countless memorable scenes that are beyond amazing, and give it a dash of perfection. You got it, an instant cult classic. 9/10


                
I personally feel Oldboy is the best film to come out of Asian cinema, it really hit me hard. I loved it from start to finish, this dark tale of revenge is one of the most unique experiences I've ever had. Everything about Oldboy is perfect, the direction, the poetic screenplay, the haunting operatic score and the wonderful acting. Even though Oldboy is a tale of revenge, it has an underlying message of redemption.I mean how can you feel sorry for someone when you don't know what they have done. You see Oldboy questions the viewer, you will falter between feeling sorry for someone and then wondering "But what did they do to make that person do such a thing?" The film tests what many viewers can handle, even though the film is disturbing it adds a touch of twisted humour. Chan-wook Park is a director with a lot of talent, he mixes genres perfectly and many different techniques used to create a dark foreboding atmosphere.The dialogue is poetic, deep and meaningful. The phrase "Laugh, and the world laughs with you, weep, and you weep alone" is a very true statement. It's the kind of dialogue where you want to sit back and think about it for a second because everything moves with great pacing. The movie is deep and fulfilling. It holds many surprise twists and turns and uses some great shock techniques.The film mixes genres together, mainly using revenge and drama. The movie studies humanity and how a person can hurt someone without realising it. I would say this masterpiece is very psychological because it tests the viewers boundaries of what they can handle in certain places. The movie has a very comic book feel to it because it's based of a Manga series as well as being part of the "Vengance Trilogy". The movie helps define the often used term of "cool".Oldboy stands high up in a class of it's own, the movie is visual beauty and shows the pain that the characters are going through. The edging menace that weaves it's way throughout the film manages to keep the viewer watching and grasping for more. Oldboy is a film that sticks with you and plays on your mind for a long time after each viewing. The movie is very deep and manages to show things through "In your face" technique and subtle imagery through acting. Another genius aspect would be the way you can't really decide who's the bad person is, there are definitely no good characters apart from Dae-su Oh's lover who acts powerfully and with lots of precision.For example one of the great scenes in this masterpiece is the love scene, it shows all the pain Dae-su Oh is going through. The actor Min-sik Choi has been casted perfectly and plays his role as Dae-su Oh with sublime brilliance. The direction is stylish and different, the movie experiments with very clever camera techniques. An example would be the close up of Dae-su Oh in the right hand corner of the screen and the blurred image of someone behind him. Oldboy is an extremely intelligent style of film making that is for a viewer who wants to get something out of the movie they are watching.The movie is somewhat like a Film-Noir, the narration adds depth and powerhouse style to the films undertone. Hence the idea of revenge and telling the tale of something that asks the viewer questions. The movie plays with the mind and twists everything you once thought was correct. The viewer never knows who to trust or what is going to happen next. he movie is unpredictable and feels like a poem of death. The first 40 minutes or so build up a claustrophobic atmosphere. The film shows how our society and class we live in is fuelled by evil.The movie is far from being at action movie and some might say far from being a revenge movie. It's more about lost love, self indulgence and finding inner tranquillity. The acting as mentioned is very powerful and provokes the viewer to ask the one main question that the film offers and that's "Why?" Another important aspect would be "Insanity" and "What drives a human? What really makes them want to go out and do something?" Some viewers will be put off from the films high-octane style and grace. But mainly the fact the movie is very twisted and disturbing. Though the added touch of satire adds a crazed ambition. The film actually feels quite Quentin Tarantino like in certain places or at least something that would appeal to his taste in film. The film is unflinching with it's camera use and what is being put fourth in front of the viewer.Perfection, detail and sublime visual flare makes this one of the greatest films ever made. You'll be wanting to see Oldboy again and again as soon as it finishes. The movie is confusing and fulfilling with it's wonderfully sweeping plot line. There is no doubt about it, Oldboy is one of the greatest films of the 21st century.


                
