Through this series I liked Ankara. Behzat Ç is a rough, violent and morally ambiguous police officer who is the head of the homicide department in Ankara. Behzat Ç and his team usually work together with the public prosecutor Esra, who later becomes his love interest. I wish though that all police officers.A series of very sincere. All the characters in the series so good. They complement each other. Array doing different from other series. 'La' word stuck in my mouth. Unfortunately, the series it was finished. I wish I had not been this way. Very more should be done like this series. It became one of the series will not be forgotten. So at least for me... 10/10


                
Behzat Ç. is basically about the adventures of a homicide detective and his squad in Ankara, the capital city of Turkey. The series are adapted from the novels of Emrah Serbes (Her Temas Iz Birakir and Son Hafriyat) and directed by famous Turkish film director Serdar Akar, known with his movies Gemide, Dar Alanda Kisa Paslasmalar, Barda and Kurtlar Vadisi Irak. Erdal Besikcioglu is the star of the series. He previously performed in Turkish movies Vali, Eve Giden Yol and Bal as well as various TV series (Ayrilik, Köprü, Es Es) although he is originally a theater actor. The series enjoyed a widespread popularity especially among the Turkish youth because of its realistic dialogs (also including the use of slang) showing the injustices and controversies in juridical system and law enforcement agency. Stories also touch upon some political discussions and criticize chauvinism.
I am probably writing this because of the last scene on the 30th episode. However by itself the 30th episode could not be the reason. Constant quality of the work delivered by this group of artist had been bewitching me to the point that nothing else could satisfy my taste for crime drama. I used to be a fan of Law and Order Criminal Intent, now it seems all too fictionalized for me. The fact may or may not be seen by watching the broken life of Behzat C, his love interests or his bizarre roommate Sule, not even his crew who consists of a Ghost, a Vulture and a Tosun Pasa. However they are so close to the fact, they make you think about them even can visualize them in your life. And the Expert of Crimes Against Life continues on living and solving those crimes, while he lives, more or less like anyone of us.
Saw this on NETFLIX. Gave me a great view on what Turkish life and customs and political issues . I was sad to see it end at 96 episodes as I felt like I was loosing friends. I know they are only TV characters, but still I wonder what happened to them, how their lives went. That is what a great TV series should do it should make you feel the characters are real and care about them.


                
This show airs in Turkey where there are a lot of censorship. The committee is really conservative and they tend to censor all kinds of sexual activity(mostly even kissing), insulting, blood etc. Yet, life's itself has a lot of these situations. And this show clearly has the purpose of being natural. They use insultive words just as all Turkish people do. The characters are all like one of us. They are not made up nor irrational. And this novel based show, is the best of it's genre in Turkey by far. The leading role is quite charismatic, reckless, smart and good-hearted character but he's still perfectly natural. he doesn't use unrealistically expensive phones, he doesn't wear different clothes in each scene. They focus on the story which consists of crime scenes with secrets and enigmas in Behzat C's psychological situation and history.


                
IMHO,this TV series makes more damage to the ruling party in Turkey than the total damage made by all opposition parties. I observe that the criticism directed by Behzat Ç toward the ruling AKPARTI and the system in general has a great influence on ordinary people. In this respect, it should be acknowledged as an epitome of social impact made by a quality artwork. Moreover this impact is not limited to those who detest the government. For example, I never refrain pressing people to watch Behzat Ç. which contains numerous issues disturbing for a conservative, though I am an ardent conservative and supporter of AKPARTI. Interestingly, I know many Erdogan (premier) admirers who disconnect home phones and close cellphones on Friday nights. What allures me and the others in Behzat Ç. is the property that nothing seems phony in it. The unification of genuineness, and heartfelt and balanced criticism turned out to be a shattering source of strength. Hence, its impact ratio is massive, however Behzat ç. is not a rating monster.


                
The series, now in its second season, is a scripted show that is shot over the general scenery of Ankara, Turkey's capital. It employs local people, amateur actors, students, local celebrities and man off the street for walk-on roles. Shooting the episodes mostly in popular local venues and people's homes, the series has a rather short list of permanent shooting sets: only the the homes of the main characters and the offices for the Homicide Squad is kept as a shooting set. The scores generally belong to local bands or artists, Pilli Bebek being the most frequently featured.The characters support local teams, share Bohemian flats, get drunk, enjoy paid female company in shady night clubs and swear consistent with authentic local slang and swear words instead of sanitized versions usually preferred on Turkish TV. Supplemented with excellent, authentic dialog, these provide an authentic realism to the stories and allows the series to delve deep into the personal demons of the characters. The top brass detective in the Homicide Squad, Behzat C., (the series' namesake), is an anti-hero with the worst (and most) personal demons.The series has a definitive "left" stance and frequently delves into the superstructure of crime, crime organizations and the state-within-a-state.Each episode (usually 9o minutes long) starts with a homicide and the case is normally resolved by the end. Each season also has a background story of a long running case.It's an exhilarating production, aired late night on Sunday.
Behzat Ç.one of the best realistic shows in Turkey maybe the best.As writers says:what's happening in life it must be in Behzat Ç. to because of that the show has pressures from a lot of different organizations so producers decided to end the show in 100 episodes.You can see reality in everywhere from Actors's language to extras-es.Behzat Ç. is fiction part of the show.He's a police who doesn't care politic,religion,ideology.He's just want to do his job.He also just watch documentaries in TV(i guess there's a joke behind it to) but in that job you can't escape from politics and some dark relationships when show gone forward Behzat finds himself a lot of dirty jobs,danger,puzzles and of course murders.It's really hard to review about Behzat Ç. but in the end I just can say a great Drama including great writers,actors and great puzzles.I don't know what more can i say but i know a year later from now.We all feel emptiness of Behzat Ç. its very special and hard to fill its spot.


                
What makes Behzat Ç Bir Ankara Polisiyesi such a great series not only its' story, but also its' characters and their depth. None of the characters are shallow, they all have their own past and they are all played by great actors and actresses. Erdal Besikçioglu as Behzat Ç, and Canan Ergüder as Savci Esra are the most notable of these examples. Origins of characters shown from time to time by flashbacks usually, especially if they are related with the topic of the episode. Almost every episode starts with a homicide, and because our main characters works as homicidal investigations; they try to find the murderer. But also there is a greater plot per season. Behzat Ç even has a nemesis whose past and his motives for hostility against Behzat Ç has not been revealed completely. Political side of the series is also highly controversial; some episodes attracted attention from officials, representatives and even from ministers because they contain serious criticism against the current administration.
Sincerity, Mystery, Drama, Comedy, Ankara, Detective. More than one array, separate. Are you going to another world. unusual for a Turkish series will capture your soul. The characters are all like one of us. They are not made up nor irrational. And this novel based show, is the best of it's genre in Turkey by far. The leading role is quite charismatic, reckless, smart and good-hearted character but he's still perfectly natural. he doesn't use unrealistically expensive phones, he doesn't wear different clothes in each scene. They focus on the story which consists of crime scenes with secrets and enigmas in Behzat C's psychological situation and history.


                
Behzat Ç. is a not a kind of TV serials which you are familiar with. Its on its best when it makes a balance between your realities and your illusions. A routine story of life goes parallel with the story of pressure which you already have because of the unwritten rules of the society, politics, family, even friends. The naturalistic details are well structured within the story and it actually lies behind your story. No fantasy, no hero, no fear, no side, no documentary, no fun, no show, no adventure, no eroticism<U+0085>etc. there is no clichés here. As if it is the advantage of having dreams in which you become who you are in your subconscious. i.e. when you get stress and feel pressure intrinsically in your any daily life , you may dream that you are punching a sand bag or something else to renew your physiological body by making you stress absorptive capacity empty again for the next morning. The effects are the same in the serial. I have no idea how they can do that. Buy they are doing.
Best because it is daily life.. it is sincere.. they are not acting, it is like a window to someone's real life.. so intense, so sincere, so real.. You can find friendship, sacrifice, pain, empathy, understanding, passion, intelligence unlike modern series.. I wish I was one of them.you must know that series can be found in youtube, and if you are a real fan of these guys and their dialouges, you should also check cep dizi series..movies are also nice, completing the missing parts in TV episodes..as my last words, I could say that, I cried and laughed with the series for the last 6 years... I keep restarting from the first episode and everytime I watch one more time, I see what I have missed in the previous time I watched. .definitely helpful for your psyhcology.. especially if you are emotional..remember to buy beer or raki before you start, believe me you will need that!


                
Cinema and series from all parts of this world can entertain,enlighten,help understanding a country and its people...Behzat does that,yes a "cop show" of all things!The characters are real it seems,we get glimpses of life in Turkey/Ankara,we have a taste of levels of government,police structures,modern and more traditional aspects of a country portrayed by some media(all!?)in a over simplistic manner....amazing show,thank you to the Turkish People!


                
I have thoroughly enjoyed watching this series. When I have reached the final episode it will feel as though I am saying farewell to friends. This is an incredibly written, directed, and acted series. It is so realistic in many instances, to me, who knew very little of Turkish culture. I have learned so much having watched this series through 78 episodes. The characters are so dynamic, unpredictable, funny, loyal, and likable despite their flaws. I particularly enjoyed Episode 78 due to how incredibly honest it was. Vulture painfully recalling why the woman he had loved for so long committed the murders she did and Behzat admitting that Sule is his daughter. How many times have we sat with friends, drinking, recalling past stories that have made our lives what they are? I felt as if I was sitting with Behzat, Harun,Vulture, Ghost, and Cevdet sharing their pain , yet on the outside,able to laugh at their expressions and antics. I will miss you, Homicide Bureau and all those characters who have made this a remarkable series. I have come to the end of this incredible series that has captured my attention and heart through 96 episodes. To me, the finest police drama I have seen to date. Thank you, Behzat and all the members of your world.
