There are certain films that get under your skin, never to come out. They change your life, subtly altering your perceptions of reality, almost always for the better.Dead Poets Society is one of those few films.I saw the movie back when I was in High School. I had a teacher who told us that we really needed to watch it; in fact, it was our "homework" for the day. We didn't need to bring back a report, or talk about it in class. All he asked from us was to watch it, make up our own mind about it, and that was it. As you can imagine, many friends of mine didn't watch it at all; I did. And yes, I feel I changed a bit from there on.Back when you are young, you never really stop to think what in the world you are doing with your life. You simply live for the day, hope your grades will be enough to pass, and that's it. Long term thinking involves maybe flirting with a girl. Nothing more. What this film showed me was that we have the responsability and the joy of being alive in this planet. That we are dust, and we will go back to it, so we have precious little time to make a difference. That we have a moral obligation to "seize the day, and make our lives extraordinary" (my favorite quote in all movie history). That the world, basically is ours. That the only limitations are within ourselves, and that we owe it to us to fight, to rebel against conformity, to change what we hate and keep what we love. That living in this world is a beautiful responsability, and that only cowards dare not to change it for the better.The fact that the cast was basically my age, and was passing through the same dilemmas and situations I was facing made it all so much more powerful.So here I sit, 12 years from that day. I still don't think I have seized the day completely. But I keep on trying; I always will. I wonder how many people were transformed by this gem of a movie; I hope many.10 out of 10. A definitive masterpiece.


                
First of all, this is movie is my all-time favorite, out of all the hundreds of films I have seen. However, every time I mention this film, I have to answer most people's quizzical looks with "It's a beautiful little 80s film that stayed in the 80s." After seeing it for the 24th time since I first saw it 5 years ago, on my 13th birthday, I can gladly say that this movie went far and beyond the 80s, and the power and inspiration of the message can be felt every day.Dead Poets Society is a most underrated film by a most underrated director whose inspiring, uplifting and moral tales firmly grounded in reality are not nearly as appreciated as they should be. Here, we see one of his very personal and cradled projects, and he shows the visual style and concentration on characters in which he is so affluent. His control of the camera and the characters are very strong and very smooth. The cinematography is near perfect, with every shot, along with the editing, seamless. Also very compelling are the color-tones in every scene, perfectly matching the mood and events of the scene. Could you say this is art? Absolutely.Then we have the performances. Robin Williams continues in stride as one who has to-date remained the most touching, heart-wrenching, awe-inspiring comedians with inarguable acting talent (he still remains my most favorite performer on the film screen). His Professor John Keating is a man who embodies every professor who you thought was cool and respectable, every person who taught or enlightened you in something out of the ordinary. In fact - dare I say it? - he teaches something EXTRAORDINARY! We have the tragically underrated Robert Sean Leonard in his role as the free-thinking catalyst student Neil. Why is this man not a household name/Hollywood heavyweight? His roles are always full of inspiration, energy, and tragic emotion that never fail to move an audience. His role in this movie is fresh, unhindered, and never pretentious as the cautionary tale of the movie. And then we have Ethan Hawke in one of his earliest roles as the point-of-view character. The entire supporting cast is very strong, also, providing the foundation and serve as the various emotional ties that further involve us in the story. Josh Charles's role as Knox Overstreet is a role that almost all guys can relate to wholeheartedly. And of course, all the actors who are in that Dead Poets Society do a fine job.And lastly, the story. I won't summarize it since it's been summarized many times here, but I will say that it is one of the best coming of age stories for not only adolescents, but anyone. I have personally heard from nine-to-fivers who were inspired by this movie to change the situations of their jobs, careers, relationships for the better. I first saw this movie when I was 13, and immediately stamped, crowned and elevated this movie as my all-time favorite. Now that I am 18 and living on my own, with very different concerns than back then, I turn back to this movie over and over again, to find inspiration, solace and of course, entertainment. It is still my all-time favorite, and it still inspires me to seize the day and make my life extraordinary.


                
Dead Poets Scoiety. I suppose if you were in High School sometime between 1990-2008, one of your teachers thought I'd be a good idea to watch this movie and I still remember my reaction and the ones of our fellow classmates: Yeah, probably a boring movie that will try to make the school look better and encourage us to do our homework and study for our tests. I couldn't have been more wrong. This movie definitely changed my way of thinking to a certain extent and there are very few films who have moved and touched me like this one.The movie plays in 1959 and centers around a private academy somewhere in New England. The curriculum is extremely difficult and the teachers have no humor and are very strict. The new English teacher though, Mr John Keating (Robin Williams), who graduated from the very same school, uses unorthodox, but quite effective methods to teach the students about literature, and poetry. During their first lesson, he tells them that they can either call him Mr. Keating or "Oh Captain, my Captain", based on a quote by Walt Whitman. He encourages them to come out of themselves, use their energy to make their lives worth living and beautiful - Carpe Diem, Seize the Day! The plot also centers around two students: Neil (Robert Sean Leonard), who is funny and popular, but fails to gain his fathers pride, because of his wish to become an actor, and Todd (Ethan Hawke), who is very shy and unsure of himself, and is inspired by Keating to use his imagination and eventually we find out that he is very talented when it comes to poetry. After they find out about a club Keating was a member of while he was a student, the Dead Poets Society, which was forbidden by the school, they decide to reestablish it, what ultimately gets them into a lot of trouble.There are several key factors, that make this movie as brilliant as it is. First of all there is the acting. Robin Williams, who I really like as a Comedian, really proves that he is a great actor, who can get deep into a character and play him with such passion and energy that you will forget he's an actor. Keating, whose teaching methods are indeed unusual and will probably make you laugh a couple of times, is a very interesting role, the teacher we all would have wanted, but not because he doesn't give homework or makes up very easy, open-book tests. No, because Keating shows us that we have to come out of ourselves, make the best of our lives and especially that there is a poet in everyone of us. Then there is the terribly under-appreciated Robert Sean Leonard, who also gives a very moving performance as a student, who is kept back by his father, and therefore fails to make his dreams come true. In my opinion he is very underused as an actor, and should have gotten a lot more leading roles. As for Ethan Hawke, he definitely was the best choice for the character he plays. We can literally feel his fear and shyness when he stands in front of the class and gets no word out, because he's so embarrassed.Peter Weir, who is probably most known for his recent movie "Master and Commander" shows what a great director he is with this film and it definitely deserved the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay, and the nominations for Best Picture, Director and Leading Actor for Robin Williams.Some of you may have heard about Roger Ebert absolutely negative review of this movie and that "he wanted to throw up at the end of the film". I can understand why people might not like the ending (I won't put any spoilers), but I think it just adds to the the beauty and drama of this film, a film that should definitely be on the IMDb Top 250 Movies. This is a movie, you must have seen!!


                
I have no need to summarize this movie seeing as how most people tend to do that anyway so, therefore, any addition of such would simply be frivilous. However, I am somewhat disappointed to see how people tend to misinterprate this film by proclaiming that the movie's message of carpe deium is derailed by the fact that those who apply it end up losing.  This could not be further from the truth.  In the beginning, when the young men are first introduced to this idea of sucking the marrow out of life it is applied by the students when its results prove to be fun and joyous.  The point really driven home by the movie though is to stand up for one's beliefs throughout all of life no matter how hard it may prove.  Now, while the character of Neil, does try to do what he feels he must without regard to his father, in the end, he doesn't stand up at all, but simply accepts his father's authority.  Some may not like it but his story serves to prove just how important it is to stand one's ground no matter how hard it may be.  It's not only his character, but in fact every character in the film that does not fully understand Mr. Keating's message until the very end by finally doing what they feel is right now matter how much the opposing forces deny this basic truth.  I urge everyone to give this movie a chance and to see it for what it really is.  It may just change your life.
Dead Poets Society is, to use a cliché, a cinematic masterpiece. I can watch it over and over, absorbing more nuances of meaning every time. As a former teacher myself (albeit of science), I view it as a tribute to the profession at its best...teaching not merely the subject but also the person, and having a lifelong impact on students' lives.The setting is Weldon Academy, a very traditional New England boys' prep school in 1959. If I can find one flaw with the movie...and there certainly aren't many...it's the underlying premise that seems to worship free thought and implies that ALL tradition is of necessity undesirable and thus to be avoided. Frankly, compared to modern classrooms which are bastions of free expression, I found the Weldon students' respectful treatment of their teachers rather refreshing. (But perhaps that's just the ex-teacher in me coming out!) Some of Weldon's ideals, generally referred to in mocking tones, are actually qualities to which parents rightfully DO hope their offspring will aspire.Robin Williams plays Mr. Keating, the English teacher we all wish we'd had. He brings warmth, passion, and an endearing quiet humor to the role as he fosters individualism in a school environment of total conformity, endeavoring to teach these young men both the beauty of the English language and the importance of living life to the full, of "seizing the day". How many of us mentally revolted at the dissection of poetry when we were in school? Many a viewer will both chortle and rejoice when Mr. Keating has his class rip out the methodical, emotionless "Introduction to Poetry" from the time honored Pritchard textbook! The "Dead Poets Society", and the boys on which Mr. Keating has such a profound impact, include an interesting mix of characters...Neil Perry (the passionate young man at odds with his father's clearly defined expectations for his son's life), Todd Anderson (the classic shy adolescent, through whose eyes we view the unfolding drama), Charlie Dalton (the quintessential rebel), Knox Overstreet (the teen with whom most viewers can identify, deep in the throes of first love), and Richard Cameron (the mindless conformist).Ethan Hawke gives a moving performance as Todd, the younger brother of a former Weldon valedictorian and my personal favorite, who undergoes a character transformation as the plot unfolds. In a sense, this movie is really Todd's story. As another reviewer has wisely pointed out, his best scenes are sometimes when he has no dialogue at all. Your heart will ache for him. The sub-plot of young Overstreet's romance with a girl from a nearby school may not be brilliant, but it provides some light, entertaining relief from the main drama. Needless to say, Mr. Keating's unorthodox approach meets with obstacles...from his fellow teachers, from the school's ultra traditional Headmaster, from Neil's overbearing father and the other parents, who are depicted as a conservative, status conscious lot. His encouragement of adolescent individualism leads to dramatic consequences for one student in particular, triggering a dramatic scenario that engulfs most of his classmates. I don't want to give the plot away, but Dead Poets Society has the most powerful ending I've experienced in the cinematic world. I could watch it over and over, and tears would either come to my eyes or virtually stream down my cheeks every time.It's an intelligent film, both gripping to watch and thought provoking afterward. Engaging plot, memorable characters, meaningful theme, wonderfully done scenes and atmosphere...Dead Poets Society has it all. A special tip of my hat to the cinematography; clearly, it should have won an Oscar for the final scene alone.This is a must-see movie, especially if you're a high school student who hates English. It might just change your view of the subject, even if your actual teacher doesn't quite measure up to Mr. Keating. And for everyone...not only "Carpe Diem", but a certain phrase from a Walt Whitman poem will take on incredible meaning and be remembered forever.


                
Not only will this movie touch your heart and bring tears, it will inspire you to be a better teacher to others and to follow your dreams no matter what the boundaries may be.  It is truly poetry on the screen... a great story and a touching social commentary on humanity and life's greatest challenges.  If you haven't seen it yet, rent it now.  It has taken my love of poetry to an entirely new level!


                
The film Dead Poets Society is a film that explores the idea of "Carpe Diem" (seize the day) from the viewpoint of a classroom of young men at an all boys boarding school. Their teacher Mr. Keating (played by Robin Williams)helps them stretch their minds, and exercise their right to defiant acts of love for life and poetry, rebuttlng society. The director Peter Weir treats you with eye candy by using various camera shots of beautiful scenary, and neat techniques. Weir takes you on a roller coaster that leaves you gripping your seat, enjoying life, and thinking "Carpe Diem" in your own life. There are some very depressing scenes, but they are very artful, and teach you of appreciation for those brave members of society that dare stand up for their beliefs, and rights to wrestling around with life. I thought Ethan Hawke (Todd Anderson) gave a true life twist to the film, Robin Williams (Mr. Keating or also known as Captain my captain) added an element of excitement, and Robert Sean Leonard (Neil Perry)added passion that leaves you mesmerized. I just saw this film in English class, but I immediatly fell in love with it, as I know you will.


                
I watched this movie today for about 15-th time. I'm never bored with it. A few hours ago I felt lonely and depressed.I decided to watch it without the scenes that evoke sadness.And even though I watched it so many times before I found it restorative and heart lifting. There are many good films.Also there are probably many better than this one;cause it's not flawless. But if you believe that a movie can change your life, I have no doubts that this one can influence you as no other. If you have not watched it yet, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? Go to the video rentals and buy it.Yes, don't rent it but buy it.It's a movie that you will watch many times.Perhaps it will even save you..As it had saved me..


                
Dead Poets Society is a thoroughly moving, and inspiring film from Peter Weir, who is definitely one of the most under rated directors around. This movie is in the same vein as "A Separate Peace", in the sense of setting, and in the general coming of age story line. The basic message is to "suck the marrow out of life", as the passage for the society reads, or to live every moment to the fullest. It is inspiring and uplifting for the first hour and 15 minutes or so, before changing stride altogether to a somewhat depressing but remarkable conclusion. This is a must see.


                
So today is August 12th and news has broken of Robin Williams' untimely death. I just felt compelled to review my favourite movie of his. On a rainy day back in 1980- something, my mother sat my brother, sister and me down and put on the movie, Dead Poets Society. Little did I know what a profound impact that movie, and its characters would have on me. The film is bursting with quotable material, and my siblings and I quote it to this day: O Captain My Captain, Carpe Diem, Seize the Day, and of course, Make Your Lives Extraordinary. It's not until we grow older that we can look back on a teacher like John Keating and see what he really meant to us, the chances he made us take, the way he made us feel alive. I look back now on Robin Williams' performance and see one of the most flawless performances of all time. When you watch the movie, it's hard to think of hammy, manic Robin Williams giving such a nuanced and subtle performance. It's almost as though Sean Maguire in Good Will Hunting is who John Keating became. And funny how his most subtle performances may be the ones he's most remembered for. When I heard the news of Robin's death, I was taken back to this film and really felt how integral this movie actually was to my childhood. I think it was the first time my 10 year old self was truly "moved" in the way that adults can be moved by art. All I can say is watch this movie. You won't be sorry.


                
I saw it only yesterday. Of course I had heard of it, I had been thinking of watching it one day. Well, this day was yesterday.To be honest, I expected it to be something light and pretty positive, I couldn't foresee any drama coming, I could have but I didn't.This school is a good example of our educational system, where we are taught to obey the rules, do what we are told to, be like robots. This movie was shot in 1989, but not that much has changed since then. Open the page, read what is written there, sit straight, listen to the teacher, no talking, no fun.And then there's this new inspirational teacher Mr. John Keating who teaches his students to believe in themselves, to try new things, to love poetry. He is an amazing teacher, the one most students would want to have, but of course too great and a bit of an outsider in this boring and traditional school. He doesn't tell the students what to do, he doesn't give advice, he just helps them release their spirit of freedom, leave their comfort zone and try new things. And the students love him, look up to him, trust him.And then in the end he is the one who gets punished. Not Neil's father who couldn't even be honest to himself and admit what he had done to his son. And the school didn't need the truth, neither did the other parents. They all seemed soulless and heartless.I did love the last scene. It was honest and brave. And it showed that Mr. Keating had changed these boys, had made them stronger and better people.
Dead Poets Society was one of my favourite movies when I was about 12 years old. It was a long time ago since I'd last seen it and I kinda expected it to have lost something over the years. Not true at all. The story's message still very much applies today and always will: make something of your life, enjoy it as much as you can.When you watch this beautifully acted, directed and well shot film, you can't help but be genuinely be seized by emotion. Several scenes are stunning, yet it never gets sentimental and stays sincere throughout the whole film.Because he was such a fantastic emotional actor, Robin Williams was the perfect choice to play John Keating, an original English teacher who wants his students to think for themselves, not only about poetry but also about life itself. If there'd be a John Keating in every school, the world might just become a little more interesting. Definitely a must-see classic.


                
First of all, I would like to say that my English is not that good, but I think I can make myself understandable.This movie made a big impression on me, I saw it for the first time, I think just 2 years ago, I did not heard about this movie before.One of my favorite actors is Mr. Robin Williams and his playing his part here, as usual perfect.I totally agree with the one message of the movie, that parents should not put so much pressure on their children and let them take their own decisions.I like poetry as well and one of my favorite moments in the movie is when the character Todd Anderson (Ethan Hawke) has to tell his poem in front of the class but he has none and is challenged from his teacher to improvise.... The result is for me one of the most beautiful things I ever heard.So let's end my "comment".This movie is one of the "best ever made"!


                
Dead Poets Society is one of the few films that are hard to forget once watched. This film is an influential film that is capable of changing how we see reality and life. It's about an extraordinary English teacher named John Keating, who uses unique ways through literature and poetry, to teach his students about life. He once said in the film, "We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion. And medicine, law, business, engineering <U+0096> these are noble pursuits and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love <U+0096> these are what we stay alive for." The film was opened in a well known prestigious Welton Academy which was an all-boys prep school. The school was popular for its four principles: tradition, honor, discipline and excellence. There was a group of friends which was consisted of: Neil Perry, Todd Anderson, Knox Overstreet, Charlie Dalton, Richard Cameron, Steven Meeks and Gerard Pitts.Neil Perry was a student that excelled in many subjects in school. He did everything that his father wanted him to do. When Mr. Keating told him to seize the day and to live an extraordinary life, he defied his father's wishes. He followed his dream, acting on stage, which was not approved by his father. He was pulled out of the school. He wanted to tell his father his own decisions but, he did not succeed and opted to commit suicide using his father's gun.Todd Anderson was a shy boy. He had an older brother who also studied on the same school. That's why he needed to live up to his reputation. He also thought that everything inside of him is worthless and embarrassing. Mr. Keating proved him wrong, he told him that he knew that something inside him was worth a great deal. And from that day on, his life was heavily influenced and changed.Knox Overstreet was a persistent guy. He met a girl named Chris and instantly fell in love with her. He desired to see her after their first encounter. Later on, he realized that Chris already had a boyfriend. Yet he persisted in courting her. He didn't care if he gets punched or humiliated. He used poetry in wooing Chris. He even said "She's gonna hate me. The Danburrys will hate me. My parents will kill me. All right, goddamn it. You're right. Carpe diem. Even if it kills me." Charlie Dalton was a rebel and a dare devil. He did anything that pleased him. He once took his personal freedom too far and published an article that proposed girls to be allowed at Welton to give the boys some pleasure. The authorities learnt of it and interrogated Charlie. Charlie told them that he acted alone. Later in the story, he changed his name to Newanda.John Keating is an extraordinary teacher. He used unusual teaching methods that any other ordinary teachers won't approve of. He taught outside the classroom, tried different approaches and ensured that it was not boring. He hated the idea of learning literature by doing scales of quality and popularity ratings. Instead, he ensured that his students learned to stretch their minds, to think for themselves and to exercise their own rights to defy acts of love for literature and life. He simply was a one of a kind and an amazing teacher.One of the things that John Keating emphasized was "Carpe Diem" which meant seize the day, make your lives extraordinary. He showed his students a picture of former Welton students in a trophy case. He explained that they were once like them. Each one of them was full of their own hopes and dreams. Only they themselves knew if they made their lives extraordinary since these alumni are now dead.This made the group of friends revive an old literary club called the Dead Poets Society. Neil Perry once read "I went to the woods to live deliberately, I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, and not when I came to die, that I had not lived." This simply tells us that being a member of the Dead Poets Society meant that they have decided that they won't be held as captives by their fathers or anyone else anymore. They will decide on their own and do thing that they want to do. Nobody can stop them, not even death. What matters is that they followed their own paths. This would be the only way for them to experience everything that life has to offer; everything that they had not experienced when they were enslaved from their parent's expectations and other people's standards. And when death swallows them up, they can say that they had truly lived an extraordinary life. They had seized the days.


                
Dead Poets Society is hands down one of the most powerful and upfliting movies that I have seen-and trust me I have seen many powerful movies. This is one of Robin Williams finest performances-I do believe he should have been at least nominated for best actor and either the guy who plays Neil or Ethan Hawk should have been nominated for best supporting actor.The frindships that are forged in the school are genuine and believable and the people are those that you can relate to. I myself can relate to Todd, shy and a bit insecure of who he is. John Keating-played by Robin Williams-is a teacher who believes in more then just teaching about whats in the books, he believes in teaching about *life* and seazing the day. This movie shows how important it is to live each day to your fullest and to follow your dreams. I have seen many powerful films, and Dead Poets Society is one of the most powerful films I have ever seen. It captures the essance of what a film should to do a person. It shows a different view of life and makes you question things. It brings tears in your eyes as well as laughter. Even though I get emotional during films very rarly do I cry in them, but I did cry during the end of the movie with what happened to Neil and Keating. The ending to this day had a powerful effect on me and not many movies has an effect on you to the point where you get emotional and uplifted just thinking about the movie. It is a movie where you would watch many times and each time find something new with it. It is by far one of the most amazing and uplifting movie experiences that I have ever had.
I absolutely love this film! Everything from the beautiful cinematography, to the pacing and the directing is purely magical and awe inspiring! There are many powerful moments in this film. Dead Poets Society motivates me intensely, with its message that you have to have the courage to follow your dreams, to live your life the way you want. Be willing to stand up to authority, if that authority stifles your dreams.Robin Williams is brilliant here, but so is Robert Sean Leonard! In fact, all of the young actors are outstanding! Especially for Robert Sean Leonard and Robin Williams, viewers are drawn into this film as if you knew the characters they play and the emotions they feel. You envision John Keating, (played by Robin Williams) as the inspirational teacher you once had, or wish had. You automatically empathize with Neil Perry (Played by Robert Sean Leonard) dreams of becoming an actor, against the wishes of his ultra-authoritarian father.I indirectly know someone who had an ultra-strict father like Neil, and sought a free-spirited life away from his demanding father and his family's rigorous lifestyle and demands of academic success. This person devoted his life to reading, philosophy, the hippie movement, writing, and humanitarian efforts. He was troubled by inequities and hypocrisy in society. He loved to help people, everything he did was for humanity. Both Neil and Mr. Keating would move him to tears! They would understand this person I knew, and I think of him every time I see this movie. It moves me, deeply.Dead Poets Society encourages others to become free, independent, thinkers. To believe in yourself, and to show how writing and the power of poetry can inspire you and others around you. The sensitivity that this film shows is stunning! This movie will make you think and melt your heart! It is very emotional! "Carpe Diem! Seize the Day! Make your lives extraordinary!" See this landmark film!
this film makes me cry,lots of dramatic dialogue and moments in this film.this film is fit to plays in schools because this film very educate the students to always take the opportunities in life


                
Standing on the Pinnacle of GiantsA secret domain of poets deceased, enlightens the men whose numbers increased. Assembled in class, they march with a stride, undaunted and strong with Keating aside. Passions intense, his lectures draw ears, like sheep of a flock, the Shepard of hearers. Expressions conveyed and rules provoked, the school of Welton becoming evoked. A boy with much flame who soared to the skies, accepted advice, unknowingly died. Unfortunate loss to teacher of choice, remember his words to raise your own voice. Now but a legend his message relays, be your own person and still "Seize the day!"
I could agree with Roger Ebert had I not watched the movie from a completely different view point. For me, the movie works as an insight into a few boys life at Welton in 1959. First of all that year excites me, they were on the cusp of revolution and perhaps a few could predict what would happen a year later but the mini revolution that was started at the school, the daring concept of character over tradition, was something that would change those boys lives. In good ways, in bad ways but ultimately it would be a test of their characters in BIG ways.The story starts off with a new teacher. Robin Williams plays the passionate John Keating. He wants to teach the boys poetry ..not lines, but poetry in their souls. It is that spirit of such poetry and the spirit of carpe diem (seize the day) that is lit like a candle in some boys and a fire in others; Neil, Todd, Charlie, Knox, Meeks and Pitts as well as a few other of their classmates.Neil (Robert Sean Leonard pre, pre House) is a star pupil who wants to act, Todd (Ethan Hawke) is the new shy boy, Charlie (Gale Hansen) makes the boys laugh and us audience laugh and swoon, Knox (Josh Charles) is the one who dares to woo a girl he meets at a formal dinner, Meeks is the sweet boy and he and Pitts are scientifically both challenged and inspired.Mr Keating tells them to rip out anything that restricts their thinking. Poetry should be FELT. After all, we each have poetry in us and we each apply it in different ways. Not everyone actually reads and writes poetry, some spend hours trying to find a solution to a problem. That is what the movie is about to me, the spirit of that poetry and I feel it could have alienated people had it been more about the poetry, instead it doesn't pay "lip service" to poets and poems, but it gets right down to their core; which is their spirit.And I would have done what they did in their cave meetings too, which is basically have fun.My only minor "problem" with the movie lies in what Keating says- despite not being a scientist myself, I believe science can also be a source of beauty, poetry and something to stay alive for also. But I'm taking Mr Keating too literally and I'm sure Meeks and Pitts who were the scientists would have remembered what Mr Keating said and applied passion to science.The tragedy of the movie lies in the most passionate and proactive personality in the movie, the one whose Mr Keating's teachings light a fire inside. It is even more tragic given the year..perhaps ten years later, what happens would not have happened, one has to wonder.There have been those who find that storyline unrealistic and yet it is realistic, in that it happens. It's also a cautionary tales to parents who want to live through their children, I can even see similarities in this movie and Mahabharat which is a big epic in India based on fact.For me it took time to understand the character involved the storyline, because the movie is not a sit down let's talk type, it doesn't give you the answers, it doesn't underestimate the audience, it's an old school movie. I will say no more other than I think this character wanted to seize the passion.And like life, things and people in Dead Poets Society are always moving, the movie relies on you as an audience to pay attention and you might, just might, catch something that you missed before or that the person next to you missed. Poetry isn't going to make your life neat and tidy nor is it going to change your life, that is up to you. Mr Keating didn't come along with an in depth character analysis and the movie is dynamic, it has kinetic energy, when you see Welton, you see see different angled shots in the corridors, in class rooms, outside you see nature, there's music, on paper it sounds like any other movie but on screen Dead Poets Society is alive. Mr Keating represents the movie..and we represent the students. He COULD change our lives..if we keep ourselves open to what he says. That's how I like to watch this movie.And the final scene was not trite nor sweet to me, nor a kiss up, it was a final straw for a a living, breathing, sad, perhaps angry and inspired soul of a student AND a boy. A sweet ending wouldn't have any of that because it would tie things up and not leave them open. But like life Dead Poets Society isn't a carefully arranged neat little present. It's only neatness lies in how its made, a beautiful quality of a movie, I don't know the technical terms but I can say the cinematography and the direction are not slow, or too fast, when Keating is talking you see his words in each of the students faces, their reactions. Peter Weir the director has links between his movies, action and reaction and every person taking charge of their life, you watch Gallipoli, The Truman Show and Master and Commander, it's about human spirit. The final scene of Dead Poets Society is about human spirit, don't conform, take charge of your life and make a stand for what you believe in. The power of that scene can be applied to a grand action or a small one, but it's something I remember whenever I am forced to cower, with the rest of the world as Mr Nolans- the headmaster of Welton, trying to get me to their way or to be quiet. Except I watched the movie and I won't.


                
I have given this movie the top grade. Feel free to argue but only after you would have seen it. It has great acting, inspiring theme, great, truly memorable quotes, memorable scenes and even a great soundtrack(especially in the ending scene). It's about truly teaching, truly learning, overcoming your fears, standing up for yourself, standing up for what you stand for, it's about "sounding your barbaric roar over the rooftops of the world"! Lately i have been to a lot of movies that just seemed an end of my time. Reckless directing, bad acting, boring, lacking originality, filled with bombing images which don't say anything. This movie is an oldie but a Goldie! Bottom line, it won't feel like you've wasted 2 hours of your lives!
I have watched this movie many times, the last time being just a few hours ago. And it just never stops getting to the deepest side of me. It makes me laugh, it makes me cry; and when it ends, it leaves me trembling... I tremble and I too want to step on the table. I want to go outside and sound my barbaric YAWP over the rooftops of all and eat the world like it's a cookie, like it's mine.I don't think there's anything missing from this film. The plot is great, it is beautifully made and all the performances are really powerful and moving. It doesn't make your life extraordinary, because that's your duty, but it surely makes you want to do it.I say seize the day and go watch this film right now; watch it many times and suck out all the marrow of it. Let it get to the deepest side of you too.Let's all open our minds and be Dead Poets! Because that's what this excellent film is all about. That's what life is all about.


                
You watch this movie, your life will never be the same. You will become a different person, who tries to fight your way to achieve your dreams! Don't die before watching this movie!! You'll realize that any dreams and goals is possible, after watching this movie. That you can break away from stupid systems in your environment!! I mean it! Carpe diem, seize the day! I love the character of the teacher, who inspires his students to be 'free in mind' and be themselves. Unlike the current educational system that limit students' spirit and creativity, crazy teacher like him should be promoted more!!! I wish I could be one of the students, and experience the unique methods of teaching. Too bad I don't have a copy of the DVD, gotta have one, soon!!


                
With director Peter Weir at the helm, here's a truly terrific film that's stood the test of time very well. Beautifully crafted with standout performances from Robin Williams(as the unconventional English professor), Ethan Hawke & Robert Sean Leonard, the film celebrates individuality and all those who want to "seize the day" and live life to the full.Full of warmth, wit and real perception, it's a joy from first to last though inevitably very poignant too as befits anything advocating an unequivocal embracing of all that life has to offer. I already wanted to write when I first saw this film in 1990 and it confirmed my career choice. I could wax lyrical about this all day but no, just watch it!


                
The first time I saw Dead Poets Society the only thing I wanted to do was watch it again.  I have seen the movie approximately 100 times.  Each time I watching it becomes more and more enthralling.  It is the only movie that acts like a drug to me.  The more I see it, the more I yearn to see it again.Dead Poets Society strikes me so hard and passionately that it is hard to differentciate myself from the story and the characters.  The cast of character in personality and over all style is me and my friends.  I am involved in the theatre arts and I feel as if I know Neil's passion for acting.  My friends all fit in line with characters from girl crazy to tall lanky and awkward.  I know everyone in this film which makes it more meaningful to me.When I first saw the movie I had never had anything touch me in that way, and I don't ever expect to see a movie like it again.


                
This is the type of movie that really makes a person think about how they're currently living. Not think in the way, such as after watching inception where you think a lot, but mostly just about the ending of the movie. Dead Poets Society made me think the way I do after reading a great novel or poem, in ways I didn't think I could. It makes you think about the way you are being treated by the people around you, and about how you are currently treating the people around you. It has an especially heart-wrenching ending since the death of Robin Williams. Everyday should be seized as if it is the last to be lived, and no one should live thinking otherwise. The implications of feeling stuck or lost or alone are all portrayed, in some of the most radical ways, in this movie. The superb acting and directing adds to the great story line and writing. This movie is a must see.
