There is a scene early in DEAD POETS SOCIETY wherein Robin Williams, as a new literature teacher at an upscale boys prep school, tells his class that he wants them to learn to think for themselves. To this end, he orders them to tear out of their text books pages which feature commentary by the book's editor. "Think" he seems to be saying, "but first, let me censor this book." Free thought through censorship? I can only assume the said literature book includes Orwell's "1984."In Orwellian fashion, hypocrisy is the order of the day in DEAD POETS SOCIETY. It gives a rousing, inspirational sermon ("Seize the day!" is the teacher's motto.), yet the story itself mocks the film's supposed intentions. DEAD POETS SOCIETY is about failure, but it won't admit it; worse, it seems to believe it's own inspirational PR. The film serves up a tacked on and utterly false moment of triumph at the end, but everything that proceeds that is a lesson in failure. Williams fails to teach the students to show moral courage. One student commits suicide rather than fight for his beliefs. When Williams is wrongly accused of something, his supposedly adoring students turn on him like a pack of weasels. The one student who stands up for his ideals is expelled from the school and forgotten by the film. A father fails his son. The school fails its students. And the film fails its audience.Yet, for some inexplicable reason, people remember the film for its inspirational message: Seize the day! Carpe Diem! Fine words, but at no time are they supported by the empty pessimism that the film displays. The characters who do take chances are immediately and soundly punished. Those who knuckle under -- showy, petty acts of deviance aside -- plod along.
Williams is okay as the teacher, but all credibility is lost when he stops to toss in imitations of Marlon Brando and John Wayne. Robert Sean Leonard comes off best as the doomed student, though his suicide seems remarkably undermotivated. Kurtwood Smith offers up a wholly unconvincing stereotype as the doomed student's martinet father. Thanks to Peter Weir's efficient direction and some nice cinematography, DEAD POETS SOCIETY has a facade of class; but only if you don't pay too close attention to Tom Schulman's dreadful (though Oscar-winning) script. The irony is that a film that begs you to think is best enjoyed if you don't.
Actually, the topic of this film could be quite interesting. Its narrative, as I view it, is characterised by the move from bad to worse. It offers considerable psychological insight into how easily students, in a very strictly ordered environment that gives them very little freedom, can fall pray to a kind of sectarian leader who demands that they worship him as their 'captain' and lose the sense of reality.Two very different faces of totalitarianism are contrasted in a very interesting way. In principle, it should not matter that much that this is probably not what was intended.Dostoyevski, for instance, was a staunch conservative who propounded a conservative nationalist and religious ideology, which did not prevent him from writing novels that show an astonishing variety of ideological and philosophical topoi. Therefore, it should not matter that much that, as it seems, the totalitarian action of the teacher was probably intended as a positive contrast to the strict order that is there at the college. But, in my view, in this case, the ideological purpose nevertheless affects the quality of this film. It is good for provoking thought about sectarian totalitarianism, but that's all. The pervasiveness of the ideological purpose dominates the whole story so much that most of the interesting qualities of the situation get lost.I would say that this is a most typically American film, in the slightly derogatory sense this word often has to Europeans when used in cultural issues: It is dominated by ideas, such as freedom, but the words remain empty, devoid of liveliness, and there is not the slightest hint of the idea that flight from authoritarian order could mean something else than following a sectarian leader. I do not object to depicting such bleakness in movies, and it must probably be regarded as an achievement of this film that it can produce such repulsion in people who are not familiar with this kind of authoritarian society, but the bleakness is disguised in such a nice and kitschy American stereotypes, such as striving for freedom, that I find it just bad taste.


                
It amazes me how easily people fall for cardboard characters. In real life, it would be impossible to find an educational institution so filled with boorish, vile teachers, and wimpish, intimidated students, with the exception of this one dazzling, inspiring professor. Real life doesn't work that way--no one is as perfect, or perfectly awful, as these people.But that's not the point. The point is to set up superficial symbols of the prejudices of the audience (the stuffy conservative teachers, the heartlessly strict father, the violent jock), and knock them down with a feather, so that the audience can congratulate itself for its enlightened attitudes.This is about what I'd expect from Robin Williams, who usually seems to gravitate to roles of this sort. However, other worthy actors fell into this trap, I hope only because a job's a job. Kurtwood Smith is known for playing another tough-guy father, but in "That 70s Show" he's a complex character. There, he's always threatening to "kick ass", but he's also capable of humor and love; here, he's a pathetic cartoon. But Robin Williams is also a cartoon, just of the opposite kind, a paragon of humanity who can do no wrong, but whom everyone but his rapt students believe is the devil.How can they write stuff like this? Is this what passes for creativity in Hollywood? I watched this on TCM immediately after the old "Goodbye Mr. Chips", and as angelic as the characters in that were, they at least seemed like real people. This script is as manipulative in its own way as "Death Wish", trying to provoke the same level of rage toward the symbols of a hated culture. It makes sense when the target is the culture of thuggish gangs who rape and murder, but of prep schools? What's so awful about prep schools? I went to one of the top schools, and believe me, it was a heck of a lot more inspiring than public school. This movie is insulting junk.


                
Warning, spoiler...If ever o ever a strawman there was the Dead Poets Society is one because because because of the never ending cavalcade of unblinking cliches that constitutes it's "plot".  Raised only by the ultimate expression of entitled teen angst, the ineptly over played suicide of "the sensitive boy", this movie comes across like a verbose sixth graders attempt at drama.  One dimensional characters bounce around the screen, avoiding any semblance of complexity or depth.  Highly overrated, obvious and insipid.
Movie Review: Dead Poets SocietyThis movie is about how prep kids stride to have the ability of Carpe Diem (seize the day), but fail epically to achieve Carpe Diem. Like most movies about slogan, it was terrible. However, this one had great acting making you feel as, if you were a fly on the wall. Outside of that, it was terrible. The movie I assume was supposed to be about seizing the day, but at no point did anyone really accomplish anything. OK, maybe that guy did get the girl (typical) demonstrating Carpe Diem, but other than that I was waiting for them to do something. I had my hopes up when Neil did the play in spite of his father, but then when his father decides to pull him out of Winthrop or whatever the school was (I know it started with a W) because of the play instead, of growing a pair and standing up to him, he wussy outs of it and kills himself. Is that what Carpe Diem is supposed to be? Or, when the administration tries to get rid of Mr. Keating, the Dead Poets Society members are each asked to sign a sheet, blaming Neil's suicide on Mr. Keating. Only one of them had to say "no. We did this on our own free will." And not signed the sheet and Mr. Keating wouldn't lose his job and the administration would have to continue their witch hunt, but none of them did this. Once, again failing to teach Carpe Diem and making me think of a quote by Eminem in 8 mile "How can 6 dicks be pussies." My final point is, the final scene in this movie is supposed to be inspirational, it's not. The equal of this scene is a plan to save the world after, the world has been destroyed. My teacher told me not to give away the end. So, I won't but the scene is basically students standing on desk saying "o captain, my captain" with inspirational music in the background. Like, I said "terrible".In conclusion, if this movie didn't have good acting it would be unwatchable. And the acting that stood out to me is by two actors Mr. Keating (Robin Williams) and Neil (Robert Sean Leonard) and rest are good, making the story believable. I give it a 2/5 only because of the acting.
