I love Stanley Kubrick. "2001" and "Dr. Strangelove" are two of my all-time favorite films. I also love "Clockwork Orange," "Full Metal Jacket," and "Paths Of Glory." So you can see why I was shocked and disappointed when I finally got around to seeing the stultifying "Barry Lyndon," a film so dull and pointless that you'll wonder why he bothered.I'll start with the one positive: the cinematography. The movie is beautifully photographed... every frame is rich, lush, and looks like the box cover of a thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle. That might be enough to salvage a film if the story was told visually, but "Barry Lyndon" is a movie with little or no narrative. Ryan O'Neal- passive and blank- floats through the picture like Forrest Gump or Benjamin Button: the lights are on but nobody's home. We get no sense of any inner life or personality, and the small amount of character we do glimpse reveals Barry to be a spoiled, selfish coward, and one hardly worthy of such a massively-scaled motion picture.The story follows Barry as he falls in love with his cousin, deserts the Army, lies about his bravery, marries a wealthy widow, cheats on her while squandering her fortune and abuses his stepson. He is an awful, unpleasant person, and Kubrick never seems to figure out WHY we're following the man's life in the first place. Glaring gaps in the plot are filled in by a narrator, who advances the story more in three lines than we get in half an hour of wordless drudgery.Yes, the candlelight scenes are beautiful. Use of the special NASA lens was obviously part of Kubrick's reward for filming the faked moon landings, but this is not a device on which an entire film can rest. It astounds me that there are so few people willing to stand up and say the emperor isn't wearing any clothes. It seems to me that most people declare this movie profound because they feel they're supposed to, because if something looks and sounds like a classic, a masterpiece, then it surely must be... right? Wrong. "Barry Lyndon" is a dull, plodding, pretentious period piece without any saving graces. Composition of frame and brilliant lighting do not make up for a poor actor playing an unengaging character in a movie that does its best to kill any sense of drama, suspense, humor, and action. This feels almost like a deliberate statement by the great Kubrick to make a movie WITHOUT significance... this is an empty exercise in period photography, and little else. "None of the grandeur of "2001," he seems to say, "none of the shocking violence of "Clockwork Orange..." Just three solid hours of powdered wigs and blank faces. Any reviewer who says otherwise is a pseudo-intellectual pandering to the ghost of a legend. Don't waste your time.GRADE: D-
I revisited "Barry Lyndon" after 25 years and found 3 hrs of pretty pictures and wooden characters - not one involving personality. 25 years ago I probably thought this was "art" - now it's boring crap , it's safe to say, since the wretched auteur theory was debunked. Film historians have recently discovered screenwriters and are dragging out elderly scribes for that "last" interview about the Golden Age of Hollywood. Hitchcock actually used screenwriters, can you imagine? BBC actually does Thackeray better, because TV is character driven.


                
This is the slowest, most tedious movie I have ever seen. I was a junior English major when it was released and we were studying the book. When the movie came to our theater in 1975 my whole class went to see it. We all thought that the movie was as boring as the book and we had gone to see it because the book was so boring we wanted to avoid finishing it. In one scene you watch a horse's hoof trot for what seems to be at least 5 minutes and this has nothing to do with the plot. It wasn't until I saw this listing that I learned the movie was thought to be Oscar material. Frankly, I didn't see it. Ryan O'Neal played a person who lacked character and the portrayal lacked spirit. Of course, now that I know this is a Kubrick film I do understand the boredom, it matches 2001.


                
This is not a masterpiece. It's not even a good movie. A poor man's Heath Ledger plays Redmond Barry. A man who falls in love with his cousin and has an incestuous relationship with her. Evidently this was okay in those times. When she accept another mans proposal, Barry challenges that man to a duel and kills him. Or so he thinks. He flees to avoid being arrested and is soon enrolled in the British army, later the German army. And then he becomes a spy and later a gambler. He goes after another mans wife and marries her, treats her like crap, impregnates her and cheats on her. He abuses her son and adores his own son. More boring crap happens and Barry ends up childless and with one leg. For reasons unknown he is paid off to leave England by his wife's son. Sounds like a lot is happening, but really nothing happens. Because Barry is such a bastard, I don't give a rats ass, how it ends for him. If you're allergic to men with white powder, rouge and lipstick on their faces and wearing ridiculous wigs and acting like women, avoid this crap. Nothing ever really happens in this snooze fest from no other than Stanley Kubrick. And whenever nothing happens, an annoying soundtrack starts playing very loud that has nothing top do with what happens on the screen. Maybe Kubrick thought it would wake up his bored audience. And the narrator explaining everything makes the movie even more boring, which you would'nt think was possible. The main character Barry is basically an idiot, a sexist and an a-hole and not the least likable. The guy screws his own cousin and "kills" a man that she chooses, out of jealousy. He lies and cheats to get what he wants. And in spite of his experience and growing older Barry never evolves as a character or learn from his mistakes. It has generally bad acting, especially from it's star RyanO' Neil. He can't even get his accent right. He is American in real life but plays an Irish man. Later in the movie he speaks with an American accent. Pointless scenes that could have easily been cut out drags on and on. What little action there is, is badly made and completely ridiculous. Like the British army walking in a straight line towards a french army only to be shot at. Yet they never take cover or run towards the enemy or shoot back. They just keep walking into bullets and are killed fast. The complete lack of blood except in a ridiculous fist fight scene, makes the action scenes, even more dull and even less believable. With a budget of 11 million dollars in 1975 and making only 20 million dollars, the movie, well deserved, bombed at the box office and prevented Kubrick from making a movie about Napoleon. This is even worse than the awful A Clockwork Orange.Avoid this like the plague.
