In the midst of the many wonderful films made by Stanley Kubrick, it is strange to note how rarely people mention "Barry Lyndon".The film portrays an unusual young Irish man, Redmond Barry, and his endeavours as he is forced to leave his home and tries to make good his life elsewhere. His life away from home starts out as a career in the British Army; only to evolve in surprising ways and lead to as different places as a position of trust within the Prussian Army and later a title of nobility, gained by what our time can only measure as rather disgraceful means.Some consider Barry Lyndon a slow and tedious film <U+0096> and it is in deed past three hours in length, but this is because of the artistic flow of a film that strays not only to tell a tale about a man who is by no means neither hero nor villain, but also a film which is in no hurry and takes the time for every detail to sink into the mind and heart of the viewer. Some of the scenic images in "Barry Lyndon" are in themselves pieces of art, rendered with a passion for the landscapes and the man-made structures within them.The myth that all scenes were recorded using no artificial lighting no doubt stems from the very realistic lights during indoor takes, and some of them truly did not feature artificial light. This is but one of the many details that so easily conveys a sense of a realistic portray of the era; the 18th century and the time after the seven-year war in the later half of the century. The impressive atmosphere and the wonderfully picturesque scenarios along with the fact that the entire plot moves at a calm pace makes this film a very pleasant experience."Barry Lyndon is", amidst Kubricks' many masterpieces, a film so easily dismissed due to length and the fact that it is overshadowed by others, but I deeply recommend this film to anyone who would like to see a film both for the plot line, the story and the pure enjoyment of the images presented. Stanley Kubrick made many great films <U+0096> and this one is most definitely one of them! KimotoCat


                
In fact it's one of Kubrick's most gripping pictures, with a narrative drive second only to that of "Dr. Strangelove" (and it's unquestionably a more glorious creation than, say, anything he made in the 1950s).  English director Michael Powell (while attributing a similar failing to one of his own works) says that Kubrick fell into "the trap of the picturesque", but while I admire Powell as a creator, the judgment is absurd: at the VERY least, each lush image shows us people not just occupying a part of the screen but inhabiting a world, and tells us much about their relation to that world.  Many shots are indeed amazing and beguile the eye, but they don't have the effect they do simply because they would make nice postcards.THIS, I feel sure (without having read Thackeray), is the proper way to adapt a long story from novel to screen.  Each scene is either allowed as much time as it needs to make its point and its impact, or it's cut altogether - you won't catch Kubrick skating too quickly over his material for no better reason than to fit it all in.  The third-person narration (consisting of witty, beautifully crafted sentences - it's about time I did read Thackeray) almost performs a kind of dance with the images, gliding in just when we need it, taking a step back when we don't.  (So rarely is even third-person narration used so well.)  And as always, Kubrick's musical sense is unerring.  My impression at the time was that I was listening to mid-eighteenth century music that gave way to pieces from the classical era as the hero started to move in higher and higher circles.  I was more or less right.  But then I noticed Schubert's name in the credits - and I realised with a start that I'd been listening to, had even started tapping my feet to, a Schubert piece I was familiar with, without the anachronism registering.It's a pity Kubrick stopped making epics after this.  Look at the ones he's responsible for: "Spartacus" (not a project Kubrick was fond of, admittedly, but still the most magnificent of all Roman epics) "2001" (the most magnificent of ALL epics), and "Barry Lyndon".  The last of the three is by no means a poor cousin.


                
The beauty, the depth, and the mystery of this film are unsurpassable - what Kubrick was doing with light is just a miracle. Special lenses were designed to shoot interiors and exteriors in natural light. In one scene Barry (Ryan O'Neil) was having a dinner with a German woman who was feeding her baby and the candle light made the whole scene look like a Caravaggio's painting. This is just one of many scenes. Each of them is perfection and harmony. Costumes and sets were crafted in the era's design. Age of Enlightenment with its gallantry, wars, and duels, had been recreated in the film with the precision of the celebrated landscape and portrait masters of the period such as Thomas Gainsborough; Sir Joshua Reynolds, founder of the Royal Academy of Arts; George Romney to name just a few. If nothing else, watching BL is pure aesthetic delight - and there is one man who responsible for it, Stanley Kubrick. If ever divine film was made, "Barry Lyndon" was it and Kubrick could've quoted the Bible - "God looked at everything he had made, and he found it very good".I've read the comments and articles that call "Barry Lyndon" cold, slow, boring, "the collection of pretty pictures', "flawed" masterpiece, and the most ridiculous one, "glittering ornament with a hollow center". I simply can't understand it. "Barry Lyndon" is the most compelling and compassionate realization of the inevitable finality of everything in this world which was presented by the visionary director with elegant sensual melancholy. Stanley Kubrick known for his detached, seemingly remote and non-sentimental style chose to reach out to his viewer directly during the epilogue, "It was in the reign of George III that the aforesaid personalities lived and quarreled, good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now". I don't recall any other movie that would illustrate the old wisdom, "everything will pass" in such sublime and deeply moving way.


                
Some movies - I wish there were more of them - simply look like a series of great paintings. This film has that look. You could freeze-frame many of the scenes and swear you were looking at a Gainsborough, a Vermeer, a Hogarth or similar work of art by one the great artists of three to five centuries ago. It's just beautiful.For that, we have Director Stanley Kubrick and Photographer John Alcott to thank. Being a three-hour movie, there are plenty of wonderful shots to admire, too. In addition, the costumes are lavish and authentic and the scoring is notable. It's no accident that Oscars were garnered for art/set direction, cinematography, costume design and scoring. Yeah, if you enjoy classical music, you'll really enjoy the soundtrack, too, under the guidance of conductor Leonard Roseman.Not to be overlooked is the fine acting and the interesting and underrated story. I say "underrated" because this film, from what I've read, bored a lot of people and and it was a box-office flop. That's too bad because, frankly, I found the story (outside of the first 10--15 minutes) to be fascinating. As I watched, I kept wondering what strange occurrences will happen next to the lead character, "Redmond Barry/Barry Lyndon," played beautifully by Ryan O'Neal. (For most of the movie, he's called "Redmond Barry," so I will refer to him as that.) Overall, this was a low-key adventure story about the rise-and-fall of a "scoundrel" back in late 18th century Englishman. "Mr. Barry" is an Irishmen living in England who winds up dealing with a number of people: Irish, English, Prussian, French. His dealings with these people are bizarre at times. While he mainly is shown doing what he can to promote himself, for either monetary gain and prestige of a name and power, he's not all bad. There is a compassionate side to him, but it only shows itself in small doses. It makes him all the more interesting to watch, because you don't always know how he's going to react to his circumstances, which change radically every few years.We witness his rise to prominence and then his fall when his "sins begin to find him out," as the Bible would describe. It's quite a roller coaster ride.This is an emotional, involving story, and a feast for the eyes and ears. It's quite different, too, certainly not the average fare from Kubrick. I can only hope this comes out on a high-definition disc some day. Admirers of this film need to see this in all its glory.


                
Barry Lyndon (1975) has to be Stanley Kubrick's most realized project that he has ever taken. A big task for the maverick director. For a film like this to be made during the free wheeling seventies had to take some big stones. One must admire Mr. Kubrick for even trying to produce and direct such a complex and expensive film that had all the ear markings of a financial and personal disaster. Not only did Kubrick manage to out do his last epic "2001" but he has created a movie that not only showcases the untapped acting abilities of Ryan O'Neil, but a beautifully lensed film that uses minimal lighting , gorgeous sets, perfect balance, positioning and meticulous timing. I have never seen such a magnificent film such as this one. Every shot and frame plays out like an eighteenth century oil painting.A young Irish man of lower class has the strangest quirk of luck. After participating in an illegal duel, young Barry is forced to flee from his home village. After being accosted by some gentlemanly highway robbers, Barry winds up cross country and becomes a conscripted soldier. Rising in rank, Barry is sent to fight in the Seven's Year War. Whilst in battle he watches his friends and fellow soldiers being slaughtered in combat due to poor tactics and leadership. Having enough of this life of hardship and struggle, Barry uses his god given talents to do what he has to do in order to survive and become a man of proper social standing.I was very impressed with this movie. I've put off watching this film until recently. Some have told me how long and boring this movie was. Others have said it was pretty self serving and not worth watching. But after seeing part of it on T.C.M., I just had to find a copy of my own. The film is over three hours in length but they go by very quickly because Barry's story is so captivating. Kubrick poured his heart and soul into this film. The results are on the screen. He's clearly a master film maker. His reputation is cemented forever with this movie. Ryan O'Neil impressed the hell out me with his role as Barry Lyndon. He gives the character some dignity and depth that no other actor could have possibly given to the title role.Overall I would have to give this film one of my highest recommendations. This is one of my top ten films of all time. If people tell you not to watch this masterpiece ignore them. I advise you to get a copy and enjoy. For a film like this you need to set aside a weekend afternoon to fully appreciate a film such as this. Believe me you will not regret it.Highest recommendation possible.It doesn't matter whether you watch it on D.V.D. or V.C.D. because the transfers are excellent on either format.


                
Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon" project was initially a project about Napoleon Bonaparte. Simply titled "Napoleon", the film aimed to portray the life of a lowly man who had seemingly conquered his environment. Like an obsessive film director (guess who), Napoleon tamed his surroundings, forcing the cosmos to bow to his own singular vision.Kubrick envisioned this film as being awash with intricate plans, strategies, military formations, and animated schematics. His Napoleon was a man who took control and waged war, not against the Spanish, Russians or Italians, but against an indeterministic, malevolent universe. But of course, like Johnny Clay in "The Killing", Napoleon does eventually fail. He suffers a series of military defeats which leads to him realising that, even without his obsessive micromanagement, all his battles would have achieved the same results. Variables far beyond his reach governed the final outcome.The Napoleon project failed to materialise for various financial reasons. Always the pragmatist, however, Kubrick then decided to make the complete thematic opposite of Napoleon.And so we have "Barry Lyndon". Unlike Napoleon, Barry doesn't scheme or try to force things into position. A man at the mercy of (or oblivious to) the cosmos, he does as told, taking fortunes and misfortunes as they occur.While Kubrick's "form as content" approach dictated that Napoleon be awash with intricate plans. . .plans in which a mere man seemingly thwarts nature (a largely Gnostic nature that is evil, malevolent and hostile), Barry Lyndon's "form as content" approach dictates that Kubrick's universe completely subvert Barry the man.And so we have a cosmic tragedy in which the very form of the film attempts to reduce man to nothingness. Kubrick's painterly canvas locks his actors into predetermined compositions, such that they appear to have no free-will, unable to break free. He portrays the universe (director) as the ultimate artist, its beautiful brush-strokes concealing its suffocating ugliness, life itself portrayed as being the artistic result of the universe's unmappable web of rules and formulae.Similarly, each event in the film is portrayed as being the direct result of some prior occurrence. The first scene highlights this continuous past/present relationship. Watch too how the clouds, trees and walls in the first shot "frame" Barry' father; man is a spec on the horizon, playing his ritualised games as the cosmic order engulfs him. Likewise, the character's are all bound by duty and rigid social roles. Their lives are ritualised, robotic, learnt and rehearsed. While "Dr Strangelove" and "2001" are swathed in birth and sex imagery, here Kubrick uses a semiotic fabric of chance. Every scene is awash with games of chance, duels, courtship, cards, gambling, luck etc, all of which bolster the notion of fate on Barry's life.Even the narrator subverts Barry's story. While the acting and visual compositions attempt to relegate Barry to the background, the narrator attempts to undermine his tale by negating all drama and tension. Why are you watching this man, he says? He is nobody. ("Though this encounter is not recorded in any history books, it was memorable enough for those who took part") Of course, visually, the film is unsurpassed. But this is a film in which beauty and cosmetics seduce us away from innate malevolence. This is a Schopenhaueren world in which finiteness is at war with the infiniteness of Time and Space. A world in which the present is constantly Becoming without Being, man a desire machine continually wishing without being satisfied, his efforts always thwarted, victory rarely won. Time, and the transitoriness of all things, are merely the form under which the will to live, has revealed to Time the futility of its efforts. In this world, no man is happy, always living in expectation of better things, always striving or demanding "satisfaction". A world in which man accepts the present as something that is only temporary and regards it only as a means to accomplish his aims. Beauty, sensuality, aesthetics, splendour and riches, are thus futile attempts to escape the inherent misery. Disillusion behind illusion.Thus, Kubrick places emphasis on the landscape and background to such an extent that his visual style subverts the character's on screen drama. Typical cinematic language is therefore REVERSED, such that we have a BACKGROUND which is constantly fighting to drown out Barry's FOREGROUND story. Expanding the metaphor further and we have a universe which gradually dwarfs and suffocates Barry's life.Kubrick's constant use of long zoom ins and zooms outs further highlights this theme. Here is man, ZOOM OUT. . .and here is man put in context. The irony is that whenever Barry attempts to assert himself over this natural law, he's punished terribly.The most severe punishment occurs during the duel at the end of the film. After a misfire, fate rolls in Barry's favour, giving him the opportunity to shoot his opponent down. But no. Refusing yet again to be a pawn, Barry altruistically chooses to exhibits free will at its most pure. He sacrifices himself. And of course he's punished dearly for this. Frozen in time, he's robbed of his leg, immobilised, pinned in place by history, no longer able to prowl his pretty canvas.And so the entire film is about the inevitability of loss. Barry loses his father in the first shot, his first love (cousin) in the next. He loses his home, his family, his surrogate father (the general), his second surrogate father (chevalier), his son, his wealth and finally his leg. With the loss of his leg, he is then literally frozen as "art". As historical image. Significantly, the only object in the film able to outpace Kubrick's zoom out is a coffin, which moves inexorably toward the moving camera. As death is constant, all history is about loss.20/10 - Doomed to never be fully appreciated.
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon.)Stanley Kubrick's beautifully opulent production takes many liberties with William Makepeace Thackeray's picaresque romance, The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon, Esq (1843), narrated in the first person depicting events from the eighteenth century. In particular, Redmond Barry who becomes Barry Lyndon, is something of an admirable rake, whereas in Thackeray's novel he is a braggart, a bully and a scoundrel. No matter. Kubrick, in keeping with a long-standing filmland tradition, certainly has license, and Thackeray won't mind.Ryan O'Neal is the unlikely star, and he does a good job, rising from humble Irish origins to the decadence of titled wealth, employing a two-fisted competence in the manly arts, including some soldiering, some thievery at cards and a presumed consummate skill in the bedroom. Marisa Berenson plays Lady Lyndon, whom Barry has managed to seduce; and when her elderly husband dies, she marries Barry thus elevating his social and economic station in life. But Barry is rather clumsy at playing at peerage, and bit by bit manages to squander most of the Lyndon fortune until his stepson, Lord Bullingdon (Leon Vitali) grows old enough to do something about it.This really is a gorgeous movie thanks to the exquisite sets and costumes and especially to John Alcott's dreamy cinematography and a fine score by Leonard Rosenman. The 184 minutes go by almost without notice as we are engrossed in the rise and fall of Barry's fortunes. There is fine acting support from Patrick Magee as the Chevalier de Balibari and Leonard Rossiter as Captain Quinn, and a number of lesser players, who through Kubrick's direction bring to life Europe around the time of the Seven Years War (1754-1763) when decadence and aristocratic privilege were still in full flower.The script features two dueling scenes, the first showing the combatants firing at one another simultaneously at the drop of a white kerchief, the second has Barry and his stepson face each other ten paces apart, but due to the flip of a coin, the stepson fires first. Both scenes are engrossing as we see the loading of the pistols with powder, ball and ramrod, and we are able to note how heavy the pistols are and how difficult it must be to hit a silhouette at even a short distance. It is this kind of careful attention to directional detail that absorbs us in the action and makes veracious the story. Notice too the way the British soldiers march directly en mass toward the French guns. They actually used to fight battles that way! Also note the incredible pile of hair atop Lady Lyndon's head. Surely this is some kind of cinematic record. Bottom line: one of Kubrick's best, certainly his most beautiful film.


                
While this is, in my opinion, not the best of Kubrick's films, it is in no way a bad film of his... some have claimed it is overlong and dull, but I don't think so. From what I've heard, it does the novel justice, and I believe that is what Kubrick went after, more than anything else. That is admirable, for a man who throughout his career was known for making unfaithful film adaptations of famous and popular novels, much to the dismay of the authors. The film perfectly presents everything from the time period in which it takes place... something that few, if any, other films have accomplished. It deals with the life of Redmond Barry, his ups and downs. The first half has us feeling sympathy with him, and shows his rise to a high position and gain the name Barry Lyndon, and everything that entitles. The second seems to turn us a little more against him, as he goes through the expected downfall that must always follow an unexpected rise to high life. Through the film he gets desensitized and careless. We follow him through most of his life, and an uneventful one it is not. As all other Kubrick films, the visual side is probably the most prominent one of the film, as he grants us several long looks at the beautiful sets and locales, and there are more than a few of his trademark shots slowly zooming out from the focus point to display the surroundings. The plot is great, and almost constantly developing. It is narrated with a good sense of irony and clever social satire on the time period. There's plenty of humor in the film to make the three hour run-time seem less long. The pacing is good and thorough without the film being slow(though I do admit that it isn't a film for those who are not used to long, visual films). The characters are well-written and credible. The acting is excellent all the way. Not even the child-actors seemed less than perfectly convincing. The costumes and sets are great. From what I understand, there is no detail in the film that is even slightly historically inaccurate. That is quite impressive for a film that takes place about a century and a half before it was made. I have heard of great deals of work done to keep many films accurate, but I don't believe one exists that manages to do so with such perfection as this. Even the very language that they speak is accurate. The special effects in the film also deserve mention here... for a film that is almost thirty years old, it's impeccable how believable and convincing the effects are... I couldn't tell how most of them were done. Kubrick was indeed one of the most brilliant directors ever... he was not only a master at his craft, he was also one of the most innovative and inspiring film-makers to have ever lived. I recommend this great piece of cinema to anyone who has an interest in the time period the film is set and any fan of Stanley Kubrick. Don't miss this one. Not his greatest, but a truly great one nonetheless. 10/10


                
another masterpiece from one of the greatest directors of all time, the one and only Stanley Kubrick(1928-1999), the first 20-30 of the minutes aren't that good, and i didn't think it would be that good, but it just got better and better and better, Ryan o'Neal is amazing as Barry Lyndon, and so are all the other actors, and even though Philip stone wasn't in it a whole lot i thought he was really good(hes also been two other Kubrick films the shinning and a clockwork orange), who i think is underrated, it was wonderfully filmed and written, it is pretty long but it is never at all boring, definitely one of my favorite movies ever, so if you haven't seen this, i strongly recommend you do
When I was in high school, it was considered "cool" to watch Stanley Kubrick movies as they were seen as "more enlightened forms of entertainment" over stuff by Steven Spielberg and John Hughes.  If you didn't memorize the opening speech to Full Metal Jacket or hadn't seen Nicole Kidman in Eyes Wide Shut then you were rejected from the clique.  This was at the time when I was first viewing Kurosawa's Rashomon and Ran and accidentally came across this gem.  Sure, the rest of the gang would be quoting along with Alex DeLarge in A Clockwork Orange, but not one of them would dare sit down and watch this or 2001: A Space Odyssey.  Fools.Barry Lyndon is another sign of sheer genius on behalf of Kubrick.  Notice that in his career he is never concerned about making money, just creating an image and telling a story.  Imagine if Michael Bay did the same, he'd be out of the business in no time and having to sell his own movies at the Video Hut.  This movie is one of his better detailed (and yet mysteriously unsung) masterpieces that is so beautiful to look at that it almost becomes artistic pornography (in the sense of creating intense emotion).  This isn't to say that Barry Lyndon is vulgar.  By comparison to Eyes Wide Shut and The Shining, this is a kid's cartoon.Kubrick is once again a certified genius with his camera.  The elaborate and glamorous scenes ranging from duels to gardens and even just the opening prologue are beautifully rendered in a style reminiscent of Monet or other artists.  I found it interesting how Kubrick includes pigeons (doves?) in the final duel.  Perhaps John Woo gained some inspiration from this.The story is paper thin compared to 2001 and lacks much of the symbolism. In fact, it is very hard to either sympathize with Ryan O'Neil as the title character because of his lack of portrayal.  As a whole, none of the characters gain either support or disapproval because of their fleeting presence.  The sets and costume designs themselves become more of a character than the actors.  Thankfully, the story is not as convoluted as I expected.  It flows nicely and never gets boring because of the variety of powerful elements infused into it.First off, kudos to both Ken Adam and Vernon Dixon for their brilliant production design.  I loved what Ken did with Dr. Strangelove (smart move for him to ditch the Bond series for that).  John Alcott is one of Kubrick's lesser cinematographers, but he is still very talented here.  I'm certain that, if he had lived longer, Kubrick would've kept using him.  He is not as concerned about symmetry, that or the topics aren't, as the rest of Kubrick's work.  The biggest irony about Barry Lyndon would have to be that everyone in the categories EXCEPT Kubrick won an Oscar for their work.  I think the Academy has something of a grudge against him because of his superior quality of work.Overall, a phenomenal quality of film that they just don't make anymore.  I put this in my Top 10 required viewings for anyone who wants to be in film. Kubrick has transcended Shakespeare with this film.  4.5 out of 5 stars.


                
Like the sustained cinematic fugue it is, 'Barry Lyndon''s opening scenes provide a theme that will be treated to increasingly virtuosic variations throughout.  Barry's father is killed in a duel.  Barry lives with his mother who refuses to remarry.  Barry loses his virginity to a woman playing a role while playing cards.  These are the great threads - Fathers, Duels, Mother, Sex, Women, The Unattainable, Masks, Games, Gambling - weaving into the web that will eventually trap Barry Lyndon, Fate like a spider picking him off sadistically limb by limb.'Barry' is structured around duels - the film begins and climaxes with one; key plot points centre around duels and 'organised' brawls.  These duels are not just of the fencing/shooting type - they can be a stand-off in gambling; the deceptive games men and women play; the punishment meted out by fathers on stepsons, elder brothers on young half-brothers; a summons to redundancy; the phlegmatic defiance of a crippled cuckold; the attempt to hoodwink an officer.  it doesn't even have to be negative - Barry's introduction to the chevalier begins with tacit antagonism, ends in a moving and genuine friendship.  these duels are tests Barry must pass, traps he must avoid in his forward movement towards status and wealth.But this duality has more thematic resonance than that, signified in the name-change form Redmond Barry to Barry Lyndon.  It is a conflict between the individual and society, between that individual's genuine self, if there is such a thing, and the masks he adopts to hide any defects that self might have.  The moral significance of the duels change as Barry moves from being a passionate lover to a ruthless schemer.  For all Thackeray's ironic wit, there is a moralising streak in his novel, not necessarily of the 'Don't rise above your station' variety, but suggesting the unhappiness waiting for anyone who will forsake their true character for glittering, but fake baubles.Kubrick takes this material and makes it his own, framing another story about a criminal outsider and a rigid, immovable social structure far more powerful than its individual constituents.  Masks for Barry aren't necessarily a fragmentation of his identity, a degeneracy of his values. They are his way of beating the system, of infiltrating the fortress and destroying it from within.  Far from becoming a monster, Barry is deliberately shown as both a debauchee and a loving father (the theme of fathers, from Barry's dead one, to his two benevolent father-figures; his replacing Bullingdon's father and his relationship with his own son, contrasted with the figures of mothers, is a powerful theme throughout)
It is a cliche that Kubrick is a bleak misanthrope and 'Barry Lyndon' doesn't suggest otherwise, with its farcically horrifying vision of war, and the more lethal machinations of society.  The film deliberately sets in conflict (another duel) two 'times', a historical time of war and Great Powers, linked to Barry's journey from fugitive to aristocrat, and a circular time, in which events simply repeat themselves, and nothing ever changes.  This is the Age of Enlightenment, where 'progress' was the soundbite, the idea that the sum of human knowledge and hence the sum of human happiness could be improved.kubrick, bleakly, counters this - visualised in a film of staggering beauty, a successful attempt to fuse all the progressive art forms of the of the era (painting, theatre, sculpture, architecture, landscape gardening, music etc.) into a blinding whole - with scenes, especially the climactic duel with Bullingdon, suggestive of regression, primitivism, a reversion to tribalism (which, in effect, is what happens, a social order regrouping and expelling the outsider).  The Church is now a henyard covered in straw, dark stage for a primitive rite, one that has been repeated throughout the film, denying all progress.  the ritual, tribal drums make this overpoweringly apparent.Barry ends up back where he began: worse, with the loss of a leg.  Decades on, nothing has changed for Lady Lyndon either, signing cheques for her new 'husband', her son.  The last date we see is 1789, that famous date of Revolution in France, spiralling out everywhere else, but not here, and Kubrick implies, not really anywhere.  the old cliche, 'Plus ca change...'Call me sentimental (or Irish) though, but in that final duel, when Barry refuses to kill his enemy, the light shining behind him through the narrow slits, the white doves flapping around him, suggest a religious interpretation, a suggestion that Barry may lose the world, but is somehow saved, redeemed: condemned to repetitious purgatory on earth, but beyond, who knows?  Because this is Kubrick's second duality, his own, a miraculous balancing act between a film of pure abstraction, and a moving, funny, horrifying character study.  Throughout Barry is made ridiculous, the dupe, the victim, and yet always retains our sympathy (largely through that heartbreakingly pained face) making even us atheists desire some salvation for him.The film's greatest scene - the gambling table, where Barry and Lady Lyndon stare at each other in the candlelight like clockwork figures forced into humanity, is a masterpiece of cinema translating minimalist acting into genius - Ryan O'Neal in this film gives one of the great performances thanks to Kubrick, worth a thousand of yer celebrated hams.
Martin Scorcese reportedly considers this to be Kubrick's best film. I must agree, and I would say it's his best by some fair margin. I've never seen a film with photography that even begins to approach that in Barry Lyndon. But everyone mentions the photography. The three things that most decisively set this film apart from all of Kubrick's others and really haven't been mentioned enough are its enormous heart, its uncompromising spirit, and the way it seems to suspend time over and over again, simultaneously standing still yet flowing along easily, almost breathlessly. If you watch it expecting A Clockwork Orange or The Shining, you'll be very disappointed and may end up calling it long and boring, but if you set aside an entire evening and surrender yourself totally to its magic, I swear you'll be looking for yourself in Stunland a few hours later. I's time to treat yourself to Barry Lyndon. You may be shocked at discovering what's been there for so long.


                
Two films from this past year prompted me to revisit Kubrick's ultimate costume drama, "Barry Lyndon," both of them staring the opulent Nicole Kidman--Von Trier's "Dogville" for its languid pacing and literary narration, and the much maligned "Birth" for its classical music score and long, wide camera shots. What I discovered while watching for the first time uninterrupted the digitally remastered DVD of Kubrick's period piece is that the film was paradoxically way ahead of its time while at the same time over-indulgently a time warp of a film that much like a great sci-fi flick, took the viewer completely into another world, this one just happened to be late 18th century Britian and Europe.Kubrick's attention to visual and sound detail (the music, the sounds of birds and trees rustling, the cold echos of a Lord's castle) is mind boggling. All the outdoor shots were filmed in the pure natural light of day, while all the interior shots were done by candle-light. The result is amazing. His attention to character, as usual is austere (only in the death scene of Barry's young son does the viewer feel any sympathy), but fittingly so given the grotesque formalities that surrounded everyday life in the era in which these characters lived and died. The themes are epic (duels, dastardly deeds by state and individual, wars at home and abroad, betrayal, greed, lust) as is the scope of the camera's eye. The visual sumptuousness of the entire endeavor almost pummels the viewer into submission and left me in an altered state almost as wondrous and weird as the one Kubrick created in "2001" where I actually felt like I was part of this strange world of 18th century Britian. For the film buff, this is a work of art, and for fans of period pieces this is the pinnacle of the genre.
Barry Lyndon is considered a middling success, in terms of how well it was received when it was initially released (critically and by the public), how well it stacks against other Stanley Kubrick movies and how well it did at the box office.For me it is a glorious, 3+ hour sensory treat. The Sundance channel played it Easter morning and ran only two commercial breaks.Stanley Kubrick excels at creating stunning, unforgettable visuals. Some of the most famous are Slim Pickens riding a nuclear warhead, James Mason casually painting Sue Lyon's toenails (Lolita), the astronaut dismantling HAL, floating over a circuit pad and making the computer progressively dumber and dumber, until it starts singing "Daisy," Alec and his droogs in "A Clockwork Orange", and the sergeant berating a recruit in "Full Metal Jacket." So what is the stunning, unforgettable visual in Barry Lyndon? Practically the whole movie! Mr. Kubrick set out to create a cinematic experience out of the Gainsborough paintings of the 18th century. Several scenes in Barry Lyndon are filmed in candlelight, which creates an ethereal experience.Was there any woman as beautiful in any movie as Marisa Berenson was as Lady Lyndon in Barry Lyndon? Granted, she had help from Stanley Kubrick's direction, but could any actress of today have embodied this role as well? Doubtful. Ryan O'Neal excelled in the title role, as well.Winner of four well-deserved Oscars for set design, cinematography, musical score and costumes. See it!


                
My 5 favorite observations & details about why the movie Barry Lyndon is so intriguing. (Although most of these are not mine, they helped me appreciate my favorite film.)1) The narrator is unreliable: different because he is not first person like in the novel, but similar by not telling the exact truth.Barry Lyndon is very much in a passionate struggle to shape his life yet the narrator dismisses him as a heartless womanizer doomed ("as fate would have it") for his unsuitability for polite society- which itself acts accordingly to its own fixed playbook ("fine family fortune!") In fact, both Lord Bullingdon and his father mock Barry's non-Lord-liness with the metaphor of stepping "into my shoes". Also, the women do in fact care about Barry and he does care for them (and of course his numerous father figures)- it is the NARRATOR who lacks heart. The second half is very much about Lady Lyndon grappling with the heartbreak of trying to be happy while in love with this very imperfect Irishman- (namely, regarding his interactions with her first son, other women, and his mother.) So.....The narrator tells us what to think about, but not what to think; so the viewer has to question (& re-question) his judgement as well as the characters'. 2) Lots of moments happen offscreen (his father's quarrel about purchasing horses, cousins falsifying the ammunition, Barry mentioning a commander O'Grady, his son sneaking off to the horse stable; there are countless key events described but not witnessed; all of which refocuses the significance of what Kubrick DID intentionally put in front of the camera) Like Richard Schickel said, critics bicker about what Kubrick didn't do; Kubrick lovers enjoy his films in an uncomplicated fashion for what he DID present.Thus the viewer has to actively filter through the narrator's misdirection to appreciate the characters quietly reacting to the impact of missing moments.3) The scene where Barry meets Lady Lyndon at the gambling table is easily encapsulated by two quiet details which communicate so much; 1) Reverend Lunt's eyes as he espies the other two making eye contact, 2) how she is breathing on the terrace. (Note: there is only one substantial line in this whole scene; "Samuel, I'm going outside for a breath of air.") (It is also poignant to note that Barry's profession is rigging games of chance.)4) No offense to Schubert and Haydn, but Leonard Rosenman's music arrangements are unmistakable; nobody does these tunes like him because remarkably he has seamlessly sewn them to the MEANING of the images and narrative. 5) When you consider the theme of three duels by firearms, also include the boxing match and the fencing match; and possibly all three abuses of Lord Bullington; and possibly even the robbery; they are all head-to-head confrontations that shape Barry's fortunes, character, & competence (dramatically!), ...but only the final climactic duel tells us who he has become.This is the key reason I offer these insights: Spielberg is correct in saying every time one repeatedly views a Kubrick film one gets something new; BUT Kubrick himself probably intended a singular perspective: so it is ideal for viewers to appreciate all these enigmas the first (few) times viewing -while being overwhelmed by this flip book of fine art paintings set to classical music. This is NOT a heated epic saga of inner personal thoughts breathlessly rendered by method actors in bravura theatrical performances amid iconic scenes to be parodied on the Simpsons. Most contemporary moviegoers should not dig this film the first time. (Cinema had a specific audience before Star Wars & Jaws.) Self-proclaimed Kubrick fans should NOT expect Clockwork Orange or Strangelove, nor 2001 or The Shining. The stars of this movie are the camera, the era, the universal shortcomings of humans ...and the tacit intrigue of the audience; in other words, the star is purely Kubrick.


                
With ornate imagery reminiscent of paintings from the story's 18th century period, Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of William Makepeace Thackeray's novel depicts the rise and fall of a sensitive rogue in the British aristocracy. Barry Lyndon is a period film starring Ryan O'Neal, Marisa Berenson, Patrick Magee and Hardy Krüger. It was written, produced, and directed by Kubrick. It is based on the novel The Luck of Barry Lyndon by William Makepeace Thackeray which recounts the exploits of a fictional 18th century Irish adventurer.Young Irishman Redmond Barry leaves home to seek his fortune after apparently killing an English officer in a duel. Through a series of mishaps and accidents, Barry winds up fighting with the Prussian army in the Seven Years' War under the command of Capt. Potzdorf; at war's end, Potzdorf enlists Barry to spy on a shady Chevalier. Instead, Barry joins up with the Irish Chevalier to flee Prussia and live as gamblers among Europe's elite. Wishing to climb even higher, Barry soon meets the beautiful Lady Lyndon, marrying her for her fortune after her older titled husband dies. Her son Lord Bullingdon, however, despises the upstart Barry, and, regardless of how his mother may feel, sees to it that the re-named Barry Lyndon will never be able to stake his claim to the entrenched aristocracy.In 1975 the world was at Stanley Kubrick's feet. His films Dr. Strangelove, 2001: A Space Odyssey, and A Clockwork Orange, released in the previous dozen years, had provoked rapture and consternation--not merely in the film community, but in the culture at large. On the basis of that smashing hat trick, Kubrick was almost certainly the most famous film director of his generation, and absolutely the one most likely to rewire the collective mind of the movie audience. And what did this radical, at-least-20-years-ahead-of-his-time filmmaker give the world in 1975? A stately, three-hour costume drama that now stands as one of his greatest and most savagely ironic films, not to mention one of the few period pieces on celluloid so transporting that it seems to predate the invention of cameras.In addition to that,Ryan O'Neal's excellent performance captures the shallow opportunism endemic to the title character who is brought down as much by his own flaws as by the mores of the ordered social structure of 18th-century England.All of Kubrick's features look better now than when they were first released, but Barry Lyndon, which fared poorly at the box office in 1975, remains his most underrated. It may also be his greatest.
Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon was a film that upon first experience was a little sluggish, and compared to the bizarre nature of many of his other masterpieces (Clockwork Orange, Dr. Strangelove, the Shining) is lacking. But this was years ago, when I perhaps didn't quite have the patience and attention to underlying emotions the film asks. Upon a few more viewings up until now, I find that this really is a remarkable, deliberately paced film about a man trying to find the cues and the ways into this upper class world. This man, played convincingly by Ryan O'Neil, is like the total con-man in the guise of the perfect gentleman (in a sense, of course less violently and less ambitious, the character has a little in common with Alex from Clockwork Orange). Aside from the characterizations, which do become richer in multiple viewings, the compositions are truly unique, and ask of a viewer more than most can handle. Barry Lyndon is the kind of film that, if nothing else, shows that Kubrick wasn't only this madman director of these satires and totally visual experiences (which he was terrific at), but also could do a tender, expressive, and period-perfect film about a world that most of us know from looking at paintings in museums, which is precisely what Kubrick was going for. Deservedly winning of four academy awards (unfortunately not for Kubrick), it also boasts a fine soundtrack of classic works of music.


                
Although the choice of stars in some movies seemed odd at the time they were made, over the years, they have grown into their roles.Ryan O'Neal in Kubrick's "Barry Lyndon" is a classic example. Back in the 70's he was a pretty big star, but seemed connected to more lightweight fare. It was a surprise when he ended up in a major film from Stanley Kubrick.These days, he doesn't carry the baggage that surrounded him back then and now seems quite an inspired choice to play Redmond Barry, a brash, impulsive, Irish opportunist during the Georgian era in England and Ireland. After many adventures, he rises from lowly beginnings to become a gentleman of means, only to slide back down again in an even more spectacular fall.Along the way he marries a beautiful widow, Lady Lyndon (Marissa Berenson) and makes an arch enemy of his stepson, Lord Bullingdon (Leon Vitali). Kubrick wrote the screenplay from William Makepeace Thackeray's novel. Thackeray had a witty turn of phrase - for example, at one point in the novel, Redmond Barry beats the living daylights out of young Lord Bullingdon, which Thackeray refers to as "administering a correction". Kubrick catches Thackeray's satirical tone and the script is full of wry, Thackeray-inspired observations on the human condition. Apart from anything else, the script itself is an impressive achievement.Thackeray wrote the novel in the first person from Redmond Barry's point of view whereas Kubrick uses the voice of an anonymous narrator, speaking in the third person. Although narration can sometimes seem a lazy way of telling a story in a film, it works perfectly here; we find ourselves waiting for the commentator to put Barry's often-painful experiences into perspective.Kubrick changed the story a great deal, without losing the essential themes. I can't help feeling that in a couple of areas he actually improved it, especially the ending, which in the novel is rather meandering - instead of the decisive duel of the film, Barry's fortunes run down, and he eventually lands in prison after being given "a tremendous castigation" by Lord Bullingdon. Kubrick tightens the whole thing and that long, final confrontation is one of the most powerful scenes in the film.This movie has a brilliant look whether indoors or out, night or day. What an amazing talent Kubrick was. Jack Nicholson once said of him, "Everybody pretty much acknowledges he's The Man, but I still feel that underrates him". He was a guy from New York who could embrace British literature and history, and produce such a believable work as this - it was almost as though he had Thackeray himself sitting in a canvas chair beside him acting as technical adviser.The true genius of the movie is in how Kubrick captures the period perfectly, maintains that beautifully measured pace, and yet delivers a film that is full of wit and tension from beginning to end.


                
Extreme visual beauty in terms of it's composition and the fragile way in which it's lit, mixed with a feeling of loneliness, makes a great incubator for passion, which builds and builds in a subtle yet divine way through out this film. If your a fan of true art you're a fan of this film.Kubrick was a photographer before directing film. This is the reason why he is one of my favourite directors, he has a sense of visual style and most of all a sense of composition. All the great directors have this and all the truly great films do too. Some films allow you to be thrilled or exited, though with it's use of high artistic skill this film allows you to experience. It is the difference between a good movie and a film makers master piece!


                
The story takes place in 18th Century. A young Irish called Barry falls in love with his cousin and upon disclosing the rival in captain John Quin and his affection towards his beloved woman he resolves to regain her, even if it is indispensable to kill Quin. The instant everything appears to be ended up between him and his cousin, he insults Quin by casting a glass right at his face and demands having a duel with him which he eventually wins. Being positive that he killed his opponent, he leaves his parts so as to evade consequences of his act and discover a better place to start a new life.This is frequently a disregarded effort in Kubrick's carrier which is quite astonishing since Kubrick achieves an utterly ravishing level of cinematic beauty and it remains one of his greatest feats. Whereas any other director could transform the script into an uneven work – a hodgepodge of stronger and weaker scenes, every aspect of Kubrick's masterpiece seems to be polished to an absolute perfection and shows that we are dealing with a great, self-disciplined master. The story is based on the novel by William Makepeace Thackeray. Barry Lyndon which often feels like a relation of the book forasmuch some events occurring on the screen are simply recounted by the narrator. Notwithstanding, it never becomes anyhow discordant or contradictory with the general concept, actually it is difficult to envision the movie without this element which gives it a distant perspective and thus render the flick more historical and epic. It has a great deal of subplots which slightly reminds of Full Metal Jacket. In that film, it does not diminish the excellence of Kubrick's rendition, however, owing to an exploited episodic structure, the ensemble invariably appears to be a little clutter, skipping from one location to another and it is incapable of creating an appropriate atmosphere, particularly in the second half, when a viewer is taken aback by an unexpected transition from a traverse, where a dehumanizing training of soldiers occurs, into a Vietnam chapter. One never recaptures the mood and the second part does not conjure up a suggestive climax of isolation in the jungle which would be adequate. Fortunately, Kubrick is always aware of his aim in Barry Lyndon, he does not delve into digressions that much. In spite of implicating a lot of minor episodes which sometimes slightly reminiscent of the above-mentioned film released 12 years later, the subject does not feel diluted with unnecessary subplots nor is it self-indulgent – the action always revolves around the protagonist. The pace is always right, neither rushed, nor excessively languorous. The story flows steadily. The narrative structure is simple and fortunately not oversophisticated, the linear storytelling makes it all comprehensive and the plot is easy to follow.Whereas one is accompanying Barry becoming a soldier and struggling through the atrocities of war, Kubrick shows an indubitable brilliance in combat scenes which despite being few and far between are ravishingly portentous and electrifying. Successively, while the main hero slowly withdraws from the war and regains the status of a gentleman, a viewer is able to observe Kubrick's apt eye for visuals. Every frame is fascinating, not only owing to the opulence of scenography, but also on account of a sublime cinematography of John Alcott, who utilizes various colours ranging variations of grey, blue and finally warmer colours like red as well as yellow with talent of a prominent painter. The palette of hues is far from lollypop framing of A Clockwork Orange. Exploiting his talent for catching imposing images, Kubrick creates one of the best portrayals of 18th century and through the role of Barry who eventually comes to power, perfectly exposes the situation of those times. Notwithstanding, he never forgets about the major point of the story – the exploration of the power's impact on Barry's character who is more and more becoming a vain male. He disregards love of his wife, he prefers organizing orgies and having affairs to leading a traditional life, hence he becomes someone totally different from what he was at the beginning.Ryan O'Neal is superb as Barry Lyndon. He shows an undisputable creativity with this undoubtedly complex role which gives him a great opportunity to expose his acting skills. He eschews being classified as a righteous persona or a straight-forward villain. He succeeds in being arrogant and charming at the same time. The moment one is likely to cease to sympathise with him, he seemingly becomes an elegant and nice man. Marisa Berenson is quite good as Lady Honoria Lyndon, although she is not remarkable anyhow and rather stays in the background. Marie Kean gives the best performance in the supporting cast as Barry's mother whose possessiveness is revealed near the end. This is something really fascinating and her character's development is atypically delightful. Towards the finale she is rather unlikable and the only matter she cares about is her son's fate.The soundtrack consisting of music composed by John Sebastian Bach, Leonard Rosenman and The Chieftains is a great addition to the ensemble and the movie's classical feeling is even more articulate. The breath-taking cinematography and the ravishing palette of colours, the opulent scenography, the top-notch acting, the tremendous script – they all cooperate with each other excellently.Saying that Barry London is no cinematic achievement is like arguing that sawdust is an exquisite dish. Kubrick did everything to render this a masterpiece and the execution is undeniably remarkable. Long as it is, this is also one of the most beautiful flicks ever created. The magnificence and its monumental nature overwhelms a viewer. The fabulousness of Kubrick's vision is simply eye-popping and jaw-dropping. It is one of the biggest treasures of worldwide cinema and a real tour-de-force that deserves more recognition that it actually received.


                
Barry Lyndon is a visual and technical marvel if there ever was one. Kubrick's infamous desire for perfectionism down to the tiniest details meant shooting to mimic natural light in order to capture the pure essence of the late Baroque period. The iconic candlelight scenes had to be shot with a special lens with a tiny f-stop in order to capture as much of the light possible and cast a faded glow across the scene. But he also had to juggle this with the small depth of field that would contradict the flatness of the compositions which he had so meticulously designed. The use of the zoom out/ins over the dolly is crucial to this process; the zoom allowed Kubrick to preserve the scale in his sets (a zoom would be like blowing up a picture) where a dolly would have marred the perspective. Add to that the gorgeous mise en scène and production design, and the catatonic, still-life quality of the staging and you have the often point of praise that each frame becomes an 18th century painting in itself. So we see a tender close-up of grasped hands or a despondent mourning face, and then outwards, the bigger, colder picture. These characters seem trapped by the time period and their respective settings. In the first act we see Redmond and how he came to be Barry Lyndon - the impulsive, love-struck warrior that doesn't want to fight but will do it for his personal causes, whether it is to win a lady or save his own skin. And repeatedly as the zoom outs do, in an anti-picaresque way, we see how there are larger elements beyond his comprehension and control which push him towards that high estate, the pinnacle of his 'wealth'; the conspiracy to get him out of the picture of Dora's betrothal, a fellow soldier sneakily offering him choice insults, or the gambling prowess of Chevalier (a sort of play on the idea of luck itself, but it is never Redmond's hand that deals the card). And then in the second act O'Neal's expressionless, one-note performance finds its little niche, drowning his sorrows in drunken stupour, senseless violence and all the marks of a man gone to seed. He stumbles into wealth as easily as he wastefully leaves it, but even in his lowest moment Kubrick does not relent stylistically. The final, detached text seems to confirm this; a smothering and suffocation of the greed and degeneracy of the wealthy aristocratic noble class through stylistic narrative, forgotten in death even as the narrator paints a vivid picture. It is from this voice-over that the narrative dissonance is created and where Kubrick subverts. In one instance the narrator gives an old cliché; that war read from the comfort of an armchair is much removed from the reality and horror of experiencing it for yourself. And yet the battles in Barry Lyndon are staged beyond realism; the soldiers are arranged in geometrically straight formations in order to cater to Kubrick's zooms, and they march onwards and upwards even as comrades fall all around like they have been programmed to (a thematic counterpoint to Kubrick's envisioned Napoleon). Redmond is the only one to fall back and comfort a friend in his last breathing moments - in the first act he has still that tiny vestige of compassion and humanity. And he parts on decent romantic terms with a lonely German mother during the wartime...Barry Lyndon does not even offer those little condolences, but openly flaunts his infidelity. Furthering this theme we have a disconnection between the formal narrator and his flowery, historic prose fit for a history book and the way that Kubrick has actually depicted the events of the film. First we have the duels, which are so ridiculous and outlandish in the way they pause at each step for civility and ensure the correct chivalrous procedures have been followed. Their movements are rigid not flashy, and everyone knows when it is over - there is no surprise resurgence or twist. And here you can gleam a little humour too - see how cordial the robbery of Redmond is, and how they seem to cheerfully acknowledge the very meta-fictive script that these incidents seem to follow. In the one instance that Barry does take his own control he is wounded and literally rendered immobile. They are bound by what has already been said of them, or in the case of Redmond's first battle, written over and forgotten altogether. The narrator continually serves to remind us that these events have long been recorded and gathered dust.
Common opinion has it that this is perhaps the most exquisitely beautiful film ever made. It is certainly the most beautiful I have seen. After the first half hour I was doubtful if the level of quality could be maintained throughout; it was. The story takes place in the second half of the eighteenth century and traces the history of one Redmond Barry, a man of modest birth who rises to marry a baroness, Lady Lyndon, only to later lose it all. This comment is not a spoiler, since a narrator frequently tells us what is about to happen and the on-screen titles:Part I. By What Means Redmond Barry Acquired the Style and Title of Barry Lyndon.Part II. Containing an Account of the Misfortunes and Disasters Which Befell Barry Lyndon. take away any major suspense.The story is told in a series of episodes, each one perfectly composed and paced. I am in awe of how much time must have gone into making this. The research on period details and dress had to be extensive. The battle scene between the English and French armies was stunning, involving hundreds of actors all dressed in full uniform. This reminded me of the battle scene in "Spartacus" between Spartacus and the Roman armies of Crassus, only the armies had rifles this time around. Kubrick knows how to stage such scenes--the battle scene is just one of many I watched again after having seen the whole movie. It is not surprising that there are long time gaps between Kubrick movies.This is one of the few movies that fully engaged me even though I did not have a strong emotional commitment to the main characters. I was captivated by a presentation that has the feel of a dispassionate scientific investigation, it's like I was viewing specimens under a microscope. In witnessing the arc of Barry's entire life the movie drives home how we are all shaped by random events and our emotions, neither of which we have much control of. As the narrator asks, what would Barry's life have been if he had not fallen for Nora? What if he had been able to control his behavior toward Lord Bullingdon? Questions we all ask ourselves: what would my life have been if I had done this, or not done that, or if some event had not happened? Ryan Oneal does not have an enormous range as an actor, but he is well cast in his role here, since Barry is externally passive. This is not to say that he is emotionless: he precipitated a duel over his love for Nora, he came to the aid of a comrade in battle, he loved his son, he violently attacked Lord Bullingdon and fired into the ground as a point of honor in his duel with Bullingdon. I was impressed by how well Oneal carried off the boxing scene, later to find out that he had been an amateur boxer as a younger man.The musical score plays an essential role; the movie would lose much of its impact without it. Period classical pieces are perfectly chosen to enhance the experience. After having seen this movie who will ever forget the Andante movement from Schubert's Piano Trio no. 2, or the Sarabande from Handel's Keyboard Suite in D minor?Kubrick cannot be accused of producing movies that are variations on a theme--every one is a unique work of art. It is hard to imagine what current director would have what it takes to gamble on making a visionary movie like "Barry Lyndon." The only movie in recent memory that I can think of that could be in this category is Malick's, "Tree of Life."
Barry Lyndon isn't Stanley Kubrick's best film, far from it, but I may say that I got to know Stanley Kubrick as an artist the best from Barry Lyndon above any of his other films. It is a masterpiece of epic proportions. No other film in Kubrick's body of work looks as good as Barry Lyndon does. It is a magnificent sight for the eyes and the ears.Kubrick is famous to the mainstream and uneducated movie goer more so for the rumors of his eccentricities than his actual body of work. My personal favorite story of his over perfectionist view is that he would spend painstaking time on a shot just to make sure every conceivable sharp pin point detail was perfect. Of course there is probably little actual truth to this rumor but with Lyndon you might actually believe it. It is a gorgeous picture to look at. Kubrick brought us to space, hell, and the jungles of Vietnam but Barry Lyndon is by far the most amazing setting he ever dealt with. It's not merely a period picture, calling it this wouldn't be doing it justice. Stanley Kubrick has created the most authentic feeling historic film of all time despite having the story being lavish and times very over the top. It's easy for a director to simply show a shot of a castle or a reenactment of an eighteenth century battle. Kubrick doesn't do this, the vocal point of every scene brings us into the life of Redmond Barry and how his life is intertwined with the times. The period piece can only work if we feel that we belong in this period. And we belong, the candle light scenes prove it, Like 'A Clockwork Orange' music gives this film it's pulse. Leonard Rosenman's score is by far Kubrick's best soundtrack. I can't imagine Barry Lyndon having the same effect with a different score. Not only does the score feel authentic with pieces by the brilliant Bach and Handel but it gives the film so much more life than a lot of soundtracks do. A good soundtrack will make a picture better, but in Barry Lyndon's case the soundtrack is a living part of the picture that it manifests it's own character.What really amazes me about Barry Lyndon is that it is by far one of the weakest stories Kubrick ever adapted. All though well respected in his time Thackerby is usually only remembered for Vanity Fair. The original novel is all most all but forgotten except for being the basis for Kubrick's film. Lyndon isn't all that intriguing of a character, his motives are clear cut,become a rich Lord by all means necessary. For the most part the character is not all that likable and yet Kubrick and to a lesser degree Ryan O'Neil make this character dimensional and intriguing. We are asked by Kubrick in several scenes to look at him and judge his worthiness. Redmond Barry wants to succeed in life and for a lost Irishmen in exile he goes the way of the trickster. Would he have gained any sense of credibility had he not sought Lady Lyndon's hand in marriage? An Irishman seeking to be noble is not looked kindly upon in this society. I can't think of a better way to end the picture than what Kubrick did. The climatic duel is by far one of Kubrick's strongest scenes, which truly does offer strong sympathy to Barry. We never know what becomes of him, ashamed and ruined of any sense of dignity we ask "Did he really deserve this fate?" One improvement I notice is that Kubrick does not have O'Neal himself narrate the story. He doesn't want the audience to be distracted by Barry's own account and to be swayed in one direction or another. Lady Lyndon's last scene as she signs the check for Barry's yearly sum is a brilliant shot and it engages the viewer. Does she still love him? Kubrick knew how to make you think and choose the complexities in any story he was adapting.
I can imagine how most people who give this movie low ratings are turned off by the length and slow pace of the film. I think, however, that this is one of the film's key strengths. There are plenty of scenes where a simple facial expression, combined with the brilliant lighting and wonderful music convey more meaning than dialogue ever could. No other director has ever been able to trap me so completely within the film's world than Kubrick has with Barry Lyndon. Every movement and every word is so carefully thought out, and the set designs, costumes and make-up arranged with such skill that it's hard to find any technical flaw throughout the movie.It's a shame Barry Lyndon was and is as underrated as it is. In my opinion, it could very well be Kubrick's best film!


                
"Barry Lyndon" is Stanley Kubrick's film about a fictitious Irishman, Redmond Barry, who lived during the reign of King George III. This film manages to impeccably capture a sense of period with wide shots of lavish and colorful sets, scenes and greenery as well as impressive works of art and architecture. The film also includes an effective combination of classical pieces and marching music that comprise the score.This film's story is developed with a slow-pace intended to make the film more thoughtful than entertaining. This is reinforced by the inclusion of a narrative and the division of the story into two parts. Sometimes narratives are unnecessary for a film or even a hindrance, but in this case the thoughtful and clever prose was beneficial to the film. The first part of the story chronicles some scenes from Barry's early life and his military career. The military displays and battle scenes proved captivating even though the battles were brief and highlighted the inept tactics used in the Seven Years' War.The second part shows the troubled married life of Redmond and his interactions with the English nobility. Personally I found the first part to be the more interesting of the two, but ultimately both parts told an interesting story. Both parts show duels, whether with pistols or swords, that are engaging without being embellished.Ryan O'Neal leads the cast as Redmond Barry. O'Neal's acting regimen largely consists of speaking in low tones, casting lingering gazes and occasional bursts of emotion. None the less, he creates an interesting character that is despicable in many ways but sympathetic in others. The film also has excellent supporting performances. Marisa Berenson gives a fine performance as Barry's careworn wife, Lady Lyndon. Leon Vitali is also excellent as Lord Bullingdon, a bitter son from Lady Lyndon's prior marriage. The animosity between Barry and Bullingdon is well-developed and striking. Frank Middlemass was effective at showing palpable and perceptive disdain for Barry as Sir Charles Lyndon. I also enjoyed Leonard Rossiter's performance as the proud man of airs, Captain John Quin. Overall "Barry Lyndon" is interesting as a slowly paced but well-developed period film.


                
