Kubrick's adaptation of Thackeray's Barry Lyndon sharply divides fans of the great director's work, as the languid pace and seemingly interminable running time -- not to mention Ryan O'Neal's questionable performance in the title role -- are cherished by some and deplored by others.  Little argument will be made against John Alcott's Academy Award-winning cinematography or Ken Adam's production design, however, and Kubrickian motifs are manifest in the gallery of characters' wide-ranging displays of cowardice, guile, duplicity, avarice, jealousy, greed, and cruelty.  Marisa Berenson is terribly short-changed in her role as the Lady Lyndon, but a number of other performers are given the opportunity to create a handful of memorable moments -- especially Arthur O'Sullivan (albeit briefly) as the charming, intelligent highwayman and Patrick Magee as the Chevalier.  Love it or hate it, Barry Lyndon will remain essential viewing for aficionados of the director, who enjoys taking his usual shots at the more discouraging aspects of human behavior.


                
Spoilers herein.Kubrick is a hard filmmaker to touch. He's obviously competent, even brilliant in some ways. And a few of his films -- `Strangelove' comes to mind -- make enough sense superficially that one is not compelled to go farther. The problem is that Kubrick never gives us much hint that his films are a whole different beast than the others on the shelf at the video store. I think he relished the confusion.Most films tell a story in the old fashioned way: time moves, things happen, characters act. In these films, the story is largely apart from the storytelling. Because film is different than everything else, the means of storytelling are unique to film. And because film is still new, we have lots of room for discovering how to tell a story.So we have the vast majority of filmmakers and viewers who think of a film purely in terms of the story. But we have another group of people who watch the storytelling, and perhaps (like myself) don't demand that much from the story itself. That's why we admire empty stylists like De Palma, but of course prefer master visual storytellers like Kurosawa.The holy grail is when the narrative of the conventional threads and the cinematic ones mesh, or are coordinated in some clever way. By cinematic threads, I mean a narrative invested in the very fabric of the camera, like `Marienbad,' like `Pillow Book,' like Welles' `Othello,' or with the aid of actors like `Sweet and Lowdown,' or `Vanya on 42nd Street.' There's a sublime joy to parallel immersion in both the story and cinematic narratives.But sometimes along comes a Kubrick to confound us. I spent a lot of time with `Eyes Wide Shut' before understanding it, because I was looking for the tie with the story. But Kubrick has the equation the other way around. The primary narrative anchor is in the cinematic narrative. The story isn't a skeleton around which the filmmaking takes place, rather an annotation or an incomplete dream that results from it. Jarmusch, Malick, and Kar-wai Wong (`In the Mood for Love') have this same attitude, with minor twists.Freed from limiting expectations, I am now able to enjoy `Barry Lyndon' in more the way I think Kubrick saw it. It is not a story about a Black Irish told through pretty pictures. It is a visual tone poem on the seduction of beauty, with a dissonance between natural beauty and cosmetics. The primary story is visual. It needs space. It needs time. (`2001' has the same cinematic narrative, with the `cosmetics' being logic; the minor twist in `Clockwork' is that the cultural cosmetic is in the future.)The part of the narrative that O'Neal contributes is a loose stitching of this to plot elements as seasoning to help our digestion: war/ gambling, arbitrary privilege, duals and duels, face and body costumes, superposition of languages.The ironic point is that Kubrick tricks you into soaking up the lushness, and doesn't punish you at the end. That's why you leave the theater feeling guilty and not knowing why. (He takes away one of our legs -- the story -- and sends us to wander in America, not quite sure what has happened to us.) Can you think of any other artist with that power?
Considered one of Thackeray's best novels "Barry Lyndon" comes to light in a brilliant fashion under the direction of Stanley Kubrik with Ryan O'Neal in the title role.A young Irish profligate of the 18th Century finds himself involved in the Seven Year's War in Europe. A born opportunist he deserts as a soldier and by all foul means seeks to improve his status by marrying a countess. He is now one of the new aristocracy...Mr. Barry Lyndon!The film version of Barry Lyndon's adventures as a cheat, as a spy, as a gentleman of the realm is absolutely flawless.  I have only high praise for the uniform quality as we go from scene to scene. The lighting in particular is striking, much like a classical painting. The photography is excellent....sweeping vistas of the European countryside with red-coated soldiers drawn up in battle lines and dropping in disarray under enemy fire....indoor scenes of elegance with people feasting or playing at cards, all bathed in soft candlelight Every scene is backed by well-chosen music gleaned from the classics. The choice is so good one might think it was written for the film. The art director too can be proud of the meticulous costumes, wigs and make-up; and the aging of the characters is well done and acceptable.There is also a lovely array of characters both old and young with interesting faces like those you would see in an old Rembrandt. As a character I especially like the old count who suffers terribly from an argument with the new Mr. Lyndon.  Another memorable scene is the outburst of the Countess's son who refuses to accept his step-father and endures a thorough thrashing.  There are poignant scenes too when Barry's little son comes to grief....and these are the days too when differences are solved by pistol or sword.All in all a well rounded film.  I find it much more satisfying than "Russian Ark" which is praised so highly.  This film is filled with beauty and adventure and proves once again that "what goes up must come down"....and so we have the rise and fall of Barry Lyndon!


                
Barry Lyndon has always been a curious film in Kubrick's filmography and is rarely mentioned as anyone's favourite. Even for his small amount of films, Kubrick has been known for his variety, but even audiences back in the day must've been surprised to see him tackle a costume drama. But since it's Kubrick, we're obviously not dealing with just any costume drama<U+0085> After being treated to a particularly dramatic performance of Handel's Sarabande, the film opens with protagonist Redmond Barry's father being shot in a duel. Barry falls in love with his cousin Nora, but though she shows interest in him, she plans to marry a rich English Captain. Frustrated, Barry shoots the Captain and is forced to flee to Dublin. The film follows his trials and tribulations as he roams the countryside in search of fortune, eventually makes a name for himself, but by that time the demeaning sides of his personality ensure his inevitable ruin.A curious thing indeed to see Kubrick tackle the costume drama genre. The trick, however, is to remember what Kubrick's all about. What is one of the key themes that defines pretty much every one of his films? I'd say a cynical, yet still sympathetic view at the folly and arrogance of man. Seen from this angle, you start to understand Barry Lyndon a little bit better. Once you literally peer beneath the incredibly shiny veneer and look at the inhuman underbelly of the world of Barry Lyndon, you can see what Kubrick's trying to do. When you think about it, it's actually a stroke of genius, Kubrick applying his notions of human indecency and arrogance to what is literally the most beautiful time period in human history.The film's central character, Barry, is also curious in that the film always seems to maintain a certain distance from him even though he's almost in every scene. But this hides the fact that his development is crucial to understanding Kubrick's intent. It's not for nothing we find Barry constantly frustrated in love in the film's first half and then see him neglect his wife in the second half. It's not for nothing he shoots his cousin's marriage prospect, the Captain, when he finds out she wants to marry him for reasons of wealth, only for him to do something similar when he marries Lady Honoria Lyndon. In a sense, Kubrick structures his film like Full Metal Jacket: in two halves. Just like how Full Metal Jacket first shows the dehumanization process the recruits are forced to undergo followed by its inevitable consequences, so does Barry Lyndon first portray Barry's struggle for success which is inexorably accompanied by his losing some of his humanity, the consequences of which are shown in the second half.The film's combination of period style and cynicism is also what lends the film its own particular brand of humor as seen in scenes like the early robbery scene. It's actually a tragedy and an injustice that Barry is being robbed, but the robber's polite manner lends it a strangely humorous quality. All the trauma and indecency is buried for the sake of appearance. Indeed, it's how everything looks that rules the minds of the characters and the particular time period. Kubrick was definitely trying to show how, despite it being a time of great beauty (who can forget the groundbreaking candlelight scenes?) and despite humans attempting to create a veritable fortress of beauty and blocking out all manner of cruelty, cruelty isn't something that can be so simply removed from human nature, but is inextricably bound to it.Of his most famous films, Barry Lyndon is also probably the most underrated which is a shame, because it contains many of the familiar themes we associate with Kubrick. I'm not going to pretend I loved it from the start. When I first saw it in my late teens I was quite underwhelmed. I couldn't see how the Kubrick of 2001 and Clockwork Orange could make such a<U+0085>slow, long, almost boring (for my teen spirit) film like Lyndon. But once I familiarized myself with Kubrick's style, I started to realize I seriously needed to reevaluate my opinion of it. The film's deliberately slow pacing and the 'artsy' distance it maintains from its characters not only hide, but are also part of, the film's focus on the toxic relationship between the superficial surface beauty of the 18th century and the unhappiness and immorality it tries to hide.
Out of all of the Stanley Kubrick movies this is the one that you hear about the least.  It's a real shame because this was one of the ones that I enjoyed the most.  This is probably the most beautiful epic I have ever seen.  Almost every scene is absolutely breathtaking, with terrific scenery and stunning Academy Award winning cinematography.  Even if you don't completely follow the plot, this film can still be highly enjoyed for its visual effect.  One of the few films of such beauty.  ***1/2 out of ****.


                
Barry Lyndon, 18th Century gadabout, is an idiot. Like the Count Bullingdon says in the movie, he's a "common opportunist", and it's kind of amazing he succeeded as well as he did. Barry gave little to the world— only took. He lied when convenient, and abandoned when the going got tough. Even when he might have righted his course and made something of himself, Barry ducked out to chase more exciting (though less legitimate) prospects. As I get older, it becomes impossible to sympathize with the character, and yet the film about him seems no less great, no less significant.Stanley Kubrick's directorial follow-up to A CLOCKWORK ORANGE (after a failed attempt to make a feature based on Napoleon) offers little of the visceral excitement of the previous movie, and even less of the cosmic significance of the one before that (1968's 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY), but is nevertheless one of the legendary director's great films. BARRY LYNDON is based on an 1844 novel by William Makepeace Thackeray, charting the development (and eventual demise) of a young upstart originally known as Redmond Barry— from his humble beginnings as a dim-witted Irish country boy, to his misadventures in English high society. How Barry gets from one place to the other is the plot of the movie, and as much as I cringe at the character's various life decisions, Kubrick's pacing (and gorgeous period imagery) keeps me glued into this movie throughout its generous duration.Since the movie is so well made, it's easier to forgive the fact that the title character is basically a scourge to society. Ryan O'Neal's Barry is a mildly charming parasite, offering no real concession to endearment to the audience (or his fictional peers), other than a vague, naive charisma, and occasional personal victories along the way to ruin. I don't feel particularly bad spoiling that Barry's end is a tragic one, because Kubrick's arc for the movie is almost precisely 50% rise and 50% fall, which means a brutal, extended descent for viewers. Maybe you have to be a misanthrope to really love this movie, or maybe it's just fun to watch people fail so spectacularly. Either way, the film succeeds in spite of its downwardly spiraling story.Big wins for this movie include: - Good acting. O'Neal has sometimes been criticized for his performance (including suspect Irish accent), but in my view, he plays Barry very well, right down to the s**t-eating, vacant charm. Hardy Kruger (as the Prussian Captain Potsdorf) is also great, and in the scenes between his character and O'Neal's, comes off as both very intelligent, and equally open to ambiguous corruption. Very Kubrick, really, and the entire cast serves its purpose to a tee. - Great cinematography. Famously, Kubrick used only lighting that would have been possible in the late 18th Century, which means candle-lit shots and gorgeous, widescreen landscapes of England and Ireland. - Great period score, including pieces by Handel, Vivaldi and traditional Irish folk music played by the Chieftans. Handel's "Sarabande" in particular features so heavily in the film as to seem a supporting characterThings about BARRY LYNDON that *might* make it hard to love: - Not only is O'Neal's Barry not smart or particularly interesting, he's also not well-liked. Most of the movie finds him succeeding through sheer dumb luck or opportunism, while his observers notice and (justifiably) resent his fate. Barry's not even a good underdog, because he gets MANY chances to right his way, but manages to screw them all up. - It's a long movie, 3 Hours, 4 minutes. And it's a slow one too, though that could be considered one of its strengths, if you consider how close to "period" Kubrick tried to make this movie. Still, as a viewer, you need to be in this for the long haul if you want to extract its charms.All of that said, I've loved BARRY LYNDON from the first time I saw it. Of course, I'm a Kubrick fan, and his senses of pacing and sly, black humor are all over the film. His movies (discounting anything starring Kirk Douglas) don't typically offer heroic protagonists, and this one's no different. The magic is in the exquisitely dark story, and of course, the beauty of the visuals and music. I rank this movie behind only 2001 and PATHS OF GLORY in Kubrick's canon, and recommend it whole-heartedly to neophyte Kubrick fans, or anyone into great black comedy.
Fine acting, beautiful photography, haunting music and sure-footed direction show a - probably very realistic - slice of life of the English gentry in the 18th century, which is fascinating by itself. The story is captivating too but leaves a nagging question. The human soul can of  course undergo many changes, yet Barry Lyndon's change from a good-at-heart  lad in part I of the movie to a stupidly cheating husband and excessively  behaving father, either intemperate or overindulgent, in part II is a  little baffling. Kubrick deviated here from Thackeray's original novel,  where the protagonist is somewhat of a rogue throughout, and tried to  add a measure of human development to the adventure story. Yet the change  for the worse happens quite swiftly, and marriage seems to be the cause.  So the movie provides some things dazzling to watch, and some more  things intriguing to contemplate afterwards...


                
SPOILERSAlmost universally panned upon its original release in 1975, BARRY LYNDON has since been more favourably re-appraised by critics.   No bad thing, then, that time and perspective allow one to appreciate a work of art such as this, because, in many respects, it is one of Kubrick's finest achievements.Based on the 1844 novel by William Makepeace Thackeray, the movie chronicles the life of Redmond Barry, a working class Irish boy, from the days of his innocent love for his feckless cousin, through to his eventual downfall having almost attained the status he so desired.   Lyndon is a deeply flawed man, joyless and selfish, and unable to blame his shortcomings on his experiences as his journey draws ever closer to its inevitable, and tragic, conclusion.   His character is finely drawn by Kubrick, and superbly presented by Ryan O'Neal in a career-best performance; each adventure leaves it's indelible mark on Lyndon, irrevocably erasing the innocent and tender young man we witness in the early scenes, and seamlessly transforming him into a cynical, grasping womaniser whose few redeeming features are smothered by his obsessive and destructive desire for a title.   The transformation is undergone so subtly that one doubts Lyndon is ever truly aware that he has changed.    It is ironic that the two noble acts he does perform <U+0096> warning the Chevalier de Balibari (Patrick Magee) that he has been sent to spy on him, and deliberately firing into the ground after his stepson has accidentally fired his pistol during their agonisingly tense duel <U+0096> respectively begin and complete his downfall.The film itself is an absolute delight to watch, and my only regret is that I didn't see it on the big screen.   Kubrick composes each establishing shot like a painting, ensuring views of stately homes are viewed across lakes or forests, and framed by overhanging branches or shrubs and bushes to add depth and focus.   He turns the screen into a canvas, an oil painting in motion that overwhelms the senses and makes you want to step into the screen to get a closer look.   The movie was accused of being boring upon its release, but this is the intelligent and melancholic story of a man's life being lovingly told, not some 90 minute crowd-pleaser with the bottom line in mind.   I wasn't bored for a second, and could quite happily have watched on for another three hours.
The film is visually flawless, and its scenic beauty is shaped and manipulated very well by Stanley Kubrick. The plot is of little consequence, a simple rise and fall story which Kubrick tries to add flare and satire too. His attention to symmetry, lighting, and cinematography is impeccable. However it lacks that feeling of bold experimentation and excitement that is found in his more well-known films such as "A Clockwork Orange" and "A Space Odyssey". It is definitely not the most interesting Kubrick film simply because the material was not as strong or moving. Yet the Kubrickan elements found in all his works are portrayed with great effort in "Barry Lyndon". Kubrick works within the genre to make a more unconventional comment on the aristocracy of the times and primal human nature in us all throughout all walks of life. Kubrick uses the actors as mere pawns of their social and natural barriers. It is a period film without significant love interest or much action, a rare thing in the genre. This works to add a twist to the often stuffy and trivial crap that most period films put forward. Kubrick had a greater design for the film as opposed making a by the numbers costume drama. Not his finest but a must for all Kubrick fans and someone interested on a different and interesting take on the genre.


                
Many factors contribute to what makes a good movie. Occasionally, a movie stands out so much in one particular area that it outweighs it's shortcomings in others. Shot-composition, lighting and costume-design combine to make this the most beautiful movie ever made. Many, if not most, scenes could be displayed in art galleries as old masters and no-one would notice. At just over three hours long, the pace rarely seems to drag, because the viewer is so caught up in the mind-boggling beauty being paraded before his/her eyes.From the Thackeray novel of an Irish lad's adventures, rise in society and ultimate demise, Kubrick plays it as a tragi-comedy of manners, which fits well with the narration from the novel and the stagey visuals, but I found myself wishing for better rounded characters: Marisa Berenson should have been a key character, but she is hardly even given a line; Ryan O'Neal is actually rather good, but I'm sure he could have done even better with more script to work with. But characterisation has never been what Kubrick is about anyway, so I guess he was playing to his strengths. A monumental achievement that deserves to be more widely appreciated.


                
One of the most beautiful looking historical feature films Barry Lyndon is one of Stanley Kubrick's lesser known films but even a lesser known film from a director like Kubrick is worth finding to watch. This is a great period piece and contains some great cinematography and overall visuals. Ryan O' Neil stars as the titular character who is an opportunist who fools a high-class woman into marriage thus attaining a position in that society. The pacing is slow- as is the case with every Kubrick film but it keeps you invested. The direction is crisp, and some scenes are so good they look like paintings from the renaissance period. The scenes involving candlelight should bring about goosebumps. This is a period drama you should watch.


                
Barry Lyndon is one of Stanley Kubrick's lesser known films but even a lesser known film from a director like Kubrick is worth finding to watch. This is a great period piece and contains some great cinematography and overall visuals. Ryan O' Neil stars as the titular character who is an opportunist who fools a high-class woman into marriage thus attaining a position in that society. The pacing is slow- as is the case with every Kubrick film but it keeps you invested. The direction is crisp, and some scenes are so good they look like paintings from the renaissance period. The scenes involving candlelight should bring about goosebumps. This is a period drama you should watch.


                
I like long movies with a good story because they pull you in and don't let go until it says THE END. This is time well spent in the world of entertainment. This movie has that quality and the story is unusual with twists of interest along the way. Good acting and directing make this a comfortable watch and viewer is not disappointed going from scene to scene to conclusion. Get used to men wearing power, rouge, false dimples and lace and women being objects of use and status making this viewer say what a strange world to visit with. Yet this world existed and this is one of the many stories to come across. Good movie to eat with while watching with a snack and tasty drink too...Get ready for...


                
Finally, after 42 years of neglect I got to watch Stanley Kubrik´s period masterpiece BARRY LYNDON. It´s a film best watched with a cup of red wine by your side. Although it moves at slow pace action wise, it is never boring. The costumes, the fine details of the era (the 18th century) are stunning to watch even in this age of high tech movie warfare. Still, as visually gorgeaus as this movie is, it is never really engaging. A lot of it, I think, comes from Ryan O'Neil's stiffer-than-a-corpse portrayal of Barry Lyndon. I don't know if his emotionless portrayal was done on purpose or if it's inherent of Mr. O'Neil's acting skills (think Keanu Reeves but much stiffer). BARRY LYNDON would've been much suited for a short mini-series. In that format, BARRY LYNDON's story would've been much more engaging.Humor is very present in a very subtle way, in the narration and in the story itself, yet in never borders on comedy at all. Despite being a 3 hour long movie, BARRY LYNDON goes by pretty quickly without ever being boring. Unlike other Kubrick films, there's little hidden meaning behind BARRY LYNDON with a very straight forward story and an ending that feels rather inclomplete.Still, BARRY LYNDON is a marvel to watch and an overall satisfying Kubrick film, but certainly not his pinnacle.
Possibly the most under appreciated Kubrick film ever made, and one of the greatest tales depicting the 1700's. But whilst it is incredibly grand in its delivery, it is long, and if you manage to get through this in one sitting, you should be awarded. But with that said, it tells a story like no other film has done before and it becomes one of the finest masterpieces ever made.It's not perfect, with its extremely long runtime, somewhat drawn out scenes and it's time difference, it still holds up today for being one big achievement. A Stanley Kubrick gem which unfortunately has been overlooked by many, but if you do get the chance to view this film, take it all in, for you will not regret it.


                
Kubrick's 3-hours epic about ups-and-downs of an Irish young man Redmond Barry (O'Neal) in the eighteenth century, narrated through an even-tempered and quite pleasing voice-over (Hordern), Barry is a farm boy raised by his mother (Kean) after lost his father in a duel, his puppy love with cousin Nora Brady (Hamilton) is curbed when Nora decides to marry Captain John Quin (Rossiter), who is able to pay for family debuts; an ensuing duel with John forces him to run away, but soon he is mugged penniless and joins the British Army and fights in the Seven Year's War (1756-1763), shell-shocked in the savagery of war, he takes French leave and takes on a a new identity, after a lovey-dovey time with a German wife Lischen (Körner), his disguised is exposed by Captain Potzdorf (Krüger), and is forced to join the Prussian Army. Then, things seem to be rosy after Barry shows his bravery and gains the trust of Potzdorf. After the war, he is sent to spy on a gambler Chevalier de Balibari (Magee) who also shares the Irish lineage, for whom he double-crosses Potzdorf and becomes his collaborator in the gamble games, eventually Chevalier brings him back to Britain where he woos the affluent Lady Lyndon (Berenson), and divided by an intermission, now starts the second half of his story - where many tragedies is awaiting for him. A thematic through-line is Barry's single-minded pursuit to be a nobleman, in the first half, his chivalry wins him admiration in the fist combat among soldiers, but in the real war there is no place for nobility, the gallant facade of infantry being used as canon fodder is ludicrous to comprehend, and a tease to the royal formality. So, as an upstart who marries a rich woman whom he barely loves, Barry is not that clever, since he is never cognizant of the simple fact that the snobbish upper class doesn't welcome parvenus, a significant ally should be his wife, if he cares to manifest his devotion and affections. But now his name is Mr. Barry Lyndon, all he needs is a title to secure the wealth for him and their young son Bryan (Morley), yet his philandering predisposition drives Lady Lyndon away and a critical chasm under the roof is between him and Lord Bullingdon (played by Savage and Vitali in different ages), Lady Lyndon's son from a previous marriage, who will bring about his undoing in the future where Barry becomes a miserable failure who eventually falls from the rank of a gentleman.One of the highly acclaimed aspects of this film is the lavish set production and inspiringly beguiling cinematography, the candle-lit scenes in the second half in particular, various tableaux vivants in stunning period costumes, imbues a transcendent beauty which intoxicates Barry and viewers alike, although underneath the finery, lies the stone-hearted defence system of a dying species. Duel is a key element in the film, from the opening one which dispatches Barry's father, to the one with John which kickstarts Barry's wandering adventures until the final one between him and Lord Bullingdon, which engagingly foregrounds Barry's flawed benevolence in sharp contrast with Bullingdon's craven and vengeful nature of an aristocrat. Also, a kind warning to those well-heeded families, don't ever let your young kids ride a horse, this and GONE WITH THE WIND (1939) are two brutal examples.BARRY LYNDON might fall short as a perfect epic because of it casts O'Neal as the lead, at the age of 33, he is mortifying in the opening when he supposes to be no more than a teenager, but thankfully, it transforms smoothly when Barry ages through the journey, but rarely his performance can galvanise the screen in the protracted duration, wanting of charisma debars audience from projecting a certain amount of sympathy to him, which is a dangerous defect for its epic scale. Even more befuddling is Berenson's Lady Lyndon, who only have a few lines altogether and is one-sidedly portrayed as a mistress who has no talent in governing her man, her children and her wealth, suffice to be Kubrick's last nail in the coffin for the doomed royalty. Numerous supporting characters come and go, barely have their scene-stealing moments, bar Leon Vitali's adult Lord Bullingdon, who is brilliant in the duelling part, Murray Melvin as Reverend Runt, whose malicious appearance is the barometer of haughtiness and Marie Kean as Barry's mother, unwittingly eggs him on to his ruin. Another chief accolade should be given to Leonard Rosenman, the music adaptor who won an Oscar for wondrously concatenating Kubrick's favourites classical pieces into the epic length, embellishes the narrative seamlessly and becomes the ballast for a great viewing experience. Winning four Oscars, BARRY LYNDON is notably being the most acknowledged features of Kubrick, but ironically, Kubrick lost all three nominations under his name (BEST PICTURE, BEST DIRECTOR and BEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY). Probably not his best work, but unmistakably, it is an indomitable piece of cinematic wonder, not just for its exquisite etiquette, also an influential fable about breaking the royal orders.


                
It is a shame that Kubrick is only remembered for Eyes Wide Shut, A Clockwork Orange and the Shining to name a few. While more 'die hard' film fans will be more aware of his other films, Barry Lyndon is a fantastic film.From what I know, it is relatively historically accurate. I am not going to be pedantic and study every last detail and then announce 'wait a minute, in the 18th Century a soldier would not have been awarded that medal' because that is not the point. The basics are right, and that is all that is needed. The way in which the armies march forward in lines is entirely correct, and how while individual men are shot down, the rest stay in perfect formation. The battle scenes are certainly a highlight. Purely because of the vivid costumes and the scale, Kubrick really makes a spectacle.The decadence of the society that Lyndon has been able to become a part of is also really emphasised the the costumes, the film won various awards for the quality of the costumes in 1975. The elaborate dresses worn by the women to the tail coats of the men are all so finely detailed, there is always something to be in awe of.The acting is also as good as the costumes. Michael Hordern is flawless in his role as the narrator. Which is a good thing too - considering that the film is well over three hours in length! Horderns clear, yet powerful voice keeps you on the ball with the plot if you struggle with films that are any longer than two hours. Ryan O'Neal, despite being American does not struggle to put on the rugged Irish accent of Barry Lyndon, making the film even more believable.This is truly a marvellous historical drama. Don't expect battle scenes that are comparable to the scenes in Zulu, but watching a film from this period was a breath of fresh air considering that nearly all war films in the seventies and eighties were based on Vietnam!


                
First thing that is patently obvious is that as a visual piece of work the film has few peers, from stunning shots of rolling hills to the lavish period detail, it quite literally is breath taking. The attention to detail by director Stanley Kubrick and cinematographer John Alcott is admirable, whilst the costumes are of the highest order. I have never read the novel by William Makepeace Thackeray so have no frame of reference as regards the portrayals we witness unfolding. I have read that many find the film lacking in the humorous wit that is rife in Thackeray's page turner, yet Kubrick's take is full of satire surrounding the social standing that is the core beat of the story; well it certainly had me smiling anyways.The film is pretty downbeat, thus, for a three hour movie it can bog down many a viewers patience. Which puts this into the movie for mood scenario bracket: because I personally wouldn't want to watch it if I was having a particularly blue day, so that is something newcomers to the film might want to bear in mind. There seems to be much division as regards Ryan O'Neal's performance in the film, and again having not read the novel I couldn't tell you if he nailed it. What I do know is that he seems perfect for the tone of the movie, and that really shouldn't be seen as a negative in my opinion. My only gripe really with the film is that as a story it really doesn't engage me, I really didn't care about what happened to our title character or the assorted people close in his rapidly annoying world. Is that Kubrick's fault? Well he did his job with much style, the story just doesn't warrant a three hour epic, even when it's dressed up as splendidly as this most assuredly is. 8/10


                
Stanley Kubrick's movies can be divided into two categories. On the one hand there are his "originals", films totally unlike anything else, films like "Dr Strangelove", "A Clockwork Orange" and "Eyes Wide Shut". I would also include among these "2001"; although it can nominally be categorised as science-fiction, it is like no other sci-fi movie I have ever seen.On the other hand there are Kubrick's genre pieces, such as "Full Metal Jacket" (war) or "The Shining" (horror), in which he works within the confines of an established genre. In my view the greatest example (although he himself did not care for it much)is "Spartacus", made at a time when Classical epics were highly popular, and perhaps the greatest example of that particular genre ever made. "Barry Lyndon" is another genre piece. Although Kubrick was an American by birth, he spent much of his life in Britain, and the film falls within that typically British genre, the historical costume drama. Like many such films, it is based upon a classic novel, in this case by Thackeray. A number of Kubrick's films fall naturally into two halves. In "Full Metal Jacket", for example, the first part deals with the experiences of the recruits in training and the second with their experiences on the battlefield. In "Lolita" the two acts of the film, before and after the heroine has been seduced by Humbert, correspond to the two parts of Nabokov's novel. "Barry Lyndon" follows a similar structure, with Part I narrating the events prior to the hero's marriage and Part II those following it. The tone of Part I is fairly light-hearted, in the tradition of the picaresque novel. The hero (or anti-hero), at this stage known as Redmond Barry, is the poor relation of an impoverished family of eighteenth-century Irish gentry. He has pretensions to being a gentleman, but lacks the financial means to support those pretensions. He is forced to go on the run after he believes he has killed a man in a duel (although, unknown to him, his victim has survived). He joins the British army, deserts while fighting in the Seven Years War and is conscripted into the Prussian army where he saves his commanding officer's life. After the war he becomes first a spy for the Prussian police and then a professional gambler. Eventually he meets a wealthy titled lady, the Countess of Lyndon, and marries her after the death of her first husband. The tone of Part II is more serious. The change in the hero's status is marked by a change in his name; he takes his wife's surname and uses "Barry" as his Christian name, seemingly dropping "Redmond" altogether. There is also a change in his character; in Part I he comes across as a likable rogue, but in Part II we see a darker side to his character. Although Barry has now achieved the wealth he once dreamt of, he is unable to manage the Countess's estates and is soon in financial difficulties. He quarrels with Lord Bullingdon, the Countess's son from her first marriage, who resents his mother's remarriage to a man he sees as an unscrupulous adventurer. Bullingdon is basically a cowardly young man, but eventually his loathing of his stepfather becomes stronger than his cowardice and he challenges Barry to a duel. This duel comes as the climax to the film and can be interpreted in two ways. Barry refuses to fire at his stepson and fires his pistol into the ground, but his motive for so doing is unclear. It could be that he is motivated by pity for the young man, in which case this can be seen as his redemption scene, in which he redeems himself by a noble, selfless act. On the other hand, it could be that he remains as calculating as ever and, knowing that if he kills, or even injures, Bullingdon, this will lead to a rupture with his wife, makes his gesture in the expectation that his opponent will reciprocate. Ryan O'Neal, who never brings to the part quite the necessary swagger or roguishness, was perhaps not the ideal choice for the hero, although Kubrick seems to have been handicapped by his financial backers who insisted on a big-name American star. I am not, however, sure that his first choice Robert Redford, who turned the role down, would have been ideal either. As he was to prove a few years later in "Out of Africa", foreign accents are not Redford's forte; at least O'Neal makes a game attempt at an Irish accent. There are, however, some good performances in supporting roles. One criticism sometimes made of the "costume drama" genre is that it is too static, that it involves too many polite conversations in elegant drawing-rooms and not enough physical action. This is not a criticism which could be made of "Barry Lyndon", which not only incorporates three duels but also battle scenes and the tragic death of Barry's young son Brian in a riding accident. It runs for over three hours, but it is so well-paced that one does not notice its length. Like many films in this particular genre its reconstruction of period detail means that it is beautiful to look at, perhaps the most visually sumptuous of all Kubrick's films. Effective use is also made of music, especially that Schubert piano trio which was also to feature in Tony Scott's "The Hunger". Its use in "Barry Lyndon" is, of course, anachronistic as it was composed several decades after the events portrayed, but it nevertheless complements the mood of the film. This is not, perhaps, the director's greatest film, but to say that is no criticism, as he was responsible for a number of masterpieces. It is certainly a very good one, and I would rank it in the top few costume dramas ever made. 8/10
'Barry Lyndon' is one of Stanley Kubrick's non-talked about films. That's not a big surprise in the slightest because 'Barry Lyndon' doesn't really break ground or re-invent the wheel really like Kubrick's other efforts like 'A Clockwork Orange', 'Dr. Strangelove' or '2001: A Space Odyssey'. That isn't to say it's a bad movie, it's actually a great film! 'Barry Lyndon' might just be one of the best period pieces of all time, and since the legendary genius Stanley Kubrick was behind it, does it really surprise you? It's lavish and extravagant beauty will impress you even if the story gets a tiny bit dull at points. Kubrick achieves making another great movie with his beautiful and uncompromising portrait of the British Seven Years War era, 'Barry Lyndon', based on William Makepeace Thackeray's beloved novel.'Barry Lyndon' is the story of a bright young Irish lad named Redmond Barry (Ryan O'Neal). He's a sly, slick and smooth conman who screws and kills his way to the top. When he leaves his home in Ireland after dueling with his cousin and love interest's (Marie Kean) fiancé, Captain John Quin (Leonard Rossiter), he gets robbed by a famous highwayman, Captain Feeny (Arthur O'Sullivan) and is forced to join the British army for money. During a y battle, Redmond, the common opportunist, deserts his army after the of his dear friend Captatin Grogan (Godfrey Quigley), steals a Lieutenant's horse, and takes his identity. Just when Redmond thinks he is safe, he is caught by a Prussian Captain (Hardy Kruger) and forced to join the Prussian army as a private. Redmond later saves a Prussian general and gets promoted to Corporal. He then is ordered by Lord Ludd (Steven Berkoff) to spy on a sneaky French Chevalier (Patrick Magee) and tell the Lord the Chevalier's secrets and plans. Redmond has other ideas, and decides to side with the Chevalier but pretend to still be working for Ludd and give him useless information. The Chevalier takes Redmond under his wing, teaching him everything including how to cheat in gambling. During Redmond's adventures with the Chevalier he meets the captivating and beautiful Lady Lyndon (Marisa Berenson) who's married to the rich and powerful Sir Charles Reginald Lyndon (Frank Middlemass). The greedy Redmond decides to take full advantage of the opportunity of Sir Lyndon and marrying his wife for money. Barry succeeds, and the story from there captures Sir Redmond Barry Lyndon's downfall. The film also stars Gay Hamilton, Philip Stone, Murray Melvin, Andre Morell and Leon Vitali as Lady Lyndon's vengeful but weak son.Stanley Kubrick does a fantastic job with William Makepeace Thackeray's legendary tale of the sly Irish rogue, Barry Lyndon, who is ultimately consumed by his own greed. Kubrick's sense of direction in this is nothing short of breathtaking, his use of vibrant and alluring colors always keep 'Barry Lyndon' interesting when the story sometimes lags during it's three hour and four minute runtime. Kubrick's script is superb as to be expected from any of his motion pictures, and I can't imagine any writer that could have done a better job adapting Thackeray's novel to the film medium. In 'Barry Lyndon', the acting is one of the finest qualities. Ryan O'Neal gives his finest performance ever as the sneaky fortune-hunter. O'Neal really makes you understand the logic of Redmond Barry Lyndon, and why he does what he does. The supporting cast highlights are Patrick Magee, Godfrey Quigley, Murray Melvin, Arthur O'Sullivan, Leonard Rossiter, Gay Hamilton, Frank Middlemass and Leon Vitali who plays his role of the tragic and clumsy sissy to utter perfection. Marisa Berenson is very so-so in a particularly bland part, but besides her everyone else does an acceptable job. The costumes, set, makeup, cinematography and music score of 'Barry Lyndon' are without a doubt incredible, but like I made reference to before, the story drags towards the middle. You really have to be dedicated to watching 'Barry Lyndon' because if you're not you may just fall asleep during the plot slouches. Otherwise, 'Barry Lyndon' is near-brilliant.I recommend 'Barry Lyndon' to period piece fans and Kubrick fans who have not yet seen it already. Grade: B+MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #247


                
We witness an irish/european story from the 18th century unfolding, accompanied by great classical fitting music and a narrator delivering us background information and summarising.
The atmosphere doesn't feel too serious at times and the story keeps on giving, so you can very well watch it in spite of it's length.


                
I had never seen this 1975 movie until now, as part of the 9-movie Kubrick DVD set recently released. It was made about 5 years after Ryan O'Neal achieved fame in "Love Story". It is a long movie, even by Kubrick standards, right at 3 hours, originally with an intermission. With narration throughout the movie, it is more like having the book read to you, with visual images and sufficient dialog added. And at the beginning we are told Redmond Barry will become Barry Lyndon, so as the movie unfolds I found myself watching and wondering when and how.Overall I found I very enjoyable. It is mostly a serious subject but done with much humor and whimsy.The story is set in the 18th century, and includes the Seven Years' War years of 1756 through 1763. It ends in 1789. The star is Ryan O'Neal as Irish teenager Redmond Barry, probably in the early 1750s, when his dad died in a duel. Young Redmond unfortunately was infatuated with his slightly older cousin and, to keep her from marrying an English officer, challenged the man to a duel with pistols. Redmond apparently killed the officer and, for his protection was given a horse and some money and told to disappear to Dublin. Only much later did he find out it was a ruse, his pistol did not have a lead ball, and the officer lived and married his cousin.But all of this set Redmond onto a whole new trajectory, becoming enlisted in the British army to fight France, then as a deserter became part of the Prussian army. All the while learning the ways of the world. Unfortunately he learned to survive by trickery and gambling.As he grew older he had few options for leading a successful life but became attracted to the young wife of an older, crippled nobleman. When he died, Redmond married the Lady Lyndon and he took the name Barry Lyndon. This never set well with the son of the deceased man, something which would eventually cause Barry his own demise.
Full confession: I have not read the William Makepeace Thackaray novel from which this movie was adapted, so I have no way to tell how true to the source material Kubrick made his film. Watching the film on its own, without any knowledge of the manner the characters were constructed or themes Thackaray tried to convey in his original novel, I regard it a solid effort. While Kubrick's body of film work is small yet memorable, I haven't seen all of his movies, but of those few that I have seen, "Barry Lyndon" seems like one of his better works. The film is an engaging and entertaining character study of an Irish rake who, through guile and luck, rises from a point of low social standing to become one of the members of the English aristocracy, only to fall again through his prodigal nature. Some critics have felt that Ryan O'Neal played the role of Redmond Barry (later titled Barry Lyndon after he married an aristocratic widow) in an uninspired and emotionless way. I disagree: O'Neal was certainly not effusive with his emotions, but neither was he dull or lifeless. He played the role credibly: Barry is more a subtle schemer than a demonstrative dandy. His background as an Irish farm boy who lived by his wits rather than his charm or book-smarts makes his understated character very believable; Barry is the "strong silent type" who will use guile to get what he wants, or, should that fail, his fists. The movie did not seem overlong; it is more a character study than a plot-driven drama. The movie is like a slow-moving stream that takes its time to explore every twist and turn in the reprobate Barry's life. It is fun to watch how Barry lifts himself up to a life of fortune, then lose it again. The film makes it easy to determine the character arc by dividing the story into two parts (and title cards explicitly describe the arc): part one is on Barry's rise to the top of the gentry, part two is on his fall. It is engaging to follow along, and is seldom dull or plodding. While O'Neal makes a positive impression as the protagonists, the other characters are fun to watch, too. The antagonist of the second half, Lord Bullingdon, is a great contrast to Barry: bitter, emotional, and quick to act in a clumsy or demonstrative manner. His hatred for Barry is easy to understand, and no doubt will gain some sympathy from the audience, though this sympathy is tempered a great deal by Bullingdon's dandyish, dull-witted and vindictive demeanor. Less interesting is the character of Lady Lyndon. She says almost nothing in the movie, and merely reacts to situations in a passive manner. Her character is dull and uninteresting. Lady Lyndon would have been more interesting if she spoke more often to either Barry or Bullingdon, and there was some visible anger or conflict towards either for their disgraceful behavior.With "Barry Lyndon", there is no doubt that Kubrick could make a beautifully-crafted yet subtly engaging character study that was just as good--if not better---than his shocking satires, like "Dr. Strangelove" or "A Clockwork Orange". I understand some may balk at the apparently pat morality expressed in the movie--which seems like nothing more than a film version of "A Rake's Progress". Nevertheless, Kubrick has crafted a wonderful three-dimensional character in Redmond Barry, and watching his triumphs and failures are entertaining to watch, even if the protagonist is himself ultimately unsympathetic. Kubrick also proved that he had an eye for detail when making a period piece. The sets and costumes beautifully evoke the decadence of eighteenth century Europe. In all, "Barry Lyndon" lives on as an unsung masterpiece by Kubrick, and it deserves a reputation far better than has currently.
Kubrick : The camera, photography, cinematography, soundtrack,...he has an eye for perfection. There are movies that ask to be seen...and i have that only with Kubrick. Kubrick began as a photographer, and that you can see in all his movies. In this movie he use special lenses from the Nasa. And that just to create the right atmosphere of that time. It is the only one who directed various genres...and all masterpieces !!! A pleasure to watch - there are no words for. Deserved four Academy Awards for this film. This movie is an example for many other directors. Not everyone has the same taste, but this has nothing to do with taste...nobody could shoot a picture better in history!!


                
48. BARRY LYNDON. adventure-drama, 1975: Ambitious but naive, Barry (RyanO'Neil) is determined to gain a higher place in 17th-century European society. However, his hot-tempered manner gets him into trouble early in life when a loveless romance ends in tragedy. Forced to flee his home, he enlists in the British army. Deserting, he finds success with a shrewd cardsharper that takes him under his wing. At last, having dispelled the notions of love and mastering the disguise of a 'gentleman', he courts the Countess of Lyndon (Marisa Berenson). They marry and he inherits her vast wealth, along with great troubles.Critique: Stanley Kubrik's overlong, ambitious epic stopped a run of critical and commercial hits (that started with 'The Killing'(1956). Kubrik's forte has always rested on his thematic storytelling and eccentric camera-work. Though intricately plotted and lavishly produced, the film suffers from these same excesses. The first 'part' of the film is a complete bore, without any of Kubrik's wit and imagination. However, it is considerably lifted when the lovely Marisa Berenson appears as the Countess of Lyndon. Her courting scene is one of the most hypnotic, expertly filmed sequences in cinema history. The rest of the performances are adequate at best, and Kubrik's vision is still wonderful to watch. The music (as in every Kubrik film) is beautifully resonant. The film's slow pace and artistic excesses by Kubrick, makes it not for all tastes.QUOTES: Narrator: "The doctors were called. But what does a doctor avail in the contest with the grim, Invincible enemy."


                
