I'm going to go straight to the point, and say this is the most hilarious show I've ever seen. Michael's idiocy, and Jim's pranks on Dwight,and even Stanley's grumpiness is even hilarious! The show not only makes you laugh, there are some heartwarming moments, and there are some moments where you didn't see coming. And you know another way how 'The Office' is an fantastic show? The show was still good when Michael left! An huge part of The Office left, and it still was great! I've seen the ending of the office, and both times cried (And proudly so), because during the show, you fall in love with the characters, you relate to them. Basically, what I'm trying to say is, it's worth the 21 minutes.
For the past several months since I dropped my cable company and picked up Netflix I've been watching The Office. Practically everyday after work and after finishing what needed to be done I'd watch several episodes and have done so from start to finish. I have been captivated by every character and to watch their personalities develop I almost had to ask myself if this was really a TV series or a real documentary. Even though the characters were slightly dramatized, I had coworkers or friends that had similar traits to 'almost' all of them so that made it even more personal. Having just watched the last episode I was surprised on how sad I became to not be able to come home and see what new adventures the office was going to go through. The show was very captivating and really pulled you into their lives. I think the people that don't like the show probably didn't start from the beginning and only watched several episodes because, to be honest, after the first several episodes of the 1st season I was going to stop watching it but I'm glad I didn't.Having watched a 9 year 'documentary' in several months really puts a perspective on life and just how short it is. Watching the last episode and seeing everyone's reaction to seeing each other again really hit home, and how you should appreciate the time you have because it goes by so fast. You could even see how the characters aged slightly over the years although the makeup probably made it seem less than it really was I would think.In the end, I'm really glad I took the time to watch the series in its entirety...between the bouncing relationships, clever/brilliant pranks, it was all very enjoyable :)
I'm from Scotland and loved the British "Office". But I adore the American version! Steve Carell leads a great cast and I'm not surprised it has lasted so long. I'm working my way through Series 3 and have series 4 and 5 to look forward to. It's amazing how much the writers can get into 20 minutes. I like it when there is a double episode. I too am so glad there is no laughter track (which has stopped me watching quite a few comedy shows). I have noticed in this third series that the camera can be very annoying when it whizzes from character to character - far too quickly. Completely unnecessary. Steve's "Michael" conveys so much about the character - he's full of himself but so vulnerable and anxious for friends. Rainn Wilson's "Dwight" is just brilliant. And I love the company name - "Dunder Mifflin"!


                
I do not have a single negative thing to say about The Office. It is by far my favorite show. I eagerly await a new episode every week.All the unique characters have depth and are well developed.As to all the people who don't like it because its based on the U.K. version, get over it. It has been taken to a completely different level. The characters in a spin off are not supposed to stay the exact same, otherwise a spin off would be pointless.The characters are constantly evolving, and they are never constantly the protagonist or antagonist, so they are all at some point endearing. The characters are wonderfully bizarre yet real.If you don't find this show funny, then you need to get a funny bone. Writers, keep em coming.


                
This show really is outstanding, in fact its the only show i think i can rate as a 10. From watching the original uk series back in 2001 on bbc TV, i never thought an American remake would stand any ground whatsoever. When the first series aired in the uk it did'nt really make its mark, and unfortunately never caught on. I was disappointed when it disappeared from our screens, and then quickly forgot about it. I thought it had 1 series and crashed and burned. Then one day i was checking out the reviews for evan almighty on IMDb and noticed that steve carel had still been making this show. I had to get hold of it and see it, And to my joy there was 5 series waiting for me. I never get into TV like i have done with this, i ended up watching 10 episodes in a day, i think i did all 5 series in just under 2 weeks. This show is funny, its acted brilliantly, its over the top, totally crazy but totally entertaining. If your ever down just bung on a couple episodes from good old dunder miflin in scranton and you cant go wrong. Gervais said that 2 series of the office in the uk was enough. And that he did'nt want to take it further. I know he helps on the US version, and i sure he is surprised to see 6 series already of what i can only describe as the best American sitcom of all time!!


                
Honestly, I thought show as 'boring' even before I watched a single episode. Seriously, what interesting could happen in an office environment? I remember first scene I saw from this show. It was from an internet wallpaper with Michael Scott with a white board behind him saying "You miss 100% of the shots you don't take".Then after years from that, I somehow started watching "The Office", I don't really remember why I did that. What I love most about this show is it's raw nature. The camera is kind of shaky yet still brings the best scenes...something that I had never seen before in a TV sitcom. It may seem less professional but adds real life, personal touch with the TV show and the characters in them.Obviously, Michael Scott is one of my favourite character. Jim, Andy, Dwight, Pam, Erin, Kevin, Oscar, Angela, Creed and even the camera crew include in my favourite list.What I learned from this show is that it's okay to be weird and different ,that you won't be welcomed as you wanted it to be ( remembering Michael Scott attempts ), that you can't wait and expect things to happen for you, that it's okay to be hated and feel hate to others....it's all dependent on time. People change, feelings change, situations change. All you got to do is be yourself and be true to your heart and everything will fall into it's place.I love every minute I spent on this show <3


                
I watched the British version of The Office and became a fan - as almost everyone. So I decided to see if the American version was as good as the original. A doubt feeling emerged at the first episode, since I still was with the original - and awesome - characters in mind. They were not just funny, but peculiar, inimitable. I didn't let this impression ruin my experience, though. Gladly. The American version is obviously inspired in the British version, but they are not the same. Simple like this. The American characters are not mere counterparts of David, Tim, Gareth, Dawn... They are hole new versions of the kind of people we can easily find in any office. And equally inspired versions of these workers. Since I've lost several episodes when they aired for the first time, I'm now at the third season, and I will surely see all the episodes through the end. More than one time...


                
Wow...I know I am probably quite late to this show..but really WOW...First of all bravo to this wonderfully written and amazingly talented cast. I just finished watching the last season and and I am longing for more. Initially I kept away from this series watching the first season, somehow was not in favor for its recording style, what they call it as the mockumentary. But few weeks back running out of good shows to watch, I thought may be I should give it an another chance. And so GLAD I DID.. Am absolutely in love with this series, the characters, the writing, its a wholesome pack, especially the character played by Steve Carell - Michael Scott, man he is a pure genius. Steve Carell can take the scene from funny to palm face to pity in matter of seconds, he was like an emotional wheel.Also the characters PAM, Jim, Dwight and Andy played respectively by Jenna Fischer,John Krasinski, Rainn Wilson and Ed Helms were the life of the show, even after Steve Carell left they managed to keep the show lifted and to its standard.I am so glad I never saw the original UK series and now probably I would never end up watching it, for the pure reason of not to end judging either of the shows.I think the two most emotional and heart touching moments were the one where Michael says goodbye and the second being the finale.If I had to rate the top three episodes they would be:1) Good bye Michael. Well this episode will make u leave a river of tears. What a well written episode,and a perfect way to say good bye to Steve Carell and his character Michael Scott.2)Finale: Again wonderfully written, played with our emotions and brought all the memories of the shoe back.3)Business school: I rate this episode merely for the scene at the art gallery where PAM was about to leave with her paintings and Micheal comes and appreciates her and her paintings for how good they were. I think that was an amazing Scene.
I only started seeing this series on this year and i'm on the 6th season already. on the first season i couldn't understand how this could be a good series, the actors were charismatic and the acting were very good but there was almost no story that i could follow and Michael seemed like a very hateable person. on the second season things started to pick up a bit but nothing so special. from the third season to the sixth i got completely hooked because after all there is a story to follow, a very interesting one, and Michael is in fact a genius and that is more evident on the fifth and sixth seasons. if someone believes that Michael does something that goes against the objectives that he has inside the company (even if a lot of times it seems that he does), i'm sure that that person isn't really understanding what's the main philosophy behind Michael's character. it took me 3 seasons to understand Michael Scott and it was because of that, that i didn't liked the series very much, after that, i loved it, and it's my favorite series now. When you do understand all the characters, besides being very entertaining and delightful to watch, it is going to blow your mind sometimes.


                
Stop with the nonsense. This show is hilarious. If they used the same cast or facsimiles of them, it wouldn't be a remake. It would be the British version. I've seen both versions, and each has its own charm, style, and tense scenarios. Ricky Gervais, who created the series, is a co-producer and writes some episodes, which is ironic considering he took the biggest part in the first, three episodes (to get it off its feet) and they have been trashed the most.It's clear that Steve C. (I don't want to butcher the spelling of his last name) either took tips from Ricky Gervais or studied his performance. They even readjust their tie the same way. Albeit, the first two seasons were a little weak as the show gained steam and attempted to match its predecessor, but that's no reason to shrug it off. From the third season onward, the "American" Office has come into its own with story lines that introduced new characters and shook the formula of a nerdy boy awkwardly pining for a pretty girl.Every fan should be happy to have new episodes of a great show that would otherwise be off the air. For a true fan of the Office that should be enough, but since it's labeled "American" some immediately set out to find the wrong. Cheers to the people that were capable of giving the remake a chance and didn't base their opinion on what country it's filmed in. All I ask of those whom originally ripped the "American" version is to go online and watch the seasons with Ed Helms as Andy, a kiss-ass with anger management issues. The feud with Dwight and he (once the branches merge) has become my favorite storyline of the show, culminating in a duel. It's classic.


                
This is not just a funny TV show, it's my favorite TV show. Steve Carell is awesome and super funny, Rainn Wilson too, Jonh Krasinsky is very good as an actor and Jenna Fisher has a very interesting character. If you watch just an episode, you might think the show is a bit boring, but if you watch five more episodes, you're going to love it, that's was exactly what happened to me, in every episode there's always something amazing, someone's birthday, a romance, a problem to be fixed but there is no episode that I don't laugh about something, this TV show is a fake documentary, what makes the show even more funny. There's a lot of good actors in this show and all the episodes are funny and entertaining, this is definitely my favorite TV show and by the way, watch Dwight (Rainn Wilson) fake crying in the episode that Jim (Jonh Krasinski) leaves.
With so many jobs taking place in office buildings, this television series that is based on the Ricky Gervais created BBC series, takes aim at that and other aspects of the modern American workplace. Steve Carrell leads a large cast of talented actors that succeed in creating a smart, silly comedy that works.Carrell is Michael Scott, the dim-witted boss of paper company Dunder Mifflin's Scranton, Pennsylvania branch. Rainn Wilson is Scott's odd second in command Dwight Shrute, a man who prides himself on knowledge of survival techniques and bears. Jim Krasinski is Jim Halpert, a salesman who has a crush on Pam(Jenna Schafer), the receptionist. These are only a few of the major characters in the ongoing, hilarious saga of Scranton at work.Several story lines can take place in the course of a single episode, giving the show more chances at laughs. In one episode, for example, there are conflicts between members of the Party Planning Committee, Michael's usual antics of procrastination, and the secrets of two characters's affair. These just make the show more original than ones that have a single narrative.Funny and intelligent, The Office is one brilliant spoof you should not miss.


                
I haven't seen the British show upon which this is based, so I'm daring to judge this show by its own merits.Boy, do I like it. This is the best mockumentary comedy since The Larry Sanders Show. Steve Carell is fantastic, and everything is wonderfully underplayed. I just worry that the show is too intelligent for American audiences, and won't last long as a result.I'm hoping the network will foster this one like Fox has with Arrested Development, pushing it where it can, not expecting big audiences right off the bat, and allowing it to grow. I doubt if the show will grow beyond a cult hit, but hopefully that will be enough to keep it on the air for at least a few years.


                
Usually I don't feel compelled to comment on these things but I just had to say that most of the people I saw who left negative comments on this show only watched ONE episode! The first episode wasn't my favorite. But you become attached to the characters so quickly! It is hard to say that Michael is just an idiot, he has so much heart and just wants to be loved. I don't care what anyone says, Dwight is hilarious. And the show can be so easy to relate to sometimes. Don't tell me you have never had your Jim or your Pam. I mean, there are so many human moments that sometimes it leaves me feeling emotional (though they are rarer). And it definitely has its uncomfortable moments (especially when Toby starts to get creepy). There is so much good to this show, and it is so unlike so many of the terrible shows out there. I can understand loyalty, and I know America and Britain are different countries. But if you get past the FIRST episode and really give it a chance, there is a lot to love here! I have never seen the original Office, and I intend to watch it someday. And I promise I will keep an open mind.
You cant compare UK version with US version. they are completely different. If you liked the UK Office it doesn't mean you will like the US show. The first season of US version can be compared to the English version because they were trying to use the same formula, but they couldn't do it well enough. From season 2 they reinvented the whole thing and did a completely new show, totally different from the original.So if you like season 2 of US Office you will like all following seasons just the same. My favorite season is the fourth but that doesn't mean the others are not as good.


                
When i watched the first series i was not sure what to expect because i thought : what can happen in an office , and won't it be boring after the first few episodes ?? Boy, was i wrong !!!!! I've just finished watching series 5 and this is one of the only shows where i laugh out loud with every episode that i watch ; and that means a lot to me at this very day what with most of the shows i watch i can't do better than a silent grin. In Fact this and Friends are the only shows that i can rate the almighty 10, because of course a show can never be flawless ,but with that in mind they deserve the highest score i can give them.


                
Series "Office" not only for those who have an idiot boss , it is for all those who have a shred of sense of humor. I watched the first season on the first channel in the " City Slickers " and immediately fell in love with this series . Who is now in its seventh season, and all series is also good . Even all the friends that I showed small fragments or individual series , infected.The series " Office " tells the story of an office worker who is a subsidiary of «Dunder Mifflin» selling paper. More details about their professional activities, can be heard from the lips of one of the employees , Jim Helperta :" My work - talk to customers on the phone to discuss the number and uh brand copier paper , can we put it to them and whether they can pay for it and uh ... I'm about to say even boring ." I think this quote will be close to many office workers perform boring every day the same monotonous operations . I thought no fun in it, but the creators of the series "Office" prove quite the opposite . They were able to take a series about perfectly ordinary , unremarkable work so brightly funny and realistically , that the stereotype of the boring work in the office , immediately destroyed.Each episode is only 20 minutes , but trust me , in this short time , have time to laugh so much that cheeks hurt. And you can laugh at the jokes , not only , but also on the facial expressions of the actors , their facial expressions, because it is just awesome ! I still wonder how it was possible to collect as many talented actors . Steve Carrel course incomparable , he heart of this series, but there are other actors who have become a discovery for me . This is Ryan Wilson , John Krasinski , Jenna Fischer, and many others.It is important to note that this series is not just frivolous , entertaining show here , as they say , there is something to think about . Often talk about friendship, love , rivalry , betrayal, jealousy , loneliness, and other human concerns. Thus , the series sometimes flows smoothly from comedy to drama, and it is done very skillfully.Characters of the series - is a topic for a separate review. They are all very different, but each in its own charming and funny. And absolutely everyone has their own unique quirk . And yet , I will highlight Dwight Schrute , one only its appearance already raises a smile , but what about when he's all rubbish and begins to weave .In short, a great series of all time. Must see , will not regret . And perhaps you're like me you want, at any cost , to work in «Dunder Mifflin»!10 out of 10Dwight Jim about work :He stopped working for a second. At 12:45 he sneezed with your eyes open . And I always thought that this is impossible ! At 1:32 he peed . How do I know ? He did it under the table in an empty bottle , fill until the expense report. At the same time I was so busy watching them that have not yet started working . Tiring to be so vigilant. Perhaps go home early.
Honestly, I never thought I would say that... about anything. It is though. I went to London on vacation, and I watched an entire season of the original show. It was funny, but I really did not like it that much. I thought it would be so much better, but it wasn't. All of the characters annoyed me to no end. With this version of The Office, I honestly cannot get enough of each character. I feel at home when I watch it, and all of the characters each have a unique place in my mind.I am not dissing the original, because it's good. In my opinion, this version is so much better though. Before you judge this show though, watch a couple of episodes. Many people just watch one episode and write obnoxious comments on it. That is so retarded.At least watch more than one episode. I watched an entire season of the British one before I judged it.


                
Do they think that Americans can't understand English accents? Evidently. So they attempt a carbon copy but miss all of the funny bits, make horrid casting decisions, and manage to present such a lifeless, tepid, and flat shadow of the original that I couldn't even finish watching the opening episode. Given that no British sitcom has ever been successfully adapted to an American version, you think they would have figured it out by now. I guess it makes sense that the US media is giving it good reviews already. After all, we live in a society that chose to re-elect our current president. Go figure. At any rate, watch the original. I trust that you will be able to understand the language if you can read this!


                
The Office is probably the best show of all time. It almost feels like you know the characters, and love them all. I almost cried in the finale and when Pam and Jim got married. This is by far the best show I have seen and I recommend it for everyone who has a heart and knows what it is to be human. The emotions you experience are powerful and you laugh every episode.A flat out 10/10
As a Brit and a massive fan of the British version of The Office, I was very apprehensive about watching the US version. After watching it in its entirety, I can now say how much of an idiot I was, to be so sceptical. The Office is just fantastic! The casting, the dialogue, the script, the character development... I cannot fault any of it! Best of all it had me in stitches! I loved every single episode and even cried a few times along the way. It's just brilliant. Even though I didn't want to series to end and will miss not watching any further Office shenanigans, I think it was the right time for it to finish. I would definitely recommend this to any apprehensive Brits out there! You don't know what you're missing!!!!


                
Meet Michael Scott!! He is a guy with an IQ of 9000, he has a few minutes to kill, so he masters the art of managerial finesse, this means for better or for worse!! Michael Scott is capriciously impervious to the tenets of political correctness because that is his way of breaking up the ideological monotony for a little while. He takes pleasure in the fact that he is an expert at harboring a flaunting defiance towards professional decorum! As a matter of fact, dishing out spoon fed condescension seems to be one of Michael Scott's favorite hobbies!! Michael Scott is very impressed with himself!! He is so impressed with himself, that when he sees a bunch of other people having an intriguing conversation, he assumes that they are talking about him!! He's right isn't he? Of course, he's right!! (ha ha!!) Even using only half of his mental facilities, Michael is thoroughly capable of intellectually inundating a dozen people at a time with a single sentence!! Michael can't begin to fathom how the world would revolve without his presence, and after he gets finished talking about himself, he is going to need to use a towel!! The television show "The Office" has realistically exaggerated the profile of an executive manager! Everyone who watches this show can identify with this corporate stereotype very thoroughly and completely!! (that stereotype being one which depicts a person who is an extremely conceited jerk that everybody has to listen to). The setting is very banal and unassuming, it is set in the town of Scranton, Pennsylvania. All of the office workers are utterly bored, and are afflicted by their own lives, or, shall I say, lack of them!! Their proclivities include, eating really poorly, telling lousy jokes, taking their latent aggression out on everyone else, and, not talking in complete sentences These office employees exemplify the phrase "A little knowledge is worse than no knowledge at all". Their lackluster anonymity is the insidious scapegoat which has cultivated an existing purgatory for all of their quasi white collar hang ups to proliferate. They loathe Michael Scott, and the biggest problem with this is that they cannot afford to do otherwise!! When Michael Scott gets wacko, the most irksome part of this whole fiasco is that he is ramming his superior business acumen down all of the other office worker's throats!! The best characteristic to this whole show is it's identifiability with the day to day dealings of an inane, American, mecca for mediocrity office complex!! "The Office" is a covertly flippant comedy show which is very intense!! It can be intensely funny, unfortunately, there are times when it can be intensely stupid as well! Perhaps,a lot of the stupidity in this show is through masquerading a lot of stilted theatrics which are done deliberately!! Steve Carell is the best part of the show, his role as Michael Scott, the boss, is spectacular!! Without him, there really is no show, that is my opinion anyway!! "The Office" is similar to "Cheers" in that it has an introductory snippet which is not germane to the rest of the episode's plot. I have just recently started to watch "The Office" on prime time, cable, reruns, DVD packs, etc, etc, and so on, and so forth!! NBC is once again, head and shoulders above the other two major networks for effectively funny programming! "The Office" is a definite winner in the NBC Thursday night lineup!! A precariously clever aspect to "The Office" is that the series' incongruity winds up establishing a bittersweet and whimsical cohesiveness which makes the show vividly spark with a pejorative exuberance!! I will be watching "The Office" more and more often, on one channel or another, in the very near future. Basically, this is an excellent show!! Think about it this way, after watching an episode of "The Office" I do not mind it that much that I am unemployed!!


                
The current state of the sitcom is awful. Canned laugh tracks, clichéd story line after clichéd story line. "The Office" isn't exactly 100% original (it's based not-so-loosely on a British show of the same name), and has thus been harshly criticized, but taken for what it is, it's so much better than what's out there. At least on American network television.This show is actually funny. I like the atmosphere of the work place and Steve does a great job portraying a complete idiot who is also simultaneously lovable.It reminds me a bit of the animated show "Home Movies," in which similar "awkward" situations and underplayed (to great effect) humor took place.And since all of the episodes (the few there are) after the first are more or less original, why not just give it a chance and take it for what it is? In my opinion, we need more shows out there like this. I wouldn't be surprised if it doesn't come back after the initial six episodes. After this and "Arrested Development," what's left?


                
I watched Apprentice and then this came on. It sounded like it was going to be amazing, but I must say I was left disappointed. I didn't find the main dude very interesting or funny. Just seemed like cheesy humor. I also found the humor a little dry and boring. Maybe if I had an office job I would enjoy the humor, but I just found it kind of boring and unengaged. I know its obvious I'm stretching for ten lines, but in all honesty, I don't really have much more to say than what I've already said. I give it 4/10 overall...Any other opinions? I realize I don't always seem to go with the flow, but hey thats whats great about discussion. -WhatsGoingDown


                
When I first heard about this show, a "remake" of a British comedy, I thought it was going to be lame. I hadn't seen the original, but the very thought of "Americanizing" a British TV show for stateside audiences sounded ridiculous. Then I actually saw the show and was hooked from the start--I don't believe there is anywhere else on TV where the uncomfortable, dead-on, dry comedy of The Office is available, and I end up laughing out loud at every episode. The characters and situations are pretty flawlessly put together, and I have and would recommend it to anyone.Just for the record, after enjoying the American Office so much, I did see the original British Office as well. I think that, although the pilot episodes for each are basically identical, the American version evolved in a rather different direction. I really enjoyed the more bawdy, dark edge of the British Office, but the American version is just an entirely different show, especially as it got into its second season. Both versions are worth a watch.


                
