I mean really. What's with NBC shows and the ShakyCam? Do they think they're going to get big audiences by making their audience want to go to the bathroom to part with their dinner? And never mind that shaking the camera constantly is completely meaningless and adds absolutely, nothing, zilch, nada to the interest of the story. Rather, it detracts from it to the point where it becomes just plainly unwatchable.Why does NBC think it has failed to attract an audience after spending millions launching, re-launching, re-re-launching and buying awards to this pale excuse for a sitcom.It makes you long for boringly filmed sitcoms with a stationary camera. At least you could pay attention to the jokes.
Just watched the pilot (or was it the first episode?), called 'Diversity' or similar. Straight off I'm going to say this is a total failure. I am a big fan of the original series (and yes I am British) but watched the US version with an open mind, trying not to compare it.But it is terrible. The characters are wooden, cut out caricatures of their British counterparts...and unfunny ones at that. Both Brian Baumgartner (Kevin) and Steve Carell (Michael Scott) bring the show down almost from the outset. The character of Kevin looks like he was written under the same analogy as above....copy Keith but make him even 'funnier' (i.e. make him even more gormless). And it doesn't work.The editing is almost non-existent with inappropriate cuts and the look of the whole thing is just a failure...like someone said, it is meant to be filmed in the style of a documentary but it just looks like a low budget film school project.The only glimmer of success I can see comes from Gervais (the absolute genius behind the original) and Greg Daniels whose jokes, although very similar to the original, still offer a few new laughs.My biggest complaint though is against the acting and the line delivery. The jokes themselves are funny, but the way they are delivered (badly) takes the edge off it all. In one particular scene, Carell's character steps over the line to demonstrate how to insult someone and verbally abuses an Indian woman. Although this sounds harsh, if Gervais had delivered the line it would have been spot on and hilarious in a dead pan way. However Carell's delivery of the joke was a shambles and to be honest, came across as racist and not remotely funny.Please NBC, don't put this on the American public anymore.
As if you needed any more proof after the laughable Emmy given last year to Arrested Development, this year, the Emmy people chose to give their "coveted" prize to the new endorser of the bad film-making pseudo-style of making TV shows: The Office.So now, we know what it takes to get an Emmy: First you take an "edgy" premise (ie. something that can't possibly be of interest to anyone outside Hollywood) and then you film it in an uncomprehendingly incompetent way. Then, you buy yourself a truck load of advertising... I mean, newspaper articles, explaining to the (obviously stupid) peeps why badly made TV shows are "hip", "edgy", "cool" and "in". sprinkle a couple million of dollar ads targeted at the Emmy voters and you've kept on the air one more ratings-deprived unwatchable "critical darling".Congratulations NBC to have taken from Fox the mantle of "Network who cares least about Quality".


                
How "smart" do you have to be to notice how badly made this show is? I mean really, the thing looks like it's shot by an ADT-addled four year-old who was given a camera two hours ago.I'm sorry, but I don't see the "funny" in bad camera work.I don't see the "funny" is not being able to see the action.In other words, The Office is so bad, it's neither smart nor funny, and it would be so nice if its incompetent producers would use some of their brain cells to figure out why nobody watched their show in spite of all the awards.Could it be that the audience is a lot smarter than those awards-people who vote for the biggest fruit basket they got?


                
As a loyal fan of the original series The Office from the BBC, I was appalled at the thought that millions of Americans will experience this story in such an adulterated form. I finished watching the first episode about 5 minutes ago, which had the same plot and script as the first episode of its British counterpart. For one thing, Jim's character (Tim in the original) was totally mis-cast. He's too handsome and confident to play the shy but lovable loser portrayed by Martin Freeman in England. Second of all, and more importantly, the acting (while quite funny) was still very clearly acting. In the original show, Ricky Gervais led a cast that delighted us by acting perfectly. We were 100% drawn into the plot and characters. Gervais drove us into hysterics with his portrayal of David Brent. Please, before it's too late, rent season one of the original office and watch it and see what i mean. The original show was brilliant, and this is totally mediocre. I am not a snobby person who likes British TV better because it's British. The Office is the only British show I watch...it only aired for two seasons, and including the Christmas special ending only runs eight hours. Rent it now, please.


                
Anyone who's seen the original Office will see that the American version hasn't a patch on it. Why ruin a good thing? If the Americans can't handle the BBC Office in all its glory, well, that's sad, but that's how it goes. Don't "dumb it down". You never forget that these people are actors, whereas the original cast were so superb that it was actually at times hard to tell whether or not it's real. The American Office doesn't even have the "American" sense of humour - so why? What is the point? If you're going to shoot it the same show but altered for the American audience, you should actually alter it for the audience you're targeting! In essence exactly the same, except with an American cast, bad acting, and not funny. Waste of time and an insult to the genius of the original show.


                
The depth of tastelessness NBC executives have sunk to never cease to amaze me. Sure, they're making a lot less money now that Thursday has turned into "Must-Avoid TV" but really... does anyone think that the way out of ratings insignificance is re-newing a show that is so badly and cheaply made, its only value is in its "it's edgy" lying marketing campaign and the fact it's incredibly cheap to produce.What's next? A web-cam in a real office? That would cut down on actor fees...Wait I shouldn't give them bad ideas, because after all, we're talking about the executives that swallowed their own PR that The Office is somehow a great funny show, when in reality, it's unwatchable pap.Memo to Jeff Zucker: hire real writers and directors next time and maybe you'll have a hit.


                
Well for all those out there who wondered if they'd be able to faithfully adapt The Office for American television, the verdict is in. It blew.I was willing to give it a chance and I forced myself to sit through the entire episode hoping it would redeem itself since I'm a Steve Carell fan, but alas, it continued on it's path of dullness. The beauty of the BBC version was that although the characters were over the top at times, the actors performed with the utmost subtlety. The acting here is way over the top, to the point where you can't believe that a character like Dwight exists. And as for Carell, he's no Ricky Gervais.This NBC version feels like a bad high school drama adaptation of The Office. Same jokes, somehow made unfunny.Makes me appreciate the original even more.


                
After reading a couple of fan-boy reviews stating how "amazing" The Office is, I can only wonder what show they're watching. Maybe they're thinking of the original, which I have never seen (and now don't have any desire to), but surely this can't be the NBC version.The NBC version is one of the most laughingly awful thing to ever disgrace our screens.Whereas (from the reviews I read) the original had a documentary feel, the NBC producers decided that shaking the camera back and forth and to and fro was what was needed (probably someone at a development meeting said they had to up the ante or some other ridiculous thing).The result is a show that is so badly shot that it makes Survivor look like an Orson Welles film in comparison.Shame on the producers and shame on NBC for wasting its resources of this complete waste of screen time.


                
Arrr!!! Another unsuccessful attempt to copy British telly!!! First there's " Queer as folk", then " coupling" , now , it's " the office"!!Come on, what happen to all these comedy writers in the US?! Can't come up with your own ideas?! If you have seen the original, you will just cringe when you watch the American version.... It just did not work !! Ricky Gervais wrote his own material probably helped him to get into the role as " David Brent" even better... Not saying the cast of the American version are bad...It's just the whole thing did not translate too well into the American version....If you really want to watch it, go to get the DVD of the British version, same as "coupling" and " queer as folk"!!! Believe me, it's so much beter!!


                
Lured by the excellent job done by NBC's marketing machine, I tried watching The Office yesterday.What a mistake that turned out to be!! Apparently, the people in charge seem to think that having countless zoom racks and shaking the camera around constantly is directing.Well it's not. It's complete nonsense and insulting to the viewers. At the very least I felt insulted, deeply by the pile of cinematic manure.Of course, the show was completely unfunny, but how can anything be funny if you get constantly distracted by crappy camera-work? Of and the stupid logo hyping another bad NBC show didn't help.Sorry NBC, but I'll keep not watching you and telling all my friends how awful The Office is.The really sad thing is that people in Hollywood seriously think crappy shows like that are, somehow, quality... Which means several more years of watching incompetent directing trying to pass itself off as "hip".Seriously sad and a good explanation of why the networks are losing their audience remarkably fast.


                
Argh! Disappointment! I had hopes that it wouldn't be that bad, but most of it was a painful, pale wanna-be version of the BBC classic.First of all, the main guy is nowhere in the league of Ricky Gervais. Ricky had that hint of slimy-ness and skeez but earnestness that just made it work so well. The American guy just looks stupid (and not in a funny way)--like he's trying to act like Ricky being David Brent. And the Gareth type...I mean, Gareth had such a unique look that just punctuated his wannabe authority-loser character. He looked the part. All the BBC cast did--so well cast. The people looked distinctive, bad teeth and all, that reinforced the attitudes and sad dry humor of their characters/situations.Overall, the humor just loses so much of its sting done without the British accent and the loser-like atmosphere pervading the whole office. The U.S. version is for me, somehow too pretty and shiny.Man, what a disappointment. The only time I chuckled was the very last bit with the racial diversity game.Ugh. Don't know if I have the heart to watch the U.S. version ever again...


                
And more particularly to bad TV on NBC! The Office is such a bad show it's amazing how we are bombarded from everywhere as to how its the "best show you're not watching".NBC should realize that the audience has taken a good look and has soundly rejected yet another bad NBC show.Now why is it bad? so many things about this show are bad. The most glaring is the way the show is filmed. Apparently, the conceit of the show is that those uninteresting people are being filmed by an amateur cameraman affected with ADD and cerebral palsy.Sorry but that doesn't make for a good show.Neither does the always unfunny grimacing of Steve Carrell, who may be Hollywood's most over-hyped actor, and there's a lot of competition for that title.Is it any wonder that the ratings are still so desperately low for The Office? It's sad really, because there was space for an interesting show to be made there... if only it had been done by good filmmakers.


                
The Office is just not a good show.There, I said it! I'm sorry but watching a show where the camera is jerked to and fro and back and forth at all times for no particular reason is just not my idea of good TV.Besides that, the cast seems to have been selected only because of how strange they can be made to look through bad haircuts. Again, not my idea of good TV.Steve Carrell in particular is just annoying. He's not much of an actor and his shtick consists in looking weird and befuddled. It's something that gets old quite quickly.That NBC chooses The Office to be their reference for quality TV, even though it's languishing in the ratings for the reasons I stated above is just disastrous for good television.


                
The question that comes to mind is "why?" Why indeed keep on the air a show that is, at its very best, mediocre, that is poorly made, with terrible camera work, hideous lighting, very poor acting (sorry but I really don't care at all for Steve Carrell's two different facial expressions and grimacing) and a show that is not funny.Could it be that it's owned by the head of NBC, Ben Silverman? It's true that Mr. Silverman still owns personally part of the company that produces The Office. Whether this fact taints the NBC process is for you to decide.But the result is that NBC is mired in a sea of bad, low-rated shows and hypes The Office every chance it gets in spite of its poor quality and poor ratings.


                
With the NBC brass confusing The Office with "quality programming" we have now reached a zenith in the life of NBC.The mighty (well, once mighty) network keeps on the air unwatchable stuff like The Office and is confused why the public is not there.Well, it's easy to understand: if you offered quality, your audience would return promptly. Keep showing awful shows like The Office and they will stay away.I tried watching The Office and boy was I laughing (at it!) It is so badly made it makes you wonder why NBC is supposedly spending so much money on it.Its production values are below that of a reality show!! So go on, NBC, keep buying awards for your bad shows and keep making up complicated false explanations as to why viewers don't want what your executives call "quality" but is in reality an embarrassment.


                
I checked out The Office after having heard about it from a friend (in the "can you believe how bad it is" mold).Still, I was dumbfounded by how bad the show is.It looks like it's shot on a videophone! A videophone, people!!! In my opinion, it's completely, entirely, utterly unwatchable.I wish I could say it's still better than a reality show. But it's not. Reality shows have higher criteria of filming than The Office!! And that's saying a lot! I am amazed that a network would put this piece of badly made tape on the air. I thought they had standards of excellence. I guess NBC is so desperate, they will put anything cheap on the air these days.Really, this masquerade of a show is the first thing that NBC should cancel if it wants to get out of the ratings doghouse, because it's awful, unwatchable shows like The Office that make you program NBC out of the rotation.


                
You'd think with so much hype and promotion heaped on that show, including buying it an Emmy for good measure, there would be some quality viewers can hold their hats on in The Office.Alas there isn't.The mindlessly and constantly shaky camera only induces nausea, not laughter. Whomever thought this would give a "documentary-feel" to this bad show was so sadly mistaken, it's actually funny.Now the joke is on NBC executives, who wouldn't know a good show from a bad show and think that viewers just want to see reality shows.The losers are, as usual, the viewers (and the General Electric shareholders).


                
That the Office is a bad show is plain for everyone to see. It is artificial, over-the-top and, most of all, badly filmed.It is the epitome of the bad shows that are currently sending network television to an early grave. It will come as a surprise to a lot of network executives and critics, but audiences don't like shaking the camera.They dislike it so much, they actually don't watch the shows, like The Office, that do it.NYPD Blue managed to squeak by on bad camera-work, but that was because of the novelty factor and the greatness of Steven Bochco's writing.The Office is not as well written. It's actually not well written at all and audiences don't have the patience for badly made shows like this one any longer.


                
This series is DEADLY DULL. It has some occasional candy in the form of comedy. But like any failure comedy show, the comedy is rare and thin.The British series "THE OFFICE" at least had a number of comedy talents with the star Ricky Gervais whom is supremely skilled in physical comedy, comedic timing, the ability to do ranges from self-embarrassment comedy to brilliant awkward pauses. This man was the backbone of the British series "THE OFFICE".What is the American series "THE OFFICE"? Flat delivery, poor timing, awkward pauses without any running gag rewards, haughty snootiness with no character depth, and many failures on the basic delivery of comedic function. Imagine one of your aunt's, long dull rambling stories with no interesting characters and no delivery in value for your time wasted. Imagine if all your music was bland and unfulfilling. Imagine if your point was pointless and irritating. That is the American version of "THE OFFICE". There is no reason for it to exist at all. On the upside, there is no talent squandered in the American version of "THE OFFICE". It is merely a dumping ground for boring people in a pointless series that gives no message, has no value, begins not only to breed contempt and wallows in disgust with no personal shame.


                
All this show is a bunch of awkward people in an office with an even More socially defective boss.Its all awkward humor where you laugh AT them... I hate awkward humor it makes me cringe...this show gives me goosebumpsAnd not in a good way.I never understood how there are parts where each character narrates directly TO the camera. Like Big Brother.NOT a show I would watch at allAvoid if you don't like Awkward humor


                
I have avoided reviewing this bizarre sitcom for years because I have always found it to extremely unfunny and badly written, with the pacing and direction off the mark. I guess I was hoping it might turn around someday. It clearly hasn't. I only watch it from time to time for Steve Carell, whom I first laid eyes in in a movie, but even Carell can do nothing to save this tedious show. And yet the damned thing keeps going year after year. So I guess I just don't get it, as so many IMDb posters are wont to say of those who don't like something, FRIENDS was funnier, and I always considered FRIENDS the equivalent of nails on a chalkboard. Hell, that horrible sitcom with the annoying Jenna Elfman was funnier. So what's a funny show, you ask? Try SEINFELD for starters.


                
I appreciate this show because it takes on the resonance of a tragedy, it starts out great and gets worse at an alarming rate. Now the show has hit rock bottom.I used to be a fan of the show in the earlier years, when the material was cute and the characters had amusing potential.The little faith I had left is now gone. The material has become boring and predicated on its stupid allusions to better works of art. The characters are void of intriguing value and the acting is shockingly bad.If you want to watch something funny, try "Seinfeld" or "The Big Bang Theory". This show is now nothing but unprocessed waste. Don't throw your money into the money pit by renting or buying episodes (or seasons) of the Office. You'll never see your dollars converted to hours of laughter and happiness.


                
I don't like anything about it at all. I don't like the muted, dead colors. I don't like the wobbly camerawork. I don't like to watch shows that people look into the camera and explain themselves. I understand that this show has a whole different style. Unfortunately it's not for me.I finished this show because I had nothing else to watch and my friend basically pushed me to it. Jim and Pam are the worst, in spite of the fact that they are the straight men of the show they are just terrible and unlikable, not in a funny way, in a frustrating way. What's worse is there isn't another layer underneath this horrible boring couple. That's the only thing they are. Even though their struggles and personalities were realistic I have no interest in watching realistic yet unfunny stories.Best character on the show is Dwight. He was fun to watch and unlike the other characters, pretty unpredictable. When some other character opens their mouth you know what they will say next: depending on the person, something really offensive /sexist / homophobic / boring / weird / superficial.Even though I cringed every time I saw him on the screen, Michael Scott was what kept the show alive and breathing. After him the show just flatlined.And the ending. It was very cheesy, glossy, fake. It was like the writers sat around a table and discussed how to please the viewers in the easiest and least creative way. It kind of amazed me how bad it was.Some people compare this to It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia saying they're similar. I'm a fan of dark, weird humor and IASIP. I don't see how they can be remotely similar.
Like so many I'd heard how great this series was. So imagine how disappointed I was when I actually sat down to watch it.Bottom line. It's not funny. At all. The characters are horrible, obnoxious and totally unlikeable. Not to mention they're terribly cliche. These are not people you want to spend time with. These are people that you would punch in the face and walk away. Fortunately the team behind this series we able to follow up with Parks and Recreation in the same format and knock it out of the park.


                
