This is probably the best adaptation of a British sitcom ever made. However, what is that up against exactly? The Basil-less Fawlty Towers? The problem with adapting The Office is that the original was just TOO successful. The producers of the US version have been careful not to mess with a winning formula, they realise that fans of the original are not brain-dead cretins who will laugh at anything, they are discerning viewers. If they'd used this determination to create something new in a similar vein, they might have got somewhere. As it is, the price was right for a remake.Unfortunately, this becomes the show's downfall. While the "comedy of embarrassment" angle seemed so fresh with the British original, here it feels stale and contrived. A prime example is the character equivalent of Chris Finch. Finch in the original is a brilliant creation; an overbearing bully whose insensitivity defines him rather than lets him down. He is a success because he is funny and scary, and Brent hero-worships him because he is the only person with whom he can appear in control of a social situation. In the US version, he's an office joker. The point of the character is missed totally. The same is true of Dwight, he's just a tactless nerd. One dimensional compared to the UK's Gareth.On its own terms the show is fairly passable as a sitcom, and some of the one-liners are sharp. But the main gripe is the fact that, with nothing original or compelling to offer, it's really quite boring.


                
If you haven't seen the original British series, this might have some enjoyment for an American audience.If you have seen the original, don't waste the video tape. Where the original was witty and funny, this version seems a bit tired and forced.Maybe it's just me, though.Like another reviewer said, if they had taken the concepts and simply moved them to America with new plots, it would have had a chance. I mean every large company has at least 1 boss who thinks he/she's the best boss in the world, while in reality, are horrendous at their jobs. And we can see a bit of our co-workers in the other characters.


                
Seems that overseas, American movies are shown everywhere. What is the percentage of foreign films that ever get shown in the states? It seems that every horror Asian horror film that has been made in the past decade is being remade by an American film company (The Eye is up next, and I'm sure we will see a sequel to the Grudge and even more from the Ring). It doesn't speak well of our acceptance of other cultures. Frankly, I'm not entirely sure who to pin the blame on. I remember watching 'Hero' and three people left after thirty minutes because they didn't like reading subtitles.But I suppose this trend has been going on in television for sometime now (Millionaire, Survivor, etc). When I heard they were remaking the Office, I just thought that was a real slap in the face. The best British comedy I've seen in quite some time, no reason to change it. Apparently, they didn't change much of the script at all. I was going to avoid this like an Adam Sandler film until I saw Stever Correll was attached to it. Kind of funny but it also came across as being a bit bland as well. I don't know what exactly was lost in translation, maybe just knowing this is just a copycat of a show did it for me. I'm not sure I can be too objective about this if it becomes a regular ongoing series but I was looking to see what they will do that is different and so far not impressed.


                
After being impressed by the UK version, I tried to give this show a go, but after the first few minutes I found myself disappointed and a bit nauseous. While the UK version is shot like a documentary, this version is shot and edited like a cross between The Blair Witch Project and a music video. On top of that I found the characters to be one-dimensional shadows of their UK counterparts, and the humor was similarly disappointing.I haven't seen enough episodes to be able to compare season 1 versus season 2 and the like, but from what I have seen my assessment is that the show could be a lot funnier and better with some more appropriate casting and better photography/editing.


                
This was a clever, original, and sometimes poignant look at the frustrations and secret desires of ordinary American workers. The 1st 2 seasons took a lot of cues from the original UK version of this show, but also made some changes that generally worked well on American TV. It was originally a character-based humor that highlighted the absurdity of the workplace and the human condition.But in an effort to string out, exploit and extend the romance between Jim and Pam, a series of bad writing and plot decisions were made, and after Season 2 the show began to degenerate into a Thursday night NBC soap opera, a la Ross and Rachel.Worse, the show began to use more cartoony-type humor, such as Dwight's mute cousin Mose, a refugee from from the Beverly Hillbillies. The character of Jan, who was originally a foil for Michael who was slowly revealed to be kinky and crazy, became exaggerated to the point of unfunny idiocy. As did the other characters.By Season 6, the show was reusing old plots from 'Webster' and 'Charles In Charge', just crossing out the names and replacing them with Ryan and Kevin. In the now infamous 'Wedding Episode,' the humor descended to a juvenile nadir, as Kevin wore Kleenex boxes instead of shoes, and Andy literally tore his scrotum, and then spent 30 minutes of the show dealing with this.Prior to this episode, when a TV show took an irreversible turn for the worse, it was called 'Jumping the Shark,' but thanks to this episode, we now universally say that a show 'Tore the Scrotum' at the point where things started going downhill fast.Not content with merely catering to juvenile tastes, the Wedding Episode wound up with a bizarre homage to the infamous youtube wedding dance video, a truly saccharine and cloying tribute to something infinitely cloying and saccharine.But for 2 bright, shining seasons, The Office was clever and funny.


                
I had caught vague clips of the original BBC Office on BBC America and I found the quite funny, so when I heard some talk that there was going to be an American remake, I was somewhat interested. When I saw the first episode, I didn't know what to think. It was pretty mediocre, few funny parts, not much character development, but I really wanted to stick by it. I caught the next episode, I was almost dying with laughter. I saw the entire first season and I was hooked. After the first season, the second season hit the ground running and took the entire show one step further and made it a complete success. The dry humor, the plethora of insane characters, and Michael Scott make this show the best comedy on TV right now. The only comedy that has been this good was Seinfeld. Steve Carrel makes the show, he is phenomenal, as the boss of Dunder Mifflin paper company, who is annoying, insensitive, but in-your-face hilarious. Kudos to John Krasinski as the lovable Jim Halpert who is the love sick sales rep who wants the receptionist Pam Beesly (who is played by Jenna Fischer). B.J. Novak also plays an exceptionally well Ryan Howard, a temp working at the Office. But last, but not at least, I have to give the most applause to Rainn Wilson, as the awkward, hilarious nerd, Dwight Schrute, the biggest, most annoying suck-up known to man. If you haven't caught this show yet do so right now, because, I said it once, but I'll say it again, this show is the best comedy on TV period.


                
If you enjoyed the pilot episode of the American version of "The Office", I would like to extend my sincerest condolences.I will begin by mentioning that I am American, and I have an unnaturally low tolerance for my only window to British comedy: Monty Python (in particular, the dead parrot skit). But "The Office" knocked my socks off. It is simply one of the funniest pieces of work I've ever seen. So my expectations of the American version were generously high. I have loved Steve Carell in everything I've seen him in, and I was glad to see Ricky Gervais' and Stephen Merchant's names in the credits. I was especially relieved to read that Carell took pride in saying that, parallel to its British counterpart, the new Office was void of that "jokey", sitcom-ish feel.Sorry, Carell.It was much too rehearsed. Sometimes it was obvious that they were crunched for time - dialog flew by pretty quickly, and everything was snappy and quick, really, so I allowed it some leeway on that front. I will also admit that, though my laughs were numerable, I did laugh a few times at some new joke. Other than that - overacting was an issue. It wouldn't have seemed so bad had it not been advertised as the anti-sitcom. Its camera-work was completely ineffective as far as documentary-style shooting goes.I was looking forward to something fresh and tongue-in-cheek, but all the jokes were very obviously stuck out in the open and made the highlight of what was going on - in the original, the jokes were just an underscore, and you had to be paying attention to catch them. It also may not have helped that the exact same gags were used as in the original - from the Jell-O to the "Punk'd" firing, the play on the newbie's name to the uncomfortable (and now drawn-out) whazzup scenario. Anything witty was, essentially, used verbatim from the original.What disappointed me most were the perfect rubber-stamp replicas of the characters and their relationships - the love triangle of the office (which is highly obvious in the new version but much more an undertoned obscurity in the original, making it look much more like real life); the clash between the red-haired sales rep and his brown-nosing neighbor (who has no chemistry with the boss at all); the utterly annoying boss who utterly annoys everyone in his plane of vision (though the American one is more obnoxious than quietly and underhandedly - and at most times unknowingly - condescending).This new version just tried too hard. It tries to get your attention while it's working at being funny, while the original got you to laugh if you happened to be listening.I'd like to say I have more hope for next week's installment - there may actually be a new idea or two in there - but that hope is near nonexistent. I don't see the acting or the writing or the style improving at all. An absolute disgrace.
Okay I'm only at Season 2 and I'm really surprised that this show has an 8.8 here.Most of the characters are really unlikable. Michael's a really annoying person who nobody dares to tell him to stop just because he's the boss (such charisma-less people rarely become regional bosses). Dwight's a total psychopath. Angela is also a really weird person who you'd never want to meet. OK I get it, they're both psychopaths so it'd probably make sense that they're attracted to each other, but wow I feel bad for their kids. Kelly just won't shut up. Even the audience gets annoyed when she starts talking non-stop about something that nobody cares about. I took Dwight's side for the first time in the show when he violently told her to shut up. Ryan is passive to the extent of being selfish, but he's actually probably the most likable character here. At least he's feeling the same way normal people would, which is usually just very uncomfortable.Most of the people in the office are really unattractive. I get it. In the real world, nobody works with a dozen supermodels, it's unrealistic to have no seniors or obese people. It's also true that we all knew some coworkers who are just huge jerks. But this is a really cheap form of being funny. Jim was the best looking guy in the show (which isn't really too impressive considering the competition), but I really can't call him handsome. I just came from John Krasinki's IMDb page, and I strongly suspect that he wrote his own biography. It's too fan-girl- y to start a biography with "Tall, handsome American film and television star".Anyway, call me old school, but I really can't wrap my head around the fact that Pam is engaged and the writers decided to write the Jim- Pam relationship. I mean, I get it if you found a person you like better when you're just dating. I get it if after years of marriage you got bored. But when you're engaged and just about to get married? Wow. That's pretty disgusting, and even if you show Jim as a nicer guy who has more chemistry with Pam than Roy, I really can't root for it. I really just can't.I don't know how this show got a 8.8, at least not at this point. It's never really funny. It was barely relate-able and most of the times it's too cringe worthy to even be entertaining. I'm giving it a 4 now. Season 1 was even worse.


                
Huge The Wire fan here. I mainly watched this show because some of the actors/actresses from The Wire is on Thr Office. Jimmy McNulty, from The Wire, is one of my favorite characters and Amy Ryan's character, on The Wire, was with Jimmy McNulty. Amy Ryan is awesome on The Wire and she is awesome on The Office.This show is a little over-the-top though. A little too silly, but it's okay.


                
