I am a huge fan of the British version of the Office. I remember looking forward to the American version when it first came out and being disappointed immediately to the point that I refused to watch it after the first episode. Almost 6 years later I gave it another go as people were telling me that it was actually quite good. I took the advice that I should start from season 2. This time around I enjoyed it more and gradually warmed to the characters that were basically copies of the British version. I can't believe that I would ever say this, but this show is as good as the British version. The bonus is that there is a lot more of it. It was certainly a knee-jerk reaction to give up on it so quickly, but it seems that a lot of people did. The Jim/Pam relationship is a clone of Tim and Dawn, but some of the pranks that they play on Dwight(Gareth in British version) are quite brilliant. There are certainly differences between the two versions, but generally the American version stays fairly true to the original.If you loved the original, definitely give this a go.


                
As a fan of the original "Office" I was, of course, skeptical about the American remake. We have many shining beacons to shows that have bombed badly when transferred across the ocean. However, pinch me I must be dreaming, this version of the show is actually very good. I should also point out that I'm British and, as blasphemous as it might be to my fellow countrymen, I believe that the US version to be every bit as good as the original with excellent casting and smart writing throughout.The first season was a little spotty, especially when translating the British show verbatim. However, once the writers came up with original story lines and situations the, American, office really took off. The second season was an incredible achievement and is just carrying on where it left off in the third season.Steve Carell is well suited to the role of Micheal Scott, lending his character a certain pathetic quality that even Gervais's David Brent did not have at times. The supporting cast is equally as good, especially Rainn Wilson as the assistant (to the) general manager, Dwight Shrute. Wilson deserved, at least, an Emmy nomination for his troubles. If you dismiss the show out of hand then you will definitely be missing out on one of the best shows on TV right now.


                
This show is flat out funny. From Steve Carrell's perfect performance of Michael Scott to Rainn Wilson's even better portrayal of the ever-funny, ever-maniacal Dwight Schrute. Aside from the humor, there is a very good sense of character development and relationships as well, which is refreshing. Jim and Pam are the go-to couple for a comedy couple. Going back to the first few seasons I would get frustrated because I would just be dying for them to be together, but that adds to the fun and intrigue of the show. The other supporting characters are also very funny such as Stanley, Andy and probably my personal favorite secondary character: Kevin. The flaws of this show are two things: When Michael left, the show was good but not the same, and Andy became quite annoying as the show played on. A highlight of the later seasons is Erin; she is pretty, funny, and a dork--which is perfect for my sense of humor. All told, this is a great show that is definitely worth binge-watching, but just make sure you can stay up(that's what she said).
Ok so when Steve Carrell was in it, the series was great. Something changed in the latter seasons - I wasn't as excited to see them but still did. It's a funny comedy that anyone and everyone will like if you liked the British version - lots of uncomfortable office situations and if you've had a boss or colleague like Steve, you'll get the humour! I love watching these episodes on repeat.


                
At first I disliked this series. It takes a while to know and love the characters. But once you do get to know them, it feels like a family. A unique, unexpected family. Not only that, but the show is hilarious at times and makes for a great situation comedy. You end up loving each character and how they add to the show. They're all wrote and acted so amazingly. Not that the stories are bad, without them the show is nonexistent. The story is needed for the structure.Of course, this is a show focused on the characters more than anything. It is filmed in the style of a documentary, but is obviously not one. The fact that the characters sometimes glance at the camera and that the two 'normal' characters, Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pamela Beesly (Jenna Fischer), give long looks at the camera when other characters are being stupid are really the only indicators that this is a mockumentary, not an ordinary situation comedy.The characters really are wonderful. They all have their own traits and personalities that add to the show. For example, there is Ryan Howard (B.J. Novak), who is trying to become a big shot and be famous (and succeeds on one occasion), and Jim Halpert's never ending pranks on Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). The characters make the show what it is, both loving and hilarious. Everyone says that the show was ruined when Michael Scott (Steve Carell) left, but I disagree. He didn't make the show, they all did and it was still amazing after he left. As for my thoughts on the fact that this is a US version of the UK 'The Office', I actually prefer this version. Yes, I, as an English person who has lived in England all of his life, prefer this version over the original. I get that the UK original focused on the mockumentary style, succeeding to make it hilariously true, but I just love this series more, for both its characters and its stories. This may not have the uniqueness of the UK Office, but it certainly isn't just another US situation comedy and it should be appreciated for what it is.Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant did an excellent job at making an over-the-top, but true representation of office life. They created a perfect show for that. But Greg Daniels also created an excellent show for different reasons. The first episode was a complete copy of the first UK episode, but gradually got its own style over time; a style that was loving, hilarious and unique. I applaud the many writers, directors, actors and others that worked on the show, for they created a situation comedy that was exceptionally unique and fun to watch.


                
This is one of the best American television series I have ever seen. The humor might not work for everyone, but it sure worked for me. It was kinda sad to see the series end after 9 seasons, but it left it's mark and ended at the right time in my opinion. The whole show is about awkward and weird characters doing awkward and weird stuff in the office of Dunder Mifflin a paper company, and it's awesome. However some of the normal characters like Jim and Pam makes the connection work. When it comes to normal people colliding with obnoxious, weird and awkward character scenarios it usually really works as a great combo. Even if it sends a message that normal people attracts normal people and weird people attracts weird people. Steve Carell was great as Michael Scott (the boss of Dunder Mifflin, this is also the role that boosted Steve Carell's career), and really added a lot to this series. However after Michael Scott left after the 7th season the show started to go downhill with the new snobbish, smug, and conniving boss that constantly give crappy philosophical mumbo jumbo. Plus after season 7 the constant on and off relationships started to get tedious. Despite that Dwight is still the one that saved this show from season 8 and 9 being a disaster. As a matter of fact besides Dwight every other character goes from doing the constant back and forth likable to dis- likable to likable to dis-likable action. Except for Ryan Howard, Kelly and Robert California which are character I just didn't like or found funny all throughout the series. Overall this is one of the best comedic shows I have ever seen on TV and forever will have good memories of it. Despite the last season going towards more of the drama direction over comedy, which made it kind of depressing. Anyways awesome show that is worth sticking with all throughout the 9 seasons.9.8/10
I agree that the pilot was a not-as-good-as-the-original remake of the first episode of the BBC series. To be honest, I saw it and thought the Americanization made it worse. But..... I just saw the first of the newly written shows last night (the Diversity Training one), and I've got to say, it was actually really funny. Completely in the spirit of the original, the acting was much improved, and, actually, the situations might have been more original than those in the original. I admit that I like Ricky Gervais's boss more than Steve Carrell's, but Carrell did a great job last night. I hope they keep it up. Have you seen a network sitcom lately? If you have and you don't want more shows like this, I feel sorry for your parents.


                
I've seen the pilot and Diversity Day, and I found them very funny.What's good about it is how faithful it is to the original in *tone*; understated photography and direction, no laughter track, no mawkishness.The performances are great; Carell surely has the toughest job to follow Gervais, but does his own brilliant take on the boss from hell. Everyone else is marvellous too; I think the American version has a black guy in Accounts instead of the British Keith, but he's got a wonderful vacant look about him too.One wonders if it will last on prime time on US TV; bear in mind the original was lauded and popular in Britain, but didn't get massive ratings until the Xmas specials.My Mum and Dad hated it!


                
The U.S. Office is a brilliant television series with terrific writing and an outstanding comedic cast. If you're a fan of the U.K. Office, this is quite different, it is much more fast paced and the characters and humour is significantly different, but it didn't take me long to get use to this style as it is simply so funny and enjoyable. All the cast portray their characters perfectly, Steve Carell is obviously the star as Michael Scott, but I also love Dwight, Jim, Pam, Andy, Kevin, Erin, Darryl, Angela, Stanly, Creed, Phllyis, the list goes on and though Michael is the best part of the show, he couldn't have done it without them. The series does go down a bit after the seventh season when Carell leaves, but not significantly, the rest of the cast do their best to fill the missing gap without Michael, and though it is certainly not the same, they still do a great job. The last episode is one of the most emotional finales of a television series I've ever seen, it works out perfectly and is the Office finale that the fans wanted and deserved. Hilarious and even at times quite sweet, the Office is a great ride filled with so much lovable characters, I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy series. A documentary crew follow the daily work lives of a small paper company in Scranton, Dunder Mifflin. Best Performance: Steve Carell Worst Performance: Mark ProkschBest Episode: Casino Night Worst Episode: The Banker


                
To define and better elaborate, regular as in the ABC, NBC, TBS type of television. FINALLY a show where there is no stupid audience "laughing on que". I like the dark comedic elements to this and a very unconventional office environment.I have nothing bad to say about this show except, Steve Carell leaving made me sit and cry along with cheap pizza and mediocre beer. Why take away a main character who brings the entire show together? It's like omitting Darth Vader from Star Wars...c'mon now.This show isn't quite realistic as opposed to a regular bland office job, but the gossiping and favoritism is the quintessential representation of an office job. Ahh yesss, the beauty of television:)


                
"The Office" is funny. It is funny because everyone has experienced these characters in their lives. The writing is witty. The cast fits together perfectly. They seem born to play their roles.Steve Carell's character, M. Scott rolls every boorish, under qualified and insecure boss I've ever experienced into one uber-boss from hell, but still manages to make you empathize with him as the guy who doesn't have friends because he never learned how to make them- and now he's trying entirely too hard. It is hard not to loath him and simultaneously feel sorry for him.Rainn Wilson's character D. Schrute, is the kid who hid under the slide during recess and ate his boogers, watched the teen-age mutant ninja turtles and then started telling everyone he was a "black-belt," was best friends with the lunch lady and played dungeons and dragons- by himself- in the basement. He's that kid, all grown up. To round out the effect, imagine he grew up on a beet farm... far away out in the country with only livestock and his cousin Moeses for company. In short, he is brilliant. Just say his name out loud: "Dwight Schrute" and you'll get a good feeling for his character.Finally: John Krasinski as J. Halpert, Jenna Fischer as P. Beesly and B.J. Novak as R. Howard are the fantastic, yet understated counterweights to Carell and Wilson. They play the role of the "normal" people trapped in the bizarre world of a midsize paper products company. They each are also masters of "the look." Fischer's look of disgust/offense/disbelief, Krasinski's mug for the camera, and Novak's look of embarrassment and incredulity.If you like "uncomfortable funny," "embarrassing funny," or "I can't believe he/she just said/did that funny," you will like this show.


                
It's a remake of the hit 2001 BBC TV series by Ricky Gervais. There is a documentary crew that has invaded the office of a midsize paper company in Scranton, Pennsylvania. The office manager Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is a good hearted if somewhat delusional and insensitive boss.What drove it in the first year is the office romance between Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer). That allowed the audience to get to know and fall for the rest of the office mates. The acting, the writing, the comedy, the chemistry all work together to produce one of the best well-made comedic shows of all times. The only bump in the road is the departure of Steve Carell near the end of season 7. Sure it had been grinding down over the years, but the departure really left the series rudderless. It lasted 9 total seasons. It was very reminiscent of other shows like Cheers where the characters became family.


                
I was going to buy season one of the office on DVD because it was only £7 and I thought it would be a bargain. I was not sure if I'd like it, so instead I bought the pilot off of iTunes. I laughed so many times in that one episode, that I went back to the shop and bought Season 1. I finished all six episodes in less than two days. There wasn't any episode that was boring. They were all screamingly funny episodes, especially the basketball episode. It was one of the only TV shows where the first season may be the best one. It is so well cast. Steve Carrell is really good as Michael Scott,the boss of Dunder Mifflin paper products. Rainn Wilson is also really good as Michael's assistant, Dwight Schrute. If you haven't seen this program it is a definite must!


                
First of all, the humor is very different. I suppose you could use the word "Americanized" to describe it. However, I find it to be one of the cleverest shows currently on television. It has a strong cast of characters, great writing and clever dialogue.Steve Carrell plays Michael Scott, the arrogant, egotistical and obnoxious head of some type of accounting firm who is always managing to embarrass himself at the most inopportune times.My favorite episode of the show is "Diversity Day," when a man comes in to the office to discuss racial equality and respect due to racist comments Michael had made in jest a few days prior (whilst quoting a Chris Rock routine). Refusing to acknowledge his actions, Michael pretends that he "pushed" to have the diversity awareness speaker visit the office...the pay-off had me on the floor with laughter. Carrell impersonating Chris Rock is simply one of the funniest things I've ever seen.I didn't give a very good comment for the British show because I had apparently seen a bad episode (or so people who PM'd me said), and the other episodes are usually a lot funnier. I guess I should give it another chance.However, people comparing this to the British show and saying it's not as funny should keep in mind it's also a different sort of humor - it will probably appeal more to Americans, yes - and you shouldn't totally discredit it simply because it's a remake of another show.


                
Hands-down one of the most original shows currently on American TV, which really says something, since it's an almost direct copy of the BBC version. Ever since Arrested Development got cancelled, The Office has been one of the few programs left that gets my attention. Big thumbs up. To Hell with 3-camera American sitcoms. The Office is one of a handful of comedic shows that steps out of the predictable sitcom formula, not only in content, but stylistically as well. If you're tire of watching some goofy family or another walk from one side of the living room to another, you should find the Office's camera work refreshing, along with the jokes, characters, and story lines. This ain't your mama's TV show.


                
The U.S. version of The Office got off to a slightly inauspicious start, with lukewarm reviews at best, what with being the littler, less cool brother of the acclaimed UK version. However, once it began to step away from taking its cues straight from Gervais' version, the U.S. The Office really came into its own.Using a documentary-style medium, The Office follows the work lives of the people at Dundler-Mifflin paper company in Scranton, PA. The story lines are often uncomfortably close to real-life situations to which most people who've ever worked in an office environment can easily relate - from less-than-successful diversity training to awkward office romances.This show is blessed with an incredibly talented ensemble cast, many of whom are known for their improv skills and/or do double duty as writers on the show as well. The writing is among the cleverest you can find on television today, often hilarious, subtle and heartbreaking all at once.


                
I had never seen this show up until about a week ago. My friend had downloaded the episodes and we have now become addicts. Steve Carrell is great in the lead role of Michael Scott, but the character of Dwight is my favorite. He is an overachieving, paranoid, stereotypical nerd, and is the subject of most of the gangs office pranks. The style of the show is mockumentary and is different from any sitcom I have ever seen. I would compare this show to the Christopher Guest mockumentaries and the film "Office Space". It is a combination that works very well and is a fresh contrast to "Will and Grace" and reality shows that are cluttering the air waves. I urge everyone to make "The Office" a weekly Thursday night routine.


                
This show is not for everyone. It is a specif kind of humour based on awkwardness, weirdness, idiocy and silliness. Some may find it too stupid to handle. Some may may flatter and consider it a masterpiece. However no one stays indifferent. This is not a regular office yet the characters reflect real people. It is a satire to formal conventions and relationships. It makes me laugh at almost every single moment. Thanks for this original idea!


                
I loved the US take on the Office- frankly I enjoyed it more than the UK version. It depends on your style of comedy. I will say that the show went downhill after Carrell left, but definitely worth seeing through to the end


                
I am so glad I gave this show a fourth chance. For some reason I just couldn't get into this show, maybe it was simply because the first season wasn't that great, or maybe I really don't like awkwardness. I really wanted to like this show so badly because of all the highlight videos on The Office made it look so funny but then I'd go to watch it and I couldn't get past the awkwardness of it. But, yesterday I decided to give it another go, I got past the first season and since then it's been non-stop laughs. My suggestion for anyone that like me is having a hard time getting into this show, give it another chance.


                
I have just completed this TV show series and I loved it and the idea of doing a documentary-type show, while not actually having it be a documentary. I especially enjoyed when the characters "broke the fourth wall" and would occasionally address the camera/audience, much like in the movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off". I believe this keeps it interesting because it is so uncommon and engages the audience in a sense. Also, the show keeps you laughing with the simple comedy that the characters have. The constant feud between Jim and Dwight was always funny, along with Michael's crude humor. Jim messing with Dwight is one of my favorite parts of the show, in addition to Jim and Pam's love interest throughout every episode, of course. I also liked that the director had the cameras focused on individual people and their reactions, including when they pulled people to talk to separately. The angles were mostly medium and the lighting was neutral. However, I don't think it made the show less interesting. I think it was a smart move on the director's part since it is supposed to seem like a documentary. I did however have mixed feelings when Jim left, and again when Michael did. It was kind of weird at Jim's new job, but I liked that it was something new to see and introduced new characters. There just wasn't really anything happening besides Jim's new love interest, Karen, at the time. Then, I had mixed feelings when Michael left, I know it is a controversial topic, but I feel indifferent towards it. He was an annoying character to me and he just made me frustrated. After he left, it calmed down and I like that it wasn't focused on him so much. I think that with the company switch, Michael leaving, and bringing in a new boss, the director made good decisions to twist thee plot a little bit every once in a while.
The office is a show that a lot of people don't understand the humor in but if you do it is probably one of the funniest things you will ever watch its a mockumentary that revolves around a group of disgruntled office workers and their every day life and it can be very funny and can not be funny but most of the time it is funny it has great lovable characters and great acting that has won a few Oscars and very good cast that fits very well in the shows office building environment I think steve carell and raain Wilson's acting is one of the highlights of the show well anyway I think the office is a great comedy mockumentary that should get a little more attention.


                
Wow I love it when someone tries to tear a movie or TV show apart online, and they're so passionate about it, but then they can't come close to spelling a few key words, and it completely devalues their argument. The office is popular because, yes it's very inexpensive to make, as compared to other NBC shows such as heroes, studio 60, and Friday night lights, and also because the show has one so many awards, obviously the critics think they're doing something right. So it doesn't have high ratings, that just means there are a lot of people like you who can't appreciate the humor. Just because you're an idiot, and are unable to enjoy anything but brain dead, slapstick comedy doesn't mean the show isn't funny. If adriennelontano really finds it that terrible, go have fun watching Howie Mandel on deal or no deal, I'm sure she'll find him absolutely hysterical.


                
The office is a show about destiny. How Jim and Pam are destined to be together. How Michael was destined to find love. It's also hilarious, i would recommend seasons 1-6. After Michael leaves it's a completely different show with flashes of the old office. But the last part of season nine is bringing back memories. These last episodes are emotional and hilarious. They are creative on how they air this documentary, which we always wondered as we watched the series. It is a show that you can watch the episodes a million times and still laugh at how crazy this office really is. Steve Carrel will steal the show but the supporting cast is what makes the office special.
I should start off by declaring a couple of things. I am British, I loved the original version of The Office. If I were to list the number of US sitcoms I've ever enjoyed, I'd be struggling to get past three. Doesn't look good so far, eh? And yet, against all expectation, I absolutely adore the US version of The Office, and actually PREFER it to the original. I have to say, a lot of the Brits who have commented on the show here on IMDb appear to have seen only the first couple of episodes before commenting. Come on guys, you have to watch a bit more than that if you're going to start posting criticisms. I too was slating it after those first couple of episodes, but now I've stuck with it, I've been completely converted. Yes, the pilot was crap, and did just copy the script of the first UK episode, but from show 2 onward, it is brand new, and mostly superb. Indeed, looking back at the wonderful second episode, I can't believe I dismissed it the first time I saw it.Steve Carell's boss may not be quite as believable to me as Ricky Gervais's, but I much prefer his interpretation of the role. To those who say he has no depth, as other have done, is nonsense. Carell truly draws the audience in, as despite his character making such a fool of himself, he is able to convey a painful sense that Michael Scott is simply somebody who desperately needs to be loved, and will do anything to get the approval and friendship of others.All credit to the writers for taking the whole show in their own direction. With the exception of the pilot, very little is directly comparable to the UK series, which is probably part of the reason why I am able to enjoy the US version independently of the UK one. I can watch both, and at no point will I start wondering how the cast of the other version would handle a scene.That's not to say the US version is superior in every respect. The US version has developed a feel that is far more like a "normal" sitcom than the UK one, to the extent that I find quite a culture shock to adjust when I return to the UK version. Certain scenes are overacted, and some situations stretch credibility (Michael staging a funeral for a bird, for example), and others just seem weird (do Americans really have such things as "Pretzel Day"?), or too American for me to understand (hardly a criticism for a US show, I know, but things like the Basketball episode make no sense to me.While most of the characters are at least as good as their UK counterparts, Dwight is a particularly poor character, and many scenes feel as though they could be much better if we weren't so overblown/overacted <U+0096> a problem that is particularly noticeable given that his British counterpart, Gareth, was one of the great characters of UK comedy. Finally, some episodes feel as if they've had unnecessarily happy endings tagged on just for the sake of sentimentality. That said, I have become quite swept along by this in some ways <U+0096> I wanted Jim & Pam to get together, despite thinking it was a total cop-out that the UK version ended with their equivalents, Tim & Dawn, together.I do think that the majority of UK viewers (or just fans of the UK version) are wrong to dismiss the US version so easily. I very nearly did the same, but the key is to watch it as if it were something completely new. The US version had a huge problem to overcome, as so many people (myself included) wanted to see it fail and be forgotten about as soon as possible. Amazingly, the makers have taken the most British of British comedies, and turned into a great success.And for fans of the US version who have never seen the UK one <U+0096> give that a try, but please be prepared for a much harsher feel than you're used to.


                
