Old professors on road trips, no matter how many fully dressed blonds you add, will probably never provide much wildness or strawberries, especially if they spend more time with them dreaming as they snooze during the trip then take in the landscape and people. Ingmar definitely failed despite apparently the entire country of Sweden voting to the contrary for their film hero. He hints that he may be attempting irony, but that really doesn't work outside of a few instances where the actors pull it off.One way the irony could have worked is if the film is understood more like Robot and Frank involving an old man nearing death with a failing brain. It might be seen as an allegory in why making plans based on a dream you have the night before is unlikely to add wildness or strawberries to your day.The film seems more like that of a young, naive director playing with university ideas and quite possibly trying to antagonize a professor he hated, or simply fool him into grading the film highly by not committing to anything and leaving it open for interpretation.At best, it's an interesting look into the Summer conventions and traditions of Sweden in the 1950s where pipe smoking is viewed as healthy and marrying cousins is normal. All this can be better achieved through some clips of the film, an actual documentary, and some photo essays. You'll also have the benefit of knowing it rather than wondering if you're lost in somebody's bad dreams.


                
I was caught unawares by the mellifluous verbiage of the Swedish language. The guy playing Isak had a lilting, singsong voice that held one's attention. I managed to understand most of the movie, which is a direct one despite its symbolism, or rather because of the symbolism. The thing about Isak is that he doesn't seem very much sophisticated. His fear is visceral but there's no raw insight to back it up. Maybe he was a simpleton in a gentleman's clothing. I didn't understand the reason for the title though. Regardless, Wild Strawberries didn't come even close to dislodging 12 Angry Men as my favorite movie of 1957, let alone the best film of all time. Ingmar Bergman, I must say, had something new to show, but he didn't show it, he said it. That's his sin. Hope you've found this review useful.


                
