¨ Wild strawberries¨ is a spellbinding masterpiece by the great Ingmar Bergman with brilliant acting by Victor Sjostrom (Sweden first movie filmmaker and star , best known for his silent work , who died three years later , aged 81) and awesome cinematography by Gunnar Fischer ; showing a rich tapestry of fears , dreams , anxieties , memories and occasionally over-symbolic frames . This Bergman's landmark film is developed in Sweden , after living a life marked by coldness, an aging professor is forced to confront the emptiness of his existence , taking place a sentimental voyage . This the story about an aging scientist on the rout to accept a prize and he must come to terms with nightmares , surrealist dreams and guilt .The movie displays haunting and powerful scenes ,it's plenty of intellectual images which stay forever in the mind ; resulting to be one of Bergman's warmest and therefore finest movies . Brooding and thought-provoking screenplay , Ingmar Bergman wrote the script while he was in hospital and thought the movie with Victor Sjöström in mind and riddled with a real feeling the joys of youth , age and nature . Although sometimes is slow moving ,however the thoughtful screenplay is narrated with intelligence and sensitivity but are developed ethics and moral issues as death , God , religion , family and aging . Surrealist and impressive images as when the coffin falling from the hearse , one of Bergman's own recurring dreams . Victor Sjostrom , Swedish cinema's best known pioneer and in his final screen appearance , gives a surprisingly moving interpretation as a professor on a touching journey to his redemption . The movie is marvelously paced and acted , and realizes an excellent Sweden reunion actors with usual Bergman's players (Ingrid Thulin , Bibi Andersson , Max Von Sidow as a gas station keeper and Gunner Lindblon, among others) , showing the different characters and exploring their apprehensions , ambitions, fears and circumstances . Glimmer and riveting cinematography by Gunner Fischer (The seventh seal) , he's deemed by many to be one of the world's greatest cameraman , he achieved give the movies on the most natural and simplest look imaginable . Cinematographer Gunnar Fischer says that several scenes had to be shot indoors due to Victor Sjöström's poor health , "We had to make some very bad back-projection in the car because we never knew if Victor would come back alive the next day." Gunnar was subsequently replaced by Sven Nykvist (won an Oscar for Fanny and Alexander) as Bergman's cinematographer . ¨Smultronstället¨ is wonderfully directed by Bergman ,it's a real masterpiece who made his major impact gaining international acclaim and winning Gloden Globe 60 , for the best Foreign film . His realization was during an impressive golden period from 1957-1968 when Bergman made stunning masterpieces, plenty of richly observed characters : The seventh seal , Persona, The communicants , The silence , Virgin spring , Hour of wolf . Rating: Magnificent, but is considered by many (along with The seventh seal) to be the Bergman's best .


                
I wasn't very much impressed by this film. I know it is artsy and sophisticated, though, it is still more accessible than most other Bergman films. I would only say that Fanny and Alexander is more accessible, though this film here actually has a plot and well developed characters, which is unusual for Bergman films. Some of his films are only a showing of symbolism, such as The Seventh Seal, this one is also very artsy, though it doesn't sacrifice traditional narrative.But I didn't found it very entertaining. The low visual quality hurt, as the fact that it is black and white (I simply do not like black and white very much: color makes things much better looking) and the score was also very uninteresting.Overall, I would recommend it for someone who likes artsy drama films. It isn't, however, an entertaining film for the masses. And yes, I like to be entertained.


                
After living a life marked by coldness, an aging professor (Victor Sjöström) is forced to confront the emptiness of his existence.Star Victor Sjöström had been a gem of Swedish cinema for decades. He worked primarily in the silent era; his best known films include "The Phantom Carriage" (1921), "He Who Gets Slapped" (1924) and "The Wind" (1928). Bergman said this film could not have been made without him, and it makes sense. Not only was Bergman influenced by these early Swedish films, but it makes sense to have a man at the end of his distinguished career.The real standout performance (besides Sjostrom) is Bibi Andersson, who plays Sara. Is it any surprise she starred in more than ten Bergman-directed pictures, including "Smiles of a Summer's Night", "The Seventh Seal", "Brink of Life", "The Magician", "The Passion of Anna", "The Touch" and "Persona". If Bergman had a muse, it was Andersson.Bergman has been a strong influence on Woody Allen, and "Wild Strawberries" has influenced a whole series of Allen films: "Stardust Memories", "Another Woman", "Crimes and Misdemeanors", and "Deconstructing Harry". No less a person than Stanley Kubrick said this was his second favorite film of all time.


                
I came to this movie after having watched several of Bergman's others; "The Seventh Seal," "Through a Glass Darkly," "The Silence," and "Winter Light," among others. I always had to be in the mood for one of those emotionally draining experiences, so, in a suitably heavy mindset I watched "Wild Strawberries." Many of the Bergman themes are present: lost love, loneliness, marital and family dysfunction, God versus science, anxiety, isolation, and fear of death. However, the touch seemed lighter than expected, provoking only a wistful melancholy.The storyline is simple, being that of 78 year old Professor Isak Borg (Victor Sjöström) traveling by car from Stockholm to Lund to receive honorary recognition for his lifetime of service in the medical profession. Initially he is accompanied on the trip by his attractive daughter-in-law, but they are joined along the way by a young girl and her two male companions as well as a bitterly cynical middle-aged couple. If you are wondering how all of the people fit into Borg's car, it is rather large and old - befitting its owner, as Borg comments. A Bergman road movie is a novelty in and of itself and makes seeing this a must for any Bergman fan.In the opening scene Borg (who narrates the film) says that he has chosen to withdraw from most personal interactions, since they seem to dwell on interminable discussions about people and their motivations which, one assumes, bore him. He remarks on this as leaving him rather lonely, but this seems more of a remark than a complaint. Early on we are treated to a Daliesque dream sequence that led me to feel that we were indeed going to go deeply into the psyche of Dr. Borg, but the ponderous tone created by the dream is not carried over into the remainder of the movie. The dream is spectacularly realized and, while I assume that Freud would have a field day with it, its meaning beyond having a life without much time left inducing a fear of loneliness and death escapes me. I think the dream sequence misleads us as to what is coming. It establishes the main premise, but sets the wrong tone. Toward the end of the movie we are offered another lengthy dream sequence - an anxiety dream about being unprepared for an examination (that is commonly experienced by most academics) together with revelations of the infidelity of Borg's long since dead wife and a searing interrogation by the wife who comments, "You know so much, and you don't know anything."Sandwitched between these heavier dreams the trip itself is almost lighthearted at times, primarily due to the exuberance and beauty of the young Bibi Anderson. This is not to say that Professor Borg is not hit with some weighty accusations by his daughter-in-law, like being told he is selfish and ruthless, and that his son hates him. It is fun to see Max von Sydow playing a gas station attendant who expresses thanks to Borg for services once rendered.Probably all old people wind up in Borg's position of looking back on their lives and summing up. And there are many who have regrets about foregoing personal relationships in favor of career, as Borg does. But, in the end it is difficult to see Borg as an anguished or tragic person. He made choices, some good and some bad, just like we all do. Maybe he could have had more personal happiness with different choices, who can tell. By opting for more personal happiness, maybe his talents as an honored scientist would have been lost to society. Is the social good of a life less valuable than personal satisfaction? Besides, at an old age Borg has a devoted housekeeper who is almost a surrogate wife, he is well off, he is honored by his peers, he is still intellectually active, he is engaged enough to recite poetry, and, importantly, he is still flexible and thoughtful enough to be changed by his experiences. After his long day he has had not only sobering, wounding experiences, but also the delight in his young companions and the satisfaction of being publicly honored. He is able to integrate these experiences and, near the end of life, find peace rather than confusion and despair.Woody Allen's "Another Woman" has been compared to this movie. Indeed Allen's movie was surely inspired by "Wild Strawberries," and I think it is the superior movie - deeper and more involving.


                
My Rating : 7/10I picked this up as it was Stanley Kubrick's 2nd favourite film in the only list he made. So...what can I say about it? Well, it's exactly what the storyline says it is. It's a story about an old man who revisits his life's old memories from childhood to marriage to all his close relationships.It's an average watch, nothing much to write about. I liked the dream-like visuals of Bergman. There's nothing negative to write about either. Don't really understand why it's so highly rated.


                
Dr. Isak Borg is 78 and getting a honorary degree. He sets out on a long car ride from Stockholm to Lund. He is joined by his pregnant daughter-in-law Marianne who doesn't like his harden coldness. She is planning to separate from his only son Evald. He has various dreams and nightmares which bring his past to life.Ingmar Bergman dives into an old man's re-evaluation of his life. This is definitely more art film than popcorn movie. It has some great sections although it is possible something that isn't compelling to me right now. Isak's cold distance does put me at arm's length. He's not a particularly fun character for me to follow but it is interesting.


                
Ingmar Bergman is the quintessential, existential filmmaker. To me, he is the black angel of cinematic death, and please, I mean that in the best way possible. He's most famous for attempting to answer the questions that all of us want answered. What is the meaning of life? What happens when we die? Is there a god? Is there a heaven or a hell? Bergman is always asking these questions in his film, and always, does he find interesting answers and hypothesis formed by these questions. He uses his actors and his framing abilities to help drive home the main idea of these films, and thus, his movies are notoriously not very hard to understand. Most importantly, he has an ability to make us understand the answers, and to help us understand ourselves. Bergman is an introspective filmmaker by definition, and because of that, his films have become so cherished and remembered for being so. In a period slightly before his heyday, no film makes a better example of his unique cinematic mission than "Wild Strawberries""Wild Strawberries" focuses on an elderly professor, Dr. Isak Borg, who lives by himself with his common-law wife in Stockholm. After a lifelong journey of achieving greatness in himself and academia, he has been invited to Lund University to receive an honorary degree. He gets in a car with his daughter-in-law, Marianne, and together they travel to Lund. Through the travel, Isak is haunted by his own thoughts and dreams that have accumulated after years of isolation and reflection. At the not-so-ripe age of 78, Isak want's to understand what led him to this strange point of his life, where he went wrong, and what on Earth will happen next? He is remembered of the place of his childhood, where the wild strawberries grew. A time when he romanced his young, beautiful cousin, Sara, before being stolen from him by his older, arrogant brother Sigfrid. Before going on the trip, he has a vivid, terrible nightmare of being old, as a dead body follows him through a city street and a hearse crashed in front of him, revealing a clone of himself in a casket. Through the ways of the trip, and through the hitchhikers he meets along the way, his mind keeps racing and the dreams of his past and future keep following him. The journey becomes so strenuous and visceral to his memory, that by the time he arrives at his destination, his psyche is entirely cleansed, and he is greeted with the memory of a peaceful fishing trip with his family. What Bergman is doing here is experimenting with time and space, through memory and reflection. His style reminds me of "Hiroshima Mon-Amour", considering that there is no clear pattern between what happens in the moment, and what happens in the past. Bergman is giving us a deconstructed narrative that in essence, gives us a clear indication of the kind of crisis that Isak is going through. As a man that has been through everything and nothing, his mind is racing, much like our own, of scenarios that did and didn't happen. This is quite an interesting introspective device that Bergman uses. He is making movies about people, the exact way that we think about each other. Bergman typically uses characters that wrestle with their own identity, and bravely ask questions that might have no answers. Thus, it doesn't take much interpretation of the audience to understand, because all of the questions and answers are presented on screen. "Wild Strawberries" is a very entertaining, beautiful piece to that effect. The entire time, I was haunted, confused, and rightfully engaged with Isak and the characters he meets. My favorite scene of the film is the nightmare at the beginning. The surrealism of this section is frightening and so wonderfully imaginative. I loved the giant eyeglasses that appeared over his head, as well as the dead man with no face that appears to him in the middle of the street. Bergman was really experimenting with some wonderful visual concepts, especially for the 1950's. I thought the acting, was also very real and interesting to watch. Bergman was always known to be a director for actors, and in this film especially, he makes his actors play these characters as real people, not merely as stage personas. What we get because of that is a real, frightening portrayal of an older man, and seeing that alone is fascinating. In conclusion, "Wild Strawberries" is a dark and interesting classic about the struggle of understanding our fate, and without question, it should regarded as one of the great films of Ingmar Bergman.


                
I begin this review with an acknowledgement that viewing this film 56 years after it's initial debut has diminished it's impact for me. Some of the techniques, both in story telling and in visual stimuli are very dated. Although I can appreciate the care and attention to detail utilized in the making of the film it does not deliver anything that I have not seen before. Mostly it conveys a familiar message in an time and tradition that may have been ground breaking in it's day but is not now. The photography is beautiful. The characters are not singular in their originality or their behavior. I recognize many of the actors from other Bergman films such as the Magician, The Seventh Seal and the Virgin Spring. This is a nice little movie about an old man reflecting on his past on an important date in his life. Good but not necessarily a classic. Classic in the sense that it is from a classic era of film making and by a heralded director no less but it does not reside in my top 100 movies of all time. Perhaps that opinion is a byproduct of my era? Perhaps it's not. There are other films made before this one that I regard much more highly. Gone with the wind, Double Indemnity, Spellbound, Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Sunrise, Pride of the Yankees, Key Largo and 12 Angry Men are all old films yet they suit my sensibilities better.


                
"Wild Strawberries" is a drama movie in which we have a man who was loyal to science and in his carrier for all of his life and he never felt love, passion or some emotions from someone else. Because of his work he will be granted an honorable title and because this ceremony will take place in another city he decides to go by car and not with airplane as he had planned before. And everything will change in this trip.I really liked this movie because it shows us how a person's way of thinking and even feeling can change due to some facts or incidents that take place. In addition to this we can observe that because of some incidents or because of some people and the conversations that we have with them can change many things to us or we will reconsider some decisions that we had took. Ialso liked this movie because of the plot which I found brilliant. I also believe that the interpretation of Victor Sjöström who played as Dr. Isak Borg was really great and also the interpretation of Ingrid Thulin who played as Marianne Borg was equally good.Finally I have to say that "Wild Strawberries" is a great movie to watch because after watching this movie I am sure that you will start thinking a little bit different. And of course you will reconsider some things that we have as granted and we should not all of us in our lives.


                
The journey that Bergman takes us on vicariously through Wild Strawberries is a road adventure of past experiences and mistakes. Compared to an American road trip film, where the actual adventure lies in self discovery, Wild Strawberries is quite different—instead Bergman permits us into the memories of an old, egocentric man named Dr. Isak Borg who clings to past emotional attachments and his failures.In this film, nostalgia is more or less a "bittersweet" experience. Instead of reminiscing about his childhood and his deceased wife, old and weathered Professor Borg analyzes himself and his past choices negatively. Borg's character challenges the stigma "the older, the wiser" due to his sterile personality and obviously stubborn disposition—he is emotionally unavailable for the majority of the story. However, in contrast, the film as a whole represents the sad and inevitable changes one endures over a lifetime and is amazingly quite human. The film stands alone as incredibly accessible and simplistic in its meaning and content, a film which truly speaks to the audience about coping with mortality, the significance of life, and the importance of the relationship with your loved ones, friends, family, and ultimately yourself.


                
"Wild Strawberries", Ingmar Bergman's classic film in which an elderly physician examines his life while traveling to receive an honorary award for his years of service is probably not a household name, but it should be seen. Professor Isak Borg (Sjostrom) has been living alone for years with only his housekeeper to keep him company, as he has alienated his grown son and his daughter in law. His cold demeanor and brusque mannerisms don't help to win him many friends, so on the advent of the award ceremony, while his daughter in law drives him there he reflects on his past and things that happened/decisions he made that led him to become the man he has, and led to the life he is living. Whether they are nightmarish dreams about death, or bona fide memories he experiences while they visit his childhood home along the way, each occurrence makes him more introspective (and a bit frightened) about his life and the lives of those around him."Clarity" is not the first word that comes to mind when I think of Bergman, but the words "introspective" and "provocative" do. "Wild Strawberries" was like a less sentimental "Goodbye Mr. Chips", and even has some similarities to "Deconstructing Harry". After experiencing Bergman films like "The Seventh Seal", I was expecting there to be a lot of room for interpretation, and what I got was a beautiful, interesting and thought-provoking study of a man who didn't realize all that he had lost until he finally allowed himself (or forced himself, depending on which way you want to look at it) to come to terms with certain turning points in his life, some of which he had complete control over, and some which were decided for him.Bergman's black and white cinematography is gorgeous and artful, and Sjostrom's performance is heartfelt and natural. The supporting cast is good as well. If you're trying to get someone to get into Bergman films, this may be a good warm-up before exposing them to "The Seventh Seal" or even "Persona". With "Wild Strawberries", Bergman proves once again that he is one of the most thought-provoking and creative directors of the 20th century. I would definitely recommend this film. 7/10 --Shelly


                
The actor, screenwriter and director Victor Sjöstrom was a major figure in the silent film of the early 20th century. Decades later, when film had long since transitioned to talkies and Sjöstrom had disappeared from the scene, focusing instead on theatre, Ingmar Bergman called him back for the 1957 effort WILD STRAWBERRIES. And instead of trying to evoke the great achievements of Sjöstrom's younger days, Bergman let this now 78-year-old man depict with no holds barred what old age and the thought of imminent death are really like.As the film opens, we are introduced to Professor Isak Borg (Sjöstrom), who started out as a provincial doctor but made some new medical discoveries and established a shining career in academia. Borg must travel to the distant Swedish city of Lund to accept an honorary degree from the university there, and he decides to drive the whole distance. He is accompanied by his daughter-in-law Marianne (Ingrid Thulin), who had been staying with him after a row with Borg's son Evald, and who eventually takes the wheel for the old man. Along the way they pick up three young hitchhikers, and later they get into a fender-bender with an unhappy married couple.Initially Borg's housekeeper and Marianne are puzzled that the elderly professor wants to drive all that way, but we soon discover that the route passes some places from Borg's younger days. Flashbacks that are shown during stops, and the professor's own dreams as he doses off, reveal feelings of regret and guilt that the old man had been harbouring all his life. The three hitchhikers in the bloom of youth remind Borg even more sharply of his elderly state, and the married couple only serves as a reminder of his own unhappy family life. He is tormented by the thought that he has little time left to set things right with those close to him that he had alienated years, even decades, before.WILD STRAWBERRIES is very touching, and it is one of those films where the main character is played in such a great bit of acting that all the other details hardly matter. Still, the supporting roles are memorable. Bibi Andersson plays two roles that are worlds apart. In one, Andersson is the main hitchhiker character, a sort of liberated woman and tomboy. The other role is Borg's early love interest, a woman reflective of upper-class society in early 20th-century Sweden with all its strict ideas about proper female behaviour. Other longtime members of Bergman's stable appear: Max von Sydow as a rural petrol station attendant, and Gunnar Björnstrand as Borg's son that takes all too after the old man.In spite of the film's strengths, I must admit that WILD STRAWBERRIES is not among my favourite Bergman efforts. It seems especially flawed by one subplot: among the hitchhikers that Borg takes, two of them are always squabbling about whether God exists. I find this bears very little relationship with the protagonist's dilemma (Borg himself doesn't muse on what they say), and instead it's like Bergman was trying to shoehorn in the religious themes of his other major films of this era, such as THE SEVENTH SEAL. Still, even what I feel to be lesser Bergman is still great cinema, and I imagine most viewers will enjoy this poignant tale.


                
Veteran filmmaker Victor Sjostrom plays Dr Isak Borg, a man who has shunned social contact where possible, who is nearing the end of his life. Borg decides to drive to the other end of the country to collect an honorary doctorate in recognition of his work, and is accompanied by his daughter-in-law, Marianne (Ingrid Thulin). Although Borg is supposed to be something of a misanthropist, he doesn't really come across as one in the film; in fact he comes across as quite a pleasant old chap. This could be because of a dream he recently had in which he wanders deserted city streets before coming across a clock with no hands and a carriage containing a coffin within which lies his own body. It's an undeniably powerful sequence – and must have been even more so back in 1957 – and it indicates to both Isak and the audience that death is not far away.This realisation triggers a series of hallucinations which cause Isak to re-assess his life, and the incidents that resulted in him becoming the way he is. We learn that the woman he really loved left him for another man, an act which he perhaps has regarded as one of feckless cruelty, but which his hallucination informs us was actually a tortuous decision.Isak and Marianne stop on the way to visit Isak's 96-year-old mother who lives alone, and largely unvisited, in a detached old house. There is little intimacy between mother and son, and it becomes evident that Isak was an unwanted child (much like Bergman). It's perhaps easy, then, to see the genetic conditioning that led Isak down the path he chose.The film continues in this revelatory vein for its relatively brief running time, and it is never less than an intelligent and absorbing tale. Isak and Marianne pick up hikers on their travels: a young girl – played by Bibi Andersson, who also plays Sara, Isak's lost love – and her two male companions, whose situation mirrors that of Isak's Sara, and a bickering married couple, with whom Isak relates because they remind him of his own troubled marriage to a wife long dead.Wild Strawberries is one of those films that tempts the viewer into ever deeper thought: the more you think about it, the more you realise you've yet to uncover. The best films are like this: you keep peeling away one layer only to reveal another underneath – and while they don't provide the visceral thrill of more popular films, they are undoubtedly infinitely more rewarding. The subject matter might be grim – coming to terms with the imminent end of one's life, the nature of death, and the perilous path misinformed decisions can lead us down – but Wild Strawberries isn't a depressing film. It's not exactly uplifting, either, but it has something to say, and says it in an intelligent and insightful way. Victor Sjostrom, whose last film this would be, gives a near perfect performance as old Isak. He was 78 when the film was made – the same age as the character he plays – and in poor health, a fact which ironically enhances the realism of his performance.


                
"Wild Strawberrys" wasn't as obtuse as other Bergman films.  I thought it was an touching examination of an old, bitter man's realization of his life's end.  From recollection's and comments from his traveling group he realizes he has become a mean, old b***ard.  There were touches of cruelty the movie.  Isak, his son Evald, their mother and the couple they were in a car accident with, all show signs of cruelty.  They were mean, cold and bitter.  Marianne seems to notice and comment on the behavior as if she were the conscience of the movie.  She was played by a young Ingrid Thulin and was gorgeous.  She was also memorable as Karin in "Cries and Whispers". Bibi Andersson played an almost Sandra Dee type character.  It seems only the young people were happy in this movie and as they grew older they became mean and bitter.  It wasn't a real happy movie.  The ending was a bit more uplifting.  Overall a good movie and a nice introduction to Bergman movies.


                
Wild Strawberries is at once a road trip film, and a trip down memory lane. 78 year old Isak journeys through idyllic forestry on the way to a ceremony that celebrates his life achievements as a doctor. He travels with his daughter-in-law, picks up a young trio hitching their way to Italy, and briefly, an arguing couple who they were involved in a car accident with. He recalls past memories of his younger days, and has bad dreams. It plays out less like narrative fiction than a hodge-podge diary entry, things occurring spontaneously. This means no one mood is ever built upon in layers, rather it ebbs and flows almost without structure. There are themes of death hanging over the film, unanswered questions regarding God and science, bickering and co-operation between men and women, the contrast of expression between young and old, and an appreciation for the beauty of life and the honour of career based achievements, contrasted with incidents recalling great sadness, and a failure in personal relationships - from lost loves, cheating partners, and forgotten family. Although Isak appears quite endearing and the film takes a sympathetic viewpoint, he is nonetheless faulted for his past cold aloofness which caused the women to cheat, yet the women and the partners they took up with are also faulted for their lack of principal. And when Isak attempts a greater warmth towards his maid in the final scene, she rebuffs him, long set in her own manner. In this fashion Bergman veers away from giving cliché or easy answers, and manages to capture the complexities of human relationships.Aside from hints that Isak's remaining days are limited, there is not a great deal of tension in the film, meaning it is more poem than a blockbuster. Yet it manages to maintain interest due to the emotional sway, and all encompassing themes - which are ever present, yet never preached. It is a quest for meaning, where the filmmakers wish not to give the answer, but capture the journey - for which a road trip proves a suitable metaphoric vehicle. The freewheeling nature of it helps prevent the weighty themes from becoming too morbid, and feels just as though they would on any road trip spent staring out the window. Vivid and distant at the same time.
Let me tell you a little bit about the movie before my opinions, Wild Strawberries is a Swedish movie directed and written by Ingmar Bergman in 1957. Bergmann himself is a very interesting character, most of his movies relate to a personal experience. Interestingly enough although Wild Strawberries was nominated for best screenplay written, its not one of his top movies.I started watching Wild Strawberries late at night and after 30 mins, I wanted to sleep, things were moving too slow. I stopped watching and went to sleep, woke up this morning and finished the movie. My thoughts at the end were that must have been such a great movie int he 50's. You know when they say, it was a walk down memory lane, the movie is literally that. The idea was that this old man, Dr.Isaak Borg (main character) was going on a trip from the city he lives in to another city to be honored for being a medical doctor for 50 years. He decides to go by car and along the road he stops at places where he had memories as a young man. He also meets few interesting characters along the road and have dreams that shows his fears of being a lonely old man. The idea is really brilliant for the 50's and the directing was really good, it had beautiful scenes and really nice camera angles. Some scenes were so beautiful that it feels more like its a painted picture. Its really impressive how Bergman was able to execute his story that well. What I also loved is how the dreams reflected the character's fears and managed to show that in some well done graphic tricks. The music played through the movie served the scenes well, but the sound editing wasn't good at all, I felt every cut. Beautiful costumes and I loved how the young women were wearing pants and smoking cigarettes and driving! it felt so modern and open minded. However, I wasn't impressed by the main character's acting, it was shallow and I couldn't sympathize with him much. I liked more the secondary characters who joined him in his trip, they were more believable. I also didn't like how blunt some parts were in showing that he is a cold old man, it was more like Bergman was giving us facts with not much reasons behind it, of course through the movie you understand why is he that ruthless, but it was mentioned too much from different characters and too bluntly. And I must admit, unfortunately I didn't enjoy the language much (sorry!).Was it a good movie? yes indeed! but I wouldn't watch it again, it didn't leave me wondering and I was bored at the beginning.its-lalas-land.blogspot.com
An old professor reflects on his life. This is a typical Bergman film in that it touches on big themes like love, marriage, death, and God. The handling of these themes is not as heavy handed as in "The Seventh Seal," although the symbolism is too obvious (handless clock = death). Sjostrom is quite good as the professor. Thulin is also fine as his daughter-in-law. Andersson is lovely as the cousin he loved as a young man and regrets not marrying. Apparently in Sweden it is socially acceptable to marry one's cousin. A contrived plot device has Andersson also playing a young woman by the same name as the professor's cousin that he happens to meet in old age, a lazy metaphor for lost youth.


                
'Wild Strawberries' is a surprisingly accessible Ingmar Bergman film: the story of an aged doctor who is drawn to reflect on what has made him the person that he is. What's interesting is the depth of the psychology here: this movie was made in 1957, and for it's day, the sophistication of the characterisation is quite astonishing, render it in colour and you could easily believe that it dates from decades later. The style, however, is talky, the cast do their job but the whole experience lacks a little of the intensity of Bergman's later work. Nonetheless, it's a shrewd insight into the nature personality, and ahead of it's time.


                
