The Show starts with a 10 out of 10. Shocking, Amazing beginning. Unlike anything I've ever seen. Midway is a 8/10. The final episodes of season one fall to a 7/10. Then we come to the second season, 7/10 at best because the main character's whole journey is anticlimactic. Season 2 dips to a 6/10 at times, though the finale is a 10/10. In both seasons, things happen that are just irritating. Characters aren't used to their full potential. Beloved characters are killed off for shock value when they could have been used more effectively if they weren't killed off. Oh, but you see, just when you think a character is dead, you find out they are alive, but the writers do nothing major with that information and things continue as they were before. Then you think that the same character is dead once again for a few episodes, only to find out a few episodes later that the character actually survived. Wow, you say to yourself: "Why do I care about these characters again?". You watch a whole bunch of pointless battles with no clear person to root for and ask yourself: "Why am I watching this show again?" "What's the point to all these battles?" "Why am I finding myself hating and loving everyone at the same time?" "Why do I have no one to root for?" "Why is there no clear good guy and no clear bad guy?" "Why is everyone's reason for fighting so stupid?" Then you try to console yourself and justify these questions by telling yourself the show was made for a thinker, an intellectual like yourself, so you praise the shows attempts at symbolism and metaphor: "Ah, what a work of art; the pointless battles must symbolize the pointless nature of violence" and "Ah, the lack of good guy versus bad guy is intentional to reflect the unclear nature of morality, which lies in shades of gray, of course". But then you get to the final journey, the answer everyone has been looking for, and the answer doesn't satisfy you nor the main character. Then you just get angry at how dumb the show is and how dumb the main character is and how pointless the whole journey is. Then you just mindlessly watch the next episodes just to see how it ends. Ah, good ending, very emotional, you cry, the ending wins you over and you think "Maybe I was too hard on this show"; then your tears make you forget everything you previously hated about the show and you rate it a 10/10 on IMDb. Fool. I won't make the same mistake.
