Note- This is a good series, even for people who aren't particularly interested in anime.*Premise* The show takes place in a futuristic world where the Holy Britannain Empire rules over a third of the globe. Their emperor's conquest has lead them to Japan, which they conquered easily due to their superior military technology (machines called Nightmares). Japan is renamed area 11, and it is here, 8 years after Britannia's invasion that the story begins. The protagonist is Lelouch Lamperouge, a high school student who is given a power called Geass, which he uses to wage war against the Britannian Empire.*Overall Impression*: This is an incredible undertaking in animated series. The continuous plotting and action provides excitement that will keep you on the edge of your seat, and the writers never fail to deliver the thrilling climaxes that you would expect from the constant cliffhangers. Definitely worth watching.*The Pros* After finishing "Death Note" and loving it, I started looking for similar series, and this was one that was recommended all over the place. After watching 2 episodes, I became hooked and finished the series (including season 2 or r2) in 3 days. Fans of Death Note will enjoy Code Geass, although I must say it doesn't have the same dark mood as Death Note. This is an excellent series for anyone looking for suspenseful & exciting action & drama. The protagonist, Lelouch, is an excellent strategist and tactician, and his brilliant tactics as he battles the forces of Britannia, the world's largest empire, will keep you craving more. While the action of the series is largely centered around mecha (transformers style robots), I can assure you it isn't simply a nonstop explosive battle. Much of the focus is on plan & strategy execution, and drama that keeps the story rolling.The artwork is incredible.*The Cons* At times, characters & dialogue can become over-dramatic or oversimplified. Lelouch's sister, Nunnally, for example is almost so sweet that it makes you sick, and sometimes characters shout & gesture in excess of dramatic effect.My overall impression is at the top, and I absolutely recommend this series to anyone looking for an exciting ride.


                
Code Geass Lelouch pf the Rebellion is about a 17 year old boy named Lecouch who gets a mysteros power named Geass which is aalble to control the thoughts and opinians of anyone who looks into his eyes. With his new power, the exiled prince of britannia vows to take down the leader of britannia, where he aims to create a world of light and hope for his little sister. A world without war, discrimination and injustice. I watched the firsr episode of thisbshow a few yeara back and sisn't really like it at all. I wanted it to be darker. But the firsrt episode didn't hook me at all. So I ignored it. Until I started to see how much praise peopmw gave the show. I got the ending of the show spoiled. So I knew what the fate of a certain character. But Indisn't know how it lead uo to that, so I gave the show a watch and watched past episode 1 and OMG, thia show is AMAZING. It is like if Death Note and Fullmetal Alchmist had a baby together. It really feela alot like those two shows, but it's different enough and more original foe me to not care too much. Leloucb is possibly on of my favourite main characters in anime. He uses that intelligent brain of his, combined with the geaas and you have this really skilfully, tactical man. Even the other main charactera like Suzaku, Colin, C2 are all so AMAZING. The animation, for a 2006 anime still holds up today. I cannot belive this show came out when I was 9 years old. It still looks AMAZING. The soundtrack is very good. There was nothing I really hated about this show, but maybe in terms id my mixed feelings, I would say the voice acting. I am quite split on this because when the englisb dub voice acting is good, it is really REALLY good. But when it is bad, it is really REALLY cringe bad. I would say the voice acting of Lelouch's little sister is possibly one of the WORST acting I have heard. It makes me cringe every time she speaks, although her actinf gets a tad better. Also, the pacing of the show seems a little too fast at times. I mean, there are some BIG revelations and suprises that happen and you dom't even have time to soak in what has hapoenes because it just foes on to the next thing very quickly. It's ironic because I loved the Naruot series, but the pacing was sooook slow, it felr like the show disn't get anywhere. But with this show, the pacing was so fast and snappy, you can't seem to enjoy certajn things. So if the pacing waa inbetween slow and faat, this could have been a perfect show. But, thoae are just my mixed feelings of it, overwise, a suprisingly entertaining show, with great animatiom, sounstrack and a grwst plot with deep messages. I 100% recommend giving thia show a watch, especially on blu-ray. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0081><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BE>


                
I watched both seasons at once, over the last few days, so my review concerns the whole series. The animation and art style are brilliant. While some reviewers seem to mind the ridiculous breast sizes, revealing outfits and nude scenes, I think they lightened the mood and didn't feel out of place. The storyline is slightly lacking, with many episodes relying on a single formula: "Lelouch creates an ingenious plan; all goes well, they almost win without effort; Suzaku shows up and everything falls apart". While the major plot devices, twists and definitely the finale are great, a lot of the story lines in many episodes seem to be merely fillers. The biggest flaw of the show however, is character development. Especially in Season 2, so many people switch between sides, are conflicted about seemingly obvious choices or make decisions, that contradict what their previous behaviour would suggest. The most apparent example of this is Suzaku. He is created as the opposite of Lelouch, believing in ends never justifying the means and in following the rules in order to change an organisation from within. While I understand that it is not simple for the writers to create such a character, the resulting Suzoku is so over-the-top hypocritical and self-righteous it's painful to watch. It is hence very difficult to emphasise with him as a positive character.The comparison to Death Note is obvious, as many other reviews have shown. In my opinion, Code Geass pales in comparison to Death Note. The latter is deeper, darker and has a masterful story and characters that feel natural. While the action and art style is superior in Code Geass, everything else is better in Death Note.In conclusion, I still give this show 8/10 despite it's great flaws. It is beautiful, captivating and thoughtful. While not the best, it is still very good.


                
It is one of the best anime series. The reason this show doesn't deserve a 10 star rating is because it is based on strategy and wit, but a lot of times the logic is faulty and the consequences of actions are not properly depicted.The strong point of this anime is that of its depiction of human emotions and experiences. There is immense character development of main characters as well as side characters. The emotions are intense and feel true. Vulnerability and human weaknesses are shown very well, which contribute heavily in keeping the narrative gripping.The ending was particularly good as everything went to hell. Nothing made sense. Nothing was right, nobody was wrong. Everything was gray. In the end, the one with power chooses to write his history.


                
There's a popular term in plot writing, called "Deus ex Machina" (God from the machine), meaning an unrealistic plot device that suddenly makes everything in the story alright and ties up all the loose ends at one fell swoop. If you remember Monty Python's "Life of Brian" where the heroes are suddenly saved by aliens at the last moment, that's a Deus ex Machina, or at least a parody of one. Code Geass S1 is the first time I've seen the exact opposite - a Devil from the machine, a moment when everything goes awry from a single improbable plot twist. I'm talking of course about episode 22. I'm not going to reveal it just yet, but be warned.Despite its meticulously tangled Death Note-style storyline (which has been deservedly praised), Code Geass deserves some criticism as well. First - for its political unrealism and exaggerations. The goal of these exaggerations was obviously to make a point about revolutions vs. reform from within, and I don't mind the over-exaggerated political entities, Britania, the Chinese Federation and the EU. What I do mind however, are the rushed political circumstances that lead to the plot twist in episode 22. ====(Spoiler starts here:) How did the Emperor, the other aristocracy and the army go along with Euphemia's decision to violate Britania's territorial integrity and create a mini-Japan within Area 11? A frivolous decision like that doesn't just pass automatically, and it carries a high risk of being executed as a traitor.The borders of New Japan are left unclear. It's unlikely that it was enough to house and feed all the Japanese that want independence. What about the mineral Sekuradite? Does New Japan have access to its own resources? The whole New Japan proposal looked to me a lot like an Indian reserve, or the Gaza strip and West bank, i.e. not a stable or fair solution, but a place for an occupied people to wallow in anger. Kururugi's righteousness was protected a bit too much by the writer's pen. The whole idea that you can change a nationalistic empire from within by serving in the army, refusing to kill anyone, and eventually getting cozy with one of the princesses and single-handedly declaring independence for Japan is very far-fetched. That's like a Jew in Nazi Germany rising up in the ranks and reforming the Third Reich. Sorry about the Nazi analogy, but I think it's logical. The mother of all plot devices was Lelouch's "accidental" slip of the tongue and the simultaneous "accidental" activation of the Geass that led to princess Euphemia suddenly wanting to kill all Japanese. And all that when Zero was just about ready to sign a peace deal. Awwww. That's simply a kick in the groin for some viewers. Finally, there's something annoyingly edifying about the Death-Note-style storyline: (1) deal with the devil, (2) power to influence the world, (3) hiding the power from your close ones, (4), main character becomes a crazy maniac (5) power backfires, (6) all goes to hell. What's the moral? That you shouldn't make deals with the devil because you will fail inevitably? That's a bit too predictable in my opinion. ====(Spoiler ends here)Note: This review was written after watching season 1. Season 2 is much better, far more consistent and deserves kinder words. I'd give it a 9/10. Season 1 - 7/10. Overall - somewhere in the middle.
I have to say, Lelouch definately acts like Light from Death Note on this. I absouletely like him as a character because he is just darn clever and does have what it takes to get what he wants. The way hes able to control people and the way he is really a sneaky b*stard, makes you think the likes of some of our world leaders today! Yeah it really hasn't changed in this century, if you're reading this review in the next century folks then you would understand what we went through lol! While I don't think the anime is the best but Lelouch does have you on your toes with his evil mastermind plans and you could see also his soft side because of his sister who couldnt walk or see due to PTSD. It really was sad that both their mum died and having the sister witness it from her eyes, then suddenly become blind/unable to walk because of it. Lelouch really is a caring brother and thats what I like about him more to the extent as a character.Well done Johnny Yong Bosch for doing such a great performance as Lelouch!!!!!!
If you told me Code Geass sucked, I wouldn't even flinch. There's too much going on, and a lot of it falls flat. Its a mecha anime, its a high school one, and it has aspects of fantasy. Its serious, its funny, its ecchi. It has feats of genius, and feats of pure power fantasy. It has, no joke, dozens of plot twists. More than a few of them come out of nowhere, and one of them is among the worst plot devices in history. Plot points have unsatisfactory answers, accelerate three times too fast, or get bogged due to clutter.F it. I'll still support this show. Its pretty fun, it has some great suspense, generally good pace, and a few emotional scenes. The characters are mostly likable and three-dimensional. Lelouch, our lead, develops, and has moments of sorrow and heartlessness. And the action is top-notch. These knightmare frames are fast! And no battle is a push-over. Some of the plot twists are mind-blowing, too.A lot of people love this anime. I know more than a few who dislike it. I can't say you should check out the first episode to decide, because that only breaches the surface of Geass's strengths and weaknesses. Regardless if you'll love it or hate it, its defiantly something out of the ordinary.


                
