First thing i would like to ask? y the hell r there only 17 reviews in IMDb for this awesome show?!while things like pokemon and twilight get thousands of reviews!I only had to watch the first episode to discover that i am going to be spending the rest of my free time watching this. Yes...this show is very addictive. At the end of every episode there is a twist or something to look forward to the next episode.The story and writing is simply top notch The best part of this anime is the moral decisions the protagonists makes right or wrong ..good or evil ??its all in the persons perspective.Another best part of this show is the music which just fits so well with the superb dialogues.English voice acting was very very good.The strategies employed in this show remind me of death note but this show is different in its own kind.Not just the brilliant story with twists , even the emotions that get evoked in you in some episodes is just so good..Enough said..just go and watch this awesome show of 50 episodes to get your mind blown and heart fulfilled...


                
Code Geass takes place in an alternative timeline where there the three super powers are the Holy Britannian Empire–also called Britannia–, the Chinese Federation, and the Europia United. The main story starts after Britannia takes control of Japan and renames the country as Area 11 with the citizens referred to as Elevens. Lelouch vi Britannia is an exiled Britannian prince who was used as a bargaining tool to Japan with his sister, Nunnally vi Britannia, by his father Charles zi Britannia after the mysterious death of his mother, Marianne vi Britannia. Lelouch and Nunnaly was taken care of his Japanese friend, Suzaku Kururuhi, and vows to destroy Britannia one day. Lelouch hides his identity while attending as a student at Ashford Academy under the name of Lelouch Lamperouge. However, Lelouch accidentally gets involved with a terrorist attack and finds a girl named C.C.–pronounced as C-2– and receives a special power called a Geass. With his new found power, Lelouch takes it upon himself to find his mother's killer and destroy Britannia. He hides his identify as a masked figure named Zero and starts his own terrorist group called The Black Knights.The creation of this anime was spectacular with its visuals and audio blasting away the audience. The animation was done by the studio Sunrise who is also in charge of the famous Gundam series. For a anime from 2006-2008, I think that this had one of the best animators working on the aesthetic of the animation. The characters were design by the famous mangaka group Clamp, the creators of Cardcaptor Sakura, xxxHolic, and Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle. The characters created by Clamp are voiced by actors such as Jun Fukuyama, Takahiro Sakurai, and Yukana Nogami. The other animes these three also voiced include Bleach, Naruto, xxxHolic, and Cardcaptor Sakura. The best part of this anime, however, is the main plot created by the authors. *When I say plot, I do not mean the how complete the plot as a whole is.* Many problems with action and mecha anime is that the plot often deteriorates as the episodes continue to air. The important difference between the plot of Code Geass and any other mecha and action anime is that the focus is not on the fighting which often ruins the story. Yes, there is lots of mechas fighting and other distracting scenes, however the focus is about Lelouch getting what he wants. Anime often have arcs, or stories plots that happen chronologically, but often time aren't directly connected to each other. Normally, arcs are often compared to each other in terms of plot which ends up with some being liked more than others. In Code Geass, the arcs are thoroughly thought out and connected together to create one flowing story from the beginning of Season 1 to the last episode of Season 2. As often found in most forms of media, plot twists is the underlining factor of this anime that makes it well known throughout the anime community. Many view that this may be cliché, however, this is an anime from 2006, so give it a rest. You can expect to find plot twists in almost the entirety of the anime. The plot twists in Code Geass not only affect the entire plot, but also each character's personality and emotions. Without giving away any spoilers, for example, Lelouch has a scene where he makes a terrible, plot changing mistake that completely changes plot from a great moment to the worst. Every action in this show has a deeper meaning that doesn't make sense until the great plot twist is revealed.Some people do believe that Code Geass doesn't deserve all the praise it gets complaining that it is cliché or doesn't have a good story plot. In all honesty, it depends on the individuals whether they like it or not. There are some episodes which are fillers, boring, or doesn't make clear sense, but after all that, the viewer can taste the juiciest part of the show at the end. So try watch until the end before you complain its bad or not.
Somehow this anime includes geopolitics, imperialism, servitude and rebellion with mecha and does fairly well. I would say that this is among those animes that the use of mecha is justified. After all Britannia, a neo-feudal empire utilises them for their knights and the rebel forces for their samurai, what a wonderful idea to combine and present them to entertain.Colouring in Code Geass is outstanding.It makes the scenes and characters vivid. The scenes capture the feeling of the moment powerfully and when it comes to anticipation and suspense it shines. As for the sound it fits the setting and complements it. I found that when it came to Lelouch the background music articulated his aura with engrossment.The story unravels itself for the most part and it seems that by the conclusion of the season and the anime many of the story's elements have been clarified. At times the story gets exhilarating, thrilling and makes one wonder. There are moments in the story that raise questions that would have impacted the its flow and perhaps, as I think about it, changed the ending. Also, moments where it appears that it behooved the writers to include such fan service. As a whole the story by episode can become very intense to mild and back to very intense again, eventually even.The themes that occur in Code Geass are servitude where one is to serve the status quo to change it. Rebellion where outright insurgency and defiance to occupation in order to displace it. Treason and loyalty, the question of who is a traitor and who is loyal. The use of power and justice, a case to protect others with righteousness or survival of the fittest - law of the jungle. And, the essence of people, what exists within people behind their appearance. Servitude and rebellion are emphasised.Its a wonderful anime to watch and develops interest as it progresses. A lot of effort was put into this anime and that itself is commendable. If you like mecha and are reasonably knowledgeable with history you could like this very much.Enjoy!
I have long been a anime fan. Have seen all genre spanning from war,drama,action,mecha,comedy,tragedy,dark humour.
I don't give ratings this high this often. I was absolutely blown away by the world building and story presentation in just 50 episodes. The way story is written and shown just grips you and doesn't let you go till the very end.
If there is ever a list of best animes of all times, this surely deserves a place amongst the likes of the big guns like Death Note, Attack on Titans, Fullmetal Alchemist. I never thought I'd rate any thing close to Death note and FMA yet this certainly deserves to be there.
Full marks for animation, story, characters, design, presentation, and Direction.
My only con would be that we probably needed a few more episodes to get more in depth characterization of some of lelouch's fabled family.
One of the deservingly grandest and undoubtedly magnificent.


                
Man i cant even express how i feel about it.in fact i really don't know how i feel about it.it was a live heart attack.i thought i became a heart patient.well i truly don't know that is this type of story good or not in which the antagonist is the villain himself. how ever it is a great series having a continuous sequence of heart blocking suspense and that part is the best about it which makes it the best.The one thing i am curious about it that what happened in the end.well what ever it was the one thing i would like to say to the viewers is that DON'T MISS IT AT ANY COST.its worth taking your time.i hope if that there will be some other projects having the same suspense but this time the antagonist should be the hero a good person.


                
Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion simply has to be one of the best contemporary anime ever been made. The excellence in this series are its characters with brilliant story line encompassing them all the way to the end. There's never a let up in the progression of the story. What's remarkable about it is the maintaining the suitability of the characters thorough 50 episodes of 2 season. Its highly inquisitive episodes draws the viewers for more and once again, it'll never disappoint. Expecting the progression of the story line is futile. It's almost always a surprise is thrown at you. Great anime. If your an anime fan, this is a must watch. I thank the production crew for coming up with such a brilliant anime.


                
(minor spoilers) This is a highly addictive, brilliantly scripted series. It is not advised to watch when your time frame is limited, since it is basically impossible to not want to watch all the episodes in a row due to all the twists and cliff-hangers. The Shakespearean plot of intrigues and thirst for power is breathtaking, the tragic main characters, dealing with almost Oedipal or other profound traumata, are as clever and mind-blowing to watch in their strategic and moral duels as were Light Yagami and L in Death Note. If Death Note happened to be something you felt greatly entertained by, you might want to give Code Geass a try. Although there are plenty of nice looking Mecha fights, it can hardly be called a Mecha show, what makes it so appealing and entertaining is the clever unfolding of the plot and the chess game like strategies developed by the main character. The finale of the first season was to be somewhat expected, seeing two best former childhood friends loyally committed to one another be drawn apart by the times they live in and the decisions they choose to eventually reach the point of no return, until there is nowhere left to hide and all dreams of a peaceful world must come to brutal endings. But everything up to this point was just a roller-coaster of plot points chasing one another, terrifying twists and turns on every corner. The cleverness of it all led to several outbursts of joy and admiration in front of the TV. When the fight for justice/revenge/freedom gets stained with blood, the question of just how many means can still be justified by the desired end gets burned into our own conscience. The answer is up to us, of course, since we are watching anime here. The second season has its flaws, but I don't think we will get to see a more perfect ending of a show anytime soon. It simply does not get more epic than that! Truly great entertainment, a unique visual style and character design, great voice actors (Japanese version, I don't know the English dub). I would not recommend it for 14 year olds, though, reading some comments on the internet idolising the main character and his choices in a completely non-reflective way was a bit troubling for me. 9/10 because of the annoying Pizza Hut sponsoring, too much high school relationship drama towards the beginning and a bit too much soliloquising in the second season. But that being said, Code Geass is a show no fan of anime must miss.
This series is one of a kind. You have the protagonist, a boy named Lelouch, who wants to make the world a kinder place for his younger sister, Nunnally. Lelouch isn't your typical anime hero, he's an antihero and is willing to do anything to achieve his goal. But, this is also what makes him very human.For one thing, he's trying to destroy his homeland, and he's also trying to cast away his emotions and push away the people that he cares about. This often doesn't work well for him, but it makes him very understanding.On the other hand, it's hard to relate with his best friend, Suzaku, who is a hypocrite. The only thing wrong with him is he's very hypocritical and constantly back stabs others.The other characters are all well-written, but the only thing that makes me not give it ten out of ten is how this shows kills off a lot of characters. I won't spoil that.Make no mistake, this anime is one you can't miss.
The anime is one of the greatest anime that i would recommend to all the anime lover's,The reason for writing this review is as one of my friend compared it to Deathnote.Yes, it is similar to Deathnote But this anime has surpassed the anime Deathnote as it is a beautifully written with some of the best characters with immense graphics and a different storyline all of which add up to a legendary anime.The anime is a mixture of emotions as it has love,hatred,connections,humor,a bit hentai and most of all the mind boggling plot.even though you may feel it is being stretched i would highly recommend you to watch the 2nd season as when both the season's combined .This show can beat all other shows.


                
One of my favorite anime! While watching the anime, you are wondering what is gonna happen next. Character designing was not so good but story was awesome. I got shock when lelouch died. I hope he would be alive somehow in next season. Ending was so depressing . Lelouch should not be killed. That is why my rating for "Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2" is less than its previous season " Code Geass: Lelouch of Rebellion R1". And there should be another season!i love to watch its another season in which somehow Lelouch is alive ! and they should also make the film i mean animated movie.
