My desire to watch this anime came after watching a music video with it. It looked really interesting which is may be one of the reasons I was so disappointed after watching it. Although the storyline was promising at the beginning I was not satisfied with its development throughout the series. It was very hard for me to understand the characters and where they are coming from. May be that's the reason I didn't like them at all. Other thing I didn't like was the ending. It was so confusing for me that I couldn't enjoy watching the last episodes. I watched only because I wanted to finish the damn thing. Overall I can't recommend this anime. It's just not worth lasting your time.


                
WHAT I LIKED1. Story was interesting in parts and there was a lot of mystery. Some of the fights with the Angels were good.2. The opening theme "A Cruel Angel's Thesis".WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Slow paced, some of the Angels were ridiculous and the story goes nowhere. Most of the unknown mysteries are unexplained and/or forgotten.2. Horrible last two episodes. No proper ending and the result is a grand mess.TOP 5 EPISODES1. Episode 21 - He was aware that he was still a child2. Episode 23 - Rei III3. Episode 06 - Rei 4. Episode 11 - The Day Tokyo-3 Stood Still5. Episode 10 - Magma DiverVERDICTA poor show with some good moments.3/10 - Poor
I'll be blunt, this was actually painful to watch. I actually had to force myself to just get through with it, and watch it completely, whilst hoping it would get better. It didn't.I wasn't a huge anime fan, having watched Dragon Ball (and Z) growing up, that was most of my anime experiences, but recently, i started watching some popular ones, and have been having a blast. Haykuu!! and Attack on Titan were both amazing to watch, and left me hungry for more, so i went and checked some "top anime" list to check what i should see after, and asked some friends for opinions. Main suggestion everywhere? Neon Genesis Evangelion.What a complete disappointment.I was really into the premise, but it just went downhill from the get go.The Angels were menacing but some of them were absolutely absurd. The "Eyes" one with the eyelashes was particularly pathetic, but OK, some of the others were good, i liked how they were mysterious for the most part, but they were also completely unexplained. Some hints at least to expand the mystery would have been nice, but alas, moving on.It's slow paced, some might say, but i disagree. It's more of an unacceptable crawl. There are literally many scenes where you are faced with stills for 20-25 seconds with no change, no dialog, nothing, for no reason whatsoever. What are those? Though-provoking moments? No, it was just bad. Painful.Psycho-babble for the vast majority of the show. The final episodes just get completely unwatchable, really. I was really hoping the final episodes would be great, but no, they were probably the worst of them all.The ending was probably the worst part of the series. Yea, people will state that i didn't "get it", that it was 'deep', 'meaningful', and that you should watch other related material (movies) or read pages of explanations and theories to further understand it, etc. Yea, i'm not doing any of those. It was just convoluted for its entirety, for no reason. More so, the constant black screens with text to 'ask' the characters questions was annoying. What was that? It just felt like they ran rampantly through the season, without a 'end goal', and when they reached that point, and had (or wanted) to tie things up, it was already impossible. I also read that they ran out of funds for their intended ending and had to come up with "that"... but that's no excuse. It was bad. Very bad.That being said, there were some positives. Some of the characters are cool, there are funny moments, interesting twists, the whole post-'impact' setting is exciting, the animations are good, the Eva's are cool, the suits are awesome, most of that works... but they're ruined by the kids and their - vastly repeated and insisted upon - mental issues and dramas. "Yes Shinji, we get it, you hate your father, you already told us 87 times!" Sigh.Personally, i didn't like it as a whole. I hated it, to be honest, but i probably wouldn't have had such an averse reaction if it wasn't so over-hyped and overrated.So, i'm mostly happy i'm done with it (i don't like leaving series\movies\books unfinished, so as much as i dislike it, if i start something, i go through with it, and sometimes, things actually recover... but not this).Also, to all the "oh, you didn't get it" or "it was mostly philosophical questions" arguments, i say : Be serious. Some of the issues were well explored in part, but they completely went nuts with it, in particular in the 2nd half of the show, and the finale, having lost touch with anything pertinent with the story.Checking out a couple more of the popular anime next (Full Metal Alchemist and Cowboy Bebop most likely), just hoping they aren't over-hyped, overrated, and just plain bad as this was...I rarely write reviews on IMDb, i think i had 4 done in the past 9 years, but considering how overrated this is, and that i was 'baited' by all the 10/10 ratings and 'stellar' reviews here on IMDb, for this show, i HAD to come and give my honest review, to balance it out.
