OK so I have to say this is really overrated, however it is not only the deepest anime but the deepest show I've ever seen in my life and is really worth watching. After I watched this I must admit my mind was filled with ideology, concepts, and symbolism that id never thought about before. I say that it is overrated because people tell me that this is one of the greatest shows of all time, I understand that this started the dark anime business but honestly the greatest of all time not even top 10 in my opinion. With all that said I still highly recommend it to those of you who feel like watching something cerebral. P.S first have sucks, second have is amazing.


                
It takes a lot to convince me to watch an anime as it is not a medium I'm not very fond of. I don't like most of what I saw, but the ones I do like are among my favorites. Films such as Totoro, Spirited Away, Akira, Ghost in the Shell, Grave of the Fireflies, the works, the "basic stuff". What finally convinced me to watch Evangelion was that one of my favorite bands, Death Grips, referenced Lillith in one of their songs, Centuries of Damn. I'm so glad I watched it. I can't help but draw parallels with one of my other favorite shows, Twin Peaks. They are very similar in the regard that both start out as stereotypical shows in their own respective genres. One starts out as an average detective show, the other as an average giant robot on giant monster battle show. Then near the middle both start to get more and more abstract and weird, both start to gravitate further and further from where they started out and both become something above and beyond the rest of the works in their genres. Unfortunately, both end suddenly and abruptly, both had theatrical films that more or less explain some of the questions raised throughout the show.The animation, the character development, the sheer scale of the story later on (especially in The End of Evangelion) as well as the depth of the symbolism and the layers of different meanings to everything, the way the whole puzzle comes together into one big Rorschach test that you have to figure for yourself is astonishing. This show is truly a work of art and well worthy of the praise it gets.


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion is the most influential anime of the 1990s. It popularized the 26 episodes anime format, and reignited the 'giant robot' genre. The look of its characters has become standard too. What we have here is a truly thought-provoking and, most importantly, imaginative series that remains interesting throughout its run. Let's not forget that it's also entertaining. Most of the praise should go to Hideaki Anno. His direction was inspired. It only got better as the series progressed. There's a clever use of Judean and Christian symbols. The angels all look fantastic. The fights between the evas and the angels are thrilling, they take unexpected turns, and in short they're different from the usual giant robot fare such as Gundam. The characters are the series' greatest strength. Like real people they have pasts, beliefs and motives. They're well-realized for sure. Anno smartly put them into situations that viewers can relate to. In addition, there's that good old anime humour, but thankfully there's not too much of it so as not to tip the series from science-fiction to comedy. The music is another of the series' strengths. It's not just that Neon Genesis Evangelion has the best anime opening ever (sung by Yoko Takahashi), it's that the instrumental tracks composed by Shiro Sagisu remain some of the best and most effective for an anime. Sadly though Neon Genesis Evangelion suffers a bit during its run. Several episodes, especially in the first half of the series, are noticeably weaker than the rest. The ending too can provoke outrage from viewers, though I thought it was sort of neat. Overall, however, with its well-realized futuristic world, interesting characters, excellent animation, and a story that keeps surprising until the end Neon Genesis Evangelion stands head and shoulders above the big majority of anime. The two films that followed in 1997 (Death And Rebirth, The End Of Evangelion) tie up some loose ends but are not as good as the series. I highly recommend watching the series, it's one of the very best anime ever.


                
