The basic premise of this anime is man would be forever be lonely because of the AT field. when man loses their innocence because of the first sin thus began the emergence of the AT fields preventing men from understanding one another. there are some instincts to commingle deeply with another soul and one of the character uses sex "to be able to feel needed" and ease her loneliness but feel dirty at the same time because of the emptiness of her sexual adventures. there are many sexual images in this anime because it was intended that sex is the closest activity to mingling of souls. Shinji's masturbation over Asuka's comatose body is a sign of a desperate loneliness. love is also a prevalent subject in this anime. love can penetrate AT fields but not always because love is easily corrupted. This anime borrowed heavily on divine comedy. there are two kind of love, the creative (Shinji) and destructive(Gendo) in the end Ayanami rejected gendo because gendo is destructive love(he would destroy the world just to be reunited with yui) and the anime shows that gendo was wrong here when the giant Adam chewed gendo's head reference on infernos last part signifying gendo's betrayal to humanity. there are some marker of beginning and ends of inferno, purgatorio and paradiso. seele wanted instrumentality- removing AT fields, mingling all souls into one. making all souls into one being- into a god. traveling cosmos from sphere to sphere forever. shinji is both the ark and sacrifice. as a sacrifice shinji is supposed to be meek as a sheep. in the end Shinji rejected instrumentality and put his trust in love to penetrate this AT field. before this decision he was put through a deep introspection where he eventuality accepted himself. in the TV series, the last scene is when shinji received a round of applause when he finally accepted himself. this is what the series is all about. both hideaki anno and Dante Alighieri came into the same conclusion post depression.
No other anime series comes even close to Evangelion...futuristic imagining, character development, frustration at the repeativness of life, one of the coolest soundtracks around...no other anime has so far managed to elicit such diverse emotions as triumph, love, sadness and hate as Evangelion.Although, as is the case with a number of anime, NGE draws on largely European intellectual traditions (the Cross, Medieval lances) it succeeds tremendously in bringing forward a very scientific, even mechanistic, way of thinking. The explicit mention of statistical estimates, especially for matter relating to life and death, may seem cold and detached to some, but is exactly as our increasingly digital (in the sense of quantitatively deterministic) world appears to, and indeed demands from, us.Together with Serial Experiments and Ghost in the Shell (the first movie only, mind you), Neon Genesis Evangelion epitomizes what is best in Japanese anime art, while offering terrific entertainment to the thoughtful viewer...


                
This is one of the most interesting animes I have ever seen. First of all forget the two last episodes of the original series, they can be interesting for the hardcore fan, otherwise dont bother. instead see "The end of evangelion" the film that replaces the last episodes. Now, what makes Evangelion so interesting is its development as you watch episode after episode and finaly the movie. At first its childish then it rolls over to cool, cruel, deep, and finaly totally Morbid. the story is interesting, so is its point and it twists in verry unexpected ways. The action is Ok, but there is much more to it, but if you are not prepared to think and feel alot and have a weak stomach you will not enjoy this anime. Otherwise, a must see... Average 9.3(10)


                
Whewn I first saw this I was just a 12 years old little boy, so I couldn't never understand this.Now I understand why. I's real story line is hidden till the end.We imagine a lot of theories during the episodes, but only in the end we will say that there's a real conspiracy. But we don't know nothing at all till the end.The main characters, they all have various emotional problems and the only one that reaches a solution for his problems is Shinji Ikari, who seems to depend too much on the three main woman characters: Misato Katsuragi, Rei Ayanami and Asuka Langley Soryou. They all seem to have total influence over Shinji's existential issues, even with them having serious issues too. This is not just a regular anime series, it has a real important factor of fear of the unknown, fear to live and it questions the meaning and the value of human live. "Why do I live, what am I good for", this is what Shinji keeps asking himself and the others during the series. I consider it was the most important anime series in my life, and it's philosophy's is very intense and may put you questioning your life, drag you inside the story.


                
Neon Genesis Evangelion is one of the greatest TV shows and anime series to ever to be created. Directed by Hideaki Anno, this series depicts several deep and thoughtful themes. The themes of the film are complemented by it's plot. The story or plot of the show is one that is ever evolving and is filled with creativity. The voice acting (Japanese version) was great, you can feel the emotion with every word spoken by the actors/actresses. The characters are very well written, the hero/protagonist Shinji Ikari being my personal favorite. Unlike a traditional hero, he lacks real power and his depression is written realistically and with care. The composition of the shots is great with multiple characters usually in a shot, so that the audience can immediately see their reactions, which makes dialogue scenes more active. The animation tends to be good as well, though some scenes feel a bit robotic with the lack of animation. Besides a few scenes with a lack of moment, the visuals are extremely gorgeous.The only real downsides of this show is its pacing and direction. The pacing during the first six episodes felt intense and quick, while after it slowed down significantly for character development. The pacing also significantly changes in the last two episodes of the series. This is just a minor problem.The direction might be a bit weird for some. Probably due to Anno's deteriorating psychological state, he changed the primarily mecha fighting oriented series at first into the more psychodrama based series later.The soundtrack is a real hit or miss. Some of the soundtrack is some of the best in anime, while others are not really memorable or recognizable. The sound design though is generally well constructed.Great Things about this series is:
The fantastic plot/storyReally well written characters (all of the main cast)The composition of the shotsThe beautiful visualsThe fantastically animated battle scenesThe deep and thoughtful themesThe opening and credit tracksBad Things about this series is:
-There really is no significantly bad issues about this series, though its not for the light hearted and the direction (especially at the end of the series) could potentially sway some audiences off.


                
NEON GENESIS EVANGELION is one of my favorite anime shows that came out in 1995 the series focuses a teenager named shinji ikari who's father works for an organisation called NERV the headquarters responsible for creating the giant gundam like robots called evangelions which fight the aliens that invade earth called angels the fights are really awesome which has tokusatsu style to it like in the toho godzilla movies beware that there is a strong amount of blood and gore throughout the series but in the very end of the show i'd advice watching end of evangelion as well the characters are awesome and interesting but the english dub sounded like hillbillies voicing them i'd recommend watching it in japanesethe show is very dark and disturbing which probably won't recommend for younger audiences since which is why eoe is rated r it has some junji ito vibes to it which is what i liked about the series for it's dark horror themes to it but again nge is definitely a must watch for fans of mecha anime would love to recap the series starting with 1.0 you are not alone if you don't like it just watch gundam instead


                
*SERIES REVIEW While the layers of psychology, philosophy, and symbolism would crush most shows under their own weight and seeming pretentiousness, Anno handles them with adeptness and acute direction. He skillfully weaves them into the story to the point where everything makes complete sense in relation to the characters and storyline. In fact, if you really take time to analyze the story, the characters, and the relationship between the dialogue and visuals with the psychological, philosophical, and symbolic meanings, you'll see this series does indeed have more depth than almost all others that have attempted to tackle similar subjects. In fact, this is a series which almost has to be viewed several times, as there are recurring motifs (both visually and in the dialogue) which link important thematic elements strung throughout. And if you're not watching carefully, you'll miss them the first and maybe even second time around.I think the reason these ideas become so important is very simple, and that's because of the characters. Anno doesn't just create a random bunch of soulless, mindless, anime characters. He creates characters that everyone can relate to on some level. Because these characters have such range and depth, we begin to really care about them and their struggles. In the end their struggles become our own and they literally become mirrors of our own psychological profiles and problems. We begin to grieve as we watch them deal with such (self) destructive behavior caused by their circumstances and consequential frames of mind. It's because of this that the viewer actually cares about the more portentous moments, no matter how grandiose they become. I think it's very important for those out there to understand that all the elaborate complexities of NGE wouldn't matter without the characters that carry the weight and meaning of it all.NGE is a show of extremes. Ranging from scenes of palpable, visceral power that inspire shock and awe, to the most quietly surene, surreal, and beautifully touching moments. These scenes are woven together as fine and eloquently as the Beethoven Symphony they play in episode 24 itself. And like that symphony, even though the parts are outstanding, the whole is much greater than the sum.I believe this is a work of resounding artistic depth. I'd go as far as to say it's one of the absolute greatest pieces of fiction ever made in any medium. This may sound like hyperbole, but there have been few - if any - fictional works that have effected me both emotionally and psychologically like NGE has. If you put in the time and effort to actively watch this series, it will reward as many repeat viewings as you care to give it, as new layers and meanings will be uncovered each time. And I think that is, if nothing else, the first sign of a work of artistic genius.
Neon Genesis Evangelion is arguably the best anime out there. It functions on a variety of levels, providing an engrossing, action packed sci-fi story while also grappling with serious themes of growth and psychological development with complex characters. It takes anime and raises it to the level of art.On the surface, Evangelion looks like another giant robot show along the lines of Transformers. Giant piloted robots called EVAs have to fight super powered aliens called Angels. However, after a few episodes, it begins to subvert the genre, moving the emphasis from the war machines to the people, even as it continues to provide hardcore action.Take the treatment of Asuka for example, the shrewish teen EVA pilot. In any other show, she would just be an annoying whiny character. However, towards the end, the show reveals in disturbing detail just how her personality ended up the way it did. We end up feeling guilty for having disliked her.At the same time, the show still delivers all the fun things we've come to expect from anime. The early episodes have some excellent fan service, especially from Major Katsuragi. Although this diminishes later in the series, there is also graphic violence to keep the viewer's interest.The show does has some weak points. The Christian imagery they use never really goes anywhere, and the show's makers admit it had no other significance than the fact that it seemed exotic to Japanese viewers. However, this is a minor point in an excellent series.


                
If you're a fan of anime then most likely you've seen the story of a child mech pilot that must defend humanity Coming into this show it can appear to be just another in the stereo-typical mech anime genre. However if you let the show progress it will soon be clear that this one is different. The anime is dark, violent and portrays philosophical ideas. The main character is somewhat unlikable(see beginning of End Of Evangelion). All the main character's minds are corrupted in some way. The show, if you look for it, has a lot of religious symbolism that can later become important. The show is notorious for the budget cuts during its production causing dips in animation quality that can be frustrating at times, but doesn't ruin the experience overall and the animation does get better during action scenes. The show all together is a must see for anime fans, but also a great example of a deconstruction of a genre. It's complicated and downright nonsensical at times, but you just have to let it play out.


                
"Shin Seiki Evangelion" (1995) is an unique anime, and it's because of neither an original design of the Mechas (armour suits in the form of robot) so-called "the Evas", nor psychology of characters (especially Shinji and Aska) which is commonplace for the Otakus (animefans) but in fact grounded on traditionally romantic (or quest) character types. In actual fact the "Eva" has an original and unexpected view to the John's Revelation (Apocalypse): according to theologian John Angels of Apocalypse will proclaim and in fact bring the Armageddon (End of Days) on Earth. And now please suppose how usual people will react to the Armageddon. Of course they will fight, and fight Angels of Apocalypse. "Shin Seiki Evangelion" is about the war between survived people and Angels in days of the End (in last series it's informed that the Second Impact have been already delivered), and how the military authority uses children chosen to be saved by God in struggle against Angels of Apocalypse (the children have to fight against the Angels).
