Some movies just can't be adequately critiqued without invoking their politics. The fact that Elia Kazan made On The Waterfront in the first place makes it fair game for reviewing the film from the point of view of a political statement.In case you aren't aware, Elia Kazan was already a renowned film director by the time he willingly went before the House Un-American Activities Committee<U+0097>the Witch Hunt Committee<U+0097>and ratted out his friends with whom he had attended meetings of the Communist party. He basically did this to save his own Greek behind; there is certainly no indication that Kazan at any time really had any great belief that Communists were infiltrating Hollywood and were hell-bent on destroying the American way of life: you know, buying things you don't need and dying in faraway lands to contribute to a President's inferiority over the size of his own testicles.Having destroyed several lives with his testimony, Kazan came under attack from certain quarters for his cowardly action. His response was a film that is so highly regarded it verges on the nauseating. (I'm not even going to get into the almost campy melodrama and the hysterical acting. I know it verges on a sacrilege to suggest that Marlon Brando was ever anything but brilliant during the 1950s, but in my opinion you won't see a more affected piece of acting in any other movie released during that decade). Brando's character Terry Malloy is supposed to be a stand-in for Elia Kazan, you see, cleaning out the filth so that a bum can become a contender. Well, here's the problem: The left-leaning writers, directors and actors whose careers Kazan helped to end weren't gangster or criminals. IT HAS NEVER BEEN ILLEGAL TO BE A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY.So the analogy doesn't fit. To paraphrase Lloyd Bentsen: Elia Kazan is no Terry Malloy. Kazan wasn't bruised and beaten on his quest to become a hero by rooting out a criminal element. Kazan was a bum and a rat bastard who should have been strung up by his tongue instead of awarded Oscars. The fact that this piece of sludge won so many Academy Awards is itself a testament to the fact that the Communist element in Hollywood was minor at best.Hollywood and movies are a business. They are owned and operated not to make art, but money. They exist to fulfill an Althusserian delivery of America's prevailing ideology<U+0097>capitalism is the answer to all our society's ills and problems<U+0097>and it would take more than ten or twenty or a hundred writers and directors to make a dent in that. Kazan did nothing to protect the minds of America from being infected by communist doctrine. (You know the kind of stuff I'm talking about: free health care, affordable higher education for everybody, higher wages for workers, and less inheritance for Paris Hilton.) It is unconscionable to reward Kazan and anyone else connected with this movie with Oscars or any other kind of award.Look at it from this point of view: Do you think a movie that explains why Benedict Arnold betrayed his fellow countrymen would ever receive such adulation? What about a movie that explained the murder of Sharon Tate from Charles Manson's point of view? Ah, I know what you're thinking: Who's making the fallacious analogy now? Not me. Manson and his freaky buddies ended Tate's life as well as several others and threw countless other lives into disrepair. Are you aware that many of those who were blacklisted committed suicide? Then there's John Garfield who died of a heart attack at the age of 39 after battling the stress of the blacklist. And those who didn't commit suicide had their careers taken away from them for no other reason than that they attended a perfectly legal meeting years before.I'll go further with my analogy: Elia Kazan is worse than Charles Manson. Manson was insane; he can be excused to a certain extent. Kazan didn't have to name names. He didn't have to attend the hearings at all. He knew exactly what he was doing, he did it, and then he lived the rest of life never once expressing regret. Instead, he took hundreds of thousands of dollars and made a movie to justify his own cowardly, rat-bastard actions.Do yourself a favor. Ignore this movie when Turner Classic Movies airs it as one of their "Essentials." The only essential thing about this piece of garbage is that it's essential we all learn the lesson that being a rat bastard with an Oscar still makes you a rat bastard!


                
It's bad enough to be a fink, and worse not to be ashamed of it - but to tell the world you're proud to be a fink . . . that's lower than a snake's vest pocket. Director/screenwriter Elia Kazan was one of many (including Waterfront actors Karl Malden and Lee J Cobb) who ratted their left-wing movie buddies out to the pathetic drunk Senator Joe McCarthy and the idiotically named House Un-American Activities Committee, ruining many lives and careers, but he was unique in making a film about what a hero he was for doing it. Let's remember that Kazan's victims in real life weren't gangsters, like Johnny Friendly and company, but idealistic, law-abiding citizens who were exercising their thoroughly American freedoms of speech, belief and association - people who, right or wrong, wanted the world to be better than it is.Politics and morals aside, simply as a motion-picture entertainment On the Waterfront is wildly overrated, and I thought so even when I was a kid who knew nothing about the facts behind the story. Marlon Brando overbalances the film (as he does every film he's ever been in) with his faux-heroic idealisation of Terry Malloy, one of the long line of sullen, self-pitying egotists in whose portrayal he specialises. You could kick most of Brando's characters for an awfully long time before you got tired. With a star a little less in love with himself, and capable of a more nuanced performance, Waterfront would be a watchable enough 1950s lowlife drama, the run of what was a pretty enjoyable mill. But as a classic, it isn't remotely a contender.


                
There's only two strong elements in 'On the Waterfront' that are endearing: Brando and the camera.  Elia Kazan is no better than Carol Reed and most of the cast doesn't understand their purpose.  Unlike Kazan's 'Streetcar', the purpose of 'Waterfront' is simple nobility and character empowerment.The role is beneath Brando.  Oh, yeah, sure he pulls it off without a hitch, but it's like Hanks in Forrest Gump.  Nothing special.  Karl Malden is his usual blank self.  Eva Marie Saint is on Malden's level too.  So, with our hero caught in a Braveheart level of good/evil, you can anticipate everything that happens.The camera is noir in thought, romantic in action.  It is when Kazan tries to be serious that his work falls apart.  It's silliness is all-too-evident. While not 'The Third Man', this is a sign of improvement since the 1930s. With 'L.A. Confidential', I'd say noir has evolved from B&W.  Now I have to decide whether it should stay in B&W.  Overall, really pointless.  Brando has done better work on better movies.  2 out of 5.


                
Depressingly awful. Looks like the director cast his mechanic, postman and a truck stop waitress in the lead roles, resulting in the type of performances typical of porn movies. I've seen more atmosphere in my father's 8mm home movies. Even hardcore drama fans will be pressed to find anything enjoyable about this bottom-feeder. It's actually packaged as a "Collector's Edition" and includes a "Making of..." documentary tagged on at the end, as if to suggest this is a "classic" to be cherished for the ages. Hopefully the director was able to get his job back at the bottle-capping factory after the shoot. Nobody should see this movie.


                
A rat will always be a rat... Sometimes a rat tries to pretend like he's a pigeon, or a snake, but don't be mistaken, a rat will always be a rat. You can typically kill a rat with a sharpened stake, a board with a nail in it, a shotgun, or social exposure...Such is is the sad truth of being a rat....A rat will always be a rat... Sometimes a rat tries to pretend like he's a pigeon, or a snake, but don't be mistaken, a rat will always be a rat. You can typically kill a rat with a sharpened stake, a board with a nail in it, a shotgun, or social exposure...Such is is the sad truth of being a rat....
