Elia Kazan's "On the Waterfront" is frequently listed among the greatest of all American films. It concerns a longshoreman's inner and outer struggles in exposing the corruption of union bosses.Unquestionably, the strength of the film is the acting. Brando's performance in particular is one for the ages. He won his first Oscar for this role and Eva Marie Saint also garnered an Oscar in her introductory film role. On top of that Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb & Rod Steiger all earned Best Supporting Actor nominations. These accolades give an idea of the level of talent on display here.Kazan's direction is well done as he strives for a gritty, realistic look. Shooting on location was an important part of that. Leonard Bernstein's score, on the other hand, is often overbearing. There's nothing wrong with the music itself, only the prominence of it.The main area in which I feel the film doesn't quite deliver is the story. The film does a fine job of exploring the characters but I find that the underlying storyline doesn't really work for me. The main premise is a good one but after the initial confrontation I began to lose interest. The self-consciously 'inspiring' ending doesn't help, either.All things considered, I give the film high marks for the excellent acting and direction which, unfortunately, are in service of a merely average story.


                
On The Waterfront is truly a classic piece of film history, combining key elements of the standard gangster/mob film with the incredible acting of Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint. The Cab scene is an incredible portrayal of Marlon Brando's amazing acting ability and the thought and feeling that separates this film from being 'just another gangster film'.I also greatly enjoyed the rooftop scenes, as the director and actors played with the bumps and ledges in dynamic ways, with Brando looking over the lip of a roof, and people running the length of the roof, jumping up and down off the ledges and coming to a halt, eyes at another person's foot level. The rooftop added an incredible depth and intrigue to the parts of the film that were staged there, and I have never seen such well orchestrated rooftop scenes in a film.On The Waterfront is a marvel of acting and directing that really captures the skill and power of Brando's performance. While a little slow at times, it truly is an excellent film.


                
At the time this was probably a fairly brave subject to tackle. Unions have such a powerful history have been around for a long time with very little having changed. Corruption still appears to be at the top of the agenda whether it's the docks or the trades or any other union. It's this along with good performances that make this movie so relevant today. It's the best performance I've seen Marlon Brando give, to a role that probably suited him perfectly. He made the movie along with a good script. This wasn't enough for me to find it as one of my most enjoyed movies of all time as the AFI may have you believe.Even if you don't like watching old movies, you should definitely make an exception for this one.


                
BRANDO, Marlon. (b. 1924) The founder of the mumble-method acting technique, this unusual performer with the naivety of a child and the mind of an infant, struck everyone as an enormously talented, focused and self-deluded, juvenile man. He perfected his mumbling method by avoiding to open his mouth more than a millimeter while he spoke the text; he made sure the tongue would not move more than its involuntary muscles demanded from it; his jaw was totally relaxed and refused to move in accordance with the basic rules of human enunciation. Brando is also the father of the method-method, which he originated. But unlike David Arquette and Keanu Reeves, Brando doesn't think that the method-method was a method employed by an actor when he prepares to play a Methodist minister.He has honed his skills first with Stella Adler and Lee Strasberg, then with Stanislavsky. Strasberg still raves about Brando's days as his student; he says that Brando did the best impersonation of a chicken he ever saw. Stella is equally full of praise, reminiscing often about Brando's terrific portrayal of an 18th century chair. In one of Marlon's frequent bouts of brilliant inspiration, he suggested to Lee and Stella that they do an acting exercise in which he plays them and they play him. Brando got so deep into his character(s) that he at one point told the two that he was kicking them out of class for playing Brando so badly. Lee and Stella found this humorous and laughed, but only until they realized he wasn't joking. They then told him: "but YOU are Brando, and we are Lee and Stella", to which he reacted by mumbling something no one understood but which was clearly not friendly. When the two refused to leave class, Brando got violent and tried to throw them out of the building, but his feminine side, the Stella side of his double-character act, softened him down and he backed off from throwing Lee through the window at the last minute. After a while, with the help of medication and Brando's family photo-albums, Brando remembered that he's Brando and became Brando again. A day later, wanting to stretch himself artistically even more, Brando suggested that he play Lee pretending to play him, while Lee played Brando pretending to be Lee, and Stella played Brando and Lee pretending to be gay lovers. Lee and Stella, afraid of the results of such a bold experiment, turned the idea down. Brando was unhappy about that, and soon enrolled in Stanislavsky's school.Armed with both the mumbling method and the method-method, Brando tackled the world of movies. In "The Men", Brando prepared for the role of an invalid war-veteran by spending three years in the Korean War, and later cutting off his left leg. In "A Streetwhore Named Desire" Brando plays a Polish-American garbage man who rapes his sister-in-law and then smashes a TV set over his neighbour's head; he prepared for the role by spending three months in Poland, collecting his friend's garbage-bins, marrying with a woman who had a sister, sleeping with that sister, then by throwing TV sets around his house. In "The Wild One" Brando plays a dim-witted football player who gets a motorcycle for Christmas by Santa Claus, and proceeds to ride it around in circles until he gets dizzy and falls down; Brando prepared for this by becoming a professional football player, reading every book on Santa Claus, learning the geometrical principles of a circle, and riding a motorcycle from L.A. to Boston and back. In "On The Water Aunt" he plays the nephew of a woman who spends all her time in a swimming-pool, who decides to have sex with her when his girlfriend leaves him; for this role, he swam the British channel, called his aunt from Nebraska and... You get the general idea.Brando was very difficult to work with. While working on "Mutes On The Bounty" he constantly nagged the director that he preferred to sail a ship that has a big moose's head on the front. When Lewis Milestone told him that he wasn't making "a damn Viking movie" Brando reacted angrily saying that mouses were an endangered species and that problem needed to be addressed. Later on, Brando fell in love with co-star Tartita, a Hawaiian girl, and demanded that an extra scene be written in with a massive orgy between the ship's mute crew and the local girls. "I wish Marlon were the friggin' mute he f****** plays in the damn movie," was all the inflexible director would say about the shooting when it finally ended.Brando has always been there for the underdog. In protest to what America did to American Indians for 300 years he refused to accept the 1974 Blowscar, blaming then-President Ford for not doing enough to "prevent the cowboys from killing so many Injuns". In 1979 he refused the Blowscar because he felt that the world wasn't doing enough to save the Chinese people from extinction. In 1983, he refused a Blowscar because his neighbour killed handicapped squirrels. In 1991, he refused yet another Blowscar because he was angry that he didn't get it the previous year when he had planned to reject it to make a statement about field mice losing their habitat in east Nepal. He has recently taken an active role in fighting the persecution and mistreatment of old Nazi war criminals, and has taken a stand against the misuse of Spaniards in bull-fighting.Later in his career, having expanded to 3 tons, he did roles only for exorbitantly high fees, usually paid in wagons of food. For "The Score" he received ten tons of tuna, three tons of ketchup, eight tons of burritos, and 10,000 gallons of pure fat. In recent years his roles have been limited to playing whales, elephants, sea-cows, and walruses.


                
If people were expecting me to use a quote as a summary of my review, then the one I chose perhaps wouldn't have been the top guess, but for me it's the one that best describes the appeal of this film. Terry Malloy's on edge because he's working in an environment where a lot of underhand things go on, but say one thing about it to the wrong person and you're at risk of becoming simply another statistic. When you constantly feel under investigation, why upset the applecart? Isn't it better just to keep your mouth shut?This was Kazan's attempt at justification to absolve himself of any blame for reporting his colleagues to the House of Un-American Activities Commitee. As cowardly as that may be to take an enactment of totally different circumstances and then use it to try and show that you were in the right, this little parable of his still remains exceedingly thrilling.Brando plays the reluctant informant perfectly, visibly rarely comfortable in his own skin unless he's talking to Edie, (Marie-Saint) sure that interlopers will nip in and steal his thoughts away at any second. Malden is also terrific playing the priest who tries to persuade him to reveal all, and the climax right in the heart of territory where Terry feels most safe is nail-biting when you see it for the first time. Marlon had that majestic ability when he was on top form of easily being able to foster a sense of kinship for his protagonist, so if you like a thriller where you're able to feel every gut-wrenching development, then this is the right type of movie for you.To think all of this was achieved when the intention behind it was hardly whiter-than-white...


                
MARLON BRANDO gives another outstanding performance as an ex-fighter who falls in love with the sister (EVA MARIE SAINT) of a man who has been brutally murdered by waterfront mobsters. It's the sort of role one can compare to his Stanley Kowalski in A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE, played in starkly realistic style while completely nailing the character. Eva Marie Saint is tender and touching in her film debut.Leonard Bernstein's powerful background score suits the mood and melodrama of ON THE WATERFRONT. We get a grim look at a crooked mobster (LEE J. COBB) called Johnny Friendly who rules the waterfront with brute force and henchmen ready to do his bidding, responsible for at least three murders that we know of. One of his victims is Brando's brother (ROD STEIGER) who refuses to turn his brother in and suffers the consequences. KARL MALDEN is excellent as the moral backbone of the drama, awakening the conscience of the community of men who make their living under the dictatorship of powerful unions and corrupt mobsters.Vivid, powerful film shot on location on New York's waterfront, its B&W imagery adding to the stark tone of the story. A fine cast of veteran actors all perform admirably under Elia Kazan's direction.


                
I thought this movie was okay. This movie is about a mob and people dying. The first person we see get killed is Joey but don't know who and the sister keeps searching until she finds out. The mob even turns on one of their own and kill Terry's brother Charley. Terry stands up to the mob after he tells the truth about Joey's death. HE goes down to face them. Gets beat up but has everyone standing behind him and then goes to work. The camera angles are done very well. Like when they look at the window you feel like your there. The scenes are mostly dark and every so often the music will get loud. There is also the use of fog in this movie near the pier.
If you enjoy mafia films, then this is a good film for you. I really enjoyed the effects of the film. For example when Terry is running down the alley way and the truck is coming and he punches out the window and runs in the door. This scene was shocking and left me on the edge of my seat.This film has such a powerful ending. When Terry fights Mr. Friendly and wins, and walks back up the boardwalk and everyone follows him. This scene really does give you goose bumps, because it is filmed in such a way where you really just want to stand up and cheer for Terry. The makeup was done very well for the 1950s, because both men really did look beat up.This film has inspired me to see more Brando films. His acting and his accent really draw you in. He had such a good way of portraying Terry in this film, I would really enjoy to see more of him!!
A triumph of movies in its realistic depiction of a man alone bucking the system, "On The Waterfront" scores in another department for me. It's a prime example of a film overcoming what the late Roger Ebert liked to call "the idiot plot."As Mr. E. put it, the idiot plot is where a movie depends on its characters acting like complete dolts in order for it to function. Here, an idiot summons a pal to a roof knowing his bully buddies who want to silence the pal wait there, not figuring that they might, you know, push him off said roof and silence him for keeps.A priest kicks off a tense meeting by asking who killed the guy, thinking somehow someone will just blurt it out and not figuring a public forum might intimidate them into further silence.A union boss figures the best way to keep idiot #1 quiet is to kill his brother and hang him on a hook for him to see the night before said idiot is scheduled to give testimony. Oh, and when the guy tells what he knows anyway, the boss blows his top and attacks him in front of the press.Still, "On The Waterfront" triumphs over such qualms and delivers a solid story, aided by powerhouse performances. Marlon Brando centers everything with an assured turn as Terry Malloy, a former boxer turned goon for Longshoremen's Local 374. Sure, Terry's an idiot, but he has a lot of heart: "I figured the worst they were gonna do was lean on him a little bit. Wow. He wasn't a bad kid, that Joey."Brando's scenes with Eva Marie Saint as Joey's sister, Edie, retain a kind of raw power, of two people finding each other in a cruel world and making something good amid the carnage. Their scenes together have an intimacy and subtlety that make them stand out more. One critical moment between them, easy to miss, is when during their first extended time together, after she lets him do most of the talking, she quietly reveals she has had her eye on him for a long time, back at school when he was a troublemaker and she was just a mousy kid in braces and braids.Director Elia Kazan was at the midpoint of his distinguished career, and gets a lot of mileage off of scriptwriter Budd Schulberg's tough-talking script. The scenes around the pier hut where the union boys run their scams are crisp and flavorful, dominated by Lee J. Cobb's nasty Johnny Friendly. "Everything that moves in and out, we take our cut," he boasts.Here and elsewhere, there is an "on-the-nose" quality to the dialogue, and to the way the film is constructed. It's manipulative the way we see Terry shot in the mesh of his pigeon coop like he's in a web, or how a crossbeam gives an aspect of a crucifix whenever Edie appears. Yet it works. "On The Waterfront" is a kind of passion play for organized labor, arguing successfully that tolerating corruption makes for a sin of omission.The famous "coulda been a contender" scene with Brando and Rod Steiger as his brother Charlie remains parody-proof, and the socko ending with Terry's big confrontation at the dock remains one of the great moments of cinema. They are rare big scenes that fully earn their acclaim.I don't love "On The Waterfront." I find it too pushed in places, and not very convincing. But it still holds up well as a testament to what movies can do, and how they can make you feel.
I know I might get shot for this, but I didn't think "On the Waterfront" was one of the most spectacular movies ever made.  Naturally, I was a little disappointed watching it for the first time, but I still liked it.  At least Marlon Brando's performance as long shoreman/ex-prize fighter Terry Malloy wasn't exaggerated at all.  I thought he was terrific and his Oscar was well-deserved.  Karl Malden is equally terrific as his friend/mentor, the priest.  Even when he sticks a cigarette in his mouth, he proves to be a strong moral protagonist.  Lee J. Cobb, whose long line of great performances include "Twelve Angry Men," is powerful as Johnny Friendly, who's anything but.  This was Eva Marie Saint's first feature film, and she was good, though not exactly Oscar-worthy.  The key scene, where Terry explains to Edie (Saint) that he knows who killed her brother, is exceptionally done with very creative use of sound.  We discussed that particular scene in film class.  Other than that, I wouldn't say there are any scenes that will stick in my mind.  Of course, I will always remember Brando's "I coulda been a contender" speech, because that's one of those quotes that constantly pops up.  I wish the character of Charlie (Terry's brother) could've been better developed.  I thought the music, though well-composed, was sometimes overdone and added to the melodrama.  The use of close-ups (like in many old movies) was nicely done, though, and so was the lighting.  Though the film tries to be compelling, it takes on a melodramatic tone. Some of the scenes, though sad and dark, came expected to me.  I can't say there were any big surprises.  Maybe I had to be around during that time period.  I'm not going to be totally close-minded.  I'm just giving my honest opinion of the impression I got on my first viewing of this vintage motion picture.  My score:  7 (out of 10)


                
It is really hard for me to get past that this film extols the virtues of testifying against union officials (however corrupt) by a former associate when Kazan and Schulberg are the driving forces behind it. Both the director and writer testified against various Hollywood people to McCarthy and/or the House UnAmerican Activities Committee. Both were disillusioned former members of the communist party of USA and as such it is really impossible to miss the allegory in Terry's story and alleged heroism. This isn't even about any moral qualms about what they did (through yes awful actions on their part) on might have, it just makes the film uncomfortable to watch as it sure feels like they both are trying to appease their conscience in a hamfisted way. Fortunately, other people involved, Brando most of all, didn't have that baggage and largely rescues the film from being too specific in its political content.The film is a gritty, hard boiled crime melodrama and on that level it is exceptionally well craft. Kazan, as director, paints a sordid picture of hard boiled crooks captured in stylish black and white, shadow and light. Schulberg's script has sharp pointed dialog and effortlessly moves the story to its logical conclusion. A lot of people fixate on Brando but honestly all of the acting is very, very good. This is pretty good film marred by some demon's of the production team.


                
This really is a good movie, I agree with that. But winning 8 Academy Awards... that part I do not understand. In my subjective opinion, this movie is above average, but nothing really special. I do not see its greatness and excellence.7/10


                
Generally speaking I have to admit this isn't my cup of tea. But there are two aspects that I really enjoy about Elia Kazan's vision of the waterfront. The first is Boris Kaufman, the cinematographer of all four films by Jean Vigo, as well as of Lumet's masterpiece "12 Angry Men" (1958). Especially the crowd scenes at the waterfront and the wedding scene at the pub are brilliantly conceived pieces of movement, and the way he shoots interiors somewhat anticipates the tensity of the Lumet.Then there's Brando, of course. I could watch him forever, his amazing sense of expression, timing, body language, everything. His hesitations, his eyes, his hands, nervousness, his broken heart. But as for the film, I think it's so self-consciously serious (the music epitomizes this, as well) that it's impossible for me to relate to it as much as I would have liked. I saw Kubrick's "Paths of Glory" (1958) immediately after this, and like it a lot more as a depiction of social depravity and hierarchical oppression.


                
This is not a really original story, nor is it actually believable at some points -I'm mainly thinking about the cheesy ending, which made me think about other "Disney-kind-of-movies" that stand up so high in the great-films-in-history ladder (Eliot Ness' Untouchables maybe?).I'm not saying it's badly directed, on the contrary, it moves perfectly along the action and never let's you get bored. Although there were a couple of scenes where the music didn't seem to fit with what one was seeing (and that's usually something very rare in any movie, no matter if it's good or really bad).L.J. Cobb and Karl Malden were brilliant, as usual, but the performance that the striking and young Marlon Brando awards us with overshadows anyone, and I mean anyone, because the overall acting was great.I mean... you could make a duck direct a movie and with Marlon Brando in it, it would be watchable.But looking at this film in a more general manner, it just isn't one of the "great ones", I really don't know how it managed to get 8 Oscars (not saying it didn't deserve a couple...), and I'm pretty sure it won't last for long in my memory.It's a not too memorable story burnished with some magnificent acting: watchable, sure; enjoyable, of course; more than an 8/10 and 8 Oscars? oh my no...


                
On The Waterfront is recommended for one simple reason... Marlon Brando's magnificent performance. He's a great lead character, likable, charming, and problematic. Many of his most quiet and subtle scenes are brilliant, and I think he rises above the material. That's exactly the problem though... it's such a dull film. I expected a lot more. Sure, it's about corruption and violence, and i's interesting to note that the director made it as a result of what was happening to him in that time, with the HUAC and all of the communism fear in Hollywood. Still, the film never does anything very interesting, aside from a few really entertaining scenes here and there. I wasn't all that intrigued or interested in any other character besides Terry (Brando) and even then I wish he was in a better film. Shame, and its worth it for Brando's performance, but not a great film. Don't understand its popularity


                
I have known about this film for decades, have always seen snippets and scenes. I only saw the whole thing recently. The acting, particularly by Brando, was amazing. Beyond that, I was underwhelmed and was surprised this film has so often been deemed the best in cinema.First, the whole background of the film leaves a bad taste in your mouth. Kazan reportedly made this film as a response to the Crucible by Arthur Miller, on literal and figurative witch hunts. This was Kazan's way of justifying naming names in front of the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). So, let's see now, we have the character of Terry reporting corrupt and criminal activity including murder compared to Kazan participating in the irrational hysteria that even implicated Lucille Ball. It makes his actions all the more absurd.And then we have the film itself: Yes, Brando gives a legendary performance. But everything is set up in such a predictable way. We are told 1001 times that there is to be a comparison with Christ. Hoisting priest Karl Maldon up towards the heavens is not heavy-handed enough. We also need to be told that crucifixions can happen everywhere! It gets to be pretty obvious and contrived.And then we have the plot, kind of silly in itself: So these smart yet evil mob bosses throw this guy off a roof because there was a risk he could talk - so, um, what do they do? Involve this inexperienced, naive worker in their latest murder plot. They have no problem sending someone up to kill the pigeons later in the movie, so why does Terry need to "lure out" this Joey guy anyway? As they show elsewhere in the film, they could just kill him anywhere or arrange an accident at work. Why involve this guy Terry when you have no idea how he will react?And it turns out that, even if its hard, you really should report corrupt people who create miserable working conditions and murder people, especially your brother and especially if you want to make time with the dead guy's hot sister. It's the right thing to do! Um, duh! And it's all set for the hero to get the instant affection of the pretty blonde. Meanwhile, all of the oppressed long shore men hardly utter a word of support for Terry until the bitter end - they are all so afraid. So for most of the film, it is the world vs. Terry + pretty blonde.So somehow, we meander to the big ending, where Terry is the Christ-like martyr who shows back up at the docks demanding work or rights of the workers or some such thing. It's not entirely clear what he really wants except to call out the evil union boss. (Conveniently, all the union bosses are a bit heavy, so easy-breasy stereotype). He takes his big walk from the docks, followed by all of the other workers, now willing to be fired or at least lose a days pay. And that's about it.Not to diminish the great acting in this film. It is worth a watch just for that. The famous taxi scene is amazing and worth seeing the film.But the story, the characters are quite predictable.And how strange that this movie has been adopted as the poster child of evil unions by conservatives. Yes, corrupt union leaders where the villains in this film. But guess what, the same story could happen with an evil government, or an evil corporation. You could do the same story at Apple Computer in China. What many conservatives don't get is that this film is more a condemnation of BAD unions and corrupt leaders. At the end of the film, one of the workers says, "Maybe we can get the union back..." See, they want a union, just not a corrupt one. And the other point is the power of all of the workers as a collective. It took one man to get things rolling but the group who had the ultimate power to demand change. A lot more pro-union than many realize.
On the Waterfront is one of the best films to come out of the 1950s. The film just doesn't have a great screenplay, but the acting provides a one two punch. The film is about a down-and-out ex-boxer who is fed up with the local labor union pushing everybody around. The film also has one of the greatest speaking scenes in movie history. The scene of course is the conversation between Terry and his brother, Charlie, in the back of a taxicab. "You don't understand, I could have had class." "I could have been a contender." "I could have been somebody, instead of a bum, which is what I am-- let's face it." I give On the Waterfront * * * 1/2 (out of 5 stars).


                
