One of the best new shows in the last few years. Entourage brings the lifestyle of the young and famous in a likable sharply written easy to take in way. The key to this show is the writing, always witty and hard hitting. The writer's don't tame it down, it makes it easy to believe these are real people and gets you connected to the cast quickly. The realism of the series and the great guest stars they get is also a wonderful treat (sara foster, Scarlett Johanson, Jaime Presley, Ali larter to name a few). Ari Gold the super-agent is rapidly becoming one the most recognizable characters on HBO series with his hilarious lines and over the top antics. WATCH THIS SHOW!


                
With a full season now out of the way, as a whole, I am definitely impressed with what I've seen over the last 8 weeks. I like all five of the main characters and believe all the actors to have done a good job at portraying these guys. A special nod, of course, goes out to Piven for what he's done with Ari and the same for Kevin Dillon as Drama. I realize a lot of people don't buy Grenier as 'Vinny' (to quote Ari), but I think he plays him well. Same with Ferrara as Turtle. This guy may act like a loud-mouth goof ball most of the time he's in front of the camera, but I definitely see Queens coming from him. And then there's Eric, the "cynic" of the group. He may be cynical, but he's also very practical and seems to be the sole reason that things haven't fallen apart up at the mansion. He keeps them all in line and makes the decisions for Vince. A very cool character indeed.Doug Ellin, a guy I had never heard of before this show came on, along with Larry Charles, formally of Seinfeld, both write the lights out in this one and deserve much of the credit for its ability to appeal. I will admit that during the early trailers I was bit skeptical, but am now a definite fan. Good writing equals greater success.


                
Great show to watch with friends! Highly recommended and Victory


                
this show is the real deal and i enjoy very much. so i don't know what all you other people are talking about. its not cliché.. its a straight up entertaining well written show! so enjoy. stop hating..everyone cast in the show are good actors and new yorkers!! so that counts for something too. everyone i knew liked that show and thought it was one of the funniest shows. Ari's character was hysterical and non stop humor. Vince chase was laid back and cool. turtle was a little fat pimp who was funnier than anybody. Matt Dillon's little brother is so funny. The whole story and concept of the show seems very realistic to me and very enjoyable.


                
This show is the epitome of what all men want in their lives. Ari Gold is the best tv character of all time!!


                
Hands down one of the best shows ever created. This series could have gone forever, really. Every character was a bullseye from the first episode, and every episode leaves you smiling ear to ear, not often you can say that.If I had to watch one show forever this would be it.


                
This show makes you want that Hollywood life. You cant help but want to be Vincent chase, to live the fantasy life in cali with your buddies and be able to take care of your friends, while hooking up with models haha. This series was funny, entertaining, had a awesome cast and had a great story.


                
I have watch this series more than a couple of times, each time I am as entertained and as hooked into the story as I was the first time. The story, the actors, the timing, everything about this show is perfect. Highly recommend watching.


                
Just watch it and you will not be disappointed!!! This is the best TV show i have ever seen (ever!!!). Every episode is faultless and the emotional attachment to the characters is brilliant. The acting is of the highest quality and the story is well written. This is what a TV show needs to be like, not like the shitty, overrated, long-winded show called: The Walking Dead...etc. I haven't seen a TV show this good since FRIENDS.I haven't seen the movie of the Show but I will. To be honest, I didn't want a movie to be made as I feel it won't be as good as the series and it will spoil the reputation of the Show.


                
I finished this show like 3 times. Didn't see anything like it. Especially If you are a male, I would say you're gonna love it.
Just give the first season a try and the rest will come.


                
Entourage is a captivating story of rags to riches set in Hollywood in the 2000s. The show follows superstar Vincent Chase and his hometown crew from Queens, New York, his brother and aspiring actor Johnny "Drama" Chase, manager and best friend Eric Murphy and his other long time friend that just goes by the name Turtle. These four friends have to figure out how to live the life of rich and famous people and it makes for a hilarious yet dramatic story.
 This show is created and produced by Mark Wahlberg and he claims that it is loosely based on his group of friends from Boston when he started appearing in movies and becoming famous. Knowing this makes it interesting to watch and imagine that Mark Wahlberg has done some of the crazy things included in the show.
 Entourage is mainly a comedy with a vulgar sense of humor as characters such as Drama, Turtle and Vinces' agent Ari Gold are extremely funny to watch as they mostly seek out parties and pursue women for most of their days. Although it will have you laughing out loud there is a dramatic side to the show such as struggling to find jobs, make movies and there always seem to be girl troubles.
 My personal favorite part of the show is the character development that occurs over the eight seasons. You get to watch all of the characters grow from naive kids in Hollywood into the people who are running the town. You will really get attached to the characters and their storylines.
 I would absolutely recommend this show to anyone who wants a good laugh but also get a deeper story following very likeable characters. I think anyone who turns this show on to watch the pilot will fall in love with it and never want the last episode of season eight to come.


                
The first 4 seasons are absolutely amazing! Hilarious dialogue, brilliant directing, acting, script: everything is there and it is just pure gold.The 5th season is a big disappointment, the script and dialogues took a huge dive (I remember there was a screenwriters strike going on at the time that delayed the release of this season), it was definitely a huge step-down in quality. The 6th season shockingly touched rock bottom: the show had become a vapid sitcom filled with dullness, boredom, improbable clichés and not even funny. Day and night. It was hard to sit through it.The 7th season rebounds a little bit after the terrible 5th and 6th, but not enough to bring back your interest. Maybe they changed the team of writers, I really don't know. But when the show was intelligent, hilarious and witty, now it is plain and insipid. The 8th and last season still keeps coming back a little stronger but still way way below the level of the first four seasons.Several years later, a movie was released in theaters, and although it was good to see the cast giving the show a last effort, it did not contain enough good material to compete with a single good TV episode, and it was far from being as polished as it used to.I still rate is a 10, just for the first four seasons, and the awesome cast and concept.


                
Entourage is an American comedy-drama television series that premiered on HBO on July 18, 2004 and concluded on September 11, 2011, after eight seasons. The series was created and largely written by Doug Ellin and chronicles the acting career of Vincent Chase, a young A-list movie star, and his childhood friends from Queens, New York City, as they navigate the unfamiliar terrain of Los Angeles.Mark Wahlberg and Stephen Levinson served as the show's executive producers, and its premise is loosely based on Wahlberg's experiences as an up-and-coming film star.The series deals with themes of male friendship and real-life situations in modern-day Hollywood. The show is known for its array of famous guests, having featured several actors, athletes, and other celebrities in guest star and cameo roles, often playing fictionalized versions of themselves.


                
I have never ever seen a series better then Entourage. Probably seen it 5-6 times, and thats alot when it is 8 seasons! Genius! LOVING IT!


                
Entourage is a comedy about an A-list movie star Vincent Chase, his brother, and their two best friends growing up, as well as Vincent's agent, Ari Gold; covering their experiences in Hollywood. While the show possesses very funny lines and situations, it is not a show for everybody. Some may be offended by it's content and profanity, but without this stuff, the show is just not as good. Some would say these things are not necessary but in pop culture today they are. It is a show of friendship and male bonding. It is 'The Male's Sex in the City' if you will. It is the total package, giving us love, sex, romance, comedy, and a powerful depiction of brotherhood and friendship. Entourage is a 10 out of 10!


                
This show does for men what Sex and the City did for women that watched it. Alright, that's a sweeping generalisation, but there is an iota of truth in what I say. This show has all the ingredients that appeals to the modern heterosexual "bloke" or "lad" - flash cars, sex, hi tech gear, gorgeous women, fame, money, movies, music and frequent nonsensical discussions about hypothetical nonsensical things, as well as an element of brotherhood between the main parties. The four main characters (again similar to Sex and the City) are played with complete conviction, helped considerably with consistently sparkling scripts and dialogue. Everyone has a favourite, and mine simply has to be Johnny Drama, who's like the Samantha of this show.It also has to be commended for utilising Jeremy Piven's magnificent facility for swearing. It's hard to find a guy that can swear as well as him, and I love the fact that Ari and the rest of them trade insults so casually yet get along so well. Let's face it, this show has some of the best swearing and made up swear words ever!I love it. I can't stop watching it. You should watch it too.


                
I usually don't like watching television shows. I prefer watching movies, but Entourage is one of the only shows that I truly enjoy watching. It is hysterical. I have seen re-runs from every season, and it never gets old. It realistically follows an actor as he tries to make his way through Hollywood with his four close friends. They have a lot of cameos also in it. They have Pauly Shore, Hugh Heffner (spellcheck !?) , Mandy Moore, James Cameron, etc. going in and out throughout the entire show. It is an extremely funny show that I would suggest to anyone. Not to mention it is perfect to watch when nothing else is on. I give this show an easy 10 out of 10.


                
This show is excellent. Though their lives may have ups and downs, the good guys prevail. I'd love to see someone come on the show like me, a 45-yr old Catholic who isn't afraid to say intelligent, coherent sentences without ever using the f-word and who has been been married for 21 years old without cheating, and have a bit of a showdown with Ari. Someone who is a movie producer or something and actually calls Ari on the carpet for his swearing, his deceit, and everything else. Don't get me wrong, I love Ari, but I think it would be fun to show Hollywood that a "good" guy can succeed in their town. It would be a good chance to poke fun at Lohan and other actors who could have been great if they learned how to be good. I could play that part, and I think it would be hilarious because it would be so frustrating to Ari and the boys would get a kick out of seeing that frustration. Sign me up, Mr. Ellin... have a real 'nice' guy play a 'nice' guy on your show!


                
I thought a perfect series didn't exist. I'm a great fan of Lost and Prison Break and used to think those were the best series of all time, but i gotta say this: ENTOURAGE IS THE BEST SERIES EVER!! genius really... nothing bad to say. A+++The dialogs are funny, the situations are funny and the characters are funny (with the exception of Eric (Kevin Connoly), which I think is a necessary evil).And I must say that the third season is the best of all. Jeremy Piven is perfect and deserved his Emmy. I'm sorry if my English is not that good, since i'm Chilean. But anyway, if anyone haven't watched entourage yet, i don't know what they're waiting for.


                
This show alone makes HBO worth the price of admission. The writing and acting are second to none. Never before have I ever anticipated a show as much as Entourage. Every character is lovable in his or her own way (especially, my boy, Johnny Drama, VICTORY!!!) And Jeremy Piven is the piece that brings the whole show together. Every show is carefully crafted with witty dialogue and a fresh plot that you interested until the credits, at which point you wish that it was an hour long show. I can only hope that HBO invests the money to keep this show running for the long haul. Every show leaves you rooting for Vinnie Chase and his entourage.


                
Oh how i love this show. It's perfect and the comedy is excellent as is the acting, writing,cinematography,music and direction. Jeremy Piven does a magnificent job at playing Ari. The entourage are mediocre but special mention has to go to Johnny Drama played by Kevin Dillon who provides laughs every episode. The cameos and supporting characters are brilliant as well (Billy Walsh and Matt Damon- my two favorites)The show introduced me to wonderful music from The Verve, Gang Starr and also giving nod to classics from The Ramones, The cure and Rolling Stones.The highlight of the show for me though is the Locations. Going on holidays out to Los Angeles last year gave me the excitement I felt seeing many of the locations used and the show made me want to move to glitz and glamour of Hollywood. Personal favorites were Warner Bros Studios and The house the boys lived in in the first season.Watch the Show and you will be addicted. VICTTTOOORRRYYYY!!!!!


                
Entourage is a comedy-drama HBO television series about four boys from Queens, New York trying to make it in Hollywood. It follows the everyday life of a movie star and displays the ups and the downs he goes through daily (not everything is fun and games for celebrities).Vincent Chase, played by Adrian Grenier, is the movie star we follow throughout the series along with his entourage, consisting of his best friends, Eric Murphy and Turtle, his older brother, Johnny Chase, and his agent, Ari Gold. Vincent, formally known as Vinny, is a charming, compassionate, classy, sometimes hard-headed, pretty boy actor. He usually gets out of control and does not listen to his representatives, which sometimes gets him in trouble. However, as stubborn as Vinny could be, he knows what's best for him and tends to ultimately come through and deliver for his agents.Eric Murphy, played by Kevin Connolly, is not only Vince's childhood friend but also his manager. Eric, also known as E, is a kind, respectful person, who tends to easily fall in love with women and is often times teased for his romantic life by his friends. Eric is also mocked for his softness and short height. Though, deep down, Eric is tough because he is able to handle the harsh treatment he sometimes receives from his movie star friend and client, Vinny.Turtle, played by Jerry Ferrara, is the group's driver. Throughout most of the series, he is unemployed and lives off of Vince. He is usually teased for being a "freeloader," not having a job, and his inability to charm ladies without Vince's help. Even though Turtle is usually jobless, he tries hard to find ways to make his own income. He is a hardworking, loyal guy, but is usually deceived by his employers.Johnny Chase, also known as Johnny Drama, is the dramatic brother of Vince. He is a television star who has passed his prime and finds it hard to get back into the game. Throughout the series, Johnny, played by Kevin Dillon, is dumped by many agents because of his incapability to act. He typically creates enormously chaotic scenes everywhere he goes and gets himself in big trouble. Drama is normally ridiculed for his old age and inability to act at a high level. He is one of the funniest characters on the show due to his foolish antics and fun-loving characteristic.Lastly there is Vinny's arrogant, self-centered, pain in the butt super-agent, Ari Gold. Ari, played by Jeremy Piven, is one of the best agents in the business. He is frequently working everybody in Hollywood to find his prized client, Vincent Chase, a job. He is known for lying and deceiving people to get what he wants. Ari also tends to put his work ahead of his family, which leads him to couples therapy with his wife. Even though he is depicted as this selfish, big headed agent, he is truly a caring and hardworking person. Ari carries the comedic portion of this show with his smart mouth, hysterical remarks and hilarious actions when he is outraged. Piven masters the role of Ari Gold.Entourage shows the adversity an actor has to go through daily, whether it's being fired by a studio, getting addicted to drugs, not being able to find his passion project, having problems with directors, and losing out on movies due to poor timing. Sure, Entourage still displays all the excitement in a movie star's life, such as purchasing expensive houses and vehicles, hooking up with the ladies, and being able to get special treatment wherever he goes, but its main purpose is to show the audience that movie stars are everyday people like us with daily issues.Moreover, Entourage has one of the best cast members ever. Unlike other TV shows, right from its pilot episode, the cast is in tuned with each other and has excellent chemistry. Each member of the cast brings enthusiasm and energy to the set and is consistent throughout each episode of the eight season series. The jokes are never tiring. They are always fresh and entertaining in each episode. The four friends, Vincent, Johnny, Eric, and Turtle, are portrayed as typical guy friends would be. They make fun of each other for their flaws and shortcomings, which is exactly how guys pass their time with their friends in real life.What's more, Entourage has the best guest stars featured in all of their episodes. Each guest star, just like the lead cast members, brings their own burst of liveliness and enthusiasm to the episodes. Guest stars feature the likes of Jessica Alba, Jimmy Kimmel, Sara Foster, Scarlett Johansson, Bob Saget, Seth Green, Anna Faris, Kanye West, T.I., Mark Cuban, 50 Cent, LeBron James, Matt Damon, John Stamos, Sasha Grey, Kevin Love, Eminem, Mike Tyson, and many more. Lastly, Entourage doesn't only focus on a movie star's life. It expands further than that. Entourage shows the value of friendship and family. It teaches that friends and family are more important than work. That's the beauty of Entourage. Each episode leaves the viewer with a warm, fuzzy feeling, a feeling that makes you beg for more. All the episodes are satisfying, thanks to the wonderful cast and writers. The story lines are always unique and flawless. The comedy is on point and sharp, and the drama is realistic and believable.So if you have never seen Entourage or haven't heard about it, you should go on Netflix or to the store and rent all the seasons, whatever you have to do to look this show. You will not regret it. Entourage is a fun, exciting, dramatic, comedic show that will not waste your time. All the people who have already viewed this perfectly distinctive show are currently impatiently waiting for the release of its movie, which should come out this summer.
I have watch the show and i am in the middle of season 6...How could HBO even just consider to stop something amazing like that???Instead of canceling such a gold nugget of show, they should build a statue of the cast in front of the studio and expand the contract for the next 10 years!This is just some good feeling, brotherhood lifestyle show which give's the viewer a good time. every time!How could you possibly take that away from the viewers???Anyone who makes decisions like that in company should be banned from producing Entertainement. It doesn't matter if you have differences with the actors, writers, directors or else, you just make it work, because the people love that show.Instead we are watching now a bunch of hilarious shows, which i am certain they payed a Lot more money to create them.But what do i know, i am just a viewer and a fan.


                
Okay this show was simply one of the greatest entertainment I've had in a long time. The show is very fun to watch. The show has somewhat of an overall story line that each season has, but I came into watching this show in the middle of season 4 and was very quickly able to figure out the story line. You know how in some shows there are episodes that are a drag at times...well not in this show. Every episode is simply incredible! I now successfully own every season and on any given day if I feel like watching a fun show that will cheer me up...this is the show to go too!The store line is simple its 4 friends who are friends less and more like brother who have crazy days in Hollywood movie industry! Thats pretty much it. I was so upset when I heard that season 8 was the ending, I wish that they kept going. But like everything, all things must come to an end! The show is most definitely not suitable for children. Its got plenty of adult scenes...so one must be careful.


                
In "Marley & Me" Owen Wilson defends himself for staying at home at Sunday night because of the amazing program on HBO. Paul Rudd basically said the same in "I love You, Man" Big surprise... HBO bought the TV rights for both movies but these quotes couldn't be more true! HBO Series are not just TV Shows they are Blockbusters (Tru Blood / Game Of Thrones / Boardwalk Empire)Entourage is no difference, Vinny Chase (Adrian Grenier) and his friends take us behind the scenes of Hollywood by telling his story of being a movie star! The cats of the show is absolutely brilliant because "the guys" appear to be absolutely natural, except of Vincents brother "Drama" (Kevin Dillon) who appears to be overacting, over reacting, over the top etc.. it is all part of the concept! Having seen interviews of the "Entourage Boys" reveals that all of them use their natural voice and phrasing in the show. It appears to be that the director didn't mean for them to act at all! Some people might consider that bad acting, i consider it believable!The Dialogues often don't have any purpose for the script but in the end of the day this is what makes the show believable! Who'd think that a movie star and his child hood friends would only discuss important things is mislead by illusions! The 4 boys are from Queens NY, grew up together in the same block in one of the less fancy areas! This however is where they got their roots are from and even when Vincent is buying 4 Aston Martins for his boys, because he can afford it, a couple of minutes later he will show that he hasn't forgotten where he is coming from!The show is about loyalty and friendship, easy going life style of a movie star without forgetting the ups and downs and the twisted "souls" in this business! As a viewer you are part of the show, you are right there with them, this is how believable this series is. As much as i hate that a Season is not much longer than 5 hours now, it proofs to be a good decision, Season 3 had 20 Episodes like a network show and it turned out that they had to slow down things and add a lot of unnecessary scenarios! Slowing down the speed of the show would kill it eventually because the rhythm is what makes it so brilliant!Each character appears to be acting in high speed mode which resembles that fast live in Hollywood, also it is a lot of dialogue to put into 25 minutes! The brilliance of the show get's it's crown by Jeremy Piven who's playing the obnoxious Ari Gold, a narcissistic egomaniac Agent based on real life agent "Ari Emanuel" Pivens is nothing but great and he deserves every single award he has ever received! He is that convincing that he might be in trouble after Season 8 when the show is over! The character has branded his name and people might not want to see him being a calm and relaxed guy! Thank god theater is his passion so he might not have to rely on new roles! I believe if they would make a spin off called "Ari Gold" it would work (actually that just popped up to my mind and if HBO is listening I'd be happy with 1% commissions) No matter how obnoxious and narcissistic Ari Gold is and how cold and heartless he acts towards his employees, clients and basically every living creature on this planet... when it comes to his family he has nothing but heart! When it comes to Vincent Chase "his first discovery" he got nothing but heart! He is a great father and even in his crazy high speed life and his insensitive conversations with his wife, he got family values and he would never cheat on her, in fact this would never even cross his mind! Of course his wife knows that but as being an ex actress and now being a housewife she is bored and bored women tend to exploit the "victim" role and would drag him into therapy sessions just to spend some time with her husband! She loves him just as much as he loves her but since she is not as focused on career as he is she will ignore the fact that her husband "gotta do what he's gotta do" and fins herself in the role as the victim which makes Ari unfocused! Several of Aris relationships with friends or his former Assistant LLoyd show his loyalty and his heart (when it matters) which makes this constantly cursing egomaniac become a human being! To me Ari Gold is the best played character in TV History!Being one month away from the final season raises a lot of questions, the current teaser says "it all begins as it ends with friends" I guess that's why it is called a teaser. Fact is it will end in round about 6 hours and while they were using Season 7 for rather stereotypical Hollywood clichés where young successful actors go off the track i have faith that somehow they will find back to the roots and remember who they are. The writers left us with a couple of cliffhangers! All one can hope is that they are not trying to make something special this time! The show usually ends with a mindless conversation but enough curiosity for more, let's just leave it with that! The show began on a sunny day with a movie premiere ahead of them, let's end it there because the audience enjoys the guys hanging out more than the plot twists and the drama.It was a good decision not to go for a full season this year, so the rhythm of success shall continue!


                
