I like this show a lot. I think it lets us into a world that although comes off as very superficial is fun and entertaining to watch. I think the acting is really good. I like how each character has really developed their own personality and style. It kind of makes me wish I had a famous friend who took care of me like Vince takes care of his friends. The one problem I have with this show is that the female characters aren't very strong. They seem to be very submissive to the men, and if they are shown in a positive light, it is when they are not causing any problems for the men. Their characters aren't stylized and developed like the male characters are. I would like to see some story lines for the women in the cast, and I would like to see them as more than play things for the guys. Overall this is a good show and I enjoy watching it!


                
I've always heard tell that this show was a guys show, but I found it enjoyable (didnt necessary agree with everything the guys did... ).One reason to like this show: Cameos, cameos, cameos! I mean, I never imagined Bob Saget would say the F word! (Having grown up watching Full House, this one had me like :O )But what got me hooked and got me going after every episode was Jeremy Piven. It was more than his character's dialogue, it was they way Ari Gold delivered dialogue. He is cruel, homophobic, racist, sarcastic. And thats all just his attitude towards his assistant. Despite the character's obvious negative attitude, he was a genuine pleasure to watch. I genuinely think he got the best lines in episode, in fact, the whole show even. I mean its saying something, when he can deliver lines like -Ari Gold: All right. Well, I'll just sexually harass her until she quits. -Ari Gold: That was a good speech, Lloyd. If I was 25 and liked cock, we could be something. -(Lloyd: Are you hiding something from me, Ari?) Ari Gold: Only my cock and my asshole, Lloydand not only get away with it, but make you laugh and make you like him despite having morals yourself.Another mention why I loved certain episodes: Rhys Coiro as Billy Walsh. His disdain for E, his creative process. He was great fun to watch on the show. I'll recommend this to those who want to watch something lighthearted and that doesn't require brains or concentration.


                
Here is the deal: This show is great. The acting and performances are excellent. All characters are nice and well written and fit perfectly. The show is believable though it's like a boys wet-dream. It's surprising, funny, honest and what's most important, it's smart. Jeremy Piven as Ari is hilarious, I even like Drama, even though he reminds me too much of Joey (Friends), still cool. Vince, "E" and Turtle are just great characters and the kind of guys you just wanna hang out with. The story is interesting and gives you a scoop on what it might be in the life of the rich and famous, without feeling sad, that you can't live that life for real. Every time I'm just sitting there, enjoying how the "entourage" enjoys their lifes. That's a lot to achieve for a TV show these days, feeling good for others that is. Keep it coming! ps: Thanks for the Larry David Cameo HBO, as Curb is the only show that could compete with Entourage!


                
After two episodes of the new comedy series from HBO, i have mixed emotions about the show. On the good side, i think that it is original, funny, and will last for a while. On the negative side, i think that the writing and overall demeanor of the show needs to intensify. This could be because the show just got started and will intensify as the episodes continue. I think that the success of HBO has been due to the fact that the shows are quality, yet vulgar and violent. Think about Sex and the City, it was a great show, with great characters who are basically four whores living in NYC. The show was so successful because the writing matched the concept. The writing was very dirty and very vulgar and at the same time, hilarious. The Sopranos has been successful due to the fact that it is extremely violent yet mixed in with brilliant acting and writing. Other shows such as Curb, Oz, The Wire, etc. have stuck to great writing and acting, but at the same time, keep that traditional HBO level of vulgarity going right from the start. Now look at Entourage. Here we have a Hollywood hotshot and his closest friends just living the life in LA. The premise is great for an HBO series, but think of how much more they could do with the show. There is the level of swearing and sexual references, but this is a show where nudity, severe drug abuse, and a little violence should come about. Hollywood is not a normal place. It is probably one of the scummiest places in the world and this show needs to capture that better. There has got to be more going on behind the scenes of these big time actors that just spending money and taking bong hits on the couch. Maybe I'm wrong and perhaps this is what actors do, but it never hurt HBO to exaggerate a little bit. Also, Jeremy Piven and Kevin Dillon i think are holding the show together. I mean come on, its Dillons best work since Platoon. I give it 7/10 because it is a clever show that has potential.


                
I have seen every episode to date, and I can definitely say this is my favorite series on TV ever. Well, really it's the first HBO series I have watched, but whatever. It's too bad the season was only 8 episodes, but it ended well and hopefully it will lead to a second great season. Eric is my favorite character for some reason. I've watched every episode about 4 times each (thanks to Comcast On-Demand) and my favorite episode is probably when the gang is invited to Josh Weinstien's (I think that's his name) party, and Eric threatens Ari that Josh will be their new agent since he sees Ari trying to stop Queens Boulevard and so Ari goes down and tells Josh off. Actually, scratch that--all the episodes are my favorite.


                
