When I watched the first few episodes of Entourage I wondered what was going on and if I could be keep watching. But once you understand and get involved in this world you don't want to get out. It is both interesting, fun and full of colorful characters. This show is a hit and often drops big names like there is no tomorrow. Sometimes it even has a killer soundtrack. Great show. 8/10


                
This show is amazing, as the seasons go on, you really get caught up in the numbers that are thrown around in $$ signs in order to make movie deals. Vincent Chase's morals that are brought with him from his humbling days living in Queens, New York; which includes his strong relationship with his best friends are really tested against Hollywoods most powerful. Even though Vinny's brother and friends depend on the success of his movie roles, the character really bring a lot to the table when it comes to character development. Each one of them eventually branches out doing their own thing to bring better more interesting stories to the episodes. If you want to try something new on HBO, I would highly recommend checking out Entourage, usually 30 minute segments with all the bullshit cast out in between. Give a it a couple episodes and you'll be hooked.
I could tell you that Entourage is a self critiquing magnifying glass on what it means to live the Hollywood life. In some ways that's true, Entourage is about that. Ultimately though I suggest you don't take the show too seriously and just enjoy the ride for what it's worth. Either you'll enjoy it or you won't, just don't waste too much time thinking about it.I watched all 8 seasons (and the movie), and while I wouldn't say I got bored of the show it does become a bit samey. Still, watching Vince navigating his way through stardom with the support of the buddies he grew up with back in Queens is great fun. Just don't dig too deep, as much like the real Hollywood you might find out there's not much more to it.


                
After finishing season 8 and watching the 2015 movie yesterday I felt a little sad. I will miss this show, though I'm sure I'll watch it again every now and then. In my opinion Ari is the best. He's the heart of the show. The way he showcase his character is just one of a kind. I was always looking forward on how he screams something at Lloyd or found out something that will tick him off. He does what he does whenever he wants (don't tell Mrs. Gold). Overall I like his character as a whole.When you look at Vince, he's good but he's dependent. Eric think he's good when he's not really that good. Johnny is sometimes annoying. Turtle is a shadow. Billy is the worst. Ari is the King!
I like this show because it captures male-male friendships so well. The guys are crass to each other (in a clever way) but are still tight. I also like it because, in a lesser show, the characters would be pure clichés, but here the writing is good enough that they're believable. For example, Eric is the "shy" character but he can still stand up for himself, gets girls, etc. And of course it's fun to live vicariously through the guys.The show does have some flaws that seem to be getting worse with time. One big one is that it's so formulaic. Something seemingly bad happens at the beginning but right at the end of the episode it all works out for some contrived reason. One episode actually had them losing a fortune at blackjack just to win it all back at the end with a crazy-lucky hand. These emotional roller coasters are not subtle or sophisticated.Another problem that's been getting worse is Ari's schtick. I buy it when he's pitching or negotiating but these sub-plots with his kid's school, Lloyd's boyfriend, etc. and pretty unbelievable.


                
Entourage is easily one of my favorite comedy series of all time. The characters are all lovable in their own unique ways and the character development throughout the length of the series is very well done. The writing is hilarious and very original, which keeps the story fresh and different through the run of the show. The show and characters are greatly influenced by the life and antics of a young Mark Whalberg when he was new to the business and lifestyle of Hollywood. If you like the world of the entertainment business or simply like comedies with great characters and story, than Entourage is a MUST WATCH!


                
This is not the best show coming from the HBO-stables. The 25-minutes, the length of each episode, is just too short to create superb stories as in The Sopranos, Deadwood or Big Love. I consider Entourage as HBO-light, a desert to the other shows that this superb production company is releasing.Don't be fooled by my harsh words, because this show is pretty cool on itself. It's a painful insight on the empty lives of a group of friends surrounding a rising Hollywood star. Their lives literary are entwined with everything this Vincent Chase does. His best friend E. - a former employee of a pizza company - even arranges everything from selecting scripts to doing business with his agent and accountant. And then there is Turtle, an unattractive yet funny guy using the status of Chase's success for personal gain. And last but not least there is Drama, the older brother that didn't quite make it in Hollywood but is still dreaming of breaking through while pondering on successes in the past.At the surface they all seem to have a trouble free life of partying, hunting pussy and drinking alcohol, but as the show is evolving you also see a darker side. None of them is actually capable of shaking down their immature behavior or settling down with a serious relationship. But HBO wouldn't be HBO if they'd chose to moralize the choices of their protagonists; they never take a stance against these guys. Sometimes their awful choices actually lead to profitable situations for themselves. But sometimes their choices lead to some pretty awkward situations as well. And that's just the way I like to see any show: unpredictable on the outcome of human behavior, showing the ambivalence nature we all have towards making our choices in life.And one thing I thoroughly enjoy is that they didn't put a laughing band on the background, so that viewers may actually choose to laugh or not.


                
I've been a little addicted to this show over the past couple of weeks. I don't have HBO, but I've been watching it on DVD. I think it is a really likable show. The lifestyle is of course very appealing and the loyalty between the friends. I'm a sucker for male bonding I think it's so cute. I do wish they had a few stronger female characters on the show. They mostly just treat women as objects, but despite the lack of strong female characters I still really enjoy the show. I think all the characters have a lot of personality and room for interesting story lines. I really like this show and I hope it stays on for a while! I would recommend getting the DVD's so you can watch all the episodes back to back!


                
Based loosely on Mark Wahlberg and his friends arriving in L.A. early in his career. This real life inspiration gives it good originality and a fresh take. Kevin Connolly is the cool headed best friend. Adrian Grenier is the hot sexy new star. Kevin Dillon is the older brother who has had limited success. Jerry Ferrara is the punchline to many of the group's jokes. And Jeremy Piven is the memorable scheming talent agent Ari.Girls, excess and the L.A. party scene draw us in but it's the group's friendship that keeps us watching. No matter what the obstacle, the group eventually pulls together but maybe after some hilarious ribbing. The last few season do feel a little stretched out. Ninety six hour-long episodes are a lot for any non-procedural serial.


                
I watched all eight seasons of "Entourage", every episode had its own story. The casting is superb, I cannot imagine another actor playing a different role. The basic plot is four guys, two of them being actors, the other two being support and the actor's manager. It's centered on how life is in show business and in Hollywood. The main character, Vincent "Vinny" Chase is an A List actor, he is very generous to his friends, who are basically family to him. His brother Johnny "Drama" Chase is a C List actor who stars in television shows. Eric "E" Murphy starts out as Vincent's manager , they were best friends growing up in Brooklyn. Salvatore "Turtle" Assante has no solid job, but he starts businesses and drives the group around Los Angeles.Another character worth mentioning is Ari Gold, a hard-headed agent of Vincent Chase, he is tough, but will do anything for Vincent.All around this series is a must watch. The only reason I gave it eight stars instead of ten, is its abrupt ending. I was shocked when season eight ended the way it did. It just did not feel right.
A nice antidote to the more sombre fare that tends to occupy TV airspace these days, and certainly a comforting watch for a night in, "Entourage" is a slick, likeably light-hearted show that is loads of fun. The opening season here reviewed has much to recommend it, with plenty of laughs, attractive women and star cameos in all eight episodes.The show follows the fortunes of Vincent Chase (Adrian Grenier), a sweet if self-involved young actor on the rise in Hollywood. Keeping him company between roles in his travails through the Los Angeles film world are his friends, the entourage of the show's title.There's Eric (Kevin Connolly), Vince's manager and lifelong friend. Eric reads and QC's the scripts Vince gets as well as keeping him under tight control. He shares a frisky relationship with Ari (Jeremy Piven), Vince's smart-mouthed, tenacious agent. On the sidelines providing the laughs are Johnny Drama (Kevin Dillon), Vince's brother, a struggling actor and cook who can play a mean game of golf, and Turtle (Jerry Ferrara), Vince's driver and all-round funnyman.The series is very-well written, and actually gets better as the series progresses and more edge and conflict creep into the writing and the dialogue. The performances are all-round excellent but predictably it's Ari, arguably the show's nastiest character who gets all the best lines.The best episodes of this season are "Busey and the Beach" with a cameo from character actor Gary Busey. This episode nicely contrasts Vince's lucky lifestyle with that of other less fortunate actors and Ari gets a great scene confronting a rival agent. The closing episode "New York" has a good focus on Vince himself, and his friendship with Eric. Grenier plays the character with a nice touch of arrogance here, so that you're almost close to disliking him for the way he treats his friend.The show has now reached a fourth season, and on this basis of this season, it comes highly recommended.
*Fresh faced actor and friends negotiate the alien terrain of Hollywood*Funny, witty, great characters. Jeremy Piven is phenomenal as the highly-strung, manic, non-P.C. agent. Kevin Dillon is also excellent as Vince's mooching, kind-of-talented older brother. Also, Lloyd (Ari's assistant), is very good.At first I was unsure about the premise, but as the show moves on, the characters begin driving the programme rather than the L.A. setting. Definitely check it out. The second and third seasons, in my opinion, are better than the first.


                
