Entourage is a TV series which is vaguely based on Mark Wahlberg's life in Hollywood. Vincent Chase played by the very charming Adrian Grenier is a young and in demand film star. He's represented by Ari Gold, a ruthless agent determined to be the most powerful person in Hollywood. Jeremy Piven plays the role of Ari Gold brilliantly, and admits to have taken many attributes for this character from a real Hollywood agent named Ari Emanuel.Vincents other entourage include his brother Johnny Chase, known as "Drama" who used to be a relatively successful actor back in the day, however his career is now on the down side. Johnny Chase is played by Matt Dillon's brother Kevin Dillon, and his job is now to cook for Vincent and the rest of the crew. Jerry Ferrara plays the role of Turtle, Vincent's driver while Kevin Connolly who plays Eric Murphy, also known as E, is Vincent's manager. The series is made to seem like a reality show most of the times, and although the characters and their situations are of course amplified for entertaining purposes, the lifestyle these four young men live is a true reflection of young Hollywood these days.Like most fans of this show I can't wait for the movie to be released in June this year.


                
The show is seriously bad. Not trying to be a jerk, I'm talking as a viewer.There is no script, just a small "struggle" about a movie cast, maybe they buy something expensive, maybe not, and they fill the rest of the show with booze and talking about sex with women.As for the performances, terrible, i don't know why this guy is supposed to be a rising star in Hollywood(in the show), he has nothing special that separates him, he has literally no virtues so you can like him as a viewer and say:keep it going man!(i adore Dr. House as a character even if he is the most annoying person, and that's because he acts great)He looks like an extra and above all he has not even the courtesy to exercise a little bit just so he can make us believe that he fits his role as an actor! All that Entourage is showing, is four lazy guys drinking, going to parties, and meet women, no point in script, just having fun, and it makes you think that you have fun watching it. I don't think that this is the life of a talented actor trying to make big steps on the Cinema stairs, it just shows that Hollywood is lazy, and i don't think that actors in real life like Pacino, DeNiro, Di Caprio, Bale, where having the time of their lives, instead of working like dogs in order to get a decent role. Bottom line, i know it's too late now, but the show needs to be re-casted with serious worthy actors, and maybe(I'm talking crazy here) have a story.


                
Entourage follows the lifestyle that revolves around up and coming star Vinnie Chase and his friends. Party, drugs, booze and chicks, lots of them. But that's definitely not what makes Entourage so great. What makes it so unique is that it explores a subject that many people are actually curious about and it presents it in a great way with many cameos in every single episode of the series. What is also great is that they present the stages of Vincent's career, like the film that launched him into stardom, his indie flick, his summer million dollar blockbuster, and much more. I have yet to see Seasons 5-8. I hope they're good but I can say the first four are simply gold. The best characters are hands down Johnny Drama and Ari Gold, just hilarious. The kind of entertainment one hopes to get from HBO. A great series that kind of feels like a Sex and the City for dudes. I love it. Season 1 focuses on Vincent after his first big movie Head On, it does a great job on introducing the characters and explaining their background. It also focuses on Vince trying to get on the movie Queens Boulevard and how they get Billy Walsh and so on. Also on how Ari tries to get him to do Matterhorn. Season 1 does a great job and is pretty good and definitely worth it. Season 2 is bigger and definitely better: it has way more cameos and focuses on post-QB and trying to get Vince to do James Cameron's Aquaman. It also digs a little deeper into Ari's character and Drama's and also, surprisingly Vince's with the Mandy Moore situation. You also get the first moments of the Ari-Terrence-Davies problems and why Ari leaves the agency. An improvement over the first season, Season 2 is just flat out awesome.Season 3 deals with everything post-Aquaman. It's a great season and almost an improvement over Season 2, but the last few episodes just aren't as good. The season also deals with Eric and Sloan's relationship, Turtle trying to manage Saigon and Drama landing his new TV hit show. It's also very interesting the way they deal with Ari getting fired halfway through the season. It's a great season and definitely worth it.
Jeremy piven has to be the best actor currently working for HBO. Ari is one of my favorite fictional characters ever. Cosmo Kramer and Silvio Dante are the other two. piven carries the show on his own shoulders. turtle is also an endearing character. we all know someone like him who is a hanger on but still lovable. drama is played well by Kevin Dillon. he is the underachiever trying to make good and deal with his insecurities. both piven and Dillon are far too under-appreciated in the acting community. these guys are great character actors and make entourage another hit for home box office. a male version of sex and the city? maybe it came along at the right time.


                
I was not prepared to like this show as much as I do, as I was expecting yet another lame, stereotypical caricature of celebrities living the life of luxury in Hollywood. Instead, Entourage is an intelligent, often funny series with a cast and situations that feel "real." Though it gives a glimpse into a privileged world most of us will never be a part of, it doesn't take itself too seriously. In fact, it makes a point of zeroing in on the fallibilities of the mega-movie star and his three childhood buddies/employees/parasites who make up the entourage. Now that Sex & the City is gone, this is a suitable replacement.


                
I really like this show. I think it's a bit of a guilty pleasure. Don't we all wish we had a famous friend to take care of our finances?! I like the chemistry the cast has; none of them are really drop-dead gorgeous, but I like that. I think it makes the characters more endearing. I really like the actor that played the lead role. I saw him in an offbeat movie called "The adventures of Samuel Cole" a long time ago and I was hoping he would get big. Jeremy Pivven is really good to. He really plays his character well. The show works for me because it portrays what I imagine Hollywood being like, but I actually like all the characters. They have redeeming qualities and they aren't just rich jerks who think they own the town. They a really good friends to one-another which ,call me cheesy, but I really like. This show is definitely worth looking into. Check it out if you get the chance.


                
Personally, I'd give the show a strong 9. Why? It may not be the best TV show out there. It has its short-comings and those moments when you do get annoyed at the direction it is taking, but, for the comedy-drama genre out there, it is epic. It is thoroughly enjoyable, especially if you are a movie buff and do wonder from time to time about the ongoings in Hollywood. And who wouldn't want to know how their favourite actor's lifestyle is? Apart from stylish direction and perfectly executed dialogues, the show also features a huge number of celebrities playing themselves. The show is that real. It's a show for everyone. Watch it. You won't regret it, not even a bit.


                
To start it was one of the series where i thought, is it worth seeing? Do i really want to spend so many hours. In short: YES. In long, the series got it all, how i expect Hollywood to be. Full of Lies, Ups and downs, beautiful girls, drugs, cars, Everything and nothing.The whole story is about Vinny chase The movie star, his slightly awkward brother aka the "tv .. well star would be to much" , turtle the more or less tag along guy, and E the little boy that manages Vinny's career. The 4 guys from queens. And not to forget the mean agent, Ari gold.You get to see how they spend it all, and in the next season stand in front of NOTHING, the struggle to get back and the downfall on drugs. I wouldn't say it's the best series ever made, but it is realistic. There are not just the good sides but also the problems.It learns you one big thing (if anything) no mater how big you think you are, you still get f.., millions do not make a difference.
After watching the complete series, I have to admit, I am more than surprised how good this was. We're talking about issues people with money have. But it works, because our main characters come from a poor neighborhood and they act like normal people. The idea that sprang out of Mark Wahlbergs mind/history, is simple yet fascinating. Celebrity status is something a lot of people want to achieve. This works like a male Sex and the City version with added movie stardom (and some better story lines added to that).Jeremy Piven might be one of the better "bad" people on TV in recent history. You just love to hate his character. Can't imagine someone else playing that role. And while he is mean, he is kinda sweet too. Not to mention his relationships, which say a lot about his character (actions speak louder than words). Guest appearances make this one of the shows where celebrities find their place. Some "playing" themselves on screen, some other playing a character.What is more important, the story lines of all the four/five major characters work fine. They don't just bury things from the past. The dialog is great and being on HBO allows the show to vary their running time between 22-30 minutes. Which means, there is no need to have a certain structure to it all or a time constraint. All for the best of the show. Which makes it an addictive watch (no pun intended). And one can only hope there will be the long rumored movie. Not that the show didn't end on a good note ... but there is always something that can be said ... actually you might be excused for hoping this show would never had ended ...


                
I came across this show staying at a hotel one night. I thought it was stupid--a few wannabe stars trying to act cool. Then I watched another episode and the show grew on me. It's actually very entertaining if you're into hilarious s$it. Casting and acting are excellent all around. Johnny Drama and Ari Gold are my favorite characters but they're all good; all the extras from episode to episode are top notch. Seasons 2-6 are my favorites, but after that it unfortunately goes downhill with the final season being a disaster: while Turtle still acts great, he doesn't look like Turtle anymore; Eric Murphy's job--what happened?; most importantly, Vincent Chase's relationship makes no sense whatsoever. Nevertheless, for all the laughs I've had, I'm rating it a 9/10.


                
Entourage shows the life of a Hollywood superstar Vincent Chase. The storyline keeps you in a grip and the series is quite addictive.You can never have enough of Entourage.The cast assembled is simply perfect,though one man stands apart from all the characters i.e. Ari Gold.When ever he is on screen, he just takes the scene away although lead character is Vincent Chase.Series is marked by the guest appearances of many Hollywood Superstars like Wahlberg, Cameroon, Sasha Grey, Eminem to name a few.Johny Drama and Ari Gold have acted brilliantly, Eric on the other hand looks surprised on most of the scenes.Turtle plays his role with utmost ease.Show reveals the typical life of Hollywood Superstar, the ups n downs, drug addiction,parties,shootings.You'll have to bear with first 2 episodes to get the smell of the show but after that I guarantee you'll not be able to let go the show. I have seen all the 7 seasons and I had seen all seasons within a span of weeks and I am eagerly awaiting for the 8th season. I would strongly recommend to see the show if you have not seen it yet.


                
I'll keep this short and crisp. Entourage is to me what anti-depressants is to others. When I'm feeling all down and whiny, Scandinavian winter creeping up on me and all. The cure? Two or three episodes of Entourage will do the trick.From the day I saw the first episode of Entourage I knew that this series represented something new to me. Having grown increasingly tired of bad sitcoms and comedies (oh, and America's funniest home-videos) the last few years, I was actually starting to give up on finding something to laugh wholeheartedly at. Until this great series dropped into my mailbox that is. I'm NOT looking forward to reaching the end of it, as that pretty much leaves me with no options again, but nothing lasts forever.Even if I'm as far away from the hectic Hollywood life as one can get, I still feel that I'm welcome to the fifth seat, squeezed in somewhere between E and Drama. Do watch this.PS: Goes very well with a beer or two.


                
This show is nothing short of amazing. Of course it is, it's veteran larry charles, from seinfeld, doing a lot of the writing, what do you expect? I was hesitant to watch the show at first, the whole Hollywood glam life isn't for me. Then I watched this show, god what a dream it would be the have the life these kids have. I love the guests they have on the show, usually really random; but it always seems to work. This show is also really pot friendly, and portrays it in a very accurate way. This has got to be on the best dramedies on TV, and am very glad it has been picked up again for a new season. I watch 2-3 eps a day, and am almost done with season 3. If you want to escape to Hollywood, a place filled with money, hot chicks, and plenty of pot smoking, Entourage has got you covered.


                
I have been so jaded with a lot of television shows nowadays, and the only series that kept me glued to my sofa in the past were The Sopranos and Sex & The City.Entourage manages to be intelligent, savvy, daring, twisted, and light-hearted; which is a difficult feat for any program writer.Much of the show's brilliance must be attributed to the creator and head writer; both I believe knew where the series is directed, taking welcome suggestions (I believe) from such cerebral actors as Jeremy Piven.I simply cannot imagine Entourage without Ari Gold. But I can picture Ari Gold without Entourage. Solo spin-off, please!


                
I live in a place where I don't get cable, and for the most part I don't miss it. This is a show that makes me miss it.To me, the overall theme of this show is about how these four average guys stick together while surrounded by the LA lifestyle. True, they have their disagreements, but they always manage to work it out, determined to keep their friendship #1.If I had to pick a favorite character, it would be a toss up between Ari and Eric. Ari, brilliantly played by Jeremy Piven (it's about time he got something good!) is a manic cold-blooded overworking agent while Eric provides Vincent with an anchor. Eric's finest moment came in Season 2 when he went up all by himself against the management team of Mandy Moore and absolutely blasted every last one of them, making sure to save some for Ari. That sort of loyalty and courage was absolutely beautiful, and makes me eager to watch Season 3.If you haven't seen this show, all I can say is buy it--NOW.
"Entourage", created by Doug Ellin, charts the lives and experiences of young heartthrob actor Vincent Chase (Adrian Grenier) and his close circle of boyhood friends: Eric (Kevin Connolly), who is now his manager, Turtle (Jerry Ferrara), the jersey-wearing, 'blinging' goofball with a lot of wisdom, and Johnny "Drama" Chase (Kevin Dillon) as Vincent's older wiseguy brother. The show mainly focuses on Vincent's escapades with his charismatic agent Ari Gold (Emmy winner Jeremy Piven ("Old School")), a man of all style and just a smidgeon of substance, yet also focuses of the four main characters' youthful lives of clubhopping and dating in mid-2000s Hollywood. All of the writers, producers and escpecially the creator and actors deserve huge praise for bringing to light the down-to-earth, chill, yet "smarmy" side of H-Wood to us.


                
Entourage is the male option for Sex and the City. The boys are handsome and each one of them is unique. I have always liked better guys' friendship than girls'. And this is a very good example. They are always together, one for all and all for one. When one is down the others comfort him and when one is happy the others are happy for him. Besides that, we are revealed the glamorous life in Hollywood...where women, drinks and parties never end. The language is often spicy but not disturbing. Aa for the characters, Vince is a moody actor for whose career works his manager,Eric. Eric's calm is put to test when Vince refuses several projects because he doesn't like certain things, but his determination and his care make Vince rich. Drama, Vince's brother is also an actor but with no success and always looking for a job. His best friend, Turtle tries to make money out of music... Therefore i truly recommend "Entourage" to those who like beautiful, successful and rich people moving in a world made just for them.


                
Excellent television! I stumbled across Entourage at the beginning of the third season, and have bought the previous two seasons to catch up! There are not many show's that I want to watch religiously, from the first episode, but Entourage really captured my imagination, immediately, and I am hooked! Four friends, one of whom is building a movie career, leave NY for LA and the show follows the daily dilemmas, the parties, and the down to earth, tongue in cheek attitude of "the boy who done good!" Although the plot is a fairytale for most of us, the show is very unpretentious and is very well made, with an excellent, unusually realistic script, great cast, great performances, great cameos, and above all very believable story lines (for the topic!!). The soundtrack is probably the best I have heard, credit to the music department for finding truly appropriate tracks! A show that you can enjoy from the first moment you watch it, plus a lifestyle, and a camaraderie, that most of us dream of! 9/10!


                
I had my doubts about this show when I first stumbled upon it, but I've never been glad to be wrong. ENTOURAGE is such an infectious and addictive show. All the characters are worth rooting for, the partial nudity is great (mainly because the girls featured are always hot), and the storyline is one every guy can identify with: the life of a movie star. Just a great, great show. A massively entertaining experience is had when watching ENTOURAGE. Watch it, or regret missing out on something really brilliant! I especially loved the entire Aquaman storyline in the 2nd season. And hey, this is the show that gave us Ari Gold -- freaking awesome character, played by the very talented Jeremy Piven. All in all, I guarantee that if you give this show a chance, you will fall in love with it.
I've been watching Entourage since episode one, and presently own the first two seasons.I've gotten my boyfriend and his friends into the show because the best comparison of this series is "it's 'sex and the city' for males." but ladies can like it, too.If you've ever known a handful of guys that have been friends for years, this series will make you laugh with its sharp wit. One thing that we've all noticed is that you gotta pay attention. This is NOT a show that you can watch with friends are sort of chat your way through. If you don't pay attention, you'll miss all the humor because the jokes come real fast. REAL FAST. so fast that you can't even laugh for more than 2 seconds or you may miss something else.Over the three seasons, the plot lines have gotten way better. The first season is comparable to Seinfeld- they had an idea but didn't know where to go with it. Season two starts the story lines that keeps the ball rolling to the third season, which has picked up right where 2 has left off. You feel like you've missed nothing.The characters are great: Vinnie chase: main guy - he runs the show, he's helps his boys out, etc --just the main guy.ari gold - his fast talking agent - brings a lot of comedy to the show.eric - vinnie's friend and manager second.johnny 'drama' chase - vince's older brother that used to be big a long time ago (maybe the 80s) but has no luck getting gigs unless vince is in it. Also, the chef of the group.turtle - he's the driver and has absolutely no problem mooching off vinnie's money. he loves his life.


                
