I had forgotten that most if not all of it happens in one single room. The planning of it is a display of extraordinary craftsmanship. Not a lagging moment. I was riveted to the, let's face it, preposterous plot from beginning to end. Ray Milland is a credible monster in elegant and civilized clothing. Grace Kelly, a peach as the unfaithful wife who stays home to cut newspaper clippings of her husband's past glories. Yeah, right. Robert Cummings has always been a mystery to me. A popular leading man with a long career. He only exudes a campy, if lightweight vibe that almost works in comedies and when he's in a supporting role - My Geisha and What A Way To Go with Shirley MacLaine are good examples. Here as Grace Kelly's secret lover, I don't know what to say. John Williams. very funny again as the Scotland Yard inspector, the same character to a T he played in Midnight Lace with Doris Day or was it his twin brother? In any case, no Hitchcock fan can afford to miss this filmed play, filmed by one of the undisputed greats.


                
A treat for the eyes and exercise for the brain, "Dial M For Murder" is Hitchcock's second "drawing-room perfect murder" movie, after "Rope", the latter a darker and more sinister affair altogether. Hitchcock himself in interviews played down the quality of this movie, amongst other other things indicating that it was treated almost as a warm-up for the more ambitious "Rear Window" which immediately followed it in his career.However. it actually has a lot going for it, being beautifully shot in luminous colour, extremely well acted in almost every role and peppered throughout with those eye-catching and brain-satisfying flourishes which so distinguished the director from the rest.Yes, it is very set-bound, betraying its stage origins and likewise very talky, especially on exposition, but it keeps the viewer alert throughout and delivers a neatly satisfying conclusion. I do wish Hitchcock could have done better with his back-projection unit (an old-fashioned, jarring trait he still hadn't grown out of by "Marnie" some 10 years later) and I occasionally found the constant too frivolous background music an intrusion, but it's well paced throughout, helped considerably by an on-form cast.Ray Milland is excellent in a kind of darker Cary Grant type persona, Grace Kelly (who'd want to murder her?) goes convincingly from loveliness to wretchedness while it's pleasing to see Robert Cumming to the fore, recalled by Hitch for the first time in over a decade ("since "Saboteur" in 1942). The actors playing the would be murderer and nosey police inspector are just fine too.About those flourishes..., perhaps the most famous being the changing spotlight on Grace Kelly's doomed face as her trial is condensed into just a few terse minutes and of course the murder scene itself, even if one can't imagine her extended stabbing gesture being strong enough to cut through Swann's jacket far less kill him stone dead, but I also enjoyed the raised tracking shot looking down on Milland as he explains his plot to Swann and particularly the parting shadows of lovers Cumming and Kelly at Milland's unexpected approach.Yes, it's old fashioned Hollywood movie-making, but it's old-fashioned Hollywood movie-making at its best and in my opinion an unjustly overlooked effort from the Master.


                
Thrilling and suspense movie based on Frederick Knott's play , author of other successful and equally adapted books as ¨Wait until dark¨ and ¨The honey pot¨ . A London ex-tennis pro (Ray Milland) carries out a plot to murder his wife and then he hires a killer (Anthony Dawson who recreates his stage role) . When things go wrong , he improvises a brilliant plan B . In the city , wealthy Margot Mary Wendice (Grace Kelly) had a brief love affair with the American writer Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings) while her husband and professional tennis player Tony Wendice was on a tennis tour . But his plan for pulling off the perfect crime is temporarily foiled and quickly switches to another plan . Meanwhile a Police Inspector (John Williams who won the 1953 Tony Award to recreate his stage role of Chief Inspector Hubbard) investigates the deeds .Top-notch suspense film of a man plotting spouse's killing , full of sustained intrigue , thrills , a few interesting twists and entertainment . The picture , stagy at times , is formed by two parts , a Plan A and a Plan B with even more fun . Casting is frankly magnificent , the stars are excellently cast . Splendid performances from Ray Milland as a rather likable nasty who desires to inherit his wife's fortune and John Williams as an obstinate Inspector who carries out the subsequent investigation . Furthermore , a gorgeous and wonderful Grace Kelly ; Hitch arranged to have Grace dressed in bright colors at the start of the film and made them progressively darker as time goes on. Colorful and shimmer cinematography by Robert Burks who uses intelligent camera vantages , being photographed in Technicolor and 3D , which explains the prevalence of low-angle shots with lamps and other objects between us and the cast members. Thriller and suspenseful musical score by the classic Dimitri Tiomkin . The movie was skillfully shot in 36 days: August 5-September 25 1953 , by the maestro Hithcock , including his well-known touches and as usual the same appears a cameo on the left side of the reunion photograph . Rating : Above average , and ranked #9 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Mystery" .Remade for television (1981) by Boris Sagal with Angie Dickinson and Christopher Plummer and for cinema as ¨A perfect murder¨(1998) by Andrew Davis with Viggo Mortensen , Gwyneth Paltrow and Michael Douglas as the husband , but this time , the man he contracts to kill his wife results to be her lover .


                
Suave, debonair Ray Milland wants wife Grace Kelly killed for cheating on him with bland Robert Cummings. He sets it up...and everything goes wrong.The script is pretty obviously from a stage play and most of the movie takes place in one room. Also the ultimate resolution was more than a little silly. Still this is not bad. I saw it in 3-D and 2-D. In 2-D this is slow and dull...3-D actually helps it. The camera is constantly shooting people in the background from behind lamps, couches, chairs etc etc. It adds a great feeling of depth to the surroundings. Hitchcock (wisely) avoided throwing things at the camera--there are only two instances of this: When Kelly is attacked her hand flies up to the camera--it was so real for half a second I almost reached up to help her! Also when someone holds out a key to the camera it comes right out of the screen at you. Hitchcock didn't want the 3-D--he was ordered by studio heads to shoot it that way. Still, he DID manage to use it in an effective way.The acting is almost completely great; Milland is fantastic--very smooth and suave as the villain; Kelly is just visually stunning and also gives out a good performance; John Williams is just terrific as an inspector trying to figure the crime out. Only Robert Cummings is not that good--he's bland and blank-faced the entire time. You really wonder what Kelly ever SAW in him!I like it but I think it drags quite a bit in the second half. I was getting a little bored. Seeing it in 3-D definitely improved the picture. Also it contains one of the most shocking murders in a Hitchcock film--right up there with "Psycho"!So it's worth a look--try seeing the 3-D version. I give it a 7.


                
Tony Wendice (Milland) knows that his wealthy wife, Margot (Kelly) is having a long distance love affair with Mark Halliday (Cummings).  Tony is quite jealous, but as an ex-professional tennis player no longer able to play, he needs Margot's money to sustain his lifestyle. So he decides to murder her, and concocts an elaborate plot to make it look like a burglary-murder. The plan seems foolproof, but its execution proves this a wrong assumption.Based on a stage play, the movie seems less like a movie than a filmed stage play. Almost all the action takes place in a single apartment. This is not a bad thing per se; what bothered me about Dial M for Murder is that it lacks suspense, and I felt I knew what would happen in each scene. That, and a rather lackluster performance by Bob Cummings, places Dial M for Murder in the (very small) category of lackluster Hitchcock films. But even then, it's still a decent flick.


                
Although Hitchcock's version of the popular play was considered a shocker in its day, repetition of the story in so many versions has made the story itself seem rather tame: a husband, angered by his wife's affair and in desperate need of money, blackmails an acquaintance to murder her--but his plans go awry when his wife kills her attacker in self-defense.Both Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings, as the faithless wife and her mild-mannered lover, give enjoyable performances, but the real success of the film is Ray Milland, who brings a slightly oily charm to his role of murderous husband. Hitchcock's approach to the material is somewhat hampered by the fact that the film was originally shot in 3-D, and although the scene in which star Grace Kelly confronts her attacker is justly famous, the film is essentially a meticulous recreation of the stage success rather than a Hitchcock original.Although familiarity with the material robs if of impact, most viewers will find Hitchcock's DIAL M FOR MURDER entertaining in an old-fashioned sort of way. For myself, I wish the film could be released to DVD in the original 3-D format, so we might see how effectively Hitchcock handled the requirements of the form. It might very well breathe new life into an old favorite.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
It is absolutely incredible when one reflects on the fact that Alfred Hitchcock made Dial M For Murder purely to fulfil his contractual obligations to Warner studios, and considered the film to be an effortless work that required little of him. He joked on several occasions that he could have "phoned-in" his direction (a clever little joke, as the film's most impressive suspense sequence involves Ray Milland "phoning-in" to his wife Grace Kelly in order to distract her while a murderer creeps up on her). The reason I say Hitchcock's casual attitude about the film is absolutely incredible is that it remains a very powerful and suspenseful film. How many lesser directors have expended every shred of energy on a film, only for it to be met with indifference or derision by the public and the critics? Yet here we have Hitchcock admitting that he has been neither meticulous nor ambitious in the making of his film, and has still produced something better than what most people could have done!! Such genius is at once arrogant and wonderful! Wealthy playboy Tony Wendice (Ray Milland) is increasingly worried that his ravishing wife Margot (Grace Kelly) is about to ask for a divorce in order to run away with her lover Mark Halliday (Robert Cummings). Tony is especially fearful that a divorce will cost him rather a lot of money, and so plans to have his wife killed. Since Tony realises that the police would pin the murder onto him rather easily, he decides that his best chance is to ensure that he has plenty of alibis to prove that he is NOT guilty of the crime. He contacts an old school friend, Captain Lesgate (Anthony Dawson), and blackmails him into agreeing to carry out the murder for him. Tony plans it so that he will be at a social event on the night of the murder, ensuring he will have countless witnesses to confirm that he was nowhere near the murder scene. However, the plan goes horribly awry when Margot survives Lesgate's attempted murder and fights back, fatally wounding her assailant with a pair of scissors. Tony secretly tries to convince the police that his wife killed Lesgate in cold blood <U+0096> he figures that if he can get her arrested for murder, it will be just an effective as actually having her murdered. But Mark smells a rat and works with the police to clear the name of his distressed lover.Dial M For Murder took a mere 36 days to shoot, but is a very rewarding and cleverly assembled thriller. Milland gives a terrific performance as the sinister playboy, and is excellently supported by the stunning Kelly (who would later go on to make two more movies with Hitchcock). The attempted murder sequence is a highlight of the movie, with considerable tension generated as Dawson creeps from the shadows towards Kelly as she chats on the telephone. Dmitri Tiomkin provides an effective music score, and photographer Robert Burks makes brilliant use of lighting and shadows to emphasise the suspense. While the story is rather static, and virtually no effort has been made to use the openness of the film medium as opposed to the stage, Dial M For Murder remains a solid exercise in tension. It might not be Hitchcock at his best, but it still beats the hell out of most Hitchcock wannabes!
This is one of the most memorable Alfred Hitchcock movies. Small, but excellent cast. Suspense is thick. The plot is old, but the script if very witty.Ray Milland is a former tennis pro that discovers that his beautiful wife(Grace Kelly)is having an affair with one of his friends(Robert Cummings). Milland schemes a blackmail plot that is suppose to end with his wife being murdered by the blackmailer. The whole thing is botched and now the web of lies begins to grow. The investigation that follows is very clever.Rounding out the cast are: Anthony Dawson, George Alderson and a top notch performance from John Williams.


                
This is one of those classic old school crime mysteries, here made even more a caricature with Hitchcock's name and status as the director, where one's main criticism is quite easily distinct. This recounts the story of yet another instance of 'the perfect murder', that classic theme where an evil plotter constructs a plan of near flawlessness in theory which, of course, doesn't get carried out as imagined; as often reality forces an unknown, an unlikely event which in turns creates the intrigue for the film.The said criticism is that for such a film to even happen at all, everything in it needs to follow a plan in the plot very closely, so closely it's extremely improbable such a story could ever happen, where every scene is so dependent on a very specific outcome in the next, and if one thing happens otherwise the whole collapses; and whether fiction or not, a film really should give more breathing room and space to its plot, a margin of comfort supplying just that so very important credibility for the viewer.It's a good Hitchcock crime besides that fundamental flaw, often necessary to this sort of cinema, acting/casting/dialog good, well written, pretty fun to watch... 7/10.


                
The only problem that some people may have with this film is that it's very talky, and filmed almost entirely in an apartment. However, that in a way was the brilliance of Hitchcock here. Talky, because it was a psychological drama about a man planning to have his wife murdered, and most of the talking is how he suckers a man into doing it for him, and then how he gets out of that after his wife kills that man during the attack. It virtually all takes place in the apartment, because this was a film translation of a play, although it doesn't really have the feeling of a play like a few films have.The cast here is excellent. Top billing went to Ray Milland as the murderous husband, and here is another case of an actor who today is very underrated. Milland, who has more dialog in the film than anyone else, handles it brilliantly. Grace Kelly is the wife. I'm not a particular fan of Kelly, but she was very good here...I can't think of a thing about her acting here to criticize. Robert Cummings, who devoted much of his career to comedy, had a few very fine dramatic turns, and this is one of them (another is in Hitchcock's "Saboteur"). As good as Cummings was in comedy, perhaps he missed his mark...he could have easily been a straight dramatic actor! He plays it just right here. A real treat is character actor John Williams, who steals many of the scenes he is in...as Chief Police Inspector. As good as the 3 leads are, Williams makes the film special.So sit back and relax with a great Hitchcock film, though it is not one of his bigger hits.
Tony Wendice discovers that his wife Margot is having an affair with Mark, an American writer. Wendice blackmails an old college friend with a murky past into killing Margot while he and Mark are at a party, thereby giving him a perfect alibi. But of course there's no such thing as the perfect murder <U+0085>Hitchcock was a little disparaging of this movie, famously quipping that he "could have phoned it in". And yes, perhaps it is a bit stagy and talky, but that's doing it an injustice - it's a brilliant little thriller, with a terrific twist in the middle and a fantastic denouement involving a misplaced latchkey. It has a great villainous leading performance by Milland and a deliriously overenthusiastic score by Dimitri Tiomkin. Most importantly, Hitch fills it from start to finish with delicious visual flourishes; Tony spilling salt (foreshadowing his doom), the lovers' shadows parting on the door, Swan's shoes squeaking as he paces out the apartment, Tony's chilling goodnight kiss as he leaves Margot for what he thinks will be the last time, Swan's gleefully horrible demise, many others. The mechanics of the plot keep us gripped, but the director adds so much flavour with tightly composed shots, dramatic lighting and maximum suspense. I must confess I think this film has a liability however, and it's Kelly, in the first of her three roles for Hitchcock. She's a fair player but she has almost no range - check out the aftermath of the attack scene, where she simply is unable to play hysteria or look less than perfect to camera; all we see is her back and hear her voice over a phone. A great actress can play anything, and isn't concerned with how she looks, so Kelly doesn't qualify. This minor quibble aside however, this is a perfectly crafted little murder thriller that hasn't aged a day since it was shot. Based on a first-rate stage play by Frederic Knott - for another great film written by him, check out Wait Until Dark. Remade several times for TV and perhaps most interestingly as a feature in 1988 called A Perfect Murder, but as with so many movies the original is the best.
Hitchcock does Experimental Theatre <U+0085> That's pretty much to most befitting description you could give to "Dial M for Murder"; one of the Master of Suspense's most acclaimed but also <U+0096> do I daresay it <U+0096> most overrated achievements. The entire film takes place in one single location, as if you're watching a stage play, and there's also the experimental use of unusual camera angles and bizarre compositions, which proved that even the untouchable filmmakers like Hitchcock were attempting to be innovative in order to face the competition with the skyrocketing success of television during the early 50's. Personally, I have to admit I thought of "Dial M for Murder" as a very intelligent and competent but nevertheless severely underwhelming thriller experience. Every tiniest detail in this production is flawlessly taken care of, but the wholesome is just so damn lifeless! Every single character stands there talking as if they have a dozen of knives stuck in their backs and daren't move a muscle. Frederick Knott's screenplay is tight and highbrow, but since he adapted it from a stage play (his own), the movie is exaggeratedly talkative and the limited possibilities to switch sets rapidly makes it tedious as well, regardless of all the photography gimmicks.Former tennis star Tony Wendice developed the ideal plot to murder his unfaithful wife and rake in her family fortune. He truly thought up a seemingly waterproof and meticulously all-inclusive scheme that involves blackmailing an old college buddy turned petty crook into committing the vile act whilst Tony is out partying with his wife's lover. But, like one of the characters correctly states, the perfect murder doesn't exist and the more definite a plan looks, the more likely it is for important details to go wrong. Tony's plan does indeed go horribly wrong, but the cagey villain nevertheless comes up with an ingenious alternative plan on the spot. A couple of aspects about "Dial M for Murder" are undeniably pure genius. The whole build up towards the actual murder sequence, for instance, is nail-bitingly suspenseful and made unforgettable thanks to the creepy music. Then there are two performances that easily qualify as brilliant, namely John Williams' portrayal of the witty and typically British police detective and <U+0096> foremost <U+0096> the terrific Ray Milland as the dangerously sagacious psycho Tony Wendice. In fact, Milland's performance is so deeply impressive that you actually cheer for him and secretly hope that his diabolical plan of will succeed, if only just because the characters of his wife (played by Grace Kelly) and her lover are so annoyingly wooden and dull! "Dial M for Murder" is a highly compelling and smart film, but by no means a masterpiece and I sincerely doubt it ever would have made it into the top 250 if it hadn't had Hitchcock's name in the title.


                
The movie starts perfectly. A rich and influential husband, a philandering wife and her lover. A conspiracy, things not going as planned, and a murder - all possible twists but for the climax. Except for last 15 minutes everything looks good but the movie disappoints us in the climax.Too many legal flaws as to how an ordinary detective gets to remove an accused sentenced to death out of her prison a day before her death penalty, as to how is he allowed to search the house/premises of the house without a warrant and/or without the knowledge of the owner. In the end the movie fails to have any kind of impact on the viewer.Don't try to rate this movie close to 'Psycho' or 'Rear Window'. If you are a fan of thriller/crime/mystery genre then this one is worth giving a miss !
An intriguing plot line (courtesy of the Frederick Knott play), a clever performance from Ray Milland, and fabulous direction, including stunningly simple but effective camera shots, from the 'master' Alfred Hitchcock, make "Dial M for Murder" very entertaining.Even though we know 'whodunit', Hitchcock still keeps the viewer fascinated with a plot that never quite reveals all. Grace Kelly is always a joy to watch and John Williams is just right as the inspector who will not be thrown.The music is at times a little over done, and somewhat annoying, but the movie really works well over all. Look out for Mr. Hitchcock's cameo in a college photo.Wednesday, July 3, 1991 - VideoThis classic mystery from the ingenious Frederick Knot play is an entertainment that never wears thin. It could be Ray Milland's cool portrayal of the scheming former tennis pro Tony Wendes, or Grace Kelly as the unfortunate Margot. Of course there is also John Williams, terrifically over confident as the police inspector who investigates the case, or Anthony Dawson who convinces as the cornered confidence trickster, Captain Lesgit.We must not forget the subtle, sublime touch of the master, who closes us into this fated two room apartment and involves us in the murderous goings on. After all is said and done however, I cannot help but return to the clever plot which fascinates from beginning to end. Can you remember which step the key was under?Friday, December 18, 1998 - T.V.
Clever murder mystery with a lot of entertaining twists. The plot is set up beautifully in the very first scene of the movie (no wasted moments here or anywhere else -- this is a tightly made story). Grace Kelly is excellent, as is John Williams as the Scotland Yard inspector and Anthony Dawson as "Swan". But this is really Ray Milland's show. He is a charming intelligent scoundrel, whom we love to hate, and his scenes with "Swan" are riveting.Just one complaint: What in the name of Heaven did Alfred Hitchcock see in Robert Cummings, a pedestrian, silly-looking man with no sense of the heroic about him whatsoever? It is not possible to believe that a woman -- especially a woman with the style and beauty of Grace Kelly -- could fall in love with him.An intellectual exercise while you're watching the movie: Follow the latchkeys!
Dial M For Murder is a fine thriller that has all the usual Hitchcock touches.  The blonde, the wrong man theme, and always a standout scene that will stick with you for days.  The one from this film is the scene where Grace Kelly is about to be strangled.  The events leading up to this scene bring about a wonderful sense of dread and suspence.  You are glued to the screen to see if the murder will actually take place.  Hitchcock shot this in 3-D and it would've been interesting to see this sequence in 3-D.  Even more fun than the planning of the crime is the events that follow, the police inspection and how everything seems to fit perfectly in place, implicating Kelly and not Ray Milland.  Then, everything starts to unravel again. A good suspence thriller that will keep you guessing until the end.


                
Dial M For Murder is quite a good triller from Alfred Hitchcock although tends to be a little slow moving in parts, especially the first half-hour or so.Due to his wife having an affair, Tony Wendice arranges with a former college friend to have her murdered. Things don't go quite to plan though and she ends up killing him in self defence when she stabs him in the back with a pair of scissors. Despite this, she is arrested and sentenced to death. She now has to plead her innocence...One of the low points of the movie is the first half-hour which features just Wendice and his friend plotting the murder his wife and it's shot in just the one room as well. A little too long is this bit.The excellent cast includes Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, Robert Cummings, John Williams, Anthony Dawson and Patrick Allen.Apart from that slow moving half-hour at the beginning, this is an excellent movie.Rating: 3 stars out of 5.


                
Oh, how much simpler our lives would be if we would just be content with what we have. This woman almost got exactly what she deserved from her jealous hubby: too bad he didn't succeed in knocking off the 2 timing slut. Here was a well played out murder yarn which keeps the viewers on their toes with clue after clue and lots of sneaky little scampers by the shrewd husband. Another fine production by the master of suspense.


                
I had a chance to watch Dial M for Murder at Film Forum in New York in its original 3D format in January 2004. The film is one of Hitchcock's better-executed novelty experiments; cinematography, art direction, and screenplay are built up together to take advantage of the gadget. It must be seen in 3D, otherwise cinematography, which is precisely calculated to emphasize the depth with objects such as lamps, would look terrible, for example. Most actions take place in one room so that the audience could feel as if they were watching a play. The theme, tugs-of-war between the husband and the others, e.g. the hit-man, the wife, her lover, and the inspector, is a bit unrealistic but suitable for the setting.


                
RAY MILLAND, as a man who devises a plan to have a college associate kill his wife (GRACE KELLY) for her inheritance--and the fact that she's had an affair--is a pleasure to watch in a role that seems almost tailor-made for his emoting. He is just as effective as Maurice Evans was on the stage.Alfred Hitchcock has taken Frederick Knott's play (from a screenplay written by Knotts himself), and carefully built the suspense to the point where a clever mastermind is exposed. The business with the key is extremely effective and the lynch pin that destroys the husband's alibi.GRACE KELLY is smooth but rather bland as the wife (a role offered first to Olivia de Havilland whose salary demands were too high), and ROBERT CUMMINGS has a rather conventional supporting role as the man she really loves. But it's ANTHONY DAWSON as the college chum who agrees to murder Kelly and JOHN WILLIAMS as the fastidious detective who solves the case, that really remain in the memory.Among the more interesting Hitchcock films of this period, it's the sort of detective yarn any mystery fan would enjoy.


                
I really have never been able to like Grace Kelly - everything I have seen her in seems to be the same character. There are lots of movie stars from that era that are the same but she is just annoying. That said Dial M for Murder is a satisfying plot, obviously from the stage originally but it works on film. Robert Cummings is another milk-white nonentity in this movie who fits well as Kelly's lover - the best thing about it is Ray Milland, a somewhat underrated actor. John Williams , too is excellent as the inspector and provides the undercurrent of humour throughout what is quite a dark tale. Hitchcock manages to draw out whatever suspense there is in the story - it is after all, his area of expertise.


                
It's beautifully directed from a technical standpoint. It has all the trademark Hitchcock touches with the meticulous camera movements and expertly executed set-pieces. The screenplay is well put together and complements Hitchcock's style. Ray Milland is great and very charismatic as the duplicitous Tony Wendice.The character of Tony Wendice is somewhat similar to the character of Brandon in 'Rope'. Both characters show a bit of glee and wonder in the way they plan their respective crimes. They both represent Hitchcock's own mischievous ways of messing with the audience.But the problem with 'Dial M for Murder' is the fact that the film has nothing much to say. It operates on the surface with Hitchcock's masterful camera work and his uncanny ability to create tension and atmospheric thrill. But beneath that suspenseful surface, it is pretty hollow. Even an experiment like 'Rope' at its core was a commentary on the condescension of some members of the rich, upper class of the urban society. I couldn't find any thematic meat in 'Dial M for Murder' which prevented the film from having a genuinely lasting impression on me. It's still an example of Hitchcock's directorial mastery and hence deserves to be recommended, but it's not one my personal favourite Hitchcock films.


                
Amusing and Talky Stage Show Filmed in 3-D by Alfred Hitchcock. Maybe His most Overrated Film but that doesn't stop it from being Entertaining. Audiences who Like Hitch's "Rope" (1948), "Lifeboat" (1944), and "Rear Window" (1954) will no doubt Fall in Line among the Fans of this "Flat" Film that Takes Place entirely in a Flat, ironically, Artificially Enhanced to Provide Depth.Although coming at the End of the 3-D Experiment the Movie was Released in a Limited Run in that Format but Quickly became Only Available in the 2-D Experience Until 1980. The Dialog Flows Smoothly from Ray Milland and Grace Kelly but Robert Cummings is Unconvincing, Stiff, and almost Stutters at times and it is an Uncharacteristic Nervous Performance.The Rest of the Limited Cast does OK with Anthony Dawson as the Slimy Snakelike Contract Killer Remarkable. The Movie is very Well Done, but of course its Hitchcock and Compared to others in His Filmography it doesn't rise to the top, Although it is Immensely Popular. The Third Act is the Weakest when Things are Pieced Together in a Rush.Overall, certainly Worth a Watch for it is Hitchcock, and the Movie Stars Ray Milland and Grace Kelly. But Truth be Told, it isn't Much more than a Good Play Filmed by a Great Director and it's best left at that, for to Try and Stretch and say this is Great Hitchcock, well it just doesn't hold up.


                
Alfred Hitchcock directed this thriller, adapted from the successful stage play, that stars Ray Milland as a professional Tennis player who plots to murder his unfaithful wife(beautiful Grace Kelly) who had an affair with a writer(played by Robert Cummings). She is remorseful, but he now wants to inherit her wealth, and so he blackmails a Captain Lesgate (played by Anthony Dawson) to murder her. This plan backfires though, forcing him to improvise a plan B, which may be even better, though the chief inspector on the case(played by John Williams) is suspicious... Stylish mystery with good direction and acting, and effectively plays off its stagy setting. Viewer sympathy will be squarely with Grace Kelly here, though, which may or may not be the point...


                
