What gets me about this film every time I see it is just how simple it is. The witty urbanity of the dialogue goes without saying (hem), the acting is stagily impeccable, and the direction by Hitchcock is limited by the small sets but masterful for all that.Cold Ray Milland plans and sets up the murder of his demure but faithless wife Grace Kelly by a virtual stranger who is urged on by the stick of exposure of his misdeeds and the carrot of GBP1,000 in used notes. Of course all of his convoluted plans go horribly or thankfully wrong, depending on your point of view, leading to an even more convoluted revised plan. When first seen when young I wasted my time because I wasn't paying attention at the critical moment so missed the point and didn't get it: the key is how did the baddie get into the apartment? It's incredibly verbose, being from a stage play after all and at times it seems nothing more than a radio show with pictures. The long scene setting and verbal sparring by Milland and Anthony Dawson is superb to hear - it's fascinating for its relentless poetry, and of displaying a now-dead world. I could never understand the attraction of 3D movies, least of all with this particular attempt, or why Kelly was continually uglified by the Hollywood machine when she never looked lovelier than in here when she was playing stressed out throughout.I wonder if Hitch remembered the jokey murder scene he did in 1930 in Elstree Calling when Jameson Thomas realised he was murdering in the wrong apartment? Turn that key you have and go in, it's a remarkably literate film and as intricate inside as any lock.


                
The hit Broadway play by Frederick Knott "Dial M for Murder" has been adapted to the screen several times, including the films made in West Germany and Sweden, as well as a TV movie in 1981 (TV) by Boris Seagal and the film "A Perfect Murder" (1998) directed by Andrew Davis with Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Viggo Mortensen. Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 adaptation was the first and certainly the best one even if the master himself considered it one of his lesser efforts. "Dial M for Murder" will be remembered as Hitchcock's first color film and the first of three thrillers he had made with Grace Kelly, the future Princess of Monaco, in the prime of her beauty and her talent. Using color proved to be very effective in the film. The first two scenes featuring Kelly wearing a white morning dress in the idyllic scene with her husband Tony and right after that kissing passionately her American lover, writer (Robert Cummings) in the red dress, immediately, without many words tell the viewer that the story of passion, deception, betrayal, and ultimately, murder will follow. Ray Milland (Tony Wendice) is a surprisingly sympathetic villain (which is perhaps not surprising from the actor with talent, charm, and charisma that equal and remind a lot of both Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart) who knows about his wife cheating and decides to teach her a lesson by plotting a very clever murder which will make him a sole heir to her money (she is a wealthy one in the family). His plan is perfect and almost works but Margot managed to not only escape the murderer but to turn the table on him while stunned Wendice is on the phone and listens how his well thought of plan collapses. Wendice is very resourceful and he proved to be a master of improvisation because it took him a few minutes in a cab to switch to a plan B that turned a terrified victim Margot into a cold-blooded murderess. Now it is up to seasoned and shrewd inspector Hubbard (John Williams) to find the crucial piece of evidence and to solve the case.As always with Hitchcock, his directing is impeccable, the camera rarely leaves Wendice's apartment but the film is never claustrophobic which is the case for many plays' adaptation. It breathes and moves freely and we almost forget that we are in the same room for close to two hours. I would not call "Dial M for Murder" my favorite Hitchcock's film but it is enjoyable, clever, and witty thriller with the interesting twists, outstanding performances, and more than one truly memorable scenes.


                
Ray Milland schemes to knock off his lovely wife (Grace Kelly) in order to support his flagging bank balance...His cause is "justified" by the fact that his wife is guilty of cheating on him...Milland develops a carefully constructed murder plan, contacting Captain Lesgate (John Williams), an old college classmate operating illegal ventures, to whom he outlines his murder scheme and then blackmails into carrying it out... The movie takes off from there as an intense character battle between three different characters... Tony, done by Ray Milland in outstanding performance, is icily intense and incredibly wild. He is easily the best of the three... Grace Kelly & Robert Cummings both pale in comparison, although Grace is slightly better, for the merely reason that her character is left for to do the least amount of truly suspenseful acting...The murder is set up and is deliciously evil: The defining moment is when Ray Milland wipes clean every object he touches as he explains to Anthony Dawson how to carry out the murder of his adulterous wife, thus not incriminating himself... They discuss the closing of the screen door to the porch, the placement of the golden key, and the time it will take his woman to answer the distracting phone call...Grace Kelly is the smart but vulnerable Margot... She begins her role dressed in bright crimson reds but as the film progresses and finds herself accused, her outfits become darker... Kelly is ingénue enough to be sympathetic but also tough enough to be respected... Her most memorable image was on the phone, oblivious to the assassin behind her... Robert Cummings does not fare at all because of his comical face... He is the weakest cast member bringing so little to the table... John Williams is excellent as the dangerous murder weapon tricked by a clever scoundrel... but he somewhere along makes one fatal mistake...Anthony Dawson is absolutely brilliant, delightful as the eccentric Chief Inspector watching how the easy-talking husband is trying to cover his tracks... As soon as he arrives on scene to investigate the murder, there's an instant feeling of electricity... Here's a guy who can read human nature from a mile away... He takes compassion on Kelly, but unfortunately, the two don't partner up as in cop buddy movies...The film, however, belongs to the sinister Ray Milland, the cold logic husband who designs the murder to look like a routine burglary gone wrong, and leads Scotland Yard into believing his wife is guilty of deliberate murder...Milland, a genteel charmer with an icy murderous side, is perfect as Tony Wendice... If ever there was a demonstration of venality, Milland's Tony Wendice was it: courteous on the outside, devious on the inside... We see his cheery domestic manner with his wife... He blithely sends her out for the evening with her lover, then without breaking his stride sits down at the telephone and calls Swan, the man he intends to enlist for the murder... There is something chilling about the way in which Milland operates in these scenes: Once Swan arrives, the polite smile never leaves Milland's face as he switches gears from exchanging pleasantries to blackmail and murder.. The entire scene was shot from the ceiling...'Dial M for Murder' holds its grip pretty well... Hitchcock provides the tension in many directorial tricks: Margot's unexpected change in plans for the evening; a hiding place for a key blocked by Mark at a critical moment; a stopped watch; an occupied telephone box; Margot's wavering hand holding the telephone that almost blocks Swan's access to her neck; Tony taking the key out of Swan's pocket and even briefing his wife what to tell the police...'Dial M for Murder' is a classic stage murder thriller... It never reaches the heights that 'Rear Window' did, but it has to be one of the most brilliant stage thrillers ever written... The score, composed by Dimitri Tiomkin, is both eerie & precarious..."Dial M for Murder" is a film that makes you pay attention. It is a definite must-see!
DIAL M FOR MURDER is no masterpiece - its source material, though amusing is too mechanical and obvious, with an unravelling that is disappointingly implausible.  Grace Kelly is a terrible actress, but she doesn't even have the crutch of her legendary beauty here, as her humiliation goes hand in hand with increasing dowdiness.  And yet the film is a must-see: not only because every Hitchcock film is rich in style and meaning, but for two cherishable performances from Ray Milland and John Williams; for an extraordinary, abstract courtroom scene; and for a remarkable play with theatrical metaphors.Robin Wood sees many Hitchcock films as analyses of marriage, and DIAL M FOR MURDER is no exception.  Even from the beginning we know there's something wrong with the Wendice union - the opening clench is theatrical, cold, unreal.  The family home is not comforting, but made strange: objects don't blend in, but are threateningly present (lamps, drinks bottles etc.), always getting in the way of human communication (the telephone is an apt metaphor for the crisis in the film).  In a traditional detective story, it is through the displacement of ordinary items, taken for granted, that marks a rupture - the everyday becomes frightening.Wendice is unable to satisfy his wife - he is only interested in her money. when he talks to Swan about his marital difficulties, he walks with a cane, ostensibly a fake prop, but a clear hint of the impotence rejected when he drops it and talks of the murder that will reassert his patriarchal role. He is like a servant in his own home, dependent on his wife, serving her and her lover drinks.  He is probably gay - the handbag which has been transferred in association from his wife to him, is made the butt of a homophobic jibe by Inspector Hubbard.Most importantly, the conjugal home resembles a stage set.  This is the governing motif of the film.  Hitchcock subverts the hokey sentiments and values of Knott's play, by drawing attention to its staginess.  Props are foregrounded; Wendice is clearly a stage director/author who is putting on a play (planning the murder of his wife).  He talks to Swan like he's a director instructing an actor, giving him his lines, showing him round the stage, telling him what to do, where to move; crucially, giving him his cue, timing, the 'call'.However, although Wendice seems in control, the gaze of the film does not belong to him - his authority is already undermined long before his plot unravels.  Frequently filmed in distanceng wide angle, this scene with Swan is shot from above, spied on from a seemingly unmotivated, godlike position, which only emhasises the unreality (theatricality) of the sequence.  There is another author beyond Wendice, who is really running the play.  Is it God?  Fate?  Hubris?  This position of authority is jostled for by the four male characters, in a frequently homoerotic manner.The only time this kind of shot becomes motivated, it belongs to the Inspector, suggesting that the law is the godlike arbiter, from whom nothing can be hidden.  And this is true, but not reassuring: the Inspector is cold and detached; but, more unforgiveably, like the other male characters, two of whom tried to murder her, he sadistically inflicts pain on Mrs. Wendice, pushing her out of the story, in effect succeeding where Wendice and Swan failed; she is absent for most of the film's second half.  The law is shown to be both frightening and whimsical, rather like an Old Testament God. This is not comforting.This link between the author and authority, both trying to shape meaning, and 'create' truth, while in reality concealing it (Hubbard's assertion of patriarchal truth denies Mrs. Wendice's emotional reality) is linked to a story which is invoked in the film's opening MacGuffin, the stolen letter. Poe, a favourite of Hitchcock's, wrote 'The Purloined Letter' about a missive stolen by a respectable government minister, form a Queen possibly enjoying an adulterous relationship.  What's written in this letter, and who controls it, becomes a site of power between the two male characters, who squeeze out the female character, who owns it, altogether.  Knowledge, authority, power, and the artist are linked, all are abused, all are stolen from women.  Mrs. Wendice's absence in the middle of the film is the anguish seething behind the film's (or play's) smooth mechanics.  Anyone who thinks Hitchcock is just a technician is an idiot.  he had a profound grasp on the workings of society, and how people are sacrificed for it.He also shows the seductive appeal of power - Wendice is suave, hilarious, imperious, mandarin, the motor of the film, a joy to watch, and yet an automaton.  Hubbard's victory over him relies on Wendice's working like clockwork.  The author was really only an actor, parroting perfectly his fed lines.  It's significant that it should be a real author who exposes him.


                
Alfred Hitchcock serves up a grand suspense yarn about an elaborate murder-for-hire scheme. Ray Milland, Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings form the triangle in the case of a husband who wants to eliminate his wife in order to inherit her considerable wealth. That his wife is involved in an extramarital affair means little to him as he sets into motion his plan that eventually unravels due to dogged detective work. As with most murder mysteries, money is the reason Milland wants to dispatch Kelly and enlists the help of an outsider to do the dirty work. John Williams is the droll inspector who takes the case apart and puts it back together with logic and old fashioned police sleuthing. The film has a parallel with another Hitchcock film, "Rope", in that both pictures were filmed almost entirely with one set piece. Still, this mystery remains one of the genre's best films.


                
One of Alfred Hitchcock's best-known films, "Dial M For Murder" is a carefully crafted and absorbing cat-and-mouse game that keeps the viewer's attention all the way until the end.  The very simple settings and small cast focus all of our attention on the battle of wits a between a scheming husband, played with style by Ray Milland, and the rest of the characters.The story begins when retired tennis pro Tony Wendice (Milland) decides to eliminate his rich, unfaithful wife Margot.  He has laid out an elaborate scheme that starts with blackmailing an old college classmate to do the job for him.  But things do not work out as planned, and Wendice must spend the rest of the film constantly trying to improvise his way out of difficulty.The blackmailing scene at the beginning makes a great prelude to all that follows.  The way that Wendice approaches such a sordid business in such a debonair fashion both initiates all of the plot action and also establishes some nice character contrasts.  (Also watch this scene carefully for one of Hitchcock's most subtle cameo appearances.)The rest of the plot is complicated and contains some fine surprises.  As always, it is handled expertly by Hitchcock, who makes sure that we focus both on the characters and on the clues.  Milland gives a fine performance as Wendice, making us admire his poise and resourcefulness despite his amoral coldness.  Hitchcock favorite John Williams is excellent as the police inspector.The only thing that keeps this from being one of Hitchcock's very best films is the weaknesses in the other two major characters.  As Margot, Grace Kelly is charming as always, but her character makes too many obvious mistakes for us to sympathize with her as deeply as we could.  As Margot's boyfriend, Robert Cummings is too over-eager and one-dimensional for us to like him very much.  These imperfections keep the viewer's emotional involvement from being even stronger, but even so the story is still filled with suspense and interest."Dial M For Murder" will bring a lot of satisfaction to mystery and thriller fans as they watch it and try to figure out what will happen next.


                
Dial M for Murder is a superb dialogue driven suspense thriller. Except for a minute or two of footage, all the action takes place in the apartment. The entire cast delivers its lines with conviction and realism. Every successive interaction builds on the suspense generated by the previous one. Ray Milland is so conniving yet sympathetic enough that one almost hopes that he gets away with it. I wonder if Cary Grant, Gregory Peck, or Jimmy Stewart, three of Hitch's most prominent leading men were afraid of jeopardizing their image and thereby their box-office appeal by agreeing to play a villain. Grace Kelly doesn't have much to do here but she does her job admirably. It was a great year for her. I think she made Rear Window and The Country Girl, for which she won a best actress Oscar, the same year she made Dial M. The actors who played the eccentric inspector and the paramour were also top notch casting decisions. Another winner from The Master, 9/10.


                
"North by Northwest" is a great example of classic, gripping Hitchcock style -- that movie grabs you by the throat and never lets go! Nowadays I look back at many films from the '50s and '60s and definitely appreciate them, but feel cinematic ally they are much slower and not always as engaging as movies from the '70s, '90s and yes, even the '80s.Hitchcock was a truly great filmmaker, and evidence of this is that nowadays his films are STILL packing a punch and they don't seem outdated in the least! I mean, when was the last time you watched "Psycho" and checked your watch? Unfortunately Hitchcock did make a few errors in his resume (namely his last project) and "Dial M For Murder" is somewhere in between. It's a good "talky" movie in the sense that a bunch of people are in a room acting civilized and sophisticated and upper class (much like "Rope" starring James Stewart, also directed by Hitchcock).But the suspense is lacking and the film is not of the same calibre as "North by Northwest" or "Psycho." It's a good film, and for my money it's better than "The Birds," but don't expect any sort of masterpiece -- otherwise you might feel rather disappointed.(For the record, critics seem to generally consider this Hitchcock's worst movie if only for the reason that it was made during a time when he was very popular and it didn't do very well -- kind of like the 1950s' version of "1941" or another flop, people -- primarily critics -- didn't take a real liking to it and it'll probably always be considered his worst mainstream US movie.)


                
Dial M for Murder-***- Must-see- Directed by: Alfred Hitchcock. Written by: Frederick Knott (from his play), Starring: Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, Robert Cummings, John Williams, Anthony Dawson.Perhaps Hitchcock's talkiest thriller deals with a former tennis star (Milland) who hatches a pitch-perfect plan to kill his wife (Kelly). Yet when she kills her hit-man attacker, Milland must go to great lengths to cover his tracks from his wife's lover and an investigator.Frederick Knott adapted his play for the screen, which is perfect fodder for Hitchcock's suspenseful interest in murder and wrong accusations. The marvelous thing about the film is the fact that Hitchcock is able to conceal the fact that the whole movie takes place in virtually one room. The quick and engaging dialogue by Knott and a stellar performance by Milland are the key attributes that hold the film together when it threatens to expose the theatrical approach other than cinema-tics.Hitchcock already reveals the clues to the picture yet we are still fascinated over the course of the investigation because of how effective he is as a storyteller. The talky aspects and the limited cinema-tics of the picture may not appeal to everyone, but Hitchcock still crafts a noteworthy thriller worth discussing and re-watching like most of his pictures.


                
I've read that Hitchcock did not think highly of Dial M For Murder, his adaptation of the hit play by Frederick Knotts. Time has shown, however, that the movie is probably better than its filmmaker claims.We might even say that this is what a mystery-thriller should be - not really all that serious, clever, absorbing, still popular (IMDb 8.2). Hitch may be disparaging, but Dial M For Murder is one of the better attempts in the 1950s to translate stage material into cinematic language.Knott's play pits two British intellects against each other -- upper-class gentleman Ray Milland and Scotland Yard Inspector John Williams. There is clever combat here. We are in a lair, full of tricks and treachery. The camera snakes about the expensive London flat, looking for things, taking off-kilter perspectives on the actors, pausing on key objects: sports trophies, heavy green draperies, the handbag, the crucial telephone, and a quite renowned photograph on the wall.As a bonus, Dial M For Murder contains a pivotal - and still startling - "telephone" moment of the movies. Grace Kelly answers the pre-arranged phone call from Milland just as murderer Anthony Dawson creeps up behind her with a strangling weapon. Contrary to all expectations, Grace makes adroit use of a pair of scissors.As a further twist, the prestigious society woman becomes a convicted felon herself. This unexpected reversal gives Dial M For Murder a real mid-point surprise. Tension keeps increasing. We know that the story engines are busy devising a way to free Grace from the hangman's noose, but we are never quite sure how this is going to work in the details.The film suffers a bit in the third act. A miscast Robert Cummings interferes in an annoying way. And the culminating trap to expose the villain seems needlessly entangled, with its criss-crossing of trench coats and latch-keys. The inspector, truth be told, turns out to have quite a remarkable skill at guesswork.This was apparently intended for the new 3D camera, but Hitch has never needed 3D, or, for that matter, wide-screen or loud-screen to enhance his effects. They exist in pure cinema. Even with something as stage-bound as Dial M For Murder, he still grips our attention with his clever, sometimes mischievous, devices.
Ray Milland plays a former tennis star, who has since married a socialite of comfortable means. He finds out she has not been as perfect a wife as she should have been and starts to plan her murder. Unfortunately, murder plots rarely work out as smoothly as they do in detective novels.What a great movie. Almost a closed room mystery where we follow the crime from start to finish, with the added twist of it happening mostly from the point of view of the criminal. The central question not being who's the murderer, but rather how he's going to be caught. Or whether he will be caught or not.The movie has a delightfully British setting, some great actors, some great dialogue and wordplay, and a score that's an interesting mix of usual Hitchcock creepiness mixed in with an almost fairytale-like playfulness.Although, to be fair, I don't like that the viewers are not given all the information needed to solve the mystery. There's a central scene where the plan derails, but the thing that becomes central for the solution is not shown to the viewers. And it's such a small thing that it could have easily been hidden there. Now the viewer can only solve the mystery if they can make the leap from point A directly to point D. Not impossible, but not exactly viewer-friendly either.Still, a very good mystery film and easily one of Hitchcock's best.


                
Suspense is the name of the game in 'Dial M For Murder (1954)' and it is dealt out in spades, each scene oozing it to the point where this stage-play adaptation is practically busting at the seams with the anticipatory, string-dangling stuff. While there's a lot of talking and expository dialogue, that's simply because of the single location and the commitment to stick to it - aside from a few asides in a single scene where cutaways are necessary to enhance the plot and, more importantly, the tension - while also just 'shooting the material', as Hitchcock put it, so as not to 'ruin' what was already a captivating and clever source story. 'Just shooting' is to Hitchcock what 'working for a lifetime to achieve a mastery of your craft' is to anybody else, though. Indeed, it is well known that this wasn't one of Hitchcock's favourites and that the studio essentially forced him to do it. He once said, to a room full of journalists, that he could've "phoned it in." This was almost certainly said in irony but I don't know what's worse: if it was or if it wasn't. There's no denying that Hitchcock, whatever you think about him personally, was a master of his craft and even this, one that he didn't care for as greatly as something like 'Rear Window (1954)' or 'Vertigo (1958)', is shot to perfection. It really is an astutely directed picture, one in which each frame is set up to make the most of every situation, and every moment truly is as taut and 'edge-of-your-seat' as it could possibly have been. The overall narrative is remarkably unconventional - since it essentially puts a 'villain' in the role of protagonist - and manages to switch our sympathies superbly, sometimes within seconds, so that every character is as empathetic as the last and there is no clear 'hero', as well as no moral compass other than that of our own. Plus, that murder sequence truly is one of the most intense and nail-biting of its kind. 8/10


                
"Dial M for Murder" is a 1954 crime thriller directed by the legendary Alfred Hitchcock. It was adapted from the play of the same name by Frederick Knott, who also wrote the screenplay for the movie. It stars Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, and Robert Cummings. "Dial M for Murder" is about Tony Wendice, played by Ray Milland, a professional tennis player who wants his wife, Margot, played by Grace Kelly, dead. Margot cheats on her husband with Mark Halliday, played by Robert Cummings, an American writer who visits frequently while Tony is away on his tennis tour. Margot says that she destroyed all the letters that were sent to her by Mark, except for one, which was stolen, used as blackmail against her, and was never returned. Once Mark gets home, it is revealed that he intercepted the letter, and that he is the blackmailer, after he insists that Margot and Mark go to the theater. He reveals this by explaining it to his old acquaintance, Charles Swann, played by Anthony Dawson, who he studied with while in college. He then blackmails Swann into killing his wife, so that he may inherit her fortune. He sets up an elaborate plan to do so, but when the plan fails, resulting in Margot accidentally killing Swann, he has to think of a second plan to frame her for murder. It's a thriller divided into two engaging parts, combined with a great story and excellent use of cinematography. The movie's use of cinematography is excellent, using several of Alfred Hitchcock's usual techniques. For instance, the camera tends to sit in one place for extended periods of time, not cutting frequently, as other movies tend to. It makes the movie more realistic when it comes to its acting, which brings up my second point: the acting. The acting is very good in this film, and this is proven by the long takes that were used in the film. They couldn't cut, so the actors had to act for quite a long time compared to other films. It also proves how realistic the characters can be while still having that movie feel. Ray Milland plays his character so well, presenting us with a cocky character who manipulates his enemies until the end, while Grace Kelly gives us a confused character desperate for her life. "Dial M for Murder" is a classic film and should be viewed as such. The acting is great, and the use of fewer cuts supports this and gives us a more realistic portrayal of the film's scenario. It's a film that should not be missed by film noir fans or movie buffs. "Dial M for Murder" is one of a kind, a true classic.


                
Alfred Hitchcock loved shooting in studios, and here he had a film based upon a stage play, much of which could take place within a single set. Here he had every opportunity to show his perfect blonde doll in distress, as the impeccably sculpted Grace Kelly survives an attempt by her cold-hearted and jealous husband, Ray Milland, to have her murdered. But she doesn't know that he was behind the incident. Instead, she herself is convicted of the murder of her would-be murderer, by an evil irony, so that Hitchcock gets another crack at one of his favourite themes, the horrifying dilemma of the unjustly accused. It literally is a case of 'Will she hang tomorrow?' The play and the screenplay were both written by Frederick Knott (1916-2002), who did an excellent job of opening it out beyond a stage proscenium, aided of course by Hitchcock's relentless story-boarding and planning of a variety of shots in a single space which makes everything look like it is taking place in a wider context. This play was filmed no less than 14 times, starting with a TV play for the BBC in 1952. Hitchcock's film was merely the fourth filmed version. Somehow, the idea of someone dialling a phone number to trigger a murder attempt seems to have grabbed the public's imagination, and one can only describe 14 films in 46 years of the same play as 'a frenzy of film-making'. It was so popular in Germany that it was filmed twice there within only three years. Of course, the excitement only really works when all the phones are landlines. In the story, Grace Kelly had to stand in a specific position beside a curtain (which concealed the would-be murderer) in order to answer the phone, and dialling M for murder was the signal. It really was an 'M', by the way, because she was in London and her telephone number, for anyone who wants to try the same trick, was MAYFAIR 4399, which in those days before modern dialling codes, one reached by literally putting one's finger in a rotary dial, starting with the letter 'M', to dial MAY-4399. (I just tried dialling it and also the other number mentioned in the film, HAMPSTEAD 7899, adding the modern prefix '7', but neither number is connected. I suppose the shock of Hitchcock's film was too much for them.) To show just how the emphasis was on the attempt to commit the perfect murder, the last filming of the story in 1998 was actually entitled THE PERFECT MURDER, and starred Michael Douglas, who has just the right look in his eyes. In this version, Ray Milland's ice-cold and ultra-polite manner provided the necessary chill factor. Kelly's lover, Robert Cummings, features in the film but has little to do but look earnest and friendly. As for Grace Kelly, being an ice queen was somewhat contra-indicated, because she is simply not enough of a whimpering victim. Instead of being hopelessly distraught, she substitutes puzzlement and disbelief for true emotion. We therefore don't care that much about whether she is murdered or not, except for all that beauty going to waste, like destroying a Botticelli painting unnecessarily. We want to keep her on screen so we can look at her, that's all. What she feels about it all is irrelevant, because it is clear that she does not really feel anything. Ray Milland, as I have had occasion to say more than once, was notorious in the acting community for being obsessively mean with money. I never met him, but I knew some who worked with him, and his favourite trick in Manhattan when working on Broadway was to share a taxi with another actor and then at the end say he had forgotten his wallet. His higher up colleagues knew about this, but many a poor starving supporting actor was left with a huge taxi bill which he or she could not afford, and with a promise of repayment never kept. It was therefore never difficult for Ray Milland when acting to narrow his eyes and look self-obsessed, and let his inner lizard out. And the way he is continually taking his wallet out of his pocket and putting it back in again in this film, carefully minding the incriminating fingerprints of another man on a crucial letter and wearing gloves himself, is simply too reminiscent of his 'wallet problem' in real life. The story of this thriller is so ingenious, detailed, and complex that it is really a marvel of plot construction. And in this film, Hitchcock's personal appearance on screen takes the form of a wonderful joke, for he appears not in person this time but in a group photograph which features prominently in the story. Haha, good one, Hitch. And the best Hitchcockian touch of all is the final shot of the film.


                
This is one of Hitchcock's best of his more contemporary (post 40's) movies. Great and clever plot, topped by a great and clever counter-plot, The Grace Kelly/Anthony Dawson confrontation is a classic. The only weak spot, and it is disproportionately weak, is Bob Cummings. Bob Cummings was so oily and unctuous, how could Grace Kelly even get involved with him? And the British may be so stiff upper-lip, but Harrison's tolerance of Cummings is unrealistic.Every other character is dead-on and perfect. I never understood the casting of Cummings. Anthony Dawson (Swan), however, was inspired. I once read a review by Pauline Kael, the great movie critic from the New Yorker Magazine, where she described him as the "penny-dreadful" villain of the movie.


                
Middle tier Hitchcock but still one of the finest mystery thrillers around. Ray Milland plays Tony Wendice, a former tennis player married to Grace Kelly's Margot, the source of his wealth. Fearing his lifestyle is about to come to an end due to her dalliances with American mystery writer, Mark Halliday (Robert Cummins), Tony hatches a plan to have her murdered by an old acquaintance whom he has over a barrel with blackmail. However, the plan backfires and a whole new strategy is needed to save Tony from suspicion.Based on the popular and successful play by Frederick Knott (who adapts for the screenplay here), Dial M For Murder was a film Hitchcock had little time for. In fact, having already started work on Rear Window, Hitch treated Dial M For Murder as a jobbing assignment. His mood was further darkened by Jack Warner's insistence that the film be shot in 3D, with all the camera restraints that such a production brings. Perhaps unsurprisingly though, the restraints and general mood of the director brought about very interesting results. Choosing to go for a claustrophobic single set shoot, Hitchcock resisted the urge to launch things around for 3D effects, instead he used the process to highlight props and angles of the Wendice home. His use of colours here is first rate, particularly around his new found favourite actress, Grace Kelly.Having never seen the 3D version (who has I wonder?) I can't say what impact, if any, the gimmick had. But regardless of Hitch's grumblings and general disdain towards the film, he rose to the challenge by challenging himself and actually produced a fine and technically sound picture. Ray Milland is icy cold yet debonair, while John Williams as Chief Inspector Hubbard strides in and walks off with the film. Kelly is adequate enough (it's her least effective turn for Hitch) but Cummings is awfully bland and threatens to lose the film its momentum when things spice up in the last quarter. Hugely entertaining story though, and of much interest to Hitchcock purists, Dial M For Murder holds up well today as a disquieting mystery thriller. 8/10


                
Tony Wendice has everything you might want in life: A mantel full of sports trophies, a cushy lifestyle, lots of booze, a rich and attractive wife, and a foolproof plan for killing her so he can inherit all her money.We shouldn't like this guy, yet we do, because of a script by playwright Frederick Knott that presents Tony as the victim of his wife's adultery, a performance by Ray Milland that presents Tony as a charming and able foil for many cruel twists of fate, and subtle direction by Alfred Hitchcock that invites us the audience to feel closer to Tony than we do to his victims.The three elements work together at key moments. Wendice has taken great pains to kill his wife at an appointed time, only to find himself with a busted watch. Then he goes to the phone booth to make a call that will deliver his wife into a killer's hands. But the booth is occupied.Milland's eyes go buggy. We worry about whether he will be able to pull off his great scheme, perhaps forgetting the magnitude of his planned crime, perhaps just judging it less serious than the wife's adultery as Knott and Hitchcock have been encouraging us to since the beginning of the picture without our noticing. Then Hitch lets Milland make his call. As the crime is carried out, we finally have a jolt of fear for the wife, played by Grace Kelly at the peak of her beauty. Then tables are turned, scissors beat stockings, and Milland's face falls in an exquisite close-up. Our morbid sympathies are back in his court.Hitchcock fans are down on "Dial M For Murder" because it is played pretty straightforwardly on the surface, with little visual trickery. What we do get, like a phony finger poking through a hole in a telephone rotary and an abstractly staged and lit courtroom scene with Grace Kelly giving her deer in a headlights impression, is weak. Grace Kelly gives an inert, unconvincing performance throughout.But Hitchcock's strengths as a scenarist outweigh much else, and he finds a lot of help not only from Knott's script but a score by Dimitri Tiomkin, cinematography by Robert Burks, and set design by George James Hopkins. If we are to be stuck in one place again, like in "Rope" and "Lifeboat," it might as well be a posh London flat crammed with period charm and detail.I even think Robert Cummings is a plus here. You quickly dislike him for his smoothness and nerviness as Mark Halliday, the other man in this love triangle, but of course you are supposed to. In a great documentary that comes with the "Dial M" DVD, Peter Bogdanovich suggests Cummings represents "subversive casting" on the part of Hitchcock, designed to get us to like Milland more. I'll go further and say that Cummings was a knowing co-conspirator, communicating Mark Halliday's smug contempt for Milland's character in subtle ways throughout the film. When he approaches Wendice with his brilliant idea for having Wendice claim that he set his wife up and thus help her avoid execution, we actually resent this ploy despite its inherent validity. Of course Mark wants Wendice to cop a plea: Mark can then get the girl and profit from Wendice's misguided devotion. Lucky for Wendice he's beyond such tricks...And there's the rub. We root for the murderer because he's getting his own back. Never mind that killing people is far worse a crime than cheating on them. This film sticks a magnet on our moral compass and leaves us to work it out long after the last scene, where Tony's sociopathic depravity is laid bare in Milland's best on-screen moment. Chips down, he manages a final wink and a cheery smile as his wife watches with tear-filled eyes. Give the devil his due and he'll steal your soul, but you may be too charmed to catch yourself being swindled.


                
The idea is fantastic, but the realization failed. Don't get me wrong, this is a great movie, but it could easily have been much better.A former professional tennis player finds out that his wife, for which he left his career and from which he depends financially, plans to leave him, so he plans a "perfect murder" to inherit her wealth. When things go wrong, he improvises a nearly perfect plan B. The original and the plan B are well designed, the film follows an intelligent and well-written outwitting of the main protagonists, and the story is so interesting that many will not even notice that the whole film takes place in one room with only a few characters. But this "mystery thriller", although very interesting, is neither mysterious nor thrilling, because the most of the "mystery" was revealed to us at the very beginning. The audience knows from the start the entire plan for "perfect murder" and follows the main character at every step of the improvised plan B, so there is no room for tension or speculation.The movie should have been opened by the scene of Grace Kelly answering the phone and the mysterious man attacking her from behind. From there they could build plot further, with occasional flashbacks to the time before the attack, where mystery would slowly unfold. If the audience observed the story from the angle of Grace Kelly or the police, instead of a man who devised the crime, the movie could have been straight ten. This way I rate it eight and, if it was made a few decades later, even that would be too high.
8/10


                
A man hires a shady character from his past with a criminal record to murder his wealthy wife who he suspects of having an affair with another associate. The plan is worked out in fine detail but it goes wrong on the night when the would-be murderer is killed by his intended victim.Dial M for Murder is another film which perfectly showcases the variety of styles Alfred Hitchcock was able to turn his hand to in order to tell a suspenseful tale. In this case, he adopts a smaller scale approach, with the film being pretty stage-bound. It's a dialogue-driven piece where the action happens almost exclusively within the confines of one house. Interestingly though, I never really noticed this when watching it, which I think has to be a testament to Hitchcock's mastery of the medium, in which he can make a stagey set-up feel pretty dynamic and involving. Despite its intimate nature the studio insisted it was shot 3D to ride the wave of popularity the format experienced briefly in the early 50's. Hitchcock obliged although he refused to pander to the gimmicks of the format and used it in a more subtle manner, although it is admittedly used quite strikingly in the attempted murder scene where a hand reaches out to the audience somewhat memorably.This seems to be a Hitchcock which generates quite mixed responses. But for me, it's definitely an upper level entry. Its plot about the execution of the perfect murder is one where we sort of know where it's ultimately going to go, what we don't know is how we're going to get there and I thought the story was masterfully paced and plotted. Its character-driven nature means it's a film set-up perfectly for actors to stand out. And the one who rises to the top is Ray Milland, who stars in the central role of as the villainous husband. It's a very dastardly character and Milland plays him with some relish. Grace Kelly, as his wife, once again has effortless screen presence, while Robert Cummings as her lover has a pretty cardboard role but he does okay with it. All-in-all, very entertaining stuff.


                
Everything fits in this crime detective story. Mostly consisting of dense dialogue, this film revolves around Tony and Margot Wendice and Mark Halliday, and their deceit, manipulation and lies.Brilliant plot and genius execution as usual from Hitchcock letting us in on all details and aspects of a dense and complex plot.Mind boggling manipulation from Hitchcock. Great score by Dimitri Tiomkin. Excellent cast display power house performances. Everything comes together in mastery driven by a formidable script by Frederick Knott executed brillantly by the master of suspense. Strongly recommended.


                
This is such a fun movie - a cozy little thriller with a British accent - how could you not love it? But one thing that always bothers me is the key. The plot hinges on the whereabouts of the key and is instrumental in exposing the guilty party. So why didn't Ray Milland's character simply make a duplicate key? He went to such painstaking detail devising the perfect murder, you would think a duplicate key would be a no-brainer. It kind of subverts an otherwise clever premise. Still a very enjoyable Hitchcock outing.


                
The success of this film is mostly attributable to a combination of (1) an excellent original script and screenplay adaptation by Frederick Knott, (2) meticulous direction by Alfred Hitchcock, and (3) outstanding performances by Ray Milland as the suave, scheming Tony Wendice and John Williams as the wry, amusing Inspector Hubbard. Imagine that Milland was acting as happy-go-lucky Professor McNultyin 1950's television show at the very same time that he played this cold, calculating villain. While the roles of Grace Kelly and Robert Cummings do not stand out as well, they do make a smashing, adulterous couple, and their special charm helps to make the film, which is shot almost entirely in a small London flat, much less claustrophobic than it otherwise would be.Wendice is a former tennis star who is accustomed to a high standard of living but who has suddenly been relegated to selling sports equipment, which he laments as being far less lucrative. Rather than divorcing his cheating wife, Margot (Grace Kelly), he decides to plot her elaborate murder in order to inherit her estate.Not having the guts to do the dirty deed himself, Wendice stalks and investigates a former classmate, Charles Swann (Anthony Dawson), a man with a very questionable past, before recruiting him as the hit man not only with the "carrot" of badly needed compensation but with the "stick" of revealing incriminating information about him to the authorities. As in the case of Louis Calhern's brilliant portrayal of Alonzo Emmerich in "The Asphalt Jungle", Wendice uses his false, outward image of respectability as a protective shield to avoid his potential implication in a very serious crime. At one point, he even warns Swann that no one would ever believe Swann's word over his own. In the case of both Emmerich and Wendice, their deceptively upright reputations do not save them from fatally flawed plans.Although Hitchcock was reported to be emotionally detached from the film and once claimed that he could direct it from a phone booth, he did nevertheless take great pains to perfect the filming of the actual crime, and his meticulous efforts paid off. Whenever I think about Swann's meeting with Margo's sewing scissors, I wince with pain. Tiomkin's dramatic musical score adds significantly to the high moment of tension, but, at the same time, I didn't understand the overly dramatic music at other, less critical times during the movie, which seemed overdone and excessive to the point of silliness, as was the case in another Hitchcock-Tiomkin partnership, "Strangers on a Train", a film which also featured a professional tennis player as the central character.Watch for the hilarious photo of Wendice, Swann, and...Sir Alfred. It's a regular riot.If you appreciate an intriguing screenplay, brilliant direction by a master of suspense, and superb acting, especially on the part of both Milland and Williams, you will not be disappointed here.
Another top-notch thriller from the master of suspense, 'Dial M for Murder' is one of Hitchcock's smaller films but still has all the hallmarks of quality we expect from him.The film is based on a stage play and, similar to 'Rope'(1948), has all the action (bar one scene) set in a single location - the living room of a London flat. The story develops around Ray Milland and his cunning plan to do away with his philandering wife, played by a rather lifeless Grace Kelly.The basic storyline is very strong and in some ways Hitch merely goes through the motions to produce a fine effort. The dialogue is first-rate, which it needs to be as some of the performances are run-of-the-mill. Milland is good, if not spectacular, but Grace Kelly seems bored and Robert Cummings, as her lover, registers little impression. It is left to the supporting roles of the killer and the Chief Inspector ( Anthony Dawson & John Williams respectively) to provide the only performances worth a curtain call.The plot is great though and despite the whole issue of the latch-keys becoming a little confusing, holds the viewers attention right to the end. As good a reputation as Hitchcock has, there are plenty of other names who would have done as solid a job with the source material, so whether 'Dial M for Murder' enhances his reputation or not is debatable.The 1998 Michael Douglas/Gwyneth Paltrow re-make, 'A Perfect Murder', whilst not in the same league as the original, is still very watchable and well worth seeking out. No doubt Hitchcock snobs pour scorn over it, but I was pleasantly surprised and Gwyneth Paltrow is better in the role than Grace Kelly.  Also, maybe its me but I always think the poster for 'Dial M for Murder' seems a bit strong for the time. Grace Kelly looks like she is being attacked sexually as she reaches back for the scissors. Maybe Hitchcock was playing out his fantasies !!!


                
"Dial M for Murder" is a top-notch thriller, far superior to the next Hitchcock-Kelly collaboration, "To Catch A Thief". Hitchcock's direction is flawless and the performances are first-rate (Milland is clearly the best), but the stronger asset here is the twisty, complicated, INGENIOUS plot. However, the film is less enjoyable than "The Rope", which also used a single set.


                
SPOILERS.Well, I just love it. There is, first of all, Frderick Knott's play. It's been done before and after and if you want to see how to spoil it watch the TV movie.But this is Hitchcock at his best, believe it or not. The acting is superb.Ray Milland has never been better as a suave, self-possessed villain. Grace Kelly makes you want to squeeze her. Anthony Dawson is a marvelous murderer. And Williams is a great investigator, as he always is. Two points. This was shot to be projected in 3-D and Hitchcock only gives us one blatant (and not very blatant) 3-D shot, in which Grace Kelly reaches behind her for the scissors. Two: Only once does Hitch depart from the procenium, an overhead shot in which Milland dumps suitcases around the floor.Do see it if you have the chance. Hitchcock had had a couple of flops before this, and said he made the movie simply to "recharge his batteries." It's more than that, but you shouldn't expect a flawless movie. If the performances are about as good as they get, the anfractuous plot depends a great deal on curious and sometimes unusual circumstances. Williams visits Milland at home and surreptitiously switches almost identical trench coats with him. Milland's unsuspectingly taking the wrong coat with him to jail is an important plot point. (How did Williams know Milland would not notice the difference between coats, that he would take a coat with him at all?)The chief plot point is that there are only two keys to the apartment, leading to the conclusion that Kelly herself admitted Dawson with the express intent of killing him. But Dawson's own latch key gets mixed up with the two genuine ones and this clears her. Dawson drives an expensive car, which must have an ignition key. He probably has keys to other secure appliances. How come he has no key ring -- just the single latch key in his pocket? The keys on my own key ring number more than half a dozen and I've forgotten what some of them are for. Yet Dawson, a tricky character with multiple identities, carries only a single key in his pocket?None of this matters. The movie is merely first-class entertainment. It doesn't carry a message, anymore than a crossword puzzle does. You'll enjoy it.
