The Crown presents Her Majesty the Queen as imperious, rather than regal. She frequently looks like a snotty, po-faced upper-crust miss, spoilt beyond belief. In life, I don't think that anyone has EVER regarded the Queen in that manner. I suppose that playing a woman who was genuinely beautiful, genuinely regal and had a wonderful quality of deep serenity and composure about her is not an easy ask. But the composure that was present on her 21st birthday, when she made her memorable speech, pledging herself to a life of service for her people, and the extraordinary grace and courage with which she descended from the aeroplane after the death of her father, to greet the waiting dignitaries are the keys to the reality of Elizabeth. This story-teller has not gone for the actuality . He has looked for a dramatic story. He has attempted to "normalise" Queen Elizabeth, presumably by trying to imagine how a much less extraordinary young woman might have acted in similar circumstances. He has also tried to imagine how a person of a very different background to Prince Philip might act. Prince Philip was born a Prince. But his uncle, King of Geece, was put off the throne, the family fled and Philip's mother became a nun. Philip was schooled in Scotland where he would have been whipped by the masters or beaten up by the boys if he acted like a smarty. At 15 he entred the Navy, serving through World War II. In 1952 he was Commander of HMS Magpie. When Philip married Elizabeth, he did not visit foreign countries with the attitude of a freshman whose only experience of life is cheeking professors and chatting up girls in the canteen. Philip had already travelled the world, been into battle, seen men die and had led others into dangerous actions. Philip UNDERSTOOD the order of RANK. As midshipman he scrubbed the decks. He knew how the Commander of a ship behaves towards an Admiral of the Fleet. In other words, when Philip married Elizabeth, their was NO QUESTION as to whether he would bow his knee, and offer his allegiance. Paying that homage to his monarch was a given understanding from the moment that he started courting her. 1. When this series shows Philip kneeling resentfully in front of the throne AT HER MOMENT OF MOST NEEDING HIM then this is worse than stupid; it is a cruel denial of all Philip's devotion. What right does the film-maker have to do this?Was Philip REALLY thinking of himself or was he looking at his beloved wife and wondering how he could possibly ease the huge burden of responsibility that landed on her little head with that 4 pound weight of crown?2. Philip is a military man. So here, in this amazingly stupid scene from the series, he is shown with an elderly Kenyan War Veteran, looking at his medals, saying: "Good God! I've got one of those, and one of those, and one of those!" Like a child comparing Pokemon. Then he looks at the fourth one, a cross and says "Good grief! Where did you steal that?" The wardrobe department researched Philip's medals. They are exactly right. BUT the scriptwriter and director have it wrong, and the actor looks like a total smug ass. WHY?The first three medals are ordinary service medals, with two indicating service in WWII and the third indicating service in the African Campaign. Philip would recognise the medals as easy as you recognise a Coca Cola logo. They would not provoke any verbal comment, beyond a slight acknowledgement from the higher ranking officer (Philip). The fourth medal is a different matter entirely. Every single military person including the Princess, would have noticed the cross on the maroon ribbon protruding from under the string of beads. It would have been more obvious than a blazing diamond in the sunset. That piece of dull metal is the Victoria Cross, the highest award "FOR VALOUR". Prince Philip, and all the others, would have looked at it in silence, because that is what you do, when you are confronted by a true hero. The idea that Philip, a Prince, and Naval Commander, would make fun of a man with a Victoria Cross is not just farcical, it is seriously insulting to Prince Philip. For anyone to write this sort of stuff without consideration of how a high-ranking naval officer might act, is reprehensible. I DETEST the fact that this same noble old Prince who has served his Monarch and the people of her Realm tireless, day after day, since the day he entered the Royal Navy at fifteen years of age, until his semi-retirement at 96, can be so misrepresented, at a time when he is so old, and too frail to lay a wreath on the cenotaph for his fallen comrades. Concerning the suggestion of "oral sex". Many sexual practices now considered "normal" only became so with the publication of books like Alex Comfort's "Joy of Sex" 1960. Previously, many people always had sex in missionary position, wore night clothes, never saw their partner's genitals and made love in the dark. They still managed to have fun! It is most unlikely that Pince Philip would keep his wife from an official function in order to perform fellatio. There is no justification for this scene. The people depicted are now nonogenarians. Both are in possession of their wits, and capable of being embarrassed, distressed and angered But they are NOT capable of making an open denial that they are being misrepresented, in the matter of whether they would desert a function to have sex. The writer has indulged his fantasies to an extent which is unfair to the two living persons who are involved. I find this production deeply shaming, and opportunistic.
Is there anything more loathsome and irresponsible than a movie or TV series that turns history into a soap opera? How dare people reinterpret history as entertainment. Why, oh why do people see the need to twist history into melodrama in which the only "truth" we truly see is the writer's ego. This series is not about "The Crown", or Queen Elizabeth, it is about Peter Morgan. There is only one way to do justice to history and that is as a documentary. Yes, I know that may not be the blockbuster "spectacle" the masses want to see, but it is the truth. If you want to make costume dramas and visual feasts, do it on something like Downton Abbey where history is not part of the collateral damage. Superficially "The Crown" ticks off the main "historical" events, such they were. There was a Coronation. There was a scandal involving Princess Margaret and Peter Townsend. There was a great smog in London in 1952 in which thousands of people died. In that sense "The Crown" may indeed be "historically accurate". But to use these incidents as backdrops to paint totally hypothetical pictures of individuals, to literally make up dialogue people never spoke, to give them personalities that are pure speculation, to generate events that never happened, to blow out of all proportion events that did happen, simply to create the crises of each episode, is just unforgivable. If I wander down to my local library I will find a wall of books labelled "Biographies". In this wall I will find books that contain all that is known on a particular person. If dialogue is included it will be in quotes, and often have a reference, so the reader knows what was actually said. The author does not generally make up dialogue or create fiction just to spice it up a bit, or if they do it is quite clear it is the author's own views. This is what we call truth, and actually, as been noted many times, truth is often more interesting than fiction. If one were to try and publish a "book" version of this screenplay any prospective publisher would fall on the floor laughing. If perchance one was stupid enough to actually publish it it would end up in the "Fiction" section, filed under "P" for "Potboiler", just along from the Mills and Boons. Peter Morgan is evidently an extremely gifted person but seemingly an enigma. On the one hand he can write some truly breathtaking "dialog" when that dialog is impersonal, that is, it is expressing universal truths that really have nothing to do with the character. Then in the next breath we stoop to abysmal depths of ridiculousness/crassness – such as brave Prince Philip fighting off elephants, brainy Prince Philip telling his minions to put in a bigger fuse in his intercom system (who knew he was an electrical engineer?), and most heinously of all, inserting a ridiculous and entirely unnecessary character called Venitia Scott. Bath water coming under Winston Churchill's door? Give me a break. Mercifully this character gets hit by a bus fairly smartly – what a shame more of the cast did not share the same fate. If I can loosely paraphrase a famous quote from Winston Churchill (you will have to provide your own accents and cigars for this)...."Never in the course of human conflict, has so much money, been spent by so few, for so little good".


                
Well-produced historical drama devolves into graphic, gratuitous pornography in show #7 of Season 2. Why do the movie-land snowflakes have to ruin everything with their licentious worldview?


                
I really don't get why many people are in awe of this title. Nothing happens as British roayalty is a boring. Granted, costumes are great, but that is it. No scandals, no plots, no story...Since there is no real interesting story, the actors over-act to make us believe something is happening while there is not.I Had to work myself through the first episode and I do not believe it is a plot spoiler if I say that they get married in the first episode and that is about it. Kept thinking about the red wedding in Game of Thrones and how exciting that wedding was compared to this one. The red wedding took about 2-3 minutes, this one about half an hour and felt like hours. As Netflix does not want to get on the wrong side of British Royalty, I am sure this will stay a very tame and lame series for all the remaining episodes. I am not going to waste my time on this series anymore and will instead be reading a book on the Romanovs (Simon Sebag Montefiori). Now that is interesting Royalty!


                
I tried to make it through the first episode but this was terrible. Next time I have trouble sleeping I'll put this on because it is boring on a whole new level. I'm truly amazed that people rated this highly. There really isn't much more to say. It's bad, really bad, and it didn't hold my interest in the slightest. The characters were boring, the dialogue was boring and I couldn't watch another minute of this. So now I'm just writing filler. BUT Peaky Blinders is a GREAT Netflix show and I highly recommend that. The Crown sucks but Peaky Blinders was a ton of fun and I can't wait for the next season. I guess I still have to write stuff blah blah this is a stupid requirement for leaving a review when one or two sentences will totally suffice.....


                
A little look at Wikipedia would have found this:On 31 January 1952, despite advice from those close to him, the King went to London Airport to see off Princess Elizabeth, who was going on her tour of Australia via Kenya. On the morning of 6 February, George VI was found dead in bed at Sandringham House in Norfolk. He had died from a coronary thrombosis in his sleep at the age of 56. His daughter Elizabeth flew back to Britain from Kenya as Queen Elizabeth II.I'm also sure the QM wasn't quite the weeping willow portrayed at the wedding!If they get that wrong in the beginning, why bother watching the rest?


                
I can't believe how much money Netflix has wasted on this show. Though Claire Foy is a fine actress, most of the other performance are weak, the script is poor and the direction dull. Though to be fair it's attention to historic detail is impressive but this is also it's biggest flaw, as it might lead people to think this was anything other than 300 level of fantasy. In order to inject some drama into they show the Liz 2 in political discussions and the like that simply haven't happened in the 20th century and really not since before the Hanoverian kings. It's obviously based on the twee American idea that is often pitched for tourism that the Queen is somehow still akin to something like the reign of Liz 1.Dull, huge waste of money. If you like Downton Abbey or Upstairs Downstairs (where incidentally Claire Foy was much better) then you might like this. Otherwise suggest switching to Amazon Prime, since Netflix has effective wasted it's budget to make anything else for the next few years!


                
Check out reviews before you watch this. Especially if you have morals about putting nudity in front of your eyes as a form of entertainment. Matthew 5:27-30 comes to mind. Apparently season 1 is more restrained than season 2. But the bad episodes in season 2 are REALLY bad. Let the buyer beware!


                
Watched the first episode. 40 mins into the show, realized how BS the show was. So slow and boring. GARBAGE. Cannot get myself to watch the rest of the season.


                
Nice try from Buckingham Palace PR team, but the elaborated airs of authenticity failed to smokescreen rigid, resentful, power hungry and parochial character of Elizabeth Mountbatten. She deserved well to assist that shame of a wedding, Edward VIII and Princess Margaret must have been laughing tears. The Marburg files case is the most revolting.


                
Does anyone find it strange that the TV series The Crown is all a bunch of BS? For example, we all know that Vladimir Putin specifically said that when he was in London the queen showed to him in order to show her dominance projected some type of reptile appearance. On top of all of that Princess Diana said to her Ghost Rider there was something he should know that we change the whole face of the world Reno now that they eat babies to stay young and they may be reptiles we all have to take a step back and realize that boogeyman does exist. There are things that we can't comprehend and things that we can still try to comprehend if we open our minds I hope everyone does this.


                
