The Crown boasts no action sequences or big movie stars, and yet it is one of the most expensive shows of all time. Why? Because of the sheer attention to detail. Aside from the fully historically accurate costumes and locations, the show is just gorgeous to look at. The lighting, the cinematography, and everything else visual about it is on point. It's quite apparent none of that money went to waste.The show doesn't just look gorgeous, though. It is also compelling, well written, and well performed. In fact, almost every element is perfectly executed, which means that no single one stands out above the rest, but rather they work in harmony. And that is the show's greatest success; the fact that it all comes together smoothly into a neat, binge-able, high quality package.Mind you, the reason I enjoy the Crown so much is that I knew what to expect when I went into it. This is NOT a fast-paced, action-packed, edge-of-your-seat experience. It is a character drama about the royal family. It runs at a slow pace. Yet it is gripping all the same. That's why it is so good to know that Netflix made such a large investment in this series; they're taking chances and funding original and unusual things in an era when Hollywood is afraid to do anything that isn't already an existing intellectual property. I hope that the Crown blows up like Stranger Things. I hope it gets all the attention it deserves.


                
I just watched the first two episodes and I already am in love with the story and characters! The acting is excellent as well as the directing, story line, costumes, sets, filming locations and everything else that has gone into the making of this series. It is well written and filmed and I am looking forward to seeing the remaining episodes. I have always been fascinated with history and this series takes you back in time. It has such powerful emotion and a lot of surprises which held my interest tremendously. So far, the episodes I saw went by quickly with me wanting to see more. If you are a history buff or interested in the Royal Family, don't miss this! It is a down to earth version of their lives and responsibilities. And so far, there are many things I did not know or appreciate. Definitely a learning experience and thank you for such a beautiful story! This is an addition to my previous post- I am now on episode 9 and if there aren't any awards for acting, I will be extremely surprised. John Lithgow's portrayal of Winston Churchill is award winning as well as Claire Foy playing the Queen. All of the acting is superb in my opinion and I don't want this series to end...


                
Where to start is very difficult when it comes to what I can only describe as an amazing feat of production and acting. The cast are absolutely outstanding and are nothing but professional.You can tell a lot of effort has been put into the research and accuracy of the story line. The attention to detail also has to be credited.I can't find a fault and believe me I've tried. Having watched previous biopics/Dramas regarding royalty I will have to put this at the Top and that is including The Queen which again I would rate at 10/10.In summery a must watch if you are looking for a great piece of production and a stimulating story line. I would recommend this to anyone.


                
Regardless of what you may think of the Royals Netflix has poured a ton of money into this exquisite production about the life of Queen Elizabeth. It is a show which requires fixed attention as things progress at a unhurried pace. The opening musical evolution is enchanting and never grows old. Actress Claire Foy is beautifully riveting in the role of Elizabeth; someone who wants to have a normal life and yet is made to feel her duty as Queen should be the highest priority. It has been suggested the Queen is warm, has a sense of humor, is compassionate and this portrayal conveys it. She is wise enough to realize she's going to have to forge her own way as those around her are stymied in their own limitations or ignorance. John Lithgow transforms into Winston Churchill and is equally stellar. Their scenes together are superb. If Peter Morgan's research is accurate I can fully appreciate how Princess Diana must have felt. The show is rounded out by a wonderful supporting cast. This show is my favorite Netflix production so far.


                
To be very honest, when a friend told me we should watch the crown, a series about Queen Elizabeth ll life, i was not excited, im normally not a very good person to start watching a new series. However, so glad i watched this. Me and my friend watched 3 episodes, and i watched the rest on my own, latter that day. The series is exciting, fast past, amazing cast, beautifully shot, beautiful costumes. Besides all that, The Crown , have made me look with another eyes to the royal family, specially Queen Elizabeth, to be honest i did not know much about her personal life . The series shows the struggle of the royal family, and make us realise they are all people in the end, with their problems and feelings. I truly hope they will make another season, to continue this extraordinary show. Thanks Netflix.


                
Every so often a drama comes along that takes away your breath. Sometimes that's subjective, other times objective. Dramas such as The Jewel in the Crown, The West Wing, Game of Thrones, House of Cards, Downton Abbey, House M.D. have all stood at the pinnacle of television drama.The Crown is right up there at the very top. It is outstanding in every way: faultless. From brilliant dramatisation to acting to score to cinematography: everywhere you look it commands.Watch it. You won't regret it. You will remember one of those television 'moments' that come along all too rarely.


                
The Crown is almost one of the best period movies ( or better say, series of movies ) ever made. It defines the quality of historic period film making with every aspect. The casting is superior, the cinematography is outstanding, the thoughtfully written script just fixes you to the chair and you cannot stop yourself for several hours to watch it through. I personally watched it all twice to digest all the details prepared for the audience. I must admit The Crown easily made me a Netflix fan & a paid member after a quick glimpse at the trailer. A fortune is spent but worth every penny. Thanks to the producers, the amazing directors and the wonderful cast.


                
I dipped into the first episode of this and found myself losing an entire weekend binge-watching the whole series.A fantastic depiction of a young woman catapulted into one of the highest positions on earth and struggling to marry the detachment her position demands with her personal self.Quite apart from the superb acting, magnificent settings, costumes and demeanour, this works merely as a deeply personal story of Elizabeth, Philip, Margaret, Peter, Churchill and many more...all depicted with honesty and precision. The scene where Churchill is forced to come to terms with his great age and frailty had me in tears. I also ached for Margaret and Peter.It will be easy to dismiss this from a Republican standpoint, but for anyone else, it is mesmerizing.
This is without a doubt one of the best series ever on television. So brilliantly conceived, produced, cast, directed and written that it's hard to find words to express my utter amazement. The episodes are well thought out and written with amazing detail to time and place, and crafted in such away to artfully but truthfully tell the viewer what she needs to know without becoming overly bogged down by details or excessive drama. Claire Foy makes a powerful impression as Elizabeth: from shy newlywed to deer-in-the-headlight after her father's unexpected death,and finally to cool and confident monarch committed to doing what she must, even at a personal cost. Matt Smith's performance as the often tactless, very plain speaking but always well meaning Prince Philip, the most forward thinking family member at the time, is terrific. But far and away, Jared Harris' understated George the VI will no doubt be considered legendary. He captures the essence of that King: a fragile, gentle soul who was thrust into a role he never wanted and for which he had no preparation, but somehow managing to do a fine job despite the odds. If the scene at the Sandringham Christmas party doesn't move you, you have no heart. So sit back and be transported to another time and place. You'll probably end up binge watching this masterpiece. I can't wait for Season 2. Kudos to Netflix for lavishly funding this production.
Bravo! Our obsession with all things regal and statecraft is celebrated by this finest shining achievement which is a most in-depth series dramatizing the burdens associated with having flesh and blood constitution beneath the almighty weight of the British crown; family ties, bureaucratic entanglements, the intricacies of regal obligations to the state and the many different peoples of many different countries within the Commonwealth, and the difficulties of remaining personally separate, differentiated, and completely silent about how difficult it all is to manage well, or if it can even be managed at all. And... more interestingly... what really happens when it all gets mucked up and goes sideways. Season One available and streaming in-full and entirely without interruptions right now at Netflix.com
This is the best TV Show in years. It makes the audience love the Royal Family, understand them, and more than anything else makes people understand, realize the hard work Her Majesty has and has been doing throughout her Reign. All the Actors are amazing, but I would want to add that Ms Foy and Matt Smith are just incredible, so much talent, class, reality, and so good looking :). The different locations as the Royal Family's Residences, the countryside locations are stunning, I have not done it yet but will google whether the shootings were done in the actual Palaces. I hope the second season will not be long to start - Thank you for this great show and can't wait for the next seasons !!


                
I have never been very good at writing reviews, but The Crown inspired me enough to get an IMDb account in order for me to do so.I have never been so captivated by anything as much as I have with this series. Bravo to the creators of this series for it has been executed brilliantly !Right up there with Downton Abbey, & House Of Cards. I would even go as far as saying that it exceeds both of those.Acting, storyline, costumes, cinematography and pace all exceptional. Bravo to creator Peter Morgan and to all the cast and crew as well as to Netflix !


                
I can honestly say that I was never a history buff. I always found it devastating to learn with all the wars and violence learned in school about how our country became. I'm proud and thankful for the sacrifices made but could never get passed how wars were a way of territory..
I started watching The Crown because some women I know from work really enjoyed it. I figured I would watch to see what they hype was with them and to be able to join in conversations about the show. I have watched the first 3 episodes and I am hooked. Binge watching and can't wait for Season 3 to be released.


                
Everything is perfect in the first two seasons. I would like to see what they will bring up in the season 3.


                
This is he only reason why I signed up for Netflix. The acting is beyond outstanding. I had heard about this series from a friend and once I started it, went straight through the first 2 seasons. Huge congratulations to the cast, writers, not to mention set/costume designers as the locations/set and clothes (the clothes!) absolutely make this series.


                
On my second go-round of Season Two, it's particular looks and lines that jump out at me. My favorite arrived in episode five, "Marionettes." When Prince Philip inquires about her hair stylist's name, Princess Margaret searches her memory and recalls, "Vidal Baboon?"


                
Well, that's how it seems to us but certainly not to the reality. Poor buggers. Not only did we get a birds-eye view of the royal texture but also a heart-felt view of their onerous existence which was not particularly pretty. And what a perfectly apt title, because this was not primarily about the Windors, but about the authority, duplicity and propriety of the Crown and how a courageous "little" girl came to terms with it and mostly stood her tenacious ground, whilst also, having to agonise deeply in her relationship with her despondent partner and jilted sibling. And as an institutionally, ill-skilled woman who only had perception and considerable integrity to guide her, it was disheartening to see this being constantly undermined by the Crown.This portrayal was so realistic you would think it was recorded "live" by the camera that Lizzie's dad gave her as a wedding gift, saying, "I don't want you to miss a single thing". And to our great fortuity, it doesn't look like she did! Now we can sit back and watch what really happened in those days as we grew up along with them (I'm the same age as peddle car Charlie). It's a bit like watching the Beatles anthology long after the romance has died down except that this was nothing we ever saw in the news. Brilliant, fly-on-the-wall view of a very private and much adored family, with 16 mm vintage cameras hidden, it would seem, in every corner of the palace and beyond!
The casting wasn't perfect (you'd be pushing shit uphill to get it much closer) but the way the actor's played out their roles put paid to any doubts about appearance. Notably, Churchill's pretender, who was the least look-alike of them, almost imbued his ghost so well, that if the real Winston turned up you'd think he was the phony. But the star for me was Queen Elizabeth who's pretender nailed it. And I was gobsmacked at how naturally Foy conveyed the nuances of the queen, especially in her canny facial expressions and verbalisation, particularly in close up.
Seeing our Queen in those early days was really delightful. "After you darling", says Philip as they make their way through the animal gathered grassland in Kenya. I'm chuffed. The whole, albeit short, Africa bit was stunning. 
I have come to greatly respect this queen, having now become aware of what she had to endure with so much more hindrance than help from those she "trusted". Everyone determined that they knew what was best for Britain, in terms of their own egos, whilst she, on the other hand, learned to know what it was, more from how she experienced it than from what her ego dictated.Dispersed throughout are some interesting reflections into royalty, such as the comments by Philip as they prepare for take off on his first flight, and Mary's conviction about, "the Monarchy is a calling from God", to mention just a couple. Oh yes, and Edward's comment during the coronation, about the monarch being uplifted to Godlike stature in the eyes of the people. Fascinating insights."Eddie the abdicator" came across as quite an arsehole under the self-seeking mandate of his Yoko Ono. Not being able to separate his own mind from hers, how on earth could he have handled the domination of the Crown? Britain dodged a bullet with his abdication. And Winston came across as an egotistical tyrant, who couldn't get out of his own notorious shadow. The scene of him being dressed down by a queen, young enough to be his granddaughter (almost), was absolutely awesome. He was never the same again and neither was I.A couple of misgivings. The reality was a bit overshadowed by the heavily melodramatic nature and I had a bit of trouble believing that Churchill could be such a sniveller. I just had to mention something!The Crown. So much bigger than all of them but it needed them just as much as they coveted it. A wonderfully told, tragic story, with a truly remarkable insight into one of the oldest offices in the world.One of the reviewers mentioned there was little drama or excitement in the series. I don't know what they were comparing it to. "Game Of Thrones" maybe. For me, it had an abundance of everything. Brilliant script, brilliant atmosphere, brilliantly acted human characterisation and an enchantingly accessible history lesson. All the brilliants in one series which is really more than enough for anyone. And if you can get so much satisfaction without a whiff of sex or violence, there is hope in spades for the British movie industry. Thank you.


                
I'll start by saying that for me, this is a ten out of ten. Others describe the excellent production quality, as well as the cast, so I'll put a different spin on "why" this is so interesting to me, and might be (ought to be?) interesting to others.I'm not a "royal watcher", so I don't spend time wondering about (or worrying about) what goes on in the monarchy of the UK (and it Commonwealth). But the focal point of this series is on Elizabeth, and one cannot be somewhat amazed, and curious, about her life. I'm in my 60's, and she's been on the throne since before I was even born, so I am, at a minimum, intrigued by her longevity, especially considering how she ended up on the throne in the first place.Remember that for the first ten years of her life, there was little expectation that she would ever do anything other than live on the royal family periphery. But, her uncle's abdication, and father's early death, changed all of that, and only in her mid-20's, she found herself thrust onto the throne.What makes Elizabeth so interesting? Just contrast the state of our world, at beginning of her reign, with a few simple facts: There were no man-made objects in space (and wouldn't be for another five years); Computers were in their infancy, and were as large as some people's home; WW II had only ended 5 ½ years earlier; With the possible exception of the monarchy, women in any position of power, was pretty much unheard of.All of the things that we take for granted today, be it technology, spacecraft that are now in interstellar space, etc., women in leadership roles in business and government<U+0085> those transformations have all transpired, while she has been on the throne. With such drastic change, one can easily imagine a variety of reasons how/why the British monarchy could easily have lost some (or all) of its relevance. But somehow, if anything, it would seem that just the opposite has happened, and one cannot help but think that Elizabeth is the reason why.And also, as an American, even Elizabeth's lineage becomes a thing of interest. Queen Victoria (arguably the most renowned monarch before Elizabeth II) was Elizabeth's great, great grandmother, and Victoria's grandfather was George III (yeah<U+0085> we sorta had a bit of a war of independence with him, once upon a time). And here is the current monarch, Elizabeth, George's direct descendant(and not that many generations removed), who has been alive for more than _one-third_ of our nation's existence, and on the throne for more than _one-quarter_ of its existence. Relatively speaking, we (Americans) are still not that far removed from the throne that she occupies, which generates (for me), yet another level of interest in exploring her life and reign.For me, this series boils down to an opportunity to learn more about someone, who it would be hard to deny, is a fairly remarkable woman, and who (with a few missteps along the way), seems to have managed to shepherd the institution that she sits atop, through one of the most rapidly changing eras in the history of humankind. It's hard to not be interested in a person who can pull that off, and imagine that there might be some interesting lessons, or at least, insights, that might be drawn from her life.The fact that this "learning opportunity" comes in the form of a fantastic production, with a fantastic cast, ends up being the icing on an already interesting cake. Certainly, there may be some "royal soap opera" moments, but never forget that this is also a significant history lesson. I have thoroughly enjoyed this initial series, and can't wait for what comes next.


                
Great photography, I am amazed with the story and how they've developed all the characters, the costumes, the casting is perfect. Very well storytelling, from the sound design to the details on the props etc. It get us right there with The Crown. This is a real British TV Series, they really had time and money to film this epic narrative of House of Windsor. We can almost call it a masterpiece of a screenplay come alive. Peter Morgan really got the feeling of it and handled with such care. I'm thrilled at some of the historical detail in, King George, Winston Churchill and above all Elizabeth herself. You will really really don't want to miss this British TV Drama Series. Congrats to all crew and the creator.


                
First, I would like to correlate this drama with a movie The King's Speech, it won Oscars. Then comes this drama - simple and elegant, which proves to be almost elaborated sequel of that. I become fan of Peter Morgan who tells us how to present an ordinary real story in an extra-ordinary manner. It shows the real challenges of the young Queen Elizabeth amid the fast changing British society and male chauvinist husband; despite all, she stands firm and finally, the crown wins. People during her rule has advantage of experiencing new form of sovereignty which also redresses parliamentary democracy. All these things are portrayed in the magnificent way. A must watch show for the people who like British English and I have enjoyed it a lot!


                
This peek behind the Buckingham Palace fence, gets beyond the pomp and majesty to reveal human beings. I am a sucker for all things historical presented with high production values and measured, professional acting. The Queen has blown me away. I recall my great aunt and uncle sending food to distant relatives in England in the late 40's and early 50's for their survival. Even as a child, I tried to imagine what kind of life they were leading that contrasted with our surplus (and we were poor). When Elizabeth was crowned, it was one of the first years that we had a television and I watched the entire ritual. I took a picture of screen with my cheap Brownie camera during the procession. I marveled at the majesty of the ceremony. I wanted to be there. This series has fired those memories and, as I recall, accurately. I have now been to England maybe ten times and have each time walked through Hyde or Green Park to Buckingham Palace. I have watched the beautiful changing of the guard, I have walked the stones of Westminster Abbey. I have toured Churchill's wartime offices. I have tried to feel the history these storied places witnessed. When Netflix notified me of The Queen's release, it became must try TV. Now, after four episodes, it has become do not miss TV. The portrayals are so well crafted that I found myself thinking, "So that's what they were really like." Knowing that they may not have been, but brilliant actors have rendered them as human beings with all of our glorious flaws. The production is so well staged that soot gets in your nostrils. You can smell the gunpowder when George goes hunting. You feel the weight descending on the young Queen. You are chilled by the judgmental eyes of George's mother -- keeper of the illusion, guardian of power. You feel Phillip's growing anguish over losing his wife to her subjects and the role of Queen. You finally understand the isolation of the Duke of Windsor for his abdication of the thrown for his love of Wallis Simpson. This is not just a TV series, not merely history writ and truths exposed, it is a tapestry that when looked at closely reveals flaws but, at a distance is majestic.
Visually The Crown is a treat - practically every scene is like an oil painting come to life. Fortunately it also has the across-the-board compelling performances and assured writing necessary to ensure that stunning scenery doesn't count for nothing.


                
You missed 2018. And 4 months from 2019 has passed and you didn't even scheduled season3 ?! Please inform the audience if there will be a season 3 or NOT


                
A stunning tv programme. Well made (as with most bbc productions) and with a wonderful cast.


                
Finest acting and portrayals. Lavish sets. Pretty good storyline too.. What more can one say ?


                
