Much like the 1990's film TITANIC...Hollywood has lavished high production values to THE CROWN but little else. Any connection to history is non-existent and quite alarming.Made up story lines...especially the portrayal of Winston Churchill and his relationship with Queen Elizabeth...and with his own sanity as portrayed here...is simple rubbish. Churchill was a man of many quirks but he was no fool, had immense appreciation for the Royal Family and for both the Queen and her Father. There is no evidence Mr. Churchill ever belittled Queen Elizabeth or even would have thought of doing so...nor her toward him. So the whole premise of the first few episodes is simply idiotic...sort of a 'politically correct' rewriting of history from script writers who obviously no nothing about history.Sadly, NETFLIX, the producer of this nonsense offers an array of programming on its subscription service entitled: "The Truth About... " and then you can fill in the blanks about alleged documentaries on a host of subjects that bear little resemblance to the truth...but more of the opinions of politically motivated writers.If your goal is to brainwash a new generation of viewers...then THE CROWN would neatly fall into such a category. Sadly, TRUE HISTORY is actually far more interesting than the FAKE HISTORY presented here. Sure, no-one in this period of British history had a monopoly on virtue...but many had a firm grip on greatness and courageous action...and both Queen Elizabeth and Winston Churchill are among these.Maybe someday someone will give them their proper interpretation. You will not find it in this tripe masquerading behind amazing period shots and costumes.


                
Skip this series if you have any regard for the truth. Too bad the writer and producer, Peter Morgan, is so very intent on defaming the Royal Family and nearly everyone else involved in British society at the time. Most notably its males. The result is that otherwise stellar qualities of cast and crew are squandered, and Hollywood is yet again made to look like the clumsy propaganda arm of the political left. And paying viewers its long- suffering dupes.A role it has relished since at least the 1960s and shows no signs of disavowing.


                
I do not know why this is so popular. I really tried to love it, I adore historical drama and had high hopes. But this was such a snooze fest, the whole time I wondered why should I care about this? The main character appears to be catatonic. I did not get interested in any of the characters or their motivations or the general plot.I quit after 3 episodes, after I started to regret all the seconds of my life ticking away for no reason.Victoria on the other hand is the exact opposite, exciting, interesting, dramatic, fun.


                
