The Crown is one of the fascinating dramas I have watched in very recent of times. First off, the show itself is a bit slow paced but nevertheless, it generates enough amount of suspense over the episodes. The Crown may lack the twist and turning of events than many other historical dramas, but the flawless direction and impeccable acting of its actors do not allow its audiences get disappointed. Secondly, the grandeur of the show is something of a treat to the sore eyes. Netflix has not been so frugal in the making of the show and it has paid them off every penny. The costume and the furnishing of the show within are scintillating. Lastly, this show is a great history lesson for all the viewers, particularly the ones who are of younger generations. It is mostly based on true events, so that is indeed a stand-out fact of the show. Though there were some moments where it seemed a little bit exaggerated but considering its genre as a TV series, that is reasonable. The Crown has allowed its viewers to peek what lies behind the royal curtains and taught a significant truth that a royal born doesn't necessarily get to evade all the personal tribulations that all the other commoners go through. They share just as same values as the other citizens of the country.


                
Taking place in the 20th century, 1947 to be precise. King George VI is coughing up blood and is drawing his last breath. Mean while Queen Elizabeth is to be wed to Philip Mountbatten. When she is blindsided by George's demise. She's left in awe, as she has no education to lead her people. As her ascension was not predicted to happen in the near future. Realizing the predicament she is in. She struggles to keep her people in line while trying to comprehend the overwhelming responsibilities she must bare. With the weight of her country on her shoulders she must knuckle down and take a step forward to embrace her influence. Produced by Peter Morgan, who is know for penning the overzealous "The Queen(2006)". You can tell that no expense was spared, as the series has an estimated budget of one hundred million pounds, the show enraptures you with it's glorious visuals and stupendous costumes. The actors, are strong in there respective fields, especially Jared Harris who delivers the performance of his career as King George VI. On top of all this, Hans Zimmer and Rupert Gregson-Williams scored the soundtrack. Which should tell you the talent that is behind this epic series. Netflix has truly outdone themselves.
Plot summary: A shy young woman, descended from a long line of hardworking German immigrants, doesn't feel quite ready to take over the family business. The first season, scripted by the brilliant Peter Morgan ("The Queen"), covers only the first few years of the young queen's reign, and this big canvas, like a painting by Breughel or Bosch (but with nicer furniture!), allows for a tight focus on some tiny but revealing details; I especially liked the episode in which ER II, who's only been taught French, deportment and the British constitution, uses her expert knowledge of the latter to outfox the palace HR department (it's complicated) and hires a tutor to teach her, among other things, how the H-bomb works. The cast is just about perfect, and Morgan's done an amazing job of bringing these remote, puppetlike figures (especially so for those of us who grew up during that era) to life in a convincing way. Over the course of ten episodes, we see Claire Foy's soft, expressive face transformed into an impassive mask of authority (perhaps the makeup artists deserve some credit here). Mike "Dr. Who" Smith is especially impressive as a slightly feral Prince Phillip, likewise Jared Harris as a menschy George VI, and John Lithgow (6'4<U+02DD>) totally crushes it as a supersize Winston Churchill (5'6<U+02DD>). It's all pretty great. Most of the drama consists of intense two-shot interactions in overdecorated rooms, but there's plenty of royal pageantry, plus excursions to Kenya and Australia (both played by South Africa, btw) and various primo huntin', shootin' and fishin' spots. On to season two! We're eager to see if Princess Margaret really had it off with Jagger during the 60s!


                
I haven't still watched the entire first season of the new Netflix TV show release called 'The Crown' but it sure heads to a great start as much as I've seen of it.This saga about the British Royal Family during its first years can look austere from time to time but that's not what we should expect from this kind of historic show. What we should expect however is a great attention to details and a hint of authenticity throughout it. About those criteria, The Crown is fulfilling them to the perfection. The great attention to history is what keeps me hooked to this wonderful show.The performance of the cast is very sober from all the characters. I have felt that a lot of research has been made to match the cast performance as much to the original people they are incarnating. I'm particularly mesmerized by John Lithgow who is playing Winston Churchill. I have chills seeing this old man, who will always be remembered as the One who stood up to fascism during WW2 to finally triumph against it, trying to update himself to this new era using his intangible character to overcome the various challenges he's facing. I have tears when he's mourning his young secretary who got killed when she got ran over by a bus during the 1952 London Fog which claimed so many lives.In brief the Crown is a show to be seen. I have not still seen it entirely but I truly hope it will keep on.


                
I am not a royalist by any means. In fact, I often wonder why kings and queens exist in the 21st century. I marvel that they don't come to their senses themselves and join the human race as it is. So, I did balk at watching this Netflix offering at first.I am glad I dipped my toe in by watching the first episode. I was immediately seduced by the richness of its writing, its editing, its presentation and its talent. I was also rewarded with a balanced view of the monarchy as institution vs. personality. Flawed and tortured human beings poured into rigid traditional roles. Claire Foy is simply remarkable. Matt Smith is a perfect foil. Victoria Hamilton and Eileen Atkins provide weighty and humorous ballast. The cast is too deep to acknowledge individually here, but any fan of British productions will be wowed. Alex Jennings deserves mention as David, Duke of Windsor. Vanessa Kirby shines as Princess Margaret.Well worth a Netflix binge. We highly recommend it.
If you are looking for a fantastic historical drama about what it means to be a (British) royal, look no further than The Crown. But be warned: if you are looking for a series that gushes over the royal family, I implore you to look elsewhere, for this is not that show. Whilst being a royal looks glamorous on the outside, it is quite a different story behind the glitz. I will just say this: prior to watching The Crown, I was a supporter of the British monarchy; now, not so much.Like any family, the British royals have weathered trials and tribulations, which is exactly what is at the heart of The Crown. The actors perform the stories stunningly, as do the sets, costumes, etc. Her Majesty herself, Claire Foy, embodies the role perfectly, though is a bit subdued compared to most of the other characters. Jared Harris is a joy to watch as King George VI. The real star of the show, however, is Matt Smith. He steals every scene he appears in and breathes life into an otherwise (but understandably) stuffy show.The Crown would get 10 stars from me if not for two things: the first being that finale isn't as climactic and interesting as previous episodes; the second is the casting of Winston Churchill. John Lithgow puts in fine work here and a good accent to boot, but that does not negate the fact that he is an American and Churchill was most certainly NOT. Being as unnecessary as it is, this casting choice borders on unforgivable.At the heart of The Crown is fascinating insight into what Queen Elizabeth II and the royal family were like as people behind closed doors (50+ years ago); it doesn't take long to realize that these people, despite their titles and lifestyles, are as human as any of us.


                
Love historical dramas, and it fascinated me just as much to see one centred around (as of now) our longest reigning monarch, a title that for a long time was given to Queen Victoria. There was so much talent involved that my interest was sparked further, despite admittedly not being the biggest fan of Netflix. 'The Crown' turned out to be a wonderful series, at its very best some of the best television seen in a while and in a completely different league to much of anything else Netflix has done (so much so that it had to be a check to see that it definitely came from Netflix). Season 1 was so well executed in every regard, while Season 2 boasted even richer material. Totally get the adoration, while sharing some viewers' misgivings about the inaccuracies and some biased and distorted characterisations (the Duke and Duchess of Windsor coming off worst). Vanessa Kirby for my tastes was a bit too annoying as Margaret as well. However, the great things far eclipse the not so good. When 'The Crown' was great, it was the very meaning of a crowning achievement. It couldn't have been any more classy and sumptuous visually. The photography and production and costume design are evocative and a sight to behold. The music for me wasn't too intrusive or low-key and was beautiful scoring on its own. The main theme is not easy to forget. Writing probes a lot of thought and intrigue, it is much more than soap-opera and doesn't feel too modern (not like 'Victoria'). Loved the intimacy and subtle tension of the storytelling in each episode, the deliberate pace in no way a hindrance, and the character chemistry scintillates. The characters are very compellingly written, with enough balance in characterisation to overshadow the instances of one-sidedness and most of them have more than one layer. Cannot find many qualms with the acting. Claire Foy is dignity and class personified and Matt Smith acts every bit as splendidly with lots of authority. One of the biggest standouts of the near-uniformly strong support (Kirby being the exception) is the powerhouse that is John Lithgow, so much so that one can look past misgivings of him not being quite right physically (being too tall for one by nearly a foot, Churchill was not a tall man). Overall, deserving of the acclaim it's garnered. Not quite perfect but really quite wonderful and something of an achievement. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
The Crown is a remarkable show and you can tell that Netflix pulled out all the stops to make this show seem majestic and life-like. Claire Foy's acting is fascinating and she depicts the Queen as an actual human being who has emotions. All around even though it starts out slow, The Crown is a must watch.


                
The Crown is a rising jewel of Netflix. This series is intended to have 60 episodes in six seasons, covering a decade of Queen Elizabeth II's reign in each season, and with new actors cast every two seasons. After a year long wait, Netflix finally released all 10 episodes of season two on December 10, 2017. Without doubt, this season of The Crown is magnificent. Although the first season, released in November of 2016, was a realistic and exquisite portrait of Queen Elizabeth's early reign, the second season far more entertaining. This season is full of life, humor, drama and passion. Although the truth behind all of it is questionable, it is irresistible.
Set in the 1950s, the second season takes Queen Elizabeth (portrayed by the brilliant Claire Foy) from crisis to crisis. From national affairs such as the Suez Canal Crisis and the Profumo Scandal to personal conflicts with her ever-disappointing relatives. Especially her whining and childish husband Phillip (Matt Smith), who is as much of a primary character as his wife. Prince Phillip is the love of Elizabeth's life and her main antagonist, continuing to be unsupportive, unfaithful, and threatening to disgrace the monarchy.
Claire Foy returned for her final portrayal as Queen Elizabeth. Each idea is clearly depicted on her face, making sure that we wouldn't miss anything. She can convey the message by a slight flicker of the eyes. Ms. Foy was truly amazing. Her counter part, Matt Smith, wonderfully portrayed Prince Phillip as a conceited simp. The performance of the supporting characters was also marvelous. The smug and ambitious prime minister Anthony Eden is played by Jeremy Northam. Vanessa Kirby was born to play the beautiful and wild Princess Margaret.
Season two of The Crown was wonderfully done. Each episode tells its own story, but it stays connected to Elizabeth's journey as a Queen, mother, and wife. I would highly recommend you to go watch this series. It would be an enthralling experience.


                
After 2 seasons, the series stands as one of the majestic English series.
With a lot of budget behind that is noted in the staging both outdoors and in palace interiors to the changing rooms.
The level also comes in the interpretations where Claire Foy as Isabel II takes all the leading role. The plethora of secondaries are at the same level giving a coral distribution of an excellent level.
The direction on the other hand is quite constant and only stands out in an outstanding way in some episodes (Patterfamilias 2 × 9).
The plot so far dances between domestic and international politics in front of the intimate royal family. This is the most remarkable mistake that I see because although both parties seem more than interesting but the political plots I see a little worse for the overall high level of the series.


                
A rare gem. Acting, settings, etc...incredible. Most Netflix shows seem to add the 'shock factor'. This series can rest on its laurels...superb acting and an initially slow beginning that ultimately captivates and enthralls you. Claire Foy is incredible as well as John Lithgow and the rest of the cast. Can't wait for season 3!!


                
This is a drama about life of queen Elisabeth II and is said to be the most expensive production of Netflix ever. And it really shows. The Crown has no big movie stars and no thrilling action sequences but the attention to details is marvellous. The show is a visual feast to look at, the cinematography, the lighting, the historically accurate costumes and locations and everything else show that a lot of money was spent here. The show is also well performed and well written. Every element is well executed, no one stands out above the rest. Its is just a very high quality of everything that creates a harmony where everything comes smoothly together.This is defiantly not a fast-paced and action-packed adrenaline kick off-your seat experience. It is a slow paced character based drama that is moving forward calm and steady. But it is very gripping and encapsulating.The Crown is one of the best period TV series ever made. It defines the quality of historic period film making with every aspect. Watch it. You won't regret it. You will remember it as one of those memorable television experiences that come along all too rarely.


                
Well written script, makes you want to learn more about the British Royalty. Good insight into their lives. Gives the royalty some colour. Love the attention to detail of the costumes and setups. Keeps you wanting more.


                
I was expecting this show "for the ladies", something like "Dynasty" of the past with Joan Collins.Surprisingly... wasn't at all! It's a well setup drama, a good biography, digging in a lot to the "closed doors" British Royal walls. The plot/story is great; Thxs God every episode is focusing on different character, like "Band of Brothers" did also and we didn't bored. Obviously, Queen Elisabeth is the "main focus" in every episode, but not so much. You have a character's story in every episode to deal with.The screenplay is great, the actors playing amazing,... I mean... wtf!!! I didn't expected this show to be SO GOOD!!!!They gave me all the DVDs (both seasons) together, I started this past Wednesday and... yesterday I watched the 10th episode of the second season!!!!!! I watched both seasons in almost 4 days - and be advised, each episode is 1 hr long!!!!!AMAZING show, start watching it now.I CAN'T WAIT till 2019 for the third season!!!!


                
Really interesting characters with so what original story and with really good acting from some cast


                
I have to admit that I am not the biggest fan of the royal house. I'm not a hater, in fact I like to follow new about them and I like the people. I'm just not diehard fangirling. But this show definitely made me love them more. It gives you more knowledge on how their lives work and how much has changed from the past until now. It's very detailed without getting boring and makes you see things from a totally new perspective. Personally I've gained a lot more respect for the royal family after watching this


                
This was very well researched, a lot of money went into this series and it paid off! Amazing acting!


                
The writing and acting is so outstanding. It makes the show. The show is full of feeling that's oddly so relatable despite the royal life style. I love everything about the show.
The Crown is an outstanding show. It beautifully shows the life of the Royal family and the reign of Queen Elizabeth II. Historical shows and films always hit it out of the park when made with accuracy, excellent direction, production and style. The Crown is an example of this. It is made with such style, poise and charm one is simply taken by the lives of the family and great historic figures over those years. The acting is truly first class as is the production of the series which makes a dynamic, eventful and truly engaging show. Claire Foy is exceptional as the Queen as are the rest of the cast. Netflix has elevated its reputation as a service and the standards of television shows. Highly recommended. 8.5/10


                
The Crown is a real pleasure to watch. A production with such a refined attention to details and with such a perfect cast is almost unique. It is not particularly lavish, but it really succeeds in creating the atmosphere of the time. The characters sounds true, though we all know there is much fiction in the show together with real facts and events, but everything makes a sense. It is not a documentary, it is period drama at its best, beautifully made and really entertaining.


                
Having grown up in Australia, with a picture of the Queen adorning the wall in my school hall, and endless coverage of anything royal being shoved down our throats on a daily basis its easy to become dismissive and numb to the barrage, so I went into this show curious but certain it was to be a puff piece.
I am always happy to admit when I'm wrong and with this I missed by a country mile.
The crown is truly a fly on the wall look at how something that never should have evolved came to be, how sliding doors took a beautiful young women and turned her into one of the most enduring icons of the modern era.
The cast of the show are outstanding led by Claire Foy as the monarch and Matt Smith as her "I didn't sign up for this" husband, so believable are all and sundry that its easy to forget that your not watching the real thing, John Lithgow's turn as the great Winston Churchill is a career highlight and Vanessa Kirby is excellent as Princess Margret to name but a few.
The curtain has been drawn way back on this series leaving the players all very much naked to the elements and it makes for a damn good escape.
take a leap on this you wont be disappointed .


                
It is a testament to how good this series is that a dramatization of such a well known person and such well known events could be so mesmerizing. The detail is just mind boggling. There is such painstaking detail to recreate each scene from Commonwealth tours to minor ones. The sets are sumptuous and the costumes are perfect. No wonder it cost so much to make. The writing is superb with such good dialog in the intimate scenes that one only imagined before. Just finished season 1, all 10 episodes and each one is better than the last. Quite shocking to see on screen (even though it is known) is the vitriolic hatred Edward VIII had for the rest of the Windsors due to the treatment of Wallis.Some of the outstanding aspects of this first season are the handling of marriage with divorced persons - both with Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson and with Princess Margaret's love for the divorced Peter Townsend. A well handled angle is the difficult position the Queen finds herself in. Even marital conflict is shown with Prince Philip portrayed rather negatively. Do feel more sympathy for the Queen after watching this series.The flaw in this series is the jarring miscasting of some of the characters. Jared Harris looks too different from George VI and the actress who plays the Queen Mother is also terribly miscast - she should have been a plumper more round looking actress. They don't capture their essences. Vanessa Kirby is a bit indelicate for Margaret - maybe a bit large. Claire Foy does a good imitation of the Queen's accent but she has a rather hesitant look - more suitable for the household staff than the Queen. She doesn't look regal. But maybe she will change later. Physically her face is rather too different. Surprisingly Matt Smith the weird actor from Dr Who although uglier than Prince Phillip does capture his essence. John Lithgow even though too tall acts so well as Churchill it's quite award worthy. But the errors in casting don't prevent this series being outstanding television.
Although we tend to think that we know and understand this story because we've lived through parts of it and read about the rest in history books from primary school through college... there is, of course, a great deal we don't know. This series does a really lovely job of trying to capture the inner struggles of the new queen, humanizing a remarkable woman who most look to as a symbol more than a person. A young woman with such remarkably genuine passion for both family and state taking on such a great role with a mere fraction of the education that her father had received, for example, is something most would not assume about Elizabeth II. The constraints of her position are laid bare in the series, allowing viewers a better sense of the expectations and strict protocols that caused multiple fractures in her family throughout the years. Highly recommending the series, especially if you have time to watch the entire season at once (uninterrupted).


                
There are lots of positives about this series -- the cast and costume design are really on point throughout the series so far (Bravo Claire Foy especially!). I'd like to take a moment to admonish Netflix for always making their opening credits SO drawn out; you can't put such a slow start on a story that will be mostly about quiet control the way this series is....Getting back to the plot, the flashback scenes are very well done and the "insider" view of Elizabeth II's actions are a bit more honest and candid than expected. It's a nice touch to show that the wardrobe of her younger days is very much the same as her wardrobe today -- indicating, I suppose, that her mindset in life and leadership have not much changed. Her natural tendency to be frugal (especially in the face of less frugal direct relatives) also helps explain her response to Diana in more recent years; it's not a matter of disliking one person, but of respecting and maintaining a legacy. Foy does an excellent job of conveying this.I'm SO curious to know how accurate the portrayal of King Phillip (QE's husband and consort) is. The series paints him as rather a madcap (NO SPOILERS) which is very hard to believe. Did it really take him so long to "fall into step"? Perhaps it would have been nice to flashback to when Elizabeth II was a youthful teen and first writing to Philip. The light in which he's portrayed in Season 1 is particularly unflattering. (NO SPOILERS.)Another striking message in the series is the constant reminder that smoking leads to cancer. While several of the characters are found to be smoking as though it were an elegant habit -- or perhaps chomping on a cigar like an old school bulldog as the classic Churchill was known to do -- Elizabeth II reminds those closest to her how cigarettes affected her life. Every new reign begins with a funeral... the loss of a beloved monarch... and this one to cancer. (Well done, Ben Caron & company.)It's sweet to show that Elizabeth II sees her father as a figure to follow (as opposed to some of the more blustering monarchs England has suffered historically) yet is aware of her own shortcomings -- a self-consciousness I believe she also inherited from her father -- and maintains a modest but constant effort to improve herself. It's important to know that the decision for her heirs to attend university (and not just shine in the public light and rely solely on the knowledge of private tutors) is very forward for more than one reason. Well done, everyone. If possible, try to shorten the credits....


                
I have just finished this series and I am so impressed that I really have no words. To be perfectly honest, I was not exactly looking forward to watching it, thinking it would be one more BBC-type period drama. The main character was not the most attractive person for a series, I thought. Wrong! You really just need five minutes to fall in love with all the performers. The cinematography is something I had never seen before: the use of CG is perfect and takes the spectators to places we had never seen before from those perspectives, including Buckingham Palace and many other places we think we know but here present new readings. My favourite episodes are 1x07 and 1x09. All the scenes between the queen and her sister are just jaw-dropping.


                
