Your Name has nice animation.It is also a very soulless rehash of the much more entertaining story found in the film Donnie Darko. A catastrophe occurs and time travel/science magic makes a story possible. Only in Your Name, the story will be filled with painfully predictable and empty characters who end up succumbing to only-very-slightly-refined (if that) anime tropes. I don't remember the character's names so I'll just say boy and girl. They switch bodies for some reason. The girl becomes the boy and vice versa. However, it becomes a series of gags. Enjoy.In Donnie Darko, a plane engine crashes to earth and the main character, Donnie, is killed. However, the story of Donnie Darko actually takes us on a mind-bending journey that shows how this comes about. Your Name does not even attempt this. Tokyo is a dirty city. Your Name does not show the dirty side of Tokyo. Viewers will be given glistening and idyllic views of train stations that torment the life out of millions of people everyday. This is no Blade Runner; you will not see a speck of filth. Completely confused as to why this animated film is given any respect. Sure, Ghibli films are filled with the same idyllic scenery, but there is (almost) always something more to appreciate *cough* storytelling *cough* .2/10 out of respect for the poor souls who had to render such sparkling scenes in spite of knowing they were bull****.
I really watch the film with high expectation,but rather than the gorgeous animation I can't find anything else to talk about,the music was impressive but that's not something to put higher. The story and the characters were so mixed up and felt out of place,in the beginning, i enjoy a bit but as soon it progressed,everything was out of logic and I was like what I'm supposed to enjoy in this,I agree there was some force emotional moment but that doesn't make my outlook for the story any different,in short, it begin with comedic way turn into an illogical roller coastal and ended in the same manner. The characters weren't even developed. Doesn't matter how good is the animation,it can never have the upper hand over something vital like the main story.


                
Story <U+2605>1  There are many imitations of multiple hit movies. 1. The Girl Who Leapt Through Time / Time Leap 2. Transfer students(Tenkousei)/ Men's and women's hearts exchange 3. Il mare / Exchanging male and female letters beyond space-time and rescuing loved one 4.kiminonawa /The title of the hit movie in Japan is the same. The difference is only that there is a period at the end. kiminonawa[.] I did not know why they became love each other. I know only that they will not be excited as movies unless they become love each other All the townspeople can not survive by simply evacuating to a school on the other side of a small lake. Shock and big tidal wave will comes. It is strange that telephone data is lost. There is no reason why the Mitsuha's friends and father convinced and blasted and condemned.<U+FF65>Currently Japan do not make "saliva rice liquor(kuchikamizake) ". It was found in ancient documents"Man-youshu" 1,300 years ago and was made during the shrine. Incidentally,there is no historical fact that was being shown in public, it seems to be a fabrication for animation. As an exception,in Okinawa Prefecture it was done on small remote islands until 80 years ago. Okinawa Prefecture is the Ryukyu Kingdom that was annexed to Japan 150 years ago.Art <U+2605>6  A lot of staff of Ghibli and Japanese major studio participated and it is good as it is.  The light is much and the eyes get tired.  I do not like background pictures that processed photos by photoshop etc.Sound <U+2605>1 텶 think that Zenzenzense is not cool.Character <U+2605>5 텶t is not bad because Japan's popular animator designs. 톂he personality of the character is weak.Enjoyment <U+2605>3 텽nly the scenery where the comet flows is good.Overall <U+2605>2 텶 think that i will not be seen again.
The storyline is so stupid...
Storyline 1/10
Animation is the only good thing 9/10
Music 5/10
If you are 12-14 years old girl,then its what you are looking for...


                
