1988 and the undisputed number one action star was that Austrian body builder with the funny name with that monosylabic guy from ROCKY in second place . The thing I hated about Arnie and Sly is that their action movies were uninvolving with over blown battle scenes where the good guys never seemed to be in danger of dying . I was also going to bring the James Bond franchise into the conversation but the series became a parody when Bond stopped speaking with a Scottish accent sometime in the early 70s
DIE HARD is different to the other 80s action fests with John McLane being a fairly believable genre character . Okay he`s two dimensional but that`s got to be one dimension more than John Rambo who only exists to kill a lot of nasty commies so Americans can flock to the cinema . It`s also interesting to note that McLane`s wife is used in the plot which is slightly different from how most action films work out where the hero is normally single , but that`s probably because DIE HARD as more depth to it than many contemparies. Perhaps the biggest difference is that McLane is slightly flawed as we`re shown one scene where the hero gives the bad guys something they want , not something you`d see in a Arnie or Sly movie . I won`t mention the stunts or the tightly written set pieces or how compelling they are because everyone else has beat me to it , except to say that big explosions and gun fights often overwhelm an action movie ( Bond movies are a good example ) but here they occur from the narrative instead of someone cramming them into the script in a vain attempt to thrill the audience . Normally I`d have a fit that an action blockbuster is well inside the IMDB top 250 but DIE HARD does deserve to be there since it`s the best movie of its type of its era .


                
Spoilers herein.Here's a conundrum: the vacation action thrillers that star unkillable heros themselves die a quick death. Even a short time later they are limp. Seen "Speed" lately? Each is a matter of repetition with the heat turned up a very little, so the next guy always makes it obsolete.But not this one. I've stopped by every few years, and it never seems dated. (Well, maybe the pseudo-terrorist plot.) But its just in a whole different category than any Arnie movie. They fade fast. I think it is a matter of originality, pacing and the stance that Willis invented. The pacing really is a black art, and to judge from McTeirnan's subsequent missteps, was an accident. But I have to give Bruce Willis a lot of credit. We live in an era when we expect nothing to be done straight. Some ironic coloring is expected, some compact between the film and the audience that gives us traction on which to build fun. Sly, Arnie, Chuck and those others take it all so seriously. Bruce, and later Mel (with less intelligence) would first establish their character with the audience as their man, their representative in the action.Then, once in a while, he'd all but look at the camera and say "ain't this a gas, watch this!"I don't pretend that Bruce is a fine actor, but he certainly reinvented film. And in his own way as much as Brando. This is his "streetcar."It is important in the history of film, and in how we as a society deal with abstraction. And it is still fun, with the "cancel Christmas" guy.Ted's evaluation: 3 of 4 -- worth watching
Yup. That's the title I'm giving this short review. Nothing else comes to mind that would do it more justice. The time is 1988, a young Bruce Willis stars as Officer John McClane in an excellently built, explosive late 80's action classic that actually runs at about 2hrs10min but is a blast to watch. It's not perfect. It's got its flaws. But to hell with those, this is just too much fun to not be watched, and even if you're the intellectual kind, if you like cinema, check this out as it is a lesson on how to make a campy, action-filled thriller the right way. It's a bit long, and yeah the relationship with the black cop is a bit rushed during the ending scene... but the cunning intelligent villain is here, vs the anti-hero, guns, big explosions, the cops, the mischievous lines Willis delivers...this is fun man. It's no masterpiece but it's just fun. Just pick it up and, have fun. It's all this is, although it takes real knowledge to do it well and smooth.


                
This remains one of the modern-day "classic" movies that was so popular that is spun several sequels. It was just great entertainment value.The story was ludicrous: one man beating a group of terrorists with outrageous, almost-impossible feats - another "Rambo" mentality flick - but it worked. The action scenes are memorable; Bruce Willis is good as the macho hero and David Warner is excellent as the villain.Otherwise, the film is way too profane and too biased, as usual, against law enforcement showing the acting police chief and FBI agents to be arrogant, stupid and crude....just what Liberal Hollywood always does to anyone in authority. But John McTiernan gets away with his profanity-laden bias by directing a film that grabs you early on and never lets you go.....very involving.


                
This film began a remarkable action movie franchise that runs around the detective John McClane of the New York Police Department. In this film, he will try to save the life of a group of hostages held captive in a corporate skyscraper of Los Angeles. Directed by John McTiernan, the film has a script of Jeb Stuart and Steven E. de Souza. Bruce Willis embodies the leading role. The film was nominated for four Oscars (Best Sound, Best Editing, Best Sound Effects, Best Visual Effects).At first glance, this film does not look like anything special. Another eighties action movie, full of explosions, police cars made in pieces and bloodthirsty killers facing a single man, full of noble intentions. However, this film has something different: in a decade full of bullet proof heroes, this hero does not act (or looks) as something indestructible. He hurts himself, complains all the time and looks like a guy facing a situation beyond his control. So, its not difficult for the public to chear McClane, making Willis great performance the big advantage of the film.Everything else followed, more or less, the pattern of the decade for action: stunning sets, special, visual and sound effects made with great care and regular performances from the rest of the cast (the interpretation of Alan Rickman, then still little known by non- British public, deserves a positive note of attention). This is an action film that captivates some audiences more adverse to this kind of movies, which proved to be the key to its success.


                
I saw Die Hard at the cinema in 1988 and countless times on VHS. At the video store in 1988 or early 1989 when Die Hard was a new release the VHS cover read: 'The best action movie you will see' or 'The best action movie you will ever see'; can't remember. But either way Die Hard quite possibly lives up to the claim. Why? Part of Die Hard's genius is the setting; the Nakatomi building. It's almost a metaphor for being under appreciated. John McClane's alone; trapped inside a high rise towering above the unaware, unsympathetic world below. Eddie Murphy's character (Reggie Hammond) in 'Another 48 Hours' says 'I've been having a very bad day'. That's John McClane; he's having a very bad day; adversity's coming at McClane from all angles including the Nakatomi building itself. And the cat and mouse, cyclical nature of the action; it goes round and round like the winding stairwells. Clever. Die Hard's exhilarating e.g. the helicopters. Is it perfect? No. Criticisms: it celebrates violence i.e. at the end when pacifist Powell draws his gun on the Fabio lookalike as if shooting someone is a glorious thing. And as if McClane's body wouldn't be cut by the glass as he crashes through the window and dragged by the fire hose at the end. But I'm nit picking.


                
New York cop John McCLane flies to Los Angeles on Christmas eve to spend the holidays with his family. He arrives at the Nakatomi corp. building for his wife's office party. International terrorists take over the building and hold every one as hostage to steel $600 million of bonds from the vaults of the building. Now its up to McCLane to face the terrorists and save his wife and the other hostages.I wouldn't know why this film is rated so high on IMDb, but this site is known for having bizarre ratings. Well, I would call this your average action film. It has one liners, a lot of violence, guns, profanity, explosions, villains, and many people.I would love to say this is a very entertaining action flick, although it's running time is longer than it needs to be (I mean, two hours for an action film?). I love some memorable dialog, made by Bruce Willis' character, and the humor of it. It just doesn't take itself too seriously. Just relax.I like, or love, Bruce Willis' acting. John McClane is a fun character to play, I imagine. Other acting, like Alan Rickman, were pretty good too. I also love the mindless action here and there. They never seem to end, do they?This is your usual action flick with humor and doesn't take itself too seriously. If you would like to watch this film with your brain turned off to have a good time, this is the film.


                
RELEASED IN 1988 and directed by John McTiernan, "Die Hard" is the first of (currently) five installments in the Die Hard series. In this one New York cop John McClane (Bruce Willis) flies to Los Angeles to spend Christmas with his wife & kids. When McClane visits Holly (Bonnie Bedelia) at her company's Christmas party a group of radical criminals take control of the skyscraper. Alan Rickman plays the nefarious mastermind of the operation while Reginald VelJohnson plays a cop on the ground that befriends McClane via walkie talkie. Meanwhile Paul Gleason is on hand as an exasperating police chief.This franchise fills the bill if you're in the mood for big, dumb, fun action thrills. Don't get me wrong because a lot of work goes into making these kinds of films and it takes talent & genius to pull them off. I mean "dumb" in the sense that the focus is on unbelievable action rather than deeper themes beyond "genuinely good people may be flawed, cocky and somewhat profane, but they're courageous and never give up in the face of evil."The Die Hard flicks are the natural progeny of over-the-top films like 1977's "The Gauntlet" where the action scenes are so overdone they're cartoony, but entertaining. There's a thin line that filmmakers must tread with these kinds of blockbusters because they can easily fall into overKILL, like 2001's "The Mummy Returns." Thankfully, "Die Hard" evades that ditch because it's not too over-the-top and it offers entertaining protagonists & antagonists, amusing one-liners, worthy bits of character development and a compelling comic booky story.While all five Die Hard movies are of the same action expertise, I prefer the sequels because this one takes place almost entirely in and around a skyscraper. I favor the wider location scope of the others.THE MOVIE RUNS 2 hours, 12 minutes and was shot entirely in Los Angeles.GRADE: B/B+


                
Die Hard still ranks among the best action movies ever made. Bruce Willis plays his part to perfection. The story unfolds in a simple and understated way. The suspense builds very well to a crescendo. There have been many films after this that tried to emulate the style, but this is the movie to go to for action thrills. Highly recommended.


                
I watched this movie for the first time today and it was time well spent. The action scenes like the shoot-outs and explosions were great and thrilling. The plot was intriguing and there was never one moment when it got boring. I know compared to the action movies of today this probably ain't anything spectacular, but for its time its a good action movie and i'm sure the action movies of today use this movie as inspiration. However, i still prefer the 80s classic First Blood over this, but that's just my preference lol.


                
At the end of the Eighties the action movie genre, which had flourished throughout the decade, began to stagnate. Cinema goers had seen enough explosions and gunfights cloned from the same formula made popular by Arnie and Sly. Both of these men were moving in the direction of comedy and action movies needed something new.. something fresh. In stepped John McTiernan and Bruce Willis with DIE HARD. Willis, most famous at the time for the comic T.V. Series 'Moonlighting', made a perfect ordinary-man-in-an-extraordinary-situation action hero. He was believable as John McClane and not immune to being hurt. He bleed and felt pain, a first for the genre. And yet his cool confident delivery of a great wisecracking, intelligent script made him all the cooler. But most credit should go to Director John McTiernan, king of the sophisticated action flick. He made action movies slick, smart and full of pace and wit while never letting up on the bullets, cars and bombs front. Special praise must go out to Alan Rickman too whose performance as chief baddie Hans is to this day one of cinemas finest, moving convincingly from cool, calm and collected to desperate and nervous, never once seeming anything less than utterly ruthless and calculating. Die Hard is a great movie for a number of reasons but adding three dimensions to the action genre is this films finest achievement and anyone who has not sampled its delights before now would be wise to get a copy as soon as possible. But don't see it on T.V. oh no, because it is never without significant and completely unnecessary extra editing for violence and language. Enjoy it on video or DVD if you can, see it in all its original splendor, it is arguably the greatest action film ever made. And then go see the sequels.. they rock too!


                
Die Hard (1988) was an good and entertaining film that made a star out of Bruce Willis and gave Alan Rickman's career a shot in the arm as a screen villain. Despite many flaws and any lack of credibility, it's still a fun and watchable movie. The real star of this film is Alan Rickman. He makes a creepy and entertaining villain who acts circles around the cast. A visiting New York cop (Bruce Willis) is inside a high rise building trying to see his ex-wife (Bonnie Bedelia Mc Culken). His timing is bad because he walks right into an armed heist. The leader of the thugs (Alan Rickman) claims to be an international terrorist who wont stop at nothing to free his brother in arms. What is a cop on holiday going to do? Can he rescue the innocent people and save his wife? How will this affect his Christmas plans? Is the leader of this armed gang really what he claims to be? you'll have to find out when you watch DIE HARD.Like I said, it's not the classic people make it out to be. It's an entertaining popcorn movie. The film makers rushed out and made a sequel that makes this one look realistic.Recommended.


                
D+ How this movie snaked its way up to the IMDb Top 250 is beyond me, especially when the likes of "Gojira" (Inshiro Honda, 1954) and "Jurassic Park" (Steven Spielberg, 1993) are not even on the list. I mean come on! Perhaps it's because it was the first of its kind; a gun-ho action movie where a singular protagonists lays the smack down on many a bad guy. I don't really have much to say about the film itself, other than nice explosions and nice guns. Whether or not it continued the tradition of the standard action flick, which is debatable, that's all I can really say about this movie: standard.Standard characters, standard storyline, and standard comic-relief. The action is fine and dandy but I guess I'm a film lover who expects more out of a movie. What's to stop me from comparing this movie to the likes of 'Commando"? Not much really, what's the difference in all honesty.


                
I'm an indie movie kind of girl. You have to catch me in a good mood to be willing to watch something that's called "Die Hard". I'm glad my boyfriend did, because this was so fun. I dunno if I liked it because it was good or if it was because my man and I had so much fun watching it together. #Dolph #Carl #Perm


                
This is my five hundred and ninety-fifth review since I registered IMDb account about three years ago, but jubilee thousandth rated title. I planned it to be something real awesome, but then last night I found out that my girlfriend never saw "Die Hard" and that tragedy had to be corrected right away.When it was released I was 9 years old and for years it was favorite movie to all boys in school. From today's perspective, although I fully understand why it was number one, I definitely have to overthrow it from the throne. I could write forever about this flick, but to cut long story short, in my opinion, what is really worth in this movie are incredibly charismatic Bruce Willis and Reginald VelJohnson and the last half an hour. Everything else is average, monotonous and even boring. During the movie, my personal impression was around 6/10, but because of emotional attachment, cult status and influence, and especially because of its ending, which leaves really strong impression, I have to rate it higher. Also, I can't ignore four well deserved Oscar nominations, so my thousandth rating on this site will be7,5/10


                
A well-made action film with an excellent technical side, the somewhat convoluted plot takes a backseat to the action and thrills, yet the film still delivers its excitement well. The characters are quite run-of-the-mill, including a very typical hero, but at least Alan Rickman manages to bring a bit more to his character: something sly and mysterious. Paul Gleason's character is an annoyance and a waste, but he is fortunately not giving too much screen time. There is too much time though spent on useless supporting characters in general, and the messages about marriage and relationships are too obvious to be effective. Still, if not quite a masterpiece, this is energetic stuff, very good of its type, plus there are some moments of comic relief well worked in.


                
Die Hard (1988): Dir: John McTiernan / Cast: Bruce Willis, Alan Rickman, Reginald VelJohnson, Bonnie Bedelia, Alexander Godunov: When a cop arrives home via plane for Christmas, he doesn't expect to battle terrorism inside a big office building. Bruce Willis plays New York cop John McClane whose fearless nature is tested when an office party that his ex-wife is attending is invaded by several men with guns. Naturally it is up to McClane to solve the situation by picking off the assailants one by one. Entertaining and tense although it sways during a last moment shooting in the conclusion that comes off as corny. Director John McTiernan scored success with Predator the previous year and here he makes great use of an office building. Willis brings guts and sarcasm as McClane narrowly avoids death and seems at odds in dealing with police. Alan Rickman makes for a terrific villain whose plans are botched when McClane makes off with his detonators. Rickman brings a sly sarcasm to the role that is particularly slick during his first encounter with McClane. Reginald VelJohnson plays the one cop willing to listen to McClane but the role is more or less a prop. Bonnie Bedelia as McClane's ex is pure cardboard. Alexander Godunov plays Rickman's top henchman whose role is to be a punching bag. Explosive action that isn't very demanding but it is to die hard for action fans. Score: 7 / 10
The setup: John McClane, officer of the NYPD, tries to save wife Holly Gennaro and several others, taken hostage by German terrorist Hans Gruber during a Christmas party at the Nakatomi Plaza in Los Angeles.The verdict: The film has good structure. The characters are all cardboard, with the exception of John McClane (Bruce Willis of "Moonlighting" fame). Bruce Willis plays McClane to a hilt. John McClane is a man who puts his job as a policeman above all else. There are a lot of good action scenes, and fisticuffs. All in all, I give this 1988 movie a rating of seven out of ten for its action and humor sequences.


                
In the mid-1980s, a transformation of the action movie began. The gritty action dramas of the 70s, of which Gene Hackman vehicles like The French Connection, or at the B-level Charles Bronson's Deathwish were emblematic, gave rise to more cartoonishly violent but breezier fare, enlivened by one-liners and more oblivious to realistic plotting. Schwarzenegger, Stallone, and yes, Bruce Willis led these films. It was the era of the Reagan quip, and while that era has long ended, lesser such films continue to be made.Without a doubt, Die Hard is one of the best of these. Off-duty police officer in skyscraper saves hostages from a suave but brutal master thief. What sets it off from many films in the genre is a loving level of detail. Like a criminal about to steal millions hesitating to steal a pack of M&Ms from a concession stand; or explaining why the hero will run around the whole movie in his undershirt in a logical manner; or having the hero actually hurt badly from walking barefoot on glass; and building up relationships in some detail.It also shares some of the weaker points of the genre, from ludicrously incompetent higher-ups in the police or news business, to the monster villain who is resurrected just when everybody thinks it's over, to bad German accent/grammar coaching of the star villain, played by Alan Rickman. This is particularly disconcerting because his henchmen are all Austrian or German actors who hold flawless conversation.Rickman is a superb villain though, affable and yet coldly brutal, who toys with the good guys by pretending to be anything from a terrorist (he's just a thief) to his own victim. The bad guys can be suave, smart and wear tailored suits.The action is plentiful and well-paced, the one-liners including the famous yippee-kayeh are funny, the actors are doing a great job, and the score is clever, for example in the way it segues from the frolicky Bach music at a Christmas office party to an ominous version of Freude, schöner Götterfunken when the villains appear. It holds up well with time.
It's hard today to think of action movies and not remember 'Die Hard'. The movie changed the genre of cop action forever, and for most still remains unsurpassed within it.Tough NY cop John McClane goes to Los Angeles to visit his wife during Christmas in a try to reconcile with her. However, the building they are in is taken by terrorists, led by Hans Gruber, and it's up to McClane to stop them.It's hard not to enjoy this film. It doesn't lose much time, has great action scenes and the setting of it all happening in a building allows for very interesting confrontations and tactics from both sides. Add that to Bruce Willis' tough, charismatic and smart-mouthed performance and Alan Rickman's great debut role, and you have an enjoyable 2 hour action movie to go for.Yet, not all was good in here. It's hard to fault the main characters, true, but the opposite goes for the supporting ones. They are mostly too obnoxious, irritating or flat-out uninteresting, with the added insult of every other law-enforcing figure being made to look like an utter idiot in order to up McClane in our eyes (from the LAPD to the FBI, ESPECIALLY the FBI). The 'buddy cop' relationship was better than in most movies of its kind, thankfully, as the actor playing Al Powell was good too.Finally, comes the plot itself. This is why I call this a 'dumb action'. How many people can you find that like Die Hard just for it's plot? Few. And how many can you find that don't even remember it? Probably many. The 'twists' in the motivation of Hans Gruber are just idiotic (especially his real plan, which is so full of holes I fell from my chair laughing when it was revealed) and the plot overall is either overly simplistic in some points or just illogically stupid in order to make their characters (ESPECIALLY the FBI) 'work'. Such a lack of good plot also troubles multiple viewings of this film, as there is only so much straight action can do without a plot to back it up.Overall, it's a very fun movie to watch, and it's action sequences continue to resist the test of time. Just don't expect a deep and intelligent movie, and you will have a very enjoyable 2 hours.


                
Having seen bits and pieces of this on TV, i decided to rent out all the Die Hard films and watch them over a couple of evenings. Can't say I was blown away, but entertained- yes i was.Bruce indeed was born to play roles like this, and the humour in between is amusing. Classical bad guy, hostage situations- yes so OK this is no complex picture, but hey, when you don't want to think and want entertainment, that is OK too.I'll check out the other Die Hard films and see how they pair up to this original, which people say is the best.7/10


                
Die Hard. (1988) The first of the trilogy. We start off with a Christmas party in L.A. at the Nakatomi plaza. John McClane invited and shows up to his estranged wife and old pal, then cue the terrorist.McClane is the only one to evade their sight and escape to a higher floor that is under-construction. The bad guys are well armed, well skilled and are led by Hans Gruber, a well dressed and intelligent leader.McClane has to try and fight off some bad guys who eventually notice a disturbance in the building. McClane also has radio contact with one police officer to keep his spirits up. In a situation like this, anyone would need the boost in morale and keep you from going nuts or giving up. Then we meet the only character that is useless. Dwayne T. Robinson played by the late Paul Gleason, that does not even care that McClane is helping out in there and comes off as an idiot and a jerk. The decisions that Dwayne makes are stupid and reckless without thought of the consequences. His stupidity ruins a lot here.Despite that, Die Hard does deliver the goods and has some impressive stunts and special effects that don't get old, from an explosion that rips though the building resulting from a plastic explosive, to jumping through a plate glass window while hanging on to a fire hose! The Last Word: This is a good movie. The shortcomings of Paul Gleason's character are bad. To make a movie a high octane, well oiled thrill ride, we need not any characters that are that stupid. No offense to Gleason, he has a few good lines and was a great actor, his character was useless here. That aside though, Die Hard is fun and the directing is solid, with a excellent performance by Alan Rickman.
This movie is the coolest! There is lots of action lots of drama some comedy and some stealth action it was a big hit in 1988. I think Bruce Willis plays a great John McLain! Those terrorists better watch out with the man with the plan. Bruce Willis is an amazing actor. I like when he rolls on the floor to dodge bullets and he uses stealth if needed. I thought the stunts were done wonderfully. The music in the movie kept me pumped! The storyline has been done many times in movies but they were able to present it in a new and exciting way. I've seen many many villains in my movie going experiences but never more enjoyable than in this movie. Overall, I would recommend it to anyone wanting an exciting movie going experience!


                
I guess this film was pulled from a few schedules after 9/11. It's not entirely clear why John McClane should have met his wife at the Nakatomi building, but a gang of robbers disguising themselves as terrorists hijack the building. They reckoned without McClane who turns out to be a thorn in their side and single-handedly stops them.The relationship between McClane and Sgt Powell is a nice balance to the action. This is one of the finest action movies made and has spawned a lot of inferior copycat movies since.


                
Some people talk about this film as if it's one of the all time best. It's certainly been very influential, but let's not overlook some of the flaws. Too much time is spent on stupid supporting characters who don't believe what's going on. It detracts from what should be a breathless pace. Keeping all the action in one locale is kind of boring. I liked the sequel better because the action shifted around a lot. Hans is a villain in the Bond tradition, but the fact that he goes through this much trouble just for some money wasn't very convincing to me, nor did it make him despisable enough. STILL, I do like this film, but I just prefer action heroes who are larger than life. Three dimensional action heroes tend to come across as unbelievable to me.


                
