Every so often,a film comes along that resets the standard for it's genre.Die Hard did just that very thing for action films.Any film that inspires copycats and wannabes really does it's job well.Bruce Willis made a very successful transition from the small screen to the big screen as the everyday Joe forced into being the hero.This film has all the necessary ingredients to qualify it as a great action film.All you have to do is see it for yourself.Particularly well done is the performance of Alan Rickman as the chief villain,Hans Gruber.You can come up with good arguments for many action films as to which is the best all time,and this one is no exception.Well done.


                
Die Hard tells the story of a New York City detective named John McClane who is separated from his wife. She invites him to a Christmas party at her office building in Los Angeles, and he decides to go to work things out. Once there, a group of German terrorists come in and take hostages with the intent of stealing millions of dollars in bonds. McClane manages to escape and begins to fight the terrorists one by one to save the people in the building.Die Hard is a classic film because it completely revolutionized action films. The 80s were a time of unrealistic action sequences, predictable characters, and rudimentary plots. Die Hard changed all that. Die Hard takes place in a real world setting, or at least about as real as you can get with an action movie, so the action sequences, while insane, are slightly believable. The plot of the movie is simple, yet it's so brilliant at the same time. And the characters in this movie are engaging and a lot of fun to watch. John McClane is a really likable everyman kind of guy, we can all relate to him. Hans Gruber is an awesome villain, both cold and ruthless, yet very human. The supporting characters on the outside of the building are all great as well. Another great thing about Die Hard is that even though it's a hardcore action movie, it manages to be extremely funny at some parts, almost to a point of being able to call it a comedy. This makes the movie really easy to watch over and over again. There's really nothing wrong with this movie whatsoever in any department.The acting is great. Bruce Willis is hilarious and hardcore as John McClane, and he portrays the adrenaline and the frustration of the situation very well. Alan Rickman is awesome in one of his earlier roles as the main villain Hans Gruber. Reginald VelJohnson is enjoyable as McClane's outside contact Officer Al Powell, and Paul Gleason is funny as a hardheaded and incompetent deputy chief of police.Overall, Die Hard is the ultimate action film because it's fast, funny, and hardcore. It also gave us one of the most famous action movie one liners of all time...You know the one.8/10


                
Easily the best Die Hard movie and a rare victory in this genre for the director and producers. I sat down and cheered Bruce on through this movie which is as rare as Michael Jordan being humble. This is the time of year to whack "Die Hard" in the old DVD, and listen to the sweet "Jingle Bell Rock" tune.


                
Bruce Willis stars as THE most bad-ass cop in film history even as of today: John McClane. The wise-cracking, tough-as-nails cop who's always sarcastically funny and never fears to get his hands dirty. This man is no Rambo though; he does not plan, relying solely on instinct and last-minute thinking, which although nearly got him killed quite a number of times, seemed to have worked well enough.The plot was simple enough yet intriguing. McClane is pitted against 12 terrorists in a building, with no help from anywhere, in a battle of wits and grit against their leader, the diabolical Hans Gruber, excellently portrayed by Alan Rickman.Die Hard is a remarkable success on every level; the jokes were funny, the gunfights were gory and we have two individuals consistently taunting each other to keep the temperatures rising. In my humble opinion, this was the herald of the transition of action movies moving into the 90s.Yippee Ki-yay, mother*beep*.


                
Nearly twenty years and millions of clichés later, the original Die Hard still holds up in all of it's Hollywood glory. One of the last films to come out of that greater era of quality popcorn entertainment (compared to today's standards), this fluidly visceral, though lighthearted study into the hostage tensions overtaking 40-story Nakatomi plaza has become a modern day action classic for all the right reasons.Sure some characters have devolved into caricature upon recent viewings (Hart Bochner's coked up Ellis), sure the entire mechanics informing this intense ordeal feel a little less gripping in retrospect, and sure an excess of one-liners can degrade the entire process on the whole...but not by a whole lot. Die Hard was perfectly calibrated to be as entertaining as it was bloody, adult, and exciting when it arrived. While time may have extracted a percentage of the urgency out of this eternally exciting experience, conceptually the original Die Hard will continue to remain one of the most captivating settings ever staged in a modern action film. The selfless direction from John McTiernan was hitting it's stride as he captured progressively intense battles in a simultaneously spacious and claustrophobic setting.It is the triumphant locale which hosts this intelligent robbery thriller that will continue to beckon re-visitation, though without the considerable tension between our two leads, Nakatomi skyscraper would remain an empty gesture. Bruce Willis could not have asked for a better early career move then to star as New York cop John McClane. Even if it did pigeon-hole his limited talent, Willis already displayed the raw intuition that made him one of our most agreeable action stars. His everyman style was one of instant cult likability: a person most average joe's could relate to, thrust into a situation no one could relate to. His line deliveries will pale to the actor who has slightly but surely refined his craft over many years, but the finesse with which he eases into the action with believability and likability became instantly recognizable.


                
My Rating : 8/10Go watch Die Hard if you haven't already. This is out and out action at its finest.Bruce Willis is perfect and everything just works.Not much to elaborate, its a perfectly done action movie.


                
Die Hard is a Christmas movie directed by John McTiernan that's not traditional at all, but still watched each year during the holidays. Die Hard serves as an alternated holiday movie. Die Hard opens up with off duty New York Police Officer John McClane (Bruce Willis) attend a Christmas Party at Nakatomi Skyscrapper with his wife in downtown LA. Out of nowhere the plot kicks in the door as German terrorist and thieves take the people in the building hostage and start to make demands to the police. The group is led by Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) a brutal man whom able to have casual persona and an an intimidating one in a few seconds. Hans also had a casual attitude to killing even willing to kill his own men. Alan Rickman is able to show that Han has a curt attitude to people whom he did not know and jokey nature with those he knew. Alan Rickman is able to make him out to be somewhat of a suit. He flaunted his knowledge and boast of his education to anybody, but McClane manage to slip from his grip. The film follows his exploits as he slowly engages the German terrorists one by one barefoot to retake the tower while dealing in depth of personal pain. The broken glass on his barefoot can be seen as his Achilles's heel. McClane lacks heroic virtues and qualities like Achilles. He can be explains to be a Byronic hero or Anti-Hero by having similar traits to those who like being arrogant and cynical. He is also cunning and able to adapt. He has a dis-tasted for social institutions and norms when he was at the party. John McClane works better alone than in a crowd. Die Hard gives their hero, a cutting edge from cookie cut heroes. What Die Hard does well is keeping a small scale budget while exporting a big blockbuster result. Most of the movie takes taking place entirely within a few floors of the Nakatomi Plaza. It was one of the first of the limited-space, small cast action films. This formula of putting characters in limited area spawn great sequels in their own right, but also an entirely new sub-division of the action genre. The movie is condensed in a few scenes and areas that get so well know. It simplified in such a way that lets the characters and the action really develop and shine through. While having a few explosion-filled sequences, the movie allows the audience to care for the characters and not feel like disconnected from the story-arch or the depth of the characters portray. The movie takes light-hearted approach to the genre, incorporating many less-than-serious elements and one-liners keeps the movie fun and enjoyable no matter how many times watched through, but it comes with a cost. Sub-characters in the film seem corny, low-intelligent or bad written. The scenes with the LA police for example drag the movie down and slow it down. The film brings in Reginald Vel Johnson playing a role as a cop which doomed the actor to playing cops for the rest of his life. He continues to be type cast to this day. Reginald Vel Johnson's character has a trouble past where he accidentally shot a kid and now wouldn't be able to shot. While they did give some back-story to Reginald Vel Johnson character, most of his lines were bad and his actions in the movie are nearly useless. All the main characters in this film are fairly complex and well written compared to most of the dumb action hero movies of the 1980s. Still the police chief doesn't serve any purpose except for delaying police intervention which would have wrapped the story up faster. Matters would have been more easily solved had the chief acquired an average intelligence. Since the sub-characters took a backseat, the character of McClane and Gruber makes the movie watchable. The sarcastic nature of McClane's character against the whimsical Gruber makes this hero and villain pairing one of the finest in film history. The movie even makes a famous quote out of its hero's swearing mouth that can be still heard today. The language can be harsh and the violence too much but it's a good movie. The plot might seem rudimentary and unoriginal today, but it still one of the first movie with many of the things action movie need to be a success. It's the blueprint to any action movie today.
I saw Die Hard three times when it came out and have watched it every Christmas since. What makes this action extravaganza a Christmas movie for me (other than the movie taking place on Christmas eve) I have no clue. It has to be the Jingle Bell sound effects, Christmas trees crashing in the lobby, or probably Bing Crosby singing 'Let It Snow' at the end. It has become my personal 'It's A Wonderful Life'. Anyway, enough with Christmas this movie is good, very good. Bruce Willis does one hell of a job as McClane. He has the physical look and street wise demeanor of a New York cop that makes his role deliver the movie just as much as Mel Gibson does for Lethal Weapon. And, one of the unconscious reasons I truly love this movie is that the terrorist aren't your run of the mill shoot'em up bad guys. They come across as smart sophisticated criminals who actually have a very good plan and aren't afraid to look you in the eye and shoot you without blinking. Alan Rickman the leader is a great villain. He comes complete with wit, snide remarks, and the always popular anti-American rhetoric. Another actor who does a great job holding up the movie is Reginald VelJohnson as Sargent Powell. His verbal battles with his boss are something that is encountered at offices across this great land everyday. Even the two FBI guys come complete with egos, good looking suits, and the names to match (great line that is usually missed by the normal viewer). As for action and sound it's an A+. That is a big reason I saw it three times. I knew it was going to be on video but I couldn't resist the explosions and glass sounds over and over. There are also sound bites and comedy that pops up and lets you release the tension. John McTiernan did great work setting up camera angles and shots that add to the excitement. Good examples is the shot in the air shaft (classic line included) and the shot from Powell's car as someone comes crashing down on it. You won't find to many better at delivering high paced action and all the trimmings that make this kind of movie a delight. A Christmas classic for years to come!!


                
It's easy to forget those sparkling days of Hollywood when the likes of Arnie and Sylvester ruled the screen, machete in one hand and machine gun in the other. In this age of vampire slayers and plucky tomb raiders, the action hero has become something of a box office shadow. Let's look back in time, then, back to 1988 when a little film called Die Hard was released. Expectations were low for a film loaded with explosives and expletives. But then the cash began to flow.If anybody is to be credited for Die Hard's success, it's Bruce Willis. In him we find the perfect action hero; fuelled by emotion, captivating and sharp-tongued, rippling with muscle. He is the everyman, and he is all man, bleeding, sweating, cursing. He is the epitome of cool, with his pithy one-liners ("Yippee Kai-Yay motherf*cker!") and his finger on the trigger. Alan Rickman, Willis' polar opposite, brings a cold, calculating superiority to his villain. His lines are whispered with menace, just enough humour injected to escape hammy over-dramatics. Who cares if he set the precedent for growling English villains in Hollywood fare when he does it this well? This is a balls-to-the-walls crowd-pleaser, and every character has their moment. Bloody, outrageously extravagant action sequences are delivered with the same deadpan humour of Willis' performance, playfully underlined by Michael Kaman's seasonal score. Effects are tight, tension palpable, and when there's blood smeared everywhere you can count on Willis to deliver a sly line or two.


                
What makes "Die Hard" so good is that it still holds its own in the 21st century despite changes in the way films are done and special effects are created today. It set up a framework for which other action films could be successful, adding new equations to the action blockbuster formula.The plot is the first demonstration of a "scenario thriller," or a plot that revolves around one single event and/or place. It's' simple: terrorists are attempting to steal from a wealthy businessman so they hold up and rig the building. One 90s film that for sure got its legs from "Die Hard" was "Air Force One." Part of what makes "Die Hard" so good is that it sets up a premise that is easy to follow but also suspenseful. It creates its twists and turns within the main line of the plot, so you can see it all coming if you think about it, but it keeps the intensity up.Next step toward success is John McClane. You have an off-duty cop thrust into the vortex of something that he had no intention of getting involved in. It is the birth of the unsung action hero in a sense, the rebel who has what it takes, but never really knew it until he is forced into a situation. Part of what makes McClane such a good character is that while he is bad ass, he shows signs of humanity, praying that the cops will show up to help him and talking to himself.While not the film's strong suit, the subplot between McClane and his wife makes the plot work better and provides some more footing for the plot itself. Even the relationship formed between McClane and Sgt. Powell as they struggle to get the higher ups to believe them is an important part of the film. It's not exactly well put together, but it helps with the film's main goal of being a great action film, giving it just the extra amount of suspense.Lastly, the action is just good and the relationships between McClane and the terrorists is great and sometimes amusing. When McClane comes face to face with Hans Gruber, the head terrorist, and doesn't know it's him, you have a dynamic unique to action films. There's a lot of great clever action moments and stuff blows up, which is always a plus when it's not the center of what goes on. It's worth watching "Die Hard" just in respect to a film that inspired many of the great action films we watch today.


                
Die Hard is, in my opinion, the best all out action movie I have ever seen. What sets it apart is the great set up (keeping in mind that watching it today it will seem all too familiar because of all the imitators that came after - but Die Hard was the first), the great character of John McClane (Bruce Willis in the role that made him a MOVIE STAR) and the intense action. There is nothing like the wild scrambling of Bruce Willis as he tries to not only survive, but to save the hostages. And of course Alan Rickman is brilliant as the ringleader of the band of thieves.wlg


                
John McClane is one of the greatest action hero's ever, and in his first outing in Die Hard (1988) he is faced with a bunch of terrorists holding the staff at the Nakatomi building hostage, so they can steal the vast sums of money kept in the high security vault.John is caught up in the mess on a visit to see his wife, and is trapped alone in the building to sort out this mess in true hero style, with little help from anyone, except Sgt. Al Powell; a desk jockey who John builds a friendship with over the radio waves.Bruce Willis was an inspired choice as John McClane, his ready quips and lack of respect for authority are realistically portrayed by Willis, and it all adds up to a terrifically entertaining action flick.Action doesn't get much better than this.8/10


                
This gets better every Christmas and I predict no stop to it. It works so well I believe one day film students will be forced to study the effect beyond the cultural just like they now study Hawks and Hitchcock. Some groundwork here for future readings.Willis had charm of a similar sort to Wayne, empty swag and unable to act. The story derives from a western mentality anyway. We have a couple drifting apart and the situation that brings them close again, but this isn't really a main driving force in the story. Neither Willis nor his wife are directed to convey much anxiety about their reuniting, we can logically assume it but it's not a palpable tension in the film. The movie is his macho dream to destroy that corporate life that has taken his wife from him; the Japanese boss who he didn't prevent being shot, the annoying Ellis character who puzzlingly doesn't give him up as the husband, the whole building that he tears apart, Willis unclasping her rollex in the climax and with it corporate, money-driven Hans Gruber tumbles down.More interesting is that all this is wrapped in the usual Christmas fantasy about family, but for the fact that it's not the usual one. The usual one would begin after the movie ends as their kids who had gone to bed that night with an estranged father on the other side of the country wake up to find their parents together again. It's the same cinematic leanness that makes Christmas a faint background instead of bending every edge to it like most Christmas films do, probably inspired by the low-key approach of Lethal Weapon. This brings me to another point. It really has little action compared to what we have now in superhero stuff. Preparations take up much more screen time than gunplay. Of course at the time it didn't seem so, which is why now the effect is beginning to surface with some clarity. We don't need to have whole fabrics of world torn up for it to be intense, it derives from the situation and is punctuated by bursts of action in very clearly defined cinematic space. Up and down, in and out. Economic use of space. The rooftop climax is a great example, we don't have endless shooting and a storm of fractured image; McClane gets there fires a machinegun burst in the air, an explosion throws him off the edge, he smashes in through the windows below. Lethal Weapon was liberal, this is conservative. That one inspired by noir, this one by westerns. Briggs and Murtaugh are frayed and flummoxed in earnest by the world, McClane coolly stands above it, alone and charred only on the outside. What kind of guy are you?


                
"Die Hard" (1988) is excellent because it is not complicated...and the music is very good, too.The entire story, with only a few cutaways lasting a total of 5 minutes for the entire movie, takes place in one, easy to understand location.The script is simple, and characters are not given jokes and speeches they can't handle and which slow the movie down. The first two Die Hard movies are different in that way. The second Die Hard movie is filled with script speeches and add-on jokes and wise cracks which don't work, and the first Die Hard movie is not burdened with script writing which tries too hard.The use of the Beethoven "Ode To Joy" theme from the Ninth Symphony is used very interestingly and very well, and is included in an orchestral version during the closing credits.The same end of the movie presentation of classical music was done for Die Hard Two when "Finlandia" is played in its entirety during the final credits.Die Hard (1988) is presented as a relatively simple combat situation between the main villain (Alan Rickman) and the main hero (Bruce Willis), and other characters are not given as much "center stage spotlight" time and importance as they are in Die Hard Two. Die Hard One is better for that reason.Most hit movies which spawn follow up movies are not as good in follow up versions and variations. This is true with Die Hard One, the best of the Die Hard series.Movie making is always a committee event, and the old adage which states "a camel is a horse put together by a committee" applies to movies and explains in part why so very few movies are truly excellent.The making of follow up movies is especially a problem for the "committee style" which dominates most movies.Die Hard (1988) is a good movie because it is simple, easy to follow, and not complicated by attempts to "improve it." --------------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor.Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for movie credits and biography.Email to TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com


                
Bruce Willis plays John McClane, a swaggering New York cop who arrives in LA to patch things up with his wife, Holly (Bonnie Bedelia, who would be sorely missed in the second sequel). Unfortunately, Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) has also come to town. He takes Holly and her work colleagues hostage on the 30th floor in a bid to bide time while his goons break into the vault to steal 600 million dollars in bearer bonds. McClane, meanwhile, is loose amongst the building's lift shafts and air vents, picking off Gruber's men with a pistol and a one-liner.Let's leave aside the Nakatomi Plaza's phallic presence (complete with climactic rooftop explosion) and concentrate on the people in it. John McClane: he's the sort of action hero who can chain smoke filterless European cigarettes before sprinting up four flights of stairs, having a fist fight and then leaping off a 40-storey building with a fire hose wrapped round his waist. Gruber, paradoxically, and yet strangely likewise, is precisely who we would want to be if we were a ruthless global criminal: suave, literate, deadly; an "exceptional thief".Events build up and up until we have a proper cat-and-mouse story. The odds are stacked against McClane: he's outnumbered, out-gunned, and out-shoed. But he's also a resilient fellow - a stubborn working man stuck in his ways - and he doesn't care much for foreign types trespassing on the ranch. For all the incredulity of many of our hero's actions, he is an everyman; forget juggernauts versus jet fighters - this incarnation of McClane huffs and puffs and bleeds. It HURTS jumping off a building, and he's modern enough to show it.Along the way we meet some neatly written side characters, most of whom belong to the bumbling good guys. Deputy Police Chief Dwayne T. Robinson (Paul Gleason) is scoping for promotion; journalist Richard Thornburg (the hilarious William Atherton, effectively reprising his role from Ghost Busters) sniffs a Pulitzer; and FBI agents Johnson and Johnson (Robert Davi and Grand L. Bush) just want to chew gum and get the job done with acceptable hostage losses.McTiernan is a peerless action director when he's on form (see also Predator and Die Hard With a Vengeance), and this is his pinnacle, harking from the days when stunts meant stunts, not green-screen. Thumbs-up to cinematographer Jan de Bont, too, for proving that his best work is done on another director's leash. And Michael Kamen's score - foreboding and triumphant in equal measures - is so good it barely changed a note for three movies.


                
What can you say, Die Hard is responsible partly for most of the action films of the early 1990's and onwards. Yes there was ROBOCOP and TERMINATOR, and they too contributed to creating the ACTION fad! Where ever you look nowadays you can't find a decent action movie, I mean Smoking Aces was alright but Spiderman 3 was a let down.I remember seeing this film as far back as when I was only seven or eight, and it blew my mind. I later bought in on VHS, burnt through it with over watching it till eventually it was released on DVD and I bought it again. Die Hard didn't break any conventions of past action films, but rather re-invents the macho one-liners and the extreme action scenes. In my view, we have the likes of Transporter, Crank and even Man on Fire simply because of DIE HARD!Disagree with me, I don't care! It's my opinion, I seriously recommend Die Hard to any Action fan hands down!


                
Hands down, one of the most influential contemporary action films of it's era, DIE HARD is a white-knuckle thrill ride that almost single-handedly redefined the genre and inspired a whole slew of imitators and sequels – none of which can even close to matching the impact of the original. The film also sent star Bruce Willis into the stratosphere of success, which had both positive and negative ramifications. One of the main reasons that Willis is so effective in this film is because he represents an action hero who is also very much an everyman, a quality that has been diminished since Willis was catapulted to Hollywood's A-list. While I find much of his subsequent performances to be cloying and self-congratulatory, there is no denying that Willis is absolutely perfect here as DIE HARD'S brittle, wisecracking protagonist.Jeb Stuart's screenplay is brilliant in it's fundamental simplicity, and Stuart's dialogue impressively manages to remain witty without crossing the line into unbearable camp. Director John McTiernan wisely does not attempt to elaborate on simple premise of Roderick Thorp's original novel, yet he does manage to effectively pull out every stop and maintain a fever-pitch of intensity throughout the entire proceedings. In addition to delivering the aforementioned career-best performance from Willis, McTiernan also gets solid work from Bonnie Bedelia and Alan Rickman, who proves true the old cliché that a thrill-inducing action yarn is only as good as it's villain. A towering, suspenseful, humorous, and exhilarating picture, DIE HARD is unquestionably a significant benchmark for the action genre.


                
Die Hard is the movie that redefined action movies! Think about it, have you seen any serious action movie (if that makes sense) since that doesn't imitate Die Hard in some way? The mould was truly broken after this one! Bruce Willis was a comedian before this movie and now when you think wise-ass ballbreaker, you think Bruce Willis. This is the movie that made Willis. His performance as John McClane is awesome! McClane is a New York cop who has flown to LA one Christmas to make a last ditch attempt to patch things up with his estranged wife. When the building is taken over by terrorists, it's up to the hopelessly underprepared McClane to save the day! To counter McClane there is the calm collected villain Hans Gruber (masterfully portrayed by Alan Rickman), who refuses to take his eyes off of his objective. Everybody must watch this movie at least once! The first, the BEST!
Although slightly dated perhaps, but only perhaps, this movie will satisfy most people looking for an action film with a solid, edgy, story. Willis has a good track record for picking exactly that combination, hence his success. But that is not the reason for these remarks. I direct your attention to a scene in the movie on an elevator when our hero is confronted with one of the baddest of the bad guys in the movie. It's here that you see that the man can act, that he is more than an appealing action hero, that the casting agents over the years weren't taking the easy way out, that he can contribute more to a project than just his wry smiling persona. The scene I'm referring to could have easily been an overplayed feeling of mental torture, but it was more of a controlled torture, it was barely concealed anguish in its most subtle, but absolutely clear human form. It was an anguished conversation where the anguish could not be revealed, so as to not put the character in the story at risk. But somehow it was there for the audience to see and appreciate, maybe because the viewer knows any normal person would have felt that way under the circumstances. In fact, he spent much of the film terrified WHILE ALSO being determined. Die Hard was exactly that, a prolonged variation from the scene on the elevator and a combination of emotions that when well acted, are compelling, captivating, and when played out with someone like Willis and the well crafted action material that he often does for movies, is absolutely entertaining.


                
Die Hard is a marvellous 80's film, I can't say that for many of that decade... thinking of this one I can't think of another as good. It turned out to be Willis's magnum opus, and a severe case of type-casting developed afterwards for him.I suppose I watch it nearly every time it's on TV (so far always UK ITV), does that make me a die-hard Die Hard viewer? ITV always muck about with it, editing the violence or swearing, or like last night both simply to squeeze the end in before midnight! I'm not one for violence depicted in modern day films, ie since 1954, but I think it's ridiculous nowadays to part edit a film for timings, especially one a shed-load of viewers will have seen over and over again! They think: screw them, their memories will have to compensate for all the missing bits, we have to get to the adverts on time.The film flows effortlessly, and easily makes you swallow all the stereotypes and (mainly Christmas) corn it doles out along the way. The portrayal of the arrogant deputy and FBI men make me cringe a bit, especially post 9/11, but as they're pivotal in holding our interest in the events outside the building must be endured.It's a pity DH2/3 were so poor in comparison, maybe if they'd had another emergency in the Nakatomi Towers it would have worked better! After all, the building itself was the biggest star in the movie!


                
When Die Hard came out Bruce willis was not an action star. That is what made this movie so good. If it were Arnold Shwarzenegger or Sylvester Stallone as the star this would have been just another standard bullet festival. Instead we got Bruce Willis and he rules in this movie. Plus Alan Rickman at his sleaziest best. Some people complain that the plot is impossible but who cares. There's good dialogue, great stunts, great special effects, and in my opinion the plot ain't half bad. How can you not love Bruce Willis's wise cracking cop under pressure. Plus the massive amounts of destruction done to the building are entertaining. My favorite part is when the cops move in with the RV. "The quarterback is toast!" So many good lines. Watch it with The Towering Inferno.


                
In Germany the movie had a huge censorship problem. The names were changed like Hans Gruber is John Gruber here, the terrorists are from east europe and not from Germany or the fact that the RAF was never mentioned. When you take these problems aside and watch the movie, like you always should, in its original language you will enjoy this great Action/Christmas Movie. It really started the big career of Bruce Willis, although it's been very silent about him in the last years. We see a fantastic Alsn Rickman and an Action Movie par excellence, with a hero whos more an average guy than a Stallone/ Schwarzenegger Hulk hybrid.Die Hard and have a merry Christmas 20188/10


                
Die Hard was a massive success back when it released and its easy to see why: It's an incredibly well paced action film with a wisecracking lead we relate to and an awesome bad guy. Directed by John Mctiernan Die Hard is a template for great action movies- It has relentless action, great one liners and suitable pyrotechnics instead of mindless CGI. John Mclane and Hans Gruber have endeared themselves in pop culture. What is incredible about Die Hard is that it has lost none of its edge and still retains every bit of its charm to this day. No matter how many movies Willis makes he shall forever be best known for running around barefoot atop the Nakatomi building.


                
The film that made Bruce Willis into an international A list star. Die hard is one of the best action movies ever made and John Mctiernen who is often forgotten is fantastic in his direction. This was during his sweet phase when he also made another popular action film- Predator. Alan Rickman is amazing as Hans Gruber- you rarely see such evil villains anymore. Die Hard is often called a Christmas movie because it is set during that time, but you should see it right away.


                
