"Die Hard" is the prototype type for the modern action film.  Since it's also one of the best action films ever made, that happens to be a very good thing.  "Die Hard" is lean, mean, and doesn't contain a single second of wasted screen time. The direction, the action, the story, the acting . . . every aspect of this film comes close to big-budget action movie perfection. Since "Die Hard" was first released in 1988, it's difficult to think of a blockbuster action film that doesn't follow the basic structure and format of "Die Hard" . . . or, for that matter, is better than "Die Hard".
"Die Hard" is about John McClane (Bruce Willis, in one of his all-time best film performances), a basically good, honest New York cop with a penchant for annoying authority figures.   Traveling to Los Angeles in a last ditch attempt to patch things up with his estranged wife Holly (Bonnie Bedelia), John McClane suddenly finds himself involved in a hostage situation. Terrorists, led by the enigmatic Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman), have taken over the office building in which Holly is working, and with Gruber holding the upper hand over the LAPD and FBI forces in Los Angeles, it's up to John McClane to save the day . . . .Kudos should be given to both director John McTiernan and screenwriters Jeb Stuart and Steven DeSouza -- the film is tight, electrifying, and clever, which is something few action films can ever claim.  The story isn't completely believable, but it's believable enough, and it manages to move along at a quick enough pace to where the most glaring plotholes can easily be glossed over.  There's also enough twists and wrinkles thrown into the story to keep the audience guessing as to what's going to happen next . . . and the surprises don't come out of left field, but are actually clever and well thought-out.  (The fact that McClane often relies on his brains instead of his bullets to get out of his predicaments is also a big plus.) Simply put, "Die Hard" is one of the smartest and savviest action screenplays ever written.  McTiernan holds up his end of the film admirably as well -- he uses the claustrophobic nature of the office building to great effect (particularly in any scene involving an elevator shaft), and he keeps the film rolling at a rollercoaster pace, building up the anticipation of the audience before unleashing the action.  A lot of recent action films just fly along at a mindless, breakneck pace, without ever allowing the story to breathe or the suspense to build . . . unlike those films, "Die Hard" knows how to maximize the impact of each and every scene, and that's why it stands out so clearly from them all.  With "Die Hard", John McTiernan puts on a perfect clinic as to how to pace an action movie.As for the acting, it's darn near close to perfect.  Bruce Willis is awesome as John McClane.  As played by Willis, McClane's a smartass with a distinct disdain for being given orders . . . but McClane's also clever, and knows how to keep cool under pressure.  There's more to McClane than the stereotypical tough guy hero.  Fortunately, the role was given to Bruce Willis, who infuses McClane with the perfect mix of cocky arrogance and stone-cold heroism.  The fact that Willis plays McClane as a man often in disbelief of his own situation, and who struggles in his fight against bad guys instead of just killing bad guys with ease, like most stereotypical action heroes -- well, not only does it make the character much more believable, it's darn brilliant.  (The fact that Willis also knows how to deliver a deadpan one-liner better than anybody else in Hollywood makes the character all the better.)  There's only a handful of movies where both character and actor are a completely perfect match; Bruce Willis as John McClane is one such perfect match.Also worthy of mention is Alan Rickman's performance as the villain Hans Gruber.  The Machiavellian Gruber would've been an easy villain to turn into little more than a scenery-chewing Bond villain . . . fortunately, Rickman doesn't travel the easy route.  Gruber, as played by Rickman, is cold and calculating, and actually acts smart, instead of merely claiming to be smart and then being thoroughly outwitted by the hero.  He always appears to have an ace hidden up his sleeve, and is so convincing at giving this impression, it's hard to tell throughout the film whether he or McClane truly have the upper hand.  Other actors probably could've played Gruber fairly well, but Rickman makes Gruber one of the all-time great villains.  As for the rest of the cast, they're all pretty good.  Bonnie Bedelia does a nice job as John's soon-to-be-ex-wife Holly -- she plays her with enough smarts and feistiness to break the usual "damsel in distress" mold.  It's also worth mentioning that Paul Gleason, who plays the obstinate police chief Robinson, pretty much sets up the modern action movie stereotype of the authority figure who refuses to heed the advice of the maverick hero.  The character is stupid to a fault, and he's wonderful because of it."Die Hard" is a terrific example of what happens when all the pieces of a film fall together perfectly.  There simply are no weak spots or dull moments in the film.  Is "Die Hard" one of the best overall movies ever made?  Probably not.  But it's undeniably one of the best action movies ever made, and it just might well be the perfect modern action film.  Grade: A


                
I think this is a great movie. I love the campy one liners and the over the top action, but it was a great movie. It was well paced and they are no real complaints about the movie. Rickman was amazing and it is one of the best bad guys performances and the one scene when we snaps at John's wife is priceless. It is kind of fun to see how a lot of action movies pull from a lot of stuff from this movie (even though I sure this movie got a lot of it's substance from other movies). One of the highlights of the movie is the music and when the bad guys actually manage to open the vault one really feels a swelling of emotion as the music grows. The one problem I have is that the LAPD is not that dumb and the FBI agents are not that dumb and the fact that Al knew better than both of them was kind of silly, but I did like the dynamic of the two FBI agents and the way they fit into the movie as a bunch of idiots, but it was almost a little too much. The humor they tried to inject with the black guy who was cracking the vault was a little dry, but not to the point where I hated him. The limo driver's smile got annoying too, but I liked his character for the most part. Bruce Willis did a perfect job with the character and played him perfect. I like action films like this where there is unnecessary swearing and violence, but it works and I hate how Hollywood is making a lot of action films with a pg-13 rating when i think it would be so much more enjoyable with just letting them swear and be really violent. I know one does not need the violence, but I think it does so much more for the movie experience by letting the characters express themselves with their violence. The last gripe I have is that the ending with Karl jumping up out of nowhere was totally unnecessary and it really annoyed me. The cop did not need a complete arc and John's and his hug was all the ending needed. This will probably always be one of the my favorite action films.
When people think action - they remember Die Hard. They remember Bruce Willis in his star-making role as that guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. They remember John McClane, they remember Han's Gruber, Holly Generro and Ellis, alright not really Ellis... but everybody will always remember those immortal words, "Yippee-Ki-Ay Motherf*&ker" Die Hard is the ultimate action film, packed with all the firepower you can handle and enough C4 to level a building. It's and a genuine no-holds-barred roller coaster ride from beginning to end.With a relatable everyman John McClane, (Bruce Willis in his iconic role - brilliant)and a sinister villain in Han's Gruber (Alan Rickman)Die Hard has the action-genre by the balls and sets a standard in this genre that has never been equaled. "Welcome to the party, pal!"


                
Every Christmas, there are 2 movies that I have to watch: "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" and "Die Hard".Every guy that I talk to about this agrees that "Die Hard" is a classic Christmas movie. When I talk to women about this, I haven't met a single one that agrees. My wife certainly doesn't agree, but she watches it with me each year anyway.From the first scene where John is in Argyle's limo, the snow's falling and we hear a more hip-hop themed Christmas it just feels right. When John does get to his destination, it's a good-old-fashioned Christmas office party... everyone is in good spirits and sharing some cheer.Sure, there's lots of killing later in the movie, but that doesn't take away from the Christmas feeling that I always have when I watch this movie.If you celebrate Christmas and you haven't yet incorporated this movie into your Christmas ritual, do so this year.
Quite possibly the best modern action movie since the classic "Dirty Harry", "Die Hard" simply rocks. Based on the interesting novel "Nothing Lasts Forever" by Roderick Thorp, "Die Hard" made headlines for its combination of a terrific cast, excellent script, amazing action sequences and superb direction.  Headed up by screen favorite Bruce Willis (The Sixth Sense), "Die Hard" also features the talented Alan Rickman (Galaxy Quest) and Bonnie Bedelia (Needful Things).  Directed by action veteran John McTiernan, the mastermind behind such action spectaculars as "Predator", "The Hunt For Red October", "The Thomas Crown Affair" (1999), and "Die Hard With A Vengeance".In the role that shot him to stardom, Willis plays Detective John McClane, a hard-hitting cop from New York on Christmas Vacation in LA.  He is there to visit his wife (whom he is separated from), Holly Gennaro, who recently got a great job working for the Nakatomi corporation and has permanently moved to Los Angeles with their two children.  John arrives at Nakatomi Plaza expecting a fun Christmas party and a relaxing night.  Man was he wrong!  A few minutes after getting settled, twelve gun-toting Eastern Europeans take the entire 30th floor hostage.  The supposed terrorists are headed up by the brilliant megalomaniac Hans Gruber (Rickman), who actually wants the $640 million dollars inside the floor's vault.  Somehow, McClane escapes upstairs armed only with a handgun and starts causing a ruckus, slowly hunting down each well-equipped thug."Die Hard" succeeds is because it presents every challenge McClane has to face realistically and clearly.  As the tension mounts, the ordeals for John become increasingly harder.  First, it's just a terrorist.  Then a whole slew of them.  Later, it's the NYPD and even the FBI!  Director McTiernan gives the film a good pace and makes the film work by showing that John isn't superhuman; he only uses his brain more than his gun.  Also, screenwriters Jeb Stuart (The Fugitive) & Steven E. De Souza (48 Hrs.) add touches of humor that lighten up the viewer and classic one-liners ("Yippy-Ki-Yay, !@#$") that ignite the screen.  Their subplots actually add to the story instead of overcomplicating it, especially one featuring good cop Sgt. Al Powell (Rejinald VelJohnson of TV's "Family Matters").Overall, this movie was awesome.  Willis is very believable and has significant screen presence.  Character development is superb, and even though Stuart and De Souza leave some loose ends untied - like how  a man gets hung with a chain and still comes back for more - the film remains to be an action classic.  Note to Parents: the nudity, drug use, continual profanity, and extreme violence would make this a bad choice for kids under 13.  Otherwise, see "Die Hard" ASAP! Overall Rating:   *** Worth 9 out of 10 dollars ***


                
The 80s Gave us many great action movies from The Terminator, Predator and The Road Warrior to Commando, Big Trouble in Little China and Escape From New York. But Die Hard in my opinion is the best of them all. The Main Character is great. He's relatable and likable and he's not a superhero, in fact he gets his butt kicked constantly throughout the movie. The Villain is also great. The Late Alan Rickman does a fantastic job playing this character. The action scenes are quite brutal and violent but very realistic. The humour is hilarious with some of the best one liners in cinema history. My only real problem with this movie is some of the supporting characters, mainly the police. Most of them are incredibly annoying and it gets so irritating when they constantly don't believe anything the main character is telling them about the terrorists. But even with that Die Hard is still my favorite action film of the 80s(And my favorite Christmas movie too).


                
Bruce Willis created an icon with John Mclane,an easy guy to like but a hard man to kill.The film is action-packed and suspenseful, with some very human elements in it.Alan Rickman's Hans Gruber has to be the greatest movie villain of all time,Rickman's facial expressions are priceless.And Bonnie Bedellia is equally good.The movie has great Oscar nominated special effects witch puts you on the edge of your seat while Mclane's one-liners make you laugh.The action is non-stop and the villains truly DIE HARD.The film is legendary,you will never forget it.So sit back and enjoy edge of your seat suspense."Yippie Ki Yay motherf*cker"-John Mclane


                
Where do you go when things in your city are quiet? Los Angeles, "The City of Angels". That is where New York policeman John McClane(Bruce Willis) will spend his Christmas at. At least for the holidays, because his wife Holly(Bonnie Bedelia) is living. The holidays are going fine until a group of European terrorists ruin the fun. After taking himself a shower, John is very maverick decides to take on the terrorists with a 9mm, and barefoot. Normally, police offers are very resourceful, for John he really is. The only contact had to go on is LA Policeman Sgt. Al Powell(Reginald VelJohnson) those two kept in touch, until the menace was over. When they finally meet, New York and LA will never clash again! John's limo driver Argyle(DeVereoux White) did his part on taking out the computer hacker(Clarence Gilyard, Jr.) This movie is totally non-stop. It was never a dull moment. The music choices were great, and the surprises never stop. A major keeper! 4 out of 5 stars!


                
The eighties was the decade of the big blockbuster action flick - Lethal Weapon, Beverly Hills Cop, Cobra, Commando etc. But one film outdoes them all and this is it Die Hard, the action sequences are superb and set the standard for everyone to follow. The premise is a good one and while not exactly realistic it provides a firm base for some rocking action.Our main hero John McLaine (Bruce Willis) is well drawn and manages to avoid falling into the cliché trap of some action hero's, a sub-plot with his estranged wife is given just the right amount of time to provide depth without spoiling the pacing of the movie or feeling tacked on. The other main relationships in this movie is equally well played with the one good cop on the outside John forms a bond through humour and necessity and the interplay between them provides a nice counterpoint to give the audience a chance to draw it's breath.Also credit has to be given to Alan Rickman as Han Gruber for creating one of the best bad guys of any action flick, Rickman seems to have a nice line in bad guy persona's as he was easily the best thing in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves playing the sublimely evil Sheriff of Nottingham. But lets face it action is what we want here and boy those it provide it, bad guys are picked off left right and centre, a rooftop shoot out and one incredible explosion.If you love action movies and you haven't seen Die Hard get out there right now and get yourself a copy it'll be the best move you'll ever make.9/10


                
Sure he shoots people and blows things up, but there is only one moment in "Die Hard" where smooth criminal Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) loses his cool: When a woman realizes what he is up to, and tells him he is nothing but a "common thief." "I am an exceptional thief," Hans says after vaulting a desk to get in her face. "And since I'm moving up to kidnapping, you should be more polite.""Die Hard" likewise may be just an action film, but it is an exceptional action film, an entry in an already overcrowded field of cinematic bloodbaths that dared to be more than a little clever and insightful about the human condition even as it upped the ante on the on screen violence.Hans and his Euro-goons help matters considerably, by projecting real personality along with the menace. You understand their motivations, enjoy their humor, and still relish their comeuppance at the hands of a New York City cop played by Bruce Willis who finds himself alone against the bad guys in a Los Angeles skyscraper.Willis became a movie star from his performance here as John McClane, and it is very good. Willis projects his usual smugness, but manages to ingratiate himself to the audience early on in a key scene with his limo driver, Argyle, who presses him on what he's doing in L.A. if he's from New York. McClane says he's here to see his wife, who works here, and alludes to some trouble in their marriage, saying he couldn't also move to LA because of his responsibilities to the NYPD.Argyle won't let up. "You mean you thought she'd come running back before you packed your bags," he laughs. McClane winces, but smiles. "You're very quick, Argyle." It's not a major moment, but it points up a key strength of this film. Everyone in it matters. Whether it's Argyle, McClane, Hans, a cop doing what is supposed to be a routine drive-by, a cokeheaded businessman, or a gunman with a sweettooth, the brilliant script by Jeb Stuart and Steven de Souza and deft direction by John McTiernan gives everyone a certain weight and presence that adds to the proceedings.For most of the film, McClane doesn't have Argyle to talk to, so he talks to the audience instead, in a series of monologues made believable by the pressure he is under (he seems to be in the habit of talking to himself anyway) that give McClane a humanity and humor unique for action films. "Now I know what a TV dinner feels like," he says when crammed in a vent shaft. It's not that his one-liners are so clever, but that they come at the right times. Willis crafts a hero viewers can relate to, which makes his heroics more satisfying.The film also succeeds as a straightforward caper film, since the caper itself is intelligently designed and presented in such a way we sense we know where everyone of Hans' dozen underlings are at every given moment, even when the camera isn't on them. Also, the action scenes are incredibly well-done, grittier than anything else on screen at the time yet still entertaining.Okay, the picture is too glib at times, and shows Willis' hunkitude off more than I care to see. The phony business with the walkie-talkie chatter (you can't cut in on other people's transmissions the way everyone does here) is annoying, and the business with the TV reporter should have been left on the cutting room floor.But "Die Hard" is a film every bit as brilliant now as when it came out, influential, never equaled, and incredibly fun. Rickman is a great villain. And what can you say about a musical score that encompasses Vaughn Monroe, Run-DMC, Ludwig van Beethoven, and Christmas music? This is a film that leaves nothing out in its ambition to entertain, and succeeds wonderfully.


                
This is without a doubt, 'thee' action film. It is what all good action film should live up to.The story is nothing special, one building, 20 or so terrorists and one bad assed vest wearing Bruce Willis. Its basically Bruce vs. the bad guys. And he does it with style, and many twists along the way.The action shots are pure class, with Bruce cracking off one liners after taking out the bad guys. His struggle to remain undetected and conserve ammo is one that you feel genuinely drawn into.Alan Rickman is also superbly cast as the villain, giving a great performance as Hans Gruber. But at the end of the day, you've got to give this film to Bruce Willis, one of the greatest action stars.10/10


                
Great movie, watched because of Brooklyn 99. Thouroughly enjoyed every moment.


                
'Die Hard' is without a doubt the pinnacle of classic action films and a highlight of the 80s. There's only one name that terrorist fear; McClane!1. In a time when a new action star was needed, a young Bruce Willis rose to the challenge amidst the likes of Schwarzenegger and Stallone. Reluctantly on a trip to Los Angeles to meet his estranged wife (Bonnie Bedelia) and kids, John McClane (Bruce Willis) finds himself under the radar of a terrorist plot on Christmas Eve. Willis really was a breath of fresh air at the time of this film's release, considering no one knew what to expect since action stars of that era were damn near body-building types.2. As far as Willis is concerned, with every great hero...there must be a great villain to follow; enter Alan Rickman (Hans Gruber). Apart from '007' films, Rickman defined what a suave, intelligent and deadly antagonist can be. No matter how bad a villain is, it's equally fun to have a formidable henchman at his side, which (the late) Alexander Godunov (Karl) portrays with sheer brutality. However sad it was to hear of Rickman's passing, his legacy still lives on in his most memorable and career defining role as Hans Gruber.3. Behind a great action-flick like this, stood an exceptional director. John McTiernan proved his worth in the realm of action the previous year when he directed another cult and sci-fi classic; 'Predator'. It was clearly a no-brainer having him on board and in turn, McTiernan also went on to direct the third film in the franchise: 'Die Hard: With a Vengeance'. His directing style is obvious as can be since the action sequences are well maintained so that things never get derailed or too crazy.4. Reginald Vel Johnson and Paul Gleason round out the main cast, with memorable side characters as well that stand in as other terrorists and comic reliefs respectively. Willis himself adds more of the humor to the film when he finds himself in stressful situations as the film progresses. He just has a natural charm as McClane which no other action star has ever brought to a character before.To find things that don't work about this film is a hard task, cause I honestly can't think of anything. When spectacle meets action, that's when you'll know that old habits DIE HARD!!!


                
In stepped John McTiernan and Bruce Willis with Die Hard. Willis, most famous at the time for the comic TV Series 'Moonlighting', made a perfect ordinary-man-in-an-extraordinary-situation action hero. He was believable as John McClane and not immune to being hurt. He bled and felt pain, a first for the genre. And yet his cool confident delivery of a great wisecracking, intelligent script made him all the cooler. But most credit should go to Director John McTiernan, king of the sophisticated action flick. He made action movies slick, smart and full of pace and wit while never letting up on the bullets, cars and bombs front. Special praise must go out to Alan Rickman too whose performance as chief baddie Hans is to this day one of cinemas finest, moving convincingly from cool, calm and collected to desperate and nervous, never once seeming anything less than utterly ruthless and calculating. Even after we discover that Hans isn't there as a political terrorist but simply as a thief, he loses absolutely no villain credibility when he responds to Holly McClane's criticism by saying "I am an exceptional thief, Mrs. McClane and since I'm moving to kidnapping you should be more polite." Although we know Hans is capable of vile acts, he actually sees those as merely means to a greater and somehow justifiable end. His disposition is almost humanitarian and you would imagine him as quite a gentleman outside of the context of the crimes he commits in Die Hard's arc. In the end though, Hans is a pure sociopath that even the audience is conned into sympathizing with. I would actually argue that Die Hard is the greatest pure action film ever made. Yippie-ki-yay *muddy funster*... and happy holidays.Overall rating: 9 out of 10.


                
In the late 1980s, Director John McTiernan refined the action film genre with this action- packed thriller that not only stars Bruce Willis is the role that defined his career, but also brought impressed audiences everywhere with ecstatic action sequences complete with amazing practical effects, inspiring characters, and one of the most original scripts for an action movie written for its time. This movie stars Bruce Willis as John McClane, a New York cop who heads on vacation to Los Angeles for the holidays, to spend Christmas with his wife Holly Genero (played by Bonnie Bedelia) and kids. Upon arriving at the Nakatomi Plaza building where she works, he and his wife ended having an argument dealing with family matters. Their dispute is eventually interrupted when the building becomes under attack by a dozen German terrorists lead by the ruthless Hans Gruber (played by Alan Rickman) who's intent on robbing the company of its money. Pitted against overwhelming odds and Gruber's diabolical mind, John McClane must take matters into his own hands and fight off the terrorists who have his wife, along with hundreds of innocent civilians held hostage, with no aid from the Los Angeles Police Department who are helpless against the terrorists' overwhelming power.My family and I catch this fi on cable almost every year during the Christmas season and this never gets old. Unlike other action films from the 80s that spit cheesy little one-liners and mindless gun shootouts, this film presents viewers with a very likable protagonist who is self aware with his flaws and has feels very human, a Villain who is near equally likable and incredibly smart, and the dialogue between these two characters (which are spoken via walkie-talkies for the majority of the time) is very witty and clever that keep viewers' attention. The main character John McClane spends most of the time fighting off the terrorists who are lead by Hans Gruber, and the scenes are exciting to watch. Glossing with intense gunfights, explosions, stellar camera-work and fight choreography, the scenes keep viewers strapped to their seats. In the scenes when the action lightens up, there are some interesting conversations between characters like McClane, who at one point, shares a tender moment with a cop by admitting his flaws as a husband and a man as a whole. These moments are make you feel for the character and are presented in a realistic way and not sappy way. Bruce Willis does an excellent job as the main character and his performances him as the action hero he is today, along with his famous line "Yippie Kay Yay, motherf***er". The same can be said about Alan Rickman is gives off a performances as the one of the most charismatic antagonists ever put on screen. What really impresses me about this film is the action set pieces. The Nakatomi Plaza that serves as the film's main setting (at least during the beginning) is shot nowhere other than Twentieth Century Fox headquarters. Quite interesting!Die Hard is one of the most influential action films ever made and shines with nearly every aspect an action film needs. It is a good movie for viewers to pop a bag of popcorn, sit on the couch, and watch. Director John McTiernan did a fantastic job with this film as well as the cast. This film is a textbook example of what action films need to be and a movie that every action fan should not miss.


                
I'm amused to learn that this has been voted as one of the best Christmas films. Well, it is set in the run up to Xmas and there are Xmas trees and Xmas parties in full swing, not to mention the obligatory renditions of "Let it snow, let is snow, let it snow". However, my idea of a Xmas movie is something that the whole family can sit down to and feel all warm inside! This film is not for the faint hearted and its amazing how this film still feels so contemporary when watching in 2015 when you realise it was made in the late 80's. Bruce Willis was finishing his comedy role in Moonlighting when he starred in this and was the casting director's final choice behind Arnie who turned the role down. What a stroke of luck for Bruce. You have to admire his acting in this film and I couldn't help but think how he is so much better an actor than someone like Keanu Reeves who is so wooden in comparison. Great plot, great characters and I loved the fact the FBI guys were made to look like idiots. Interesting to learn that in Germany, the bad guys were made to be British! Well, that's what you get for casting a British actor, Alan Rickman, to play a German terrorist. Love this film, always worth a repeat watch :-)
"Nine million terrorists in the world and I gotta kill one with feet smaller than my sister." Well, what else can I say besides that this is "THE" (can't stress it more) action movie from the 80's with a young Bruce Willis. Personally, I don't even know how many times I've seen this movie. "Die Hard" remains an example for all action movies that followed. At that time you had the Sly and Arnie action movies. But these were more a performance of brutal violence, with big muscles and a sense of invincibility. Bruce showed a clever, shrewd, caustic action hero, who can take a beating, but on the other hand shows that he's not completely invincible.Of course, the action in films nowadays is much bigger, more impressive and mind-blowing, but the strength of this film is the story, the accumulated tension, lightness and the dry humor of Bruce Willis. From the first minute he takes you in his grip, and he won't let loose. You see him slowly evolve from a wrinkle-free clean-shaved top cop into a reasonable damaged hero. This pattern keeps coming back in the next two parts, which are also top movies of the same caliber.You'll notice this is already an old movie because for instance lighting a cigarette in a public place isn't prohibited. But how the action scenes are imaged, is still top-work and should be the aim for many action flicks.I think the sudden confrontation between Gruber and McClane is one of the strongest scenes in this film, along with the well known "Yippie-kay-yee" cry. Trademark of Willis. The fact he likes the character of McClane a lot, you see clearly in "The Last boyscout". In that movie he plays an impoverished detective with the same coolness and cynical, dry humor as McClane. Too bad that in the last two Die Hard movies, McClane is only a shadow of himself like in the original movie."Die Hard" is one of those rarities in movie land, which you can watch without thinking "Pfft Again this movie". It remains, for me, an enjoyment to watch.More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT


                
In the 1980s, a unique trend developed in American Cinema. It became popular for one man to go against a larger superior force and emerge triumphant. Die Hard if not the progenitor of this genre, it most certainly stands as the prototype. It helped to establish what is possible for the emerging action genre when done right.This film also established the career of Bruce Willis. At the time, he was considered a major risk. He had not had any significant "breaks" into film and had an average television career. Through his performance he became a household name and would be propelled into stardom. Mr. Willis was able to capture the "everyman" struggling through his life and never giving up.Die Hard also introduced to the world the character actor, Alan Rickman. An actor whose speaking voice comes across solemn and droll. His voice was perfect for conveying the arrogance of Hans Gruber, the film's antagonist. He also has a chance to put his voice talents to use as he is required to use two different accents for the role.The film follows a New York policeman, John McClain (Bruce Willis) who finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time when a group of German terrorists led by Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) take control of a skyscraper. The film does a good job of balancing action with McClain's physical and emotional suffering. Over time it has held up as an iconic film of the decade as well as within it's own genre.


                
Die Hard is an action picture with a capital 'A'. In fact, you might as well go ahead and capitalize the whole darn word. It's an expertly constructed machine for mayhem - a relentlessly thrilling, masterfully executed action film that turns up all the knobs and sets the standard for all of the American films made in the genre.To begin with, it's the classic plot hook of one man against many, right against wrong - a sweaty, bare-chested, all-American hero who battles a band of swarthy, heavily accented terrorist villains. But Die Hard is more layered than your average action movie. It is Christmas Eve. John McClane (Bruce Willis), a New York cop, is in town to spend the holidays with his kids and to fashion a reconciliation with his estranged wife Holly, who works for the Los Angeles branch of Nakatomi Corporation. Planning a rather different holiday agenda are the terrorists led by Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman). The dastardly dozen invade the plush 30th floor offices of Nakatomi during its Christmas party, and hold the employees hostage as a computer whiz cracks a code that will put our bad guys in possession of $600 million in negotiable bonds. McClane's in the john when the bad guys arrive, and he manages to slip away into the bowels of the building with nothing but his handgun, where he becomes the fly in the ointment of the criminals' plans. As the FBI helplessly marshals its forces outside, it's up to McClane to carry on the battle from within. McClane must scrap his way through the mêlée, free the hostages, and in the process repair his troubled marriage. Shirtless and barefoot, McClane swings through elevator shafts, clambers up heating ducts and creeps across rooftops as he tries to pick off the bad guys one by one. There's something satisfyingly claustrophobic about the premise, and the movie makers fully realize it's potential. Director John McTiernan works here with a clever script that offers ample opportunity for violence that is mind-boggling without being mindless. He composes the action cleanly and logically allowing the proceedings to acquire a sense of scale that can't help but impress. The film always looks gorgeous, and it never stops being exhilarating.At the center of this whirlwind of a movie is Bruce Willis, who blends the vulnerability - normally unseen in action film heroes - deftly with the requisite superhuman feats. He almost burns the screen with his overwhelming charisma, his wicked sense of humor and his big-balled bravado. He ensures McClane remains human and relatable, even as the bodies pile up around him. The rogues in the movie pitch in equally commendable performances, particularly Alan Rickman. Smarmy yet charismatic, Rickman adds a theatrical flourish to his performance which only makes him more menacing. Sleekly engineered, impeccably staged and shrewdly dosed with humor and sentiment, Die Hard manages to be heart-pounding and teeth- gritting every single time. Yippy-Ki-Yay!


                
The very best action movies are the ones in which the heroes are like us. As fun as a good James Bond movie can be, his been-there, done- that demeanor can't help but put a low ceiling on the stakes. But when the star is more or less an average person swept into a crisis unwilling and unprepared, there is a sense, however artificial, that anything might happen. There is also the possibility that the character will exhibit real emotional range. Deep into "Die Hard," after Bruce Willis's John McClane has wasted over half a dozen terrorists and proved himself a master of gunplay, explosives, and witty repartee many times over, his voice still cracks with fear and heartache. That humanity, buried only shallowly below the swagger and the caked blood (lots of blood), is no small part of the movie's successful formula.Another is its ability to create surprises between the inevitable moments that define the genre. The fact that bad guys waste their advantage over McClane by toying with him instead of shooting him outright, and that he uses each such reprieve to regain the upper hand, is a given. But there are several situations that seem entirely fresh. Alan Rickman's criminal mastermind, a man of ambiguous motivations, mercurial identity, and palpable confidence, finds himself unexpectedly in McClane's hands. Because the movie has been so carefully plotted and has kept McClane largely isolated from friends and foes alike, this is the first time the two stars have come face to face. We know the bad guy recognizes McClane, but we do not know what McClane knows. The movie seems to move in slow motion for several moments as this inventive situation plays out.The supporting cast is a veritable parade of cynical expectations and pleasant subversions thereof. Two seemingly expendable black characters, a chauffeur and a cop, show up early in the movie. The cop, Al (Reginald VelJohnson), even mentions a pregnant wife. We've heard this kind of thing before; in a more typical movie, one or both of them would bite the bullet as a way to create quick pathos. But just when they seem to be on the cusp of ignoble sacrifice or of missing the chance to call for backup, leaving McClane alone and outnumbered for maximum heroism, things get interesting instead. The chauffeur hunkers down in the garage for a long while before coming back into play in a modest way, but Al dodges certain death to become McClane's partner-at-large. "Die Hard" is not normally remembered as a buddy cop movie, but in large measure it is. The dynamic that "Lethal Weapon" defined plays out almost to a tee as the Al and McClane bond over their wives and their careers. The homoerotic dimension of the genre is present, too; McClane and Al's hug at the end is even more emotionally charged than McClane and his wife's. After that, the trope of the bad guy coming back for one last shot happens exactly as it does in Mel Gibson and Danny Glover's earlier film, which like "Die Hard" takes place during Christmas. But "Die Hard," not to be outdone, finds yet a third emotional beat to finish on. McClane's wife Holly (Bonnie Bedelia) is a strong and central figure throughout the movie, which makes a socially-conscious statement about women in the workplace and never places her in sexualized peril. Appropriately but still surprisingly, it is Holly who gets the final word. Also appropriately, she delivers it with her fist.Not everything about the film is as brilliantly-conceived as McClane's explosive romp through the Nakatomi Plaza or his vulnerable, equitable relationships with his wife and his colleague. The movie continues an action movie legacy of paranoia established at least as long ago as "Dirty Harry." The press and law enforcement bureaucracy are cast as self-interested bumblers, as dangerous in their way as the murderous criminals. It's not an unreasonable position to take, but it's unreasonable to think that a hostage negotiator would be as distracted and preening as Paul Gleason's character, or that an FBI big-shot would be as evidently unstable as Robert Davi's. The casting is right, and these skilled actors' shifty faces could have spoken for themselves without so much on-the-nose dialogue.This, though, is a quibble. Too much about the movie works, too much is surprising, too many characters are likable and reasonably real, to conclude that "Die Hard" is anything less than one of the best action films ever made. I want to watch it again the minute the classical credit music ends, and that's a rare impulse for me irrespective of genre.
"Die Hard" is one of the best and iconic action films from Hollywood, starring Bruce Willis as NYPD Officer John McClane, who tries to save his wife Holly Gennaro and several of her co-workers and friends after being taken hostage by German terrorist Hans Gruber and his henchmen during a Christmas party at the Nakatomi Plaza in Los Angeles.Willis' witty and deadpan delivery personality, coupled with his never-say-die attitude and relentless attacks on the bad guys made him a force to be reckon with, giving us a tough yet comedic performance. A majority of the movie takes place inside the Nakatomi Plaza, where you will find all the heart-pounding action as Gruber terrorizes his hostages and tries to rob the treasures within the building the process, while McClane takes on his henchmen one-by-one.Alan Rickman did a wonderfully devious performance as Gruber, calm and crafty but cold enough to generate no sympathy. Bonnie Bedelia did a great job as Holly Gennaro - gentle, yet fearless. And, Reginald VelJohnson did great as Sgt. Al Powell. I enjoyed the parts of him communicating with McClane inside the building, giving him the will to stay tough with all the bad guys around him.Overall, it's a great movie full of suspense, thrills and excitement. Coupled with awesome special and sound effects and a solid plot, it's an edge-of-your-seat ride that is perfect for any action movie fans!Grade A


                
New York cop John McClane travels to Los Angeles to work things out with his estranged wife, only to find her office block at the mercy of terrorists, and he is their only hope of rescue.Die Hard did two things - it created a template for big budget action thrillers with one good man against the massed forces of evil, and it turned Bruce Willis from a moderately successful light romantic actor with a predominantly TV career into a major macho big screen star.Die Hard was pretty good. It pushed the boundaries of suspension of disbelief, but it never stepped over them. It gave us excellent baddies, a resourceful and admirable - though not perfect - goodie, some idiots (and one sound ally) on the outside, and a claustrophobic environment and solid scenario within which all the elements could play out. And, of course, scads of first rate action.Die Hard was the first and still the best, and I recommend it.
Die Hard is regularly ranked as the greatest of all the 80s action movies, and among the greatest of all time, and even 25 years later, it is not difficult to see why. Die Hard really is action film-making at its best, and began a new type of actioner - the everyman caught in a unique situation - that many films would try to copy; some more successfully than others, but none would ever measure up to the original. That even includes the 4 (and counting) sequels! It would launch the careers of Bruce Willis and Alan Rickman skyward - admittedly on different trajectories - and even become a bizarrely popular choice for a seasonal festive film each December! John McClane (Willis) is a New York cop who has travelled to Los Angeles to reunite with his estranged wife Holly (Bonnie Bedelia) at a Christmas party in a city skyscraper, when an armed band of villains march in with machine guns and take over, led by Alan Rickman's evil Hans Gruber, holding the partygoers to ransom. McClane must then work his way through the building, picking off the terrorists one by one, fighting a one-man war while the LAPD pontificates impotently on the doorstep.The recipe is incredibly simple, yet brilliantly effective; the ludicrous situation is tempered by the Regular Joe nature of Willis's character, allowing the audience to identify wholeheartedly with his efforts and motivations, while hissing at the Machiavellian machinations of arch-criminal Gruber. The action itself is replete with some superb and exciting shootouts, spectacular set pieces and a new level of violence not often seen in such a mainstream action film before now - just watch for the scene with the broken glass, and you'll be wincing for weeks! Bruce Willis so perfectly captured the essence of his character, that the image, hair and even name have become synonymous with action heroes for all movies hereafter. The iconic shaved head and dirty white vest perfectly captured the feel of the right man caught in the wrong place at the wrong time, but it was not just Willis's physique and wardrobe that made John McClane such a hero. His fight scenes are brutally brilliant, and his delivery of both threats and sarcastic one-liners will have audiences punching the air and chuckling in equal measure. His radio exchanges with Rickman's Gruber are superb, and his charming banter with Sgt Al Powell on the outside - also over radio - lend the character an extra warmth that could easily have been missed, which would have made the character slightly less sympathetic.But every great hero needs a villain, and Alan Rickman produced a performance of a lifetime; one which would lead him to being pigeonholed as a great British 'character actor' - Hollywood code for 'plays great villains!'. Admittedly this would lead him to even further success, most notably as the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, and of course Professor Snape in the Harry Potter films, but it was unquestionably this role that set him on the role to a reputation as one of the greatest villainous actors of the twentieth century. His performance is never overstated, and without resorting to scenery-chewing, makes every single line positively drip with threat and menace. But he is also allowed a few light moments of his own in between his shooting of innocent bystanders - darkly comic interplay with the FBI outside in particular. His arrogant dismissive nature of the FBI while reeling off a list of names the group want freed is particularly black - his request for one group that he then mouths to his associate that he 'read about them in Time Magazine' a standout. His ability to produce a villain who is both positively loathsome and yet darkly charismatic makes Die Hard just as much Rickman's film as it does Bruce Willis's. Jeremy Irons' attempt to reproduce this balance in the film's third entry pales in comparison, producing a villain that is fun, but unfortunately occasionally too camp to be truly hissable.The majority of the other characters are generally rather 2-dimensional, in particular McLane's estranged wife Holly, whose character is unfortunately lacking much in the way of back-story that could have made Willis's mission even more effective, whilst the henchman are as typically anonymous as you might expect from such an actioner. The rest of the attendees at the party are also mostly anonymous, making it difficult for the audience to truly get invested in their fate.But such quibbles are unquestionably minor next to the brilliance of the whole, and such was the film's success that virtually every action film of its type would thus be labelled as the 'new Die Hard' or the even more derivative 'Die Hard on a plane/train/boat/submarine' (delete as applicable). So to see how films like Die Hard actioners should be done, it can only be Die Hard itself. A true era-defining film, one that even gained numerous name-checks in 'Friends' to demonstrate its iconic nature, that became a perfect template for all subsequent action films to follow.


                
(r#56)This was an exhilarating movie that anyone should be able to enjoy. Bruce Willis shines in his breakthrough role as John McClane, the wise-cracking hard-ass cop. Willis, although a rookie actor, handles his shamelessly bad-ass one-liners as well as his dramatic scenes very well and never feels unbelievable. Alan Rickman almost steals the show from Bruce himself as the ultimate German villain, Hans Gruber. Rickman is a fantastic actor and it makes me sad to see him sleepwalking through The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the Harry Potter series when he should be focusing on finding a good script instead. We need more movies like Galaxy Quest and Die Hard from him.John McTiernan creates a perfect balance between the smashing action sequences, the character development and the humour, and as a result, Die Hard is one of very few movies that can be called "perfect" blockbusters. McTiernan had previously directed the Arnold classic Predator, but in my opinion Die Hard blows its predecessor out of the water in terms of pure awesomeness. The script is shock full of memorable lines that seem to have been written for Willis. The tension is thick throughout, but the comedy (mainly provided by McClane's one-liners, but also by a pathetically incompetent police deputy and an ignorant newsreader) never feels out of place or forced. It is perfection on all levels, and I wish that I could've been born in the late seventies just so I could've seen this film in the theatre. I don't think any fan of action could dislike Die Hard, and neither would most fans of movies in general. It is a great thrill-ride from start to finish and features some of the greatest one-lines in history. It's just plain awesome even 18 years after its release. See it.


                
In many people's minds the term 'action thriller' is defined as predictable, over exaggerated and boring.I tend to agree the majority of the time, especially after watching films like 'Mission impossible II' and 'James Bond' where the predictability was as present as Bond's sarcasm, ridiculously predictable and unrealistic.Thankfully director John McTiernan was able to add a likable quality to the genre Bruce Willis stars in this 1988 smash hit action thriller which does contain a lot of typical action thriller conventions but why do we criticise? We see him running around Nakatomi towers and with his cheeky attitude and delivering cheesy but hilarious quotes, I found myself appreciating the character and the genre.What was predictable was having many gun scenes which were unrealistic but that is always expected of this genre. Thankfully Die Hard doesn't reach to the extremes as MI2 does and the majority of gun fights and character action codes are believable but ARE enjoyable. Viewers are able to associate with the central protagonist John McClane who is sarcy and purely likable, I found it impossible to hate him. The bad mouthed cop is always on the move and willing to conform to the ideologies which director John McTiernan set, and are pulled off beautifully.Alan Rickman is astonishing as the head terrorist Hans Gruber. His evilness is forever present as he controls the role beautiful with his established role and his cheekiness is great to, a more established and influential villain than some bond villains such as Elliot Carver in 'Tomorrow never dies'.The partnership of Rickman and Willis was great. Having two contrasting characters worked wonders as the two bring their own beliefs to the story and viewers can appreciate these different beliefs by characters who are very interesting to observe.The story is fast flowing and kept me on the edge of my seat for the full two hours. A fast placed plot with typical action conventions was crafted magnificently and appreciates the genre by using gun fights, stereotypes of villains, cops, the FBI etc to great effect. It is what many would expect but the humour, emotion and action ideologies are well crafted together, conveying an enjoyable action film.Question marks hover over the beginning and the ending. The beginning is slow and may appear uninteresting and the ending is very over-exaggerated like many of the action scenes but I can't help but like it.Having the film set in one setting, Nakatomi towers, was vital to the films success because being in a claustrophobic area allows the central protagonist's opinions to be limited, viewers are inclined to know how he is going to solve the problems with only a few options.It is a very captivating film with the acting by everyone influential. The conventions of action are present but are more enjoyable than others because of the humour used.Anyone with a strong gut and a thirst for riveting action scenes and dry sarcastic humour, believe me, you will love it.


                
