This is the true story of Christopher McCandless, a college graduate who becomes a bum and eventually bites off more than he can chew by taking on the Alaskan frontier.Early on in the movie, I sort of liked the main character, and the premise behind his motives, but as time goes by, I came to regard him as selfish, silly and maybe a bit insane.He leaves his mother, father and sister distraught for over 2 years, not knowing where he is or if he is even alive. The portrayal of his 'traumatizing' upbringing was laughable (omg, his parents actually argued loudly and threatened to divorce each other a few times!). So what? As these facts came up, you come to dislike Chris (Alexander Supertramp), more and more. It becomes obvious he is just another spoiled suburban kid running from adult responsibilities, refusing to grow up, yet in the end meeting his match by taking on the Alaskan wilderness, which by the way, doesn't give two figs about how well meaning you are in your quest for 'answers'. Nature has no pity for the dumb.Why did they make a movie about this idiot in the first place??
I live in Alaska and have for over 20 years and I have hiked, fished and hunted all over this state for most all of it. I lived here when the events of this movie happened. Christopher McCandless was not a hero or anything of the sort and to portray him in this way in this movie and to gloss over the insanely irresponsible actions he took that led to his completely unnecessary death and only invites other misguided "wilderness advocates" to do the same.Just as in the case of the Timothy Treadwell, who died along with his girlfriend due to his own lack of respect and understanding for the Alaskan Brown bears he claimed to have a "relationship" with, and had a movie made about him (Grizzley Man , 2005) McCandless was just another in a long list of "outsiders" who read a few books or even less and feel they have the necessary tools to survive in the bush here.It serves no one to have this movie completely stylize and glamorize the events that are only someone's sanitized version of what happened. In truth McCandless likely died a horrible and lonely death in a completely unnecessary manner and in a completely irresponsible way. If only the movie were stronger to make this point then the it would have served an important role. Instead it only will likely lead to more misguided outsiders, unprepared and irresponsibly doing the same or worse.
This really stupid glorification tribute film financed by the extremely wealthy McCandless whose son died a futile death from poisoning , starvation and overexposure in the Alaskan wilderness. Having graduated from Emory University the super spoiled typical rich kid rebels against what is expected of him by his parents. Like most of his type knowing full well he can always fall back on his parents wealth when it suits them to do so he then sets out on squandering his allowance after reportedly having donating his allowance to charity. The character playing his sister provides a narrative throughout the film providing a rational that his parents premarital experiences as well as their highly strained marriage as the reason for his escape into irresponsible living.This mainly fantasized account of Chris McCandless's last stage of life includes all these encounters that paint him as a much loved eccentric character idolized by young women, a grain farmer, welfare workers, burnt out hippies and an old man who wants to adopt him. He breaks ecological laws by rafting down the Colorado river without a permit to Mexico where he sweet talks his way back into the USA without ID papers. McCandless then finishes his little road trip adventure with a hunting trip to the Alaskan wilderness. Despite being fully equipped and armed the idiot McCandless manages to die of a combination of starvation, poisoning and over exposure. Sean Penn directs this silly film which will no doubt find fans amongst superficial young women and other well to do hippie types. I suspect these types of films inspire young people to take foolish paths in life that only the rich can afford to take and have seen this happen to friends of mine with similar disastrous consequences. I'm giving it one star because maybe it will inspire other idiots to perish in the wilderness. I was not keen on the wasteful shooting of Alaskan wildlife for McCandless's camping experiment. Great comedy material.
As a parent who's reasonably liberal and open-minded I was nevertheless repulsed by the incredibly self-serving main character and director Sean Penn's unsubtle and cloying anti-government/anti-commercialist bent. McCandless may have been a straight-a student but he didn't learn a bloody thing in college. The writings of Byron, London, Tolstoy, Thoreau i.e. are taught as a jumping off point toward self-determination and adulthood. They are not meant to be literally emulated as lifestyles.And the ridiculous conceit of a 24 year old lecturing an elderly man to open up and go live his life underscores the primary issue with this movie, a misanthropic and deluded main character. Acting was decent enough but I could not for a moment get into the story or the performance due to my disconnect. In scene after scene, I was constantly reminded of the agony McCandless put his poor parents and sister through. Sure they made some mistakes in bringing him up but who's perfect in this world? It would have cost him nothing to simply let them know he was still alive and on 'walk-about' or whatever he thought his pointless odyssey signified. Or at least given them the chance to say good-bye.Ultimately, I found "Into the Wild" irresponsible because McCandless is presented as the rebellious anti-hero rather than a fool who caused his own senseless death and the deepest sorrow of his loved ones. Sean Penn is a talented somehow but choosing the right sorts of role models to present on film is not one of his skills. Oh and I will definitely not be sending my kids to Emory College if this is the sort of minds they produce...
What is wrong with you people? This is a Walt Disneyesque revision of a spoiled kid's misadventure into self-indulgence. It's a shame he died for being righteous and stupid...and that's about it. It's a shame. But not a particularly interesting story, and a ridiculous one for a film filled with swirling helicopter shots and endless musical montages that are supposed to make you think the smirking Mccandless is some kind of modern Siddhartha.Sean Penn clearly identifies with his subject enough to direct his film with a similar self-indulgence. This should have been a very straight-forward account of one young idealist's cowardice: too afraid to help the society he thought was sick, too afraid too deal with his family with compassion, and ultimately too afraid to kill himself outright: instead he just put himself into a situation that he couldn't survive without rescue...and nobody rescued him.I wonder about the people who rave about this movie. I'll bet I could make the same kind of film about John Walker Lindh, and they'd eat it up...provided I could get Vedder for the soundtrack.
This film is a 1...at best. I will never, not ever, get the time back that I wasted watching this dreadful film. I am completely perplexed as to how this movie scored an 8?! I can only assume that no one else saw the film that I saw. Coming from Sean Penn, I should have known it would be filled with left-wing, anti-government bulls#!t. To be frank, the film is nothing more than the bastard love-child of Dead Poets Society and Grizzly Adams...except suckier. Christoper McCandless was not only a misguided, self-absorbed, self-indulgent youth, he IS the ultimate idiot. There isn't a single quality to admire about him, with the exception of his generous donation to charity. An action, I would suspect this misanthrope made with the sole purpose of pi$$ing his parents off. Simply put, this film is the "whoa as me" tale of a rich, spoiled, young man who was TOO determined to prove that the apple sometimes does fall far from the tree. He is completely undeserving of the accolades or screen time he managed to eek out of Hollywood. His "quest" for the ultimate human experience cost him his life...and to gain what? I mean, seriously, what it the point of this movie?? It really only leaves questions, for which there are no answers. Most notably, how can anyone...especially someone as educated as he was...thrust himself into the Alaskan wilderness (one of the most remote places on the planet) without doing a little research?? Congratulations Emory, you taught the boy well!! Seriously, all of you who gave this movie higher than a 3, would you really put yourself in the position that he put himself? Would you not have spent some time in Alaska, maybe worked a job to acclimate yourself to the land? Would you not have gotten a little advice, perhaps taken a guided tour and survival courses? Would you not have learned about weather patterns and considered that after crossing a river before the summer thaw meant that you wouldn't be able to cross it when the snow began to melt?? No, this yahoo simply asks someone to drive him to the end of the road and drop him off on a trail. Smart buddy! The countdown on your life just began. In truth, Chris McCandless committed suicide and Hollywood pathetically glorified it. Yeah, yeah, I realize he had "books" to help him out. Yet, we find out in the end what good they did him. I guess Tolstoy doesn't offer much in the way of how to preserve a moose. Any rational person would have realized they were in trouble months before this guy. "Hmm...I keep taking notches up on my belt. I am eating every day...nothing but lean protein..but still, I am eating. Yet, I have managed to lose 60 pounds. Gosh, I wonder if something is wrong??" The only redeeming quality of this film is that it does manage to remind us that Mother Nature will always be there to strike you down when you begin to get a little too righteous for her taste. Or, in this case, she will leave you to die, alone, in the shell of an old school bus, surrounded by the philosophical b.s. that put you there in the first place, wasted away in a pool of your own feces.


                
A 3 hour Pearl Jam Video chronicling a spoiled kid's quest to get back at his parents for an unpleasant childhood.I just felt like it was so totally pretentious. It seemed like I was being preached to by someone who's most notable achievement in life was running away from home and freeloading off of hippies.Add a generous portion of man crying, soap box philosophy, and slow-mo shower scenes, all built on this rickety premise that somehow this quest for revenge was a philosophical journey, and I was hardly able to sit through this one.Pardon me if I'm venting, but I didn't want to say anything bad about it to my girlfriend because I never like the movies she makes me see, and she's typically very nice about the movies I make her watch. After all the positive reviews I just had to say my mind.If he hadn't died at the end, and if it had turned out that he'd spent the rest of his life writing books about his experiences than this would be one of the most hypocritical and pretentious movies of all time.In stead, it is the story of those who've survived him desperately trying to weave meaning into what could only be described as the trite and meaningless life of Christopher McCandless
Please spare yourself and avoid this film, it is utterly boring and undeserving of a high rating. This should not be in the top 250. Although the cinematography was of high quality, it does not make up for the two and a half hours of pretentious tedium I had to sit through. The main character is portrayed as a sophisticated critic of modern life, but in reality is just self involved and is seemingly oblivious to the pain and suffering he pointlessly inflicts on the people closest too him. At around the 40 minute mark we all considered (4 of us) ejecting the DVD, and I regret we didn't. Usually I do not bother to comment on films, but in this case I feel it is my duty to save others the pain.


                
I cannot understand the praise for this stinker. If I was a Republican, I'd tell my kids and my teenage gay lover (they all have one) that this will happen to you if you're a hippie.Don't get me wrong. I'm a tree hugger. A lot of positive and good ideas and concepts in this film. But it's obvious that this guy was bat-poop nuts. The character was played as sane, but there is no chance he was in real life. Nevermind that he was critically selfish for what he did to his family and sister, regardless of the situation. If he wanted to contribute, there were a lot more sane ways to do it.It really took the life out of any anti-society argument.But to focus on the film I was shocked that Sean Penn couldn't do a better job with this kid's acting. Generally it was passable but then there were some very bad scenes, like he was reading off cue cards for the first time. Some nice camera work but nothing really remarkable about the rest of the direction. And it was WAY TOO LONG. Very self-serving of Senor Penn.(Also, anybody know that there was a rope bridge 1/4 mile down from this bus? Most locals apparently thought this kid was a fool.) For all the kids that would like to go on a similar journey of self-discovery: DON'T! There is something worse than a winter in that bus: watching this movie.
Judging from some of the comments I've read, this has to be one of the most overrated and misguided films of all time. Had there been an option for 0 out of 10, I would have voted thus for sure.I don't really know where to start... I haven't read the book, but I'm certain that, if I had, I would never have inflicted the ordeal of watching this on myself.This is the story of a spoilt, rich kid, who self-indulgently flees his family problems - and those of the society he so resents - instead of facing up to any kind of responsibility or even attempting to rectify the injustices he so pertinently feels.What really grates with me is that this is a wasted opportunity. Christopher McCandless is the product of a society, which places too much value on the individual - hence his ultimately selfish decision to take flight to his over-romanticised 'wilderness' (an abandoned bus!!!)- rather than use his all-too-lauded intelligence to better it.What a character for hero-worship!! The way in which he is - and I don't use the term lightly - deified by Sean Penn ranges from the unpalatable to the damn near puke-making.There are a couple of moments in this film, which epitomise this errant viewpoint. Namely when two of it's more likable characters - the hippy wife and the old gimmer veteran - point out that Christopher should consider contacting his family. But - surprise, surprise - both are won over by his 'free spirit'...No, no, no, no, no. If the flaky Sean Penn, much like his subject, had had the balls, this would have been the point to turn back, but, predictably, we fall deeper into the mire of tedious, self-indulgent and, quite frankly, out-of-touch morality.'Into the wild' should serve, not only as a shining beacon of how not to live your life, but also as a guide for how not to make a film.I would encourage people to watch this film, but only so they can see what a god-awful travesty it is. Christopher McCandless wasted his life - and a good couple of hours of mine too, but if any good is to come of it, we need to make sure that he and others like him (I'm looking at you Sean Penn) are given a good slap in the chops and told to grow up.Peace out!!!!!!!!!
I squirmed almost from the pretentious opening credits. The soppy music, the self-conscious titles, the interminable wait for the film to actually begin ...The first sight of the lead: a handsome, golden boy from Hollywood. An actor, "indicating" like crazy instead of just doing.And what followed was a tedious, two-hour and twenty-minute music video.If a superb book had not been the "inspiration" for this dud, it never would have made it past its first studio reader. Jon Krakauer's gritty story of a confused idealist was turned into clichéd, sentimental mush about a Johnny Appleseed who enriched the lives of all the stereotyped characters he encountered.It was the typical, corrupt Hollywood treatment, but without Hollywood production quality. Most of the beautiful scenery was perfunctorily photographed, and the pacing was atrociously slow.I kept hoping it would improve, but it actually got worse and worse, right up to drawn-out, hackneyed ending and self-congratulatory final credits.Chris McCandless and Jon Krakauer deserved better.
This is a really good movie, unfortunately I could not remove myself from the fact that the main character was a complete moron. First of all contrary to what people feel, "dropping out of society" is a lazy, b.s. way of rebelling against corporate society, and never achieves anything but a self fulfilled prophecy. Here is what native Alaskans felt about this fool in general. "Krakauer's book made McCandless a heroic figure to many.Unlike Krakauer and many readers of his book, who have a largely sympathetic view of McCandless, some Alaskans have negative views of both McCandless and those who romanticize his fate. McCandless was unaware that a hand-operated tram crossed the river a quarter mile from the Stampede Trail, while a nearby shelter was stocked with emergency supplies, as described in Krakauer's book. However, the three nearby cabins were broken in and vandalized extensively at some point after mid-April, thus destroying food and first-aid supplies, as noted by Jon Krakauer. Alaskan Park Ranger Peter Christian wrote: "I am exposed continually to what I will call the 'McCandless Phenomenon.' People, nearly always young men, come to Alaska to challenge themselves against an unforgiving wilderness landscape where convenience of access and possibility of rescue are practically nonexistent ... When you consider McCandless from my perspective, you quickly see that what he did wasn't even particularly daring, just stupid, tragic, and inconsiderate. First off, he spent very little time learning how to actually live in the wild. He arrived at the Stampede Trail without even a map of the area. If he had a good map he could have walked out of his predicament ... Essentially, Chris McCandless committed suicide." Judith Kleinfeld wrote in the Anchorage Daily News that "many Alaskans react with rage to his stupidity. You'd have to be a complete idiot, they say, to die of starvation in summer 20 miles off the Park's Highway."[12] Thank you very much, but making a martyr out of a moron is just too much.
This was a very unsatisfying movie. It starts out with promise and spectacularly fails to deliver . Where to start? The basic premise of a chap going off to live alone in the wild with adventures all along the way is a good one. But nothing really interesting or compelling ever happens in this. The best thing about travelling and wandering about the world is all the interesting and unusual characters you meet along the way. But I can't describe the tedious, one dimensional humourless dullards our 'hero' meets. The long drawn out 'deep' interactions they have about nothing except how sad and unhappy their lives are. All so full of pain.Deep people aren't full of pain. Deep people are people with something to say. The scenery was nice though and there was some camera work going on but that can't make up for flat characters, a dead script, lack of a cohesive storyline that develops (this was just a collage of fragments of happenings strung together going everywhere but nowhere) bad acting and most of all any real philosophical idea behind it. After all, people take off into the wild alone for deep reasons regarding their relationship to modern society not just because they had a tiff with their parents and like eating squirrels. There was a point where some tensions develop in the killing of a big bull thing and you expected that our boy was becoming a man with all the challenges. But then it took a serious dive when he goes back to the hippies and meets a very pretty but incredibly shallow girl and quickly reverts back to being a child again. From then on it never picks up and draws out slowly and interminably to a sad ending. I've said enough. The fact that so many think this worth and 8 rating just shows how shallow and dumb most people are. Perhaps I should go find myself a nice shack in the woods of Montana .....................
Films have to be viewed in their own light as it's own single art piece, as the filmmakers intended to deliver their narrative through sound, picture and editing to us. Forget all knowledge that this film was 'based on a novel' that was 'based on a true story'.Saying that, this film is hypocritical from start to finish with a touch of left wing anti- establishment thrown in for good measure and some very lazy film-making indeed.Society is awful. Join a charity and help out. My dad was a meanie. Stand up to him when he is beating up your mum, not when he is offering to buy you a new car.I do not understand how this film is regarded so highly that it appeared on many top 10 critic list for 2007. This is why I am writing my 2 cents worth.Technically this film is sloppy. It uses every filmic cliché device possible to spoon feed it's audience and not allow them to make their own decisions of what is happening on screen.Main protagonist starts acting dizzy as if he has ate something bad. Not sure if you were right? Sean Penn the Director cuts to the word 'Poison' then to the bag of weeds, then to a full screen text of 'Death' back to the bag of weeds and then if you weren't sure what was happening we get a blurred, stretched out effect laden close up of the protagonist getting sick.Too many problems with this film; the length (2hr 20min), the anti-establishment themes (we get it), Not sleeping with sexy trailer park girl (?).Society is awful and evil, so what he denounces it. Then why hitch-hike with people who own cars, steal rides on trains and eat food from people who live in houses. Nice ideals.Finally, standing in the soup kitchen line he realizes that society is so disgusting that he does not want to be in a room full of homeless people as it hits him that he actually has parents to fall back on when his self-righteousness does not work out.Up there with 'Life is beautiful' as a truly overrated film.
I would rate it a zero if possible. The movie was so boring and contrived that I felt nauseous after the first hour. The randomly placed narrations by Jena Malone were laughable. The storyline is so bland that I felt like I ordered a sand smoothie at the concessions stand. After you see this film (if you can call it that) you have an insight into the spoiled kid mentality. Written by a privileged male who obviously yearned for a challenge, an adventure, something other than their actual drab, guided existence. The problem, though, is that this story is told as if it was a campfire tale. Complete with embellishments and drama to the point of being unbelievable and humorous. Like I said I walked out of the theater. I wish I had asked for a refund. Sean Penn owes me $16.00!


                
Uninteresting and very boring story about a selfish, arrogant man, blaming all his problems on his parents, who runs away from his family to live in the wilderness for 4 months before he finds out that happiness is found in the company of other people and family. Uninteresting and very boring story about a selfish, arrogant man, blaming all his problems on his parents, who runs away from his family to live in the wilderness for 4 months before he finds out that happiness is found in the company of other people and family.Uninteresting and very boring story about a selfish, arrogant man, blaming all his problems on his parents, who runs away from his family to live in the wilderness for 4 months before he finds out that happiness is found in the company of other people and family.


                
Oh my god, this guy really starved himself to death? Gave himself diarrhea and died in a beat up Volkswagen? And that's what I spent hours watching?This movie is a horrible waste of time, and even if you like the protagonists you will find them incredibly annoying after three hours of more or less the same rubbish.So the guy is a teenager who is misunderstood and has his own notions of how the world should be. Which teenager doesn't? Most end up surviving those fragile years. It hardly takes any skill at all. But, as Darwin predicted, some are not destined to stay and procreate, and luckily this is one such case.I endured to see what would happen in the end, I felt I've invested so much free time in it already that I deserved to know. I couldn't help but laugh when the movie ended.Seriously, don't watch it!
If Chris wanted to see Alaska he should have booked himself a room on Celebrity or Princess. They have warm beds, gambling and all the maggot-free moose you can eat.Actually, I won't argue the merits of Chris' little adventure, suffice to say if I were going to throw myself in the wilderness I would have watched some episodes of Survivorman and got me some good Boy Scout books.My beef is with the movie-making. It was preachy, self-indulgent and frankly unwatchable. Hirsch isn't a bad actor (Alpha Dog was scary), but in this 2 &1/2 piece of hero worship he comes across as an Actor playing the part. Not one believable note. Not one.Penn might have done himself a favor by casting unknowns. I don't know what everybody else sees in this movie but count me among those who thought it was a stinker.


                
I am generally easy to please when it comes to films. Prior to this, the worst thing I could say about a film was that it was a bit dull. Into the Wild changed all of that. I can only imagine what the real Christopher was like, but if this is supposed to portray him in a positive light, I doubt he had many redeeming features. Every single thing he did made me hate him more. To begin with, he had a fantastic life. As the summary on this website says, he was a 'top student and athlete'. He had a decent sum of money for a student, and a family who cared for him. So what does he do? He throws all of it away on a whim. He gives his money away, destroys everything he owns and completely abandons civilisation, all without telling his family a thing. This is one of the most reckless, selfish, idiotic, inconsiderate things I have ever heard of. I understand wanting to reconnect with nature, I understand that people feel that society is too materialistic. If you want to indulge those feelings, go camping. Go on safari. Volunteer for a charity. What you do not do is throw away your entire life. And if you do decide to destroy everything you have ever achieved, you could at least have the common courtesy to tell your parents where you are. He could easily have kept in touch with his family while on his insane quest. All he accomplished by keeping quiet was making his parents fear for his life. Fear which was perfectly justified, considering the ending. On his journey into the depths of stupidity, he met several people who were inexplicably sympathetic to his situation. They offered him every opportunity to live his life with them. He had every chance to abandon his aimless wandering, but he turned them all down. Why? Because he was convinced that he knew better than everybody else. He ends up dying due to his own bottomless stupidity when he eats poisonous berries, despite the fact that he had a guidebook which told him which berries were safe to eat. Any reasonable person would consult the book BEFORE eating the mystery fruits. I hated everything about him, throughout the film my fists were usually clenched. When he died at the end of the film, I imagine the audience was supposed to cry. I laughed out loud for five minutes. I know that makes me sound like a monster, but it's the truth. If a team of psychologists and writers studied me for years on end and created a character whose sole purpose was to make me angry, they would not even come close to the blinding fury that I experienced watching this film. As terrible as this sounds, I am glad Christopher McCandless is dead.
After the first 10 or fifteen minutes of this incredibly long movie, my eyes began to glaze over - - and remained that way throughout the remaining 2 plus hours. Why did I continue to watch the rest of it? I assumed (incorrectly) that at some point something meaningful would pop up - - and/or that the pace of the movie would pick up. Unfortunately neither happened. It continued at an agonizingly slow pace and the only thing of consequence that presented itself was some attractive scenery. But I can watch scenery via virtually any of the thousands of travelogues which are available. I must echo that which another viewer observed, that this movie should have and easily could have been edited to 30 minutes or so, and have been offered by Sundance or a similar venue. Do I recommend it? Only to those who can't seem to find anything else to watch.


                
His parents pay for his education and by of thanks he heads for the territories. His first act of independence is to park his car in a cutbank in the desert, an excellent method for taking a late night muddy swim. He then wanders the land in search of truth and justice, eventually hooking up with some latter day hippies who are a little wiser but not much smarter. He calls himself a tramp but since he burned his money he's really a bum mooching his way across America . Wouldn't you just love to find this guy hanging around your favorite summer retreat mooning away for walden pond. A great beginning for a summer vacation. He and his naivete eventually arrive in the frozen wilderness of Alaska where he thinks poetry and wishful thinking will provide sustenance. This pilgrim should have stayed with his mommy.
First of all, I'd have to say that this movie is well made and well acted. That said, it's total crap. You know the plot. Self-indulgent kid with no real problems decides to chuck it all and make his way to Alaska. Apparently, he is angry at everyone and everything for no particular reason. Suffice to say, he meets his doom, freezing to death in an old bus in Alaska.There are very few movies in which I wanted to slap the protagonist and this is one of them. Does he have a problem with his parents? Not really. He feels no relationship towards them, though. A good part of the film is narrated by his sister, evidently she is writing about him in a diary or something. I felt like screaming at the screen, "Dude, even if your parents don't love you, your sister does. She misses you and wants you to come home." On a brighter note, this gets my award for the worst movie with the best soundtrack. Eddie Vedder, turning to a more Bruce Springsteen/Woody Guthrie frame of mind, wrote some outstanding tunes for the soundtrack, including "Hard Sun". I'm a huge Pearl Jam fan, have been since I was 14, and this is some of the best stuff Vedder has ever written. Get the soundtrack instead.
what a disappointment with such a great potential for a great story. What Pean has done is make a film about a loser that runs away from home and dies poisoned by his own dumbness. He didn't have an opportunity to enjoy nature and its freedom and was unsuccessful at all his attempts even tho he had all the time in the world and the books and didn't read them. The first thing anyone in the wild would do is think and find out was is poison and what is not, and certainly learning to skin animals is a rather important part of survival in the wild. the poor kid just thought knowledge would come to him through divine intervention and by giving his money away (his chicken to the church) somehow would insure happiness in paradise. This was done with either plain dumbness or laziness. He did however prove that youth is wasted on the young!
Having read many excellent negative reviews of this movie, I figured I should try to come up with a positive one. While I hated the movie myself, I can honestly highly recommend "Into the Wild" to certain people under certain conditions."Into the Wild" would make an excellent teaching tool for film professors to show their students what not to do when making a film. It turns out to be a pretty comprehensive survey. The egregious overuse of alternative camera techniques is a good cautionary tale. Folks who want to see some nostalgic camera angles that haven't been used since the original "Batman" series might be particularly pleased. Also, since there is at least 60 minutes of unnecessary footage left in the film by the editors, you could use this as an opportunity to have students edit the movie themselves.There are endless opportunities for party games you could invent around this movie. Have your party guests take a drink every time there's a cheesy camera shot or redundant voice-over or caption. You can also play "mute the film and guess the dialogue." Whoever comes closest to the actual dialogue wins, and whoever can't predict what is being said at all gets thrown out of the party.Other reviewers have already mentioned the movie's potential as a sleep aid. I don't know if I would go that far, but I think "Into the Wild" would make a great background to working out. There is something about watching a movie make the same point over and over for over 2 hours, to bad music, that reminds me of the rigors of exercise. Repetition, pain, fatigue, and ultimately relief that it's over.


                
I have to say that actors tend to write long emotional journeys...and Sean Penn wrote a long emotional journey. Unfortunately, the movie is terribly slow. Nothing happens. There are lots of montages, lots of shots of moose running around, things like that. The story just drags along. The story itself isn't too compelling. Folks tend to enjoy stories about heroes or about empowerment, not about idiots who go untrained "into the wild" of Alaska only to eat a poison plant and starve to death. 2 and a half hours is a long long time for nothing to happen. On the plus side, the performances are excellent, especially Hal Holbrook. That man is just a marvelous actor. Vince Vaughn plays the same character he plays in every movie, so no ground breaking performance there.
