I've never posted a comment regarding a movie but feel compelled to after attending a screening of Into The Wild at the Toronto Film Festival last night. I won't speak to story here as it's covered in the other comments.This is a movie of real beauty. It made me cry. I felt moved in a way that happens very rarely. It was an inspiration.The feelings it evoked were all based on the power of the acting and the writing. The words were real and human. The relationships seemed real and human. This may not seem like a great feat - but I consider it a true rarity. It didn't feel calculated and artificial, like so many movies (read: Crash - but I'm not here to bash that...). It was very organic, natural and (I can't say it enough) just beautiful. Cripes, it's making me sound like a hippie, for heaven's sake. This for me was Penn's best work since Indian Runner.What it reminded me of...Terence Malik - Herzog? - in a strange way Cassavettes? - Hal Ashby (more Coming Home than Harold & Maude...) - even a bit of Ken LoachRuby in Paradise - Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore - Five Easy Pieces - Easy Rider... but when I list those it's not because of plot similarities (though there are some) or style (although I think you can definitely see the influence of some great films) - it's again because of the heart of it. I heard a few people at the screening comment that the film was "too long" but I don't agree. I think exploring a journey of this magnitude required visiting all of the people he touched and taking the time to see the land.Hal Holbrook was just perfect, as was the cast as a whole, and I think Emile Hirsch is really going places - he was fantastic and he owned the role. Eddie Vedder's music worked perfectly as well - not distracting or quirky - just a part of the whole.The film received a standing ovation and quite a few tears were shed. Magic.


                
The sensitivity with which Krakauer captured the essence of McCandless and his adventure is extended aptly to the movie format by Sean Penn. Even if one might not be able to appreciate the purpose for Alex's journey, I don't think anyone would be able to deny that Into the Wild is a sensitive and poignant cinematic experience. There are scenes in this movie that one will never be able to forget, particularly the ending sequence. This movie will easily pull its audience into a philosophical debate for the truth about who was right and wrong isn't easy to distinguish. Sean Penn certainly doesn't try to answer those questions, questions that McCandless' life left for his family and the rest of us. Penn does well to tread a delicate objective but not indifferent line. Certainly the best movie of this year and one of the best ever made. The story, the story itself is great.


                
For a movie to be even better than a good book is no small feat. Yet, that's how I felt after watching this film. It really impressed me. One of the reasons is the fantastic cinematography. Man, this is a beautifully filmed and, at 142 minutes, there are a lot of great scenes to admire.Sean Penn directed and Eddie Gautier was the Director Of Photography. I can't stand Penn as a person but fair-is-fair and I think he's great as a director, having seen his work in "The Pledge" and "The Crossing Guard." The main actor, Emile Hirsch, who plays "Chris McCandless" (a.k.a. "Alexander Supertramp" reminded me of Leonardo DiCaprio with his looks, build and voice inflection. He is very credible as the young guy who wants nothing to do with materialistic society and dreams of living in the wilds of Alaska. The problem was that he was unprepared and underestimated what he was up against.Two people who fascinated me the most in here were two extremes, age-wise - Hal Holbrook and Kristen Stewart. It was really great to see the veteran Holbrook ("Ron France") again. He was about 82 when he made this film and hadn't acted in a film in a few years. He was terrific, too. He had some of the most memorable scenes in the story. Meanwhile, teenager Stewart was captivating as "Tracy Tatro," who had a crush on "Alex." This young woman is on her way to stardom.Brian Dierker and Catherine Keener also were really, really interesting as the aging hippie couple, "Rainey" and "Jan." I kept thinking, I know this guy when listening to Dierker's voice, finally guessing it was Jeff Bridges underneath all the beard....but it Dierker, a guy who rarely acts in films.Knowing the book, the only part of the film that caught be off-guard was the young Swedish couple. I don't remember them in the book but I'll never forget this in this film!! One could debate the pros and cons of Chris McCandless for hours, so no sense going into that here. I thought the film was pretty kind to him. You read more in the book about how he hurt a lot of people with his silence. Either way, it's a a fascinating story and a beautiful film.


                
INTO THE WILD definitely works as a film - I had read the book so I certainly knew the tragic story of this young man's life but I was blown away by the performances. In fact, to have this young talent Emile Hirsch working with the old, legendary Hal Holbrook makes the film a must see - in fact, their scene near the end in the truck is one of the best pieces of acting I have ever seen on film - Holbrook is amazing there. He deserves a Best Supporting Actor nomination (but probably won't get it). The film is by no means perfect - there are pacing problems but Penn does use the flashbacks incredibly well and the film builds power as it goes along. Hirsch is so real - I remember noticing how talented he was in the indie flick Dangerous Life Of Altar Boys and I also thought he was very good in the so-so Alpha Dog film. But Penn gets a terrific performance out of him as well as Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, Wm. Hurt, Kirsten Stewart, jena Malone and everyone else for that matter. I can see how this film might not be for every one, but I was very moved by it and days later - certain images and moments stayed with me. Penn is getting better as a filmmaker with each movie he makes.


                
I read the book in 1996. Like others, it moved me profoundly. I created a series of prints of my interpretation of Chris. I haven't read the book since.This film transported me right back to the spirit that Krakauer brought to life in the book. I spent a few years traveling alone from 1994-1996. This film reminded my why I left and why I returned. Ten years later, all grown up with all the crap, I'm haunted again by Chris. What a well done job.Thank you Sean & John. You did it right.By the way, try to catch Holly Figueroa's song "Dream in Red" inspired by Into The Wild.


                
One of the best movies I've ever seen. Beautiful, deep, true, adventurous, sad, occasionally funny, real, at times very touching. Based on a real-life novel, it is written and directed by Sean Penn. I have always loved the movie work of Sean Penn. Congratulations and thank you to Mr. Penn on giving me a few hours of though-provoking delight. Can you say Oscar? This movie says it loud and clear! The story; Christopher McCandless, just graduated from college in the early 1990s, goes off on an adventure. He is smitten with books he reads<U+0097>Thoreau, London, Byron. He wants no money, so he gives his to needy causes or burns it. Chris is cocky, driven, industrious. He is traumatized by his parents' bad marriage. He tries to work through his anguish. He seems determined to destroy himself just to prove that he has different values than his parents. He is inconsiderate of his family and keeps them worried about his whereabouts and safety, as if a single reassuring phone call would ruin his rebellion. He fancies himself a philosopher, but acts the petulant child. It is a great credit to the film that we see these character flaws in our hero. Off on the road, he makes a number of foolish choices <U+0096> and suffers from some of them. Other foolish choices, such as daring to kayak a rapid river, bring him joy. He meets a lot of people and almost all are kind to him. His interactions with people are intense, the kind you have when you are planning to run off and disappear while you are still a mysterious entity. He avoids getting too close to anyone.The movie is gorgeous. Mountains, plains, sky, rivers, animals. The acting is fantastic, totally believable. The actors are incredible and perfectly cast <U+0096> Catherine Keener as an aging hippie vagabond, Vince Vaughn as a wacky farmer growing who knows what, William Hurt as Chris' potbellied suburbanite dad, Marcia Gay Harden as the type of mom who breeds children who wants to run off to the wilderness to escape from her. Emile Hirsch plays Chris, and does a great job of it. When an actual photo of the real Chris McCandless comes on screen, we see that Hirsch resembles him. Original songs by Eddie Vedder give the right feel <U+0096> that of a well-to-do young white man heading out on a chosen adventure, getting gritty by choice. His goal is to get to Alaska, but on the way there, he hits many other states and Mexico, too.Chris is a clueless kid from the warm South. He plans to go to Alaska, yet only arrives with any needed equipment because kind folks force it upon him <U+0096> a machete, warm clothes, rubber boots. He's highly educated and gets good grades, yet, early on his trip, ignores a big sign that warns of flash floods. That prepares us that we are going to wince many times at his low level of common sense, while at the same time reveling in his physical strength and willingness to press on. At one point, Chris passes through Los Angeles. He is dirty, hungry, tired, and goes to a downtown mission shelter. The other men there are also dirty, hungry, and tired, but not of their own choosing. It is not their adventure, it is their life. He realizes fast that he does not want to feel categorized with men who are in dire straits due to misfortune and not due to following their own adventure. The movie shows Chris as an honorable young man. I do not want to give away any of the plot, so I'll just say <U+0096> the young man has principles and so does the movie.A few parts of the movie confused me. After Chris's college graduation, he meets h is parents at a restaurant. He brings with him a lovely young woman, obviously his date. Weirdly, it turns out that she is his sister! There is more confusion when Chris picks up work on a farm run by Wayne, the Vince Vaughn character. What are they growing or doing? What's up? There is an unintentionally funny scene where an old man tells Chris that he does not have time for adventures because he is too busy with leather. I thought the old guy was confessing being into whips and chaps. But no, he has a workshop where he tools leather. There were a couple spots where the editing distracted from the movie. I saw a preview; maybe it was a rough cut. There's a scene on the farm where a triple screen is used <U+0096> like a cheesy commercial. Another scene, where Chris is eating an apple, is a series of jump cuts, which I really liked. It seemed an homage to French auteur filmmakers. But it ends with Chris mugging at the camera. With it, Sean Penn breaks the believability and acknowledges that yes, this is just us making a movie. There is another part where Chris is in a car with the older man who is dropping him off. As they pull up, there is an inexplicable cutaway shot of what looks to be the head of a cannon. Much of the movie is like a travel montage or music video involving mountains and sky. The scenes are so beautiful. I know people that have elements of Chris in them. And I think I've met all the characters he runs into out on the road.
Honestly let me just say this 1st Sean Pean made this story come to life, true life in every moment in the film. This movie has nothing wrong with it, it is perfect in every way shape and form. He did something that brought me to something I never could understand of what either i have to do or what i need to do in my life. If you want a movie from the heart this is it, if you want a movie of love this is it, if you want a movie with real life emotions well this is all of them. Its long but you'll probably want more when you don't want to leave your seat and just live in the moment of they story. So from my heart to yours this movie will speak to you know matter what.


                
How can you describe a film like Into the Wild? One of the greats & by far my favourite film of all time. The only film I have ever seen which manages to capture the true spirit of adventure. The beauty of Into the Wild for me is that what Christopher McCandless is running from is never as important as what he is running to. Sean Penn has directed this film with magnificent precision and imaginative grace. Every scene, every image used in this film tells it's own story and the countless people Chris meets along the way are as magical and integral to his journey as his survival in the wilderness. I love the beautiful simplicity of this film and how it has captured nature in both it's breathtaking and dangerous forms so perfectly.Emile Hirsch is a sensational actor and helps make Into the Wild what it is. His acting is totally believable, and the story often trips along with him silently acting, using nothing but his body and facial expressions to put across emotions and thoughts. A perfect cast alongside Emile, including the likes of Jena Malone, Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, Kristen Stewart and Hal Holbrook, all help make Into the Wild an enjoyable watch.Into the Wild has a very special quality to it, something which I can't quite put my finger on. It is a culmination of things, from the beautiful imagery, the fantastic script, the amazing cast, the often mesmerising quotations and of course the feeling of adventure and of true freedom. It is a unique vision into the life of a young man searching for himself in a dangerous environment who comes to realise that the true meaning of happiness may not be what he first thought. I highly recommend this film. It is one that will stay with your for a long long time.


                
Sean Penn's Into the Wild is beautiful, staggering, thoughtful, a labor of love made by a filmmaker with real passion for the story he set out to tell. Like a Terrence Malick picture, Into the Wild transcends any conception such as "if you only see one film this year" and goes beyond the very notion of "Oscar-worthy". If one really has to say something on the subject, then Into the Wild should have shared the Best Picture award with No Country for Old Men, but that kind of thinking is besides the point because Penn's masterpiece is more than a movie, or a work of art for that matter: it's a life experience.A rebel at heart, Penn clearly identifies, at least on a few levels, with the film's unconventional protagonist, a bright young boy named Christopher McCandless (Emile Hirsch), whose astounding true story was first recounted in Jon Krakauer's book which gives the picture its title. Christopher had it all: loving parents (William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden) and sister (Jena Malone), excellent grades and a most promising future. Then, one fine day the 20-year old college graduate decided that wasn't really what he wanted, took his law school fund and disappeared, setting out for a journey to the heart of America. "I'm going into the wild" the self-renamed Alex Supertramp wrote in his journal, and though he occasionally ran into people (Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn and others) he would connect with in a deeper way, that's where he really belonged: away from civilization, just him, his elementary tools and the pure, untarnished nature surrounding him.Christopher's journey, which is carried out with just the basic resources one needs to survive (no cell phone or other gadgets), is a modern odyssey of sorts, a quest for something that was lost forever and won't be found in the near future. In a world like ours, where technology rules all, a choice like Christopher's would be met with disbelief and probably derision. That only heightens the intensity of the character's message, which is also what the director aims to tell us: we need to rediscover ourselves before it's too late. It doesn't matter whether we are young or old, as the protagonist touchingly teaches an elderly man (Hal Holbrook, the only cast-member to be nominated for an Oscar), the important thing is we give it a serious try.To simply call this a film isn't enough: in one of the most amazing combinations of efforts in the history of movie-making, the story, Penn's soulful direction, Hirsch's painfully real performance (will he ever be this good again?) and Eddie Vedder's elegiac songs (an essential soundtrack for any true film-lover) merge into something that's almost too powerful to describe in words: you have to see it to believe it.Into the Wild isn't an "easy" film: it will leave you very affected, possibly devastated, but also as enriched as one can ever be after seeing a genuine masterwork. It will ignite real thoughts about life instead of the phony reflections so many "issue movies" try to induce. It will hit the gut, the heart and the mind in equal measure, and once the initial wave of emotional overflow has passed you will feel immensely rewarded. Into the Wild does this because it isn't merely a motion picture: it is art, life, freedom and nature, all together in a mesmerizing piece of visual poetry.


                
This is a great movie, which makes you think of your life. I don't know why did I cry so hard when I saw this movie. Maybe the character Christopher (Alex) resembled my own life. And I think, it resembles the life of every guy to a certain extent, as everyone of us go for escapism at some points of our life due to various pressures. This movie shows the life of a man who leaves every thing, absolutely everything and go for an ultimate and pure escapism, and what does he learn and realize at the end. With awesome Eddie Vedder's track throughout the movie, this movie is enlightening as well as entertaining and a very important movie.


                
I knew nothing of Christopher McCandless or the book of his life or even anything about this movie until I was sitting in the cinema. The only thing I knew is that Sean Penn was directing and having been very impressed with his gut-wrenching, if incredibly downbeat, The Pledge I was pretty much guaranteed to like this film. My guess turned out to be extremely correct.Alexander Supertramp (that's Emile Hirsch as McCandless folks) is a man with no attachments. Having been raised in a loveless household by parents who only wish for him to 'or-din-ary' things he entertains them as far as graduating college but escapes to the country as soon as the diploma is in his hands.His dream is to explore the land with no ID, no money and no chance of being found by those who might want to interfere with his mission of reaching peaceful seclusion in a remote corner of Alaska. Along the way he touches many lives, some brief, some profound and gains experience and character that some might never have even if they lived to a hundred.Sean Penn's photography and affection for nature give this film an overall gorgeous look. It is surely one of the most uniquely composed films of the year. He reminds me a lot of Clint Eastwood as an actor who can also direct fine movies and encourage impressive performances out of his cast. Pretty much everybody here is on top form, even Vince Vaughn manages to shake off the taint of those tawdry 'frat pack' comedies and play a genuine character for once.But Hal Holbrook as old Ron Franz really is a standout. I've never seen a more heartfelt or touching performance in so long. If he doesn't earn an Academy Award come Oscar-time then there ain't no justice in the world. I think it's great that Sean Penn brought Holbrook (now 82) back for such an important and thought-provoking role. If you don't shed a tear for him then you have no soul.Don't con yourself out of a good movie. It may have a limited release but Into the Wild is a film worth taking time out to see. Since I live in the UK, the story of Christopher McCandless (which appears to be some sort of true urban legend in America) is not well known here. I guess that having no expectations of the film made me enjoy it on the right level. Definitely something I will be tracking down on HD DVD when it's released.PSI broke my tooth while watching this movie. Just ordinary chewing gum took a big chip out of one of my molars.


                
Sean Penn has done what so few screen writers have been able to do; take an impeccable book, and make an impeccable movie from it, while retaining the integrity of the original story. The cinematography was first rate and Emille Hersch' performance was jaw dropping. Pay attention academy. I can say honestly, as an insider in the movie industry and as a general fan of moving pictures going back to the zoetrope, this was the best movie I have ever seen. Go. See. It. Take your family, take your friends, take you co-workers, take your yogi, fly your peace corps cousin in from Chad and take him. Just go see it. But more importantly than just sitting there and watching it; take something from it. Walk away having a new outlook. Realize thats its people like Chris McCandless that keep the human spirit alive, and that this facade we have created around us...its not real. Go, live.


                
(My Synopsis) Based on the true story of 22 year-old Christopher McCandless (Emile Hirsch) a.k.a. Alexander Supertramp, gives his entire savings to charity after he graduates with honors from Emory, and begins his journey and great adventure into the wild. Chris believes that he can life off the land and that he doesn't need any money to do that. He had a goal of testing himself to the fullest by heading into the wilds of Alaska and surviving alone. It took Chris about two years to finally make it to Alaska, and along the way he meets a series of colorful people that he had never before encountered through his privileged life. His quest to learn more about the American culture took him from the wheat harvest in South Dakota to a kayak trip down the Colorado River into Mexico, and Slab City, California, before he finally makes it to Alaska. Once in Alaska, Chris must battle for his life against the harsh reality of nature in an abandoned bus.(My Comment) This isn't a happy movie, but it is an emotionally wrenching and thought provoking story that will make you think. It is about our society, family, idealism, and nature; most of all it is about the romanticism of youth and the tragic consequences of an unforgiving and dangerous wilderness. Chris left everything behind to find something pure in the world, or the meaning of life, or just himself by pushing the limits into the wilderness. During his two wandering years, Chris learns from every person he meets and adds something to his overall experience and the tools he will need to survive. The only problem with that is Chris went into the wilderness without ample preparation. Too little knowledge and experience will get you killed, especially, in Alaska. Considering Chris' intelligence and resources he had with him, it seems that he was very foolish, naive, and youthfully stupid.While Chris was in the "magic bus" the movie takes us back and forth in time and explains his dysfunctional family life and his earlier travels during his last two-years. I would have preferred the movie be shown in chronological order and not with so many flashbacks. Emile Hirsch gives an absorbing, completely believable performance as Chris. Hirsch deserves a lot of credit, because he sacrificed and gave of himself to the role. Hirsch lost a lot of weight during the movie to show that Chris was starving to death, and Hirsch will probably receive an Oscar for his performance. It is a long movie, so get ready for it before it starts, because you can't leave your seat until the very end. The story has a tragic ending, but it was beautiful and profound at the same time. At the end of the movie, they show a picture of Chris that was taken by him in front of the bus, and we see that Hirsch resembles him, which is uncanny. (Paramount Vantage, Run time 2:20, Rated R)(10/10)


                
I don't usually watch movies like this, but I walked into a room last and it was on. I honestly had no idea what I was looking at except that I saw Vince Vaughn and Emile Hirche (I'm sure that is spelled wrong). Into the Wild was spectacular, breathtaking and compelling to say the least. I sat and watched it with my home girls and we were all three enthralled by it. The messages behind the movie, the acting done by Johnny Truelove, it was outstanding. The only thing I'd ever heard of the movie is that older gentleman was nominated for an Oscar, and it's a shame he didn't win it, I was pushed to tears at the end of his performance. I highly recommend this movie to anybody, its a movie to make you think about your life. I was shocked.


                
1.) Sean Penn is an outstanding actor, however his directing skills in this outshine any performance he has given. Emile Hirsch gives an outstanding performance (something hard to come by in such young actors) in this emotionally life changing film. I don't know why the academy did not recognise it or why Hirsch has not been approached by other filmmakers for his staggeringly good acting skills. 2.) The cinematography, location filming and art-house (but not too surreal) direction is perhaps the best I've seen, ever. 3.) The story is true which makes the film even more powerful and emotionally charging (cryable). 4.) The co-stars are all outstanding despite not getting a lot of screen time. 5.) before this film I had never heard of how Chris macandles gave his life's savings to charity and went into the wild. And finally the script/ journey itself is phenomenal and the moral of the film and everything Macandles stood for is so true. it will open your eyes to the true meaning of life.


                
This film moved me, and being one of the many that sees more films than I can remember-this is one I will never forget. Chris spent 2 years traveling around the US meeting strangers that became his friends/his family. When you met Chris, it's apparent that he was one of those people you never forgot. His interactions with Rainey and Jan (Brian Dierker and Catherine Keener) were some of the most touching scenes that warmed me from the cold scenes showing what Chris endured while he was alone up in Alaska. We've all had someone we didn't want to say goodbye to, and this film is filled with moments/feelings so true to life that it touches you.I think when a film embodies that type of connection with its audience it's more than done it's job.The picture combined with the perfect music of Eddie Vedder made this film an experience-I only wish I could see more of this caliber of work.
Sean Penn directed and wrote an excellent film about a young boy named Chris (played by Emile Hirsh) who literally gave away all of his money and went off on an adventure to try to identify with himself and leave behind the world that he couldn't fit in. During the adventure he relates to many people that help guide him to his long journey to Alaska where he will live alone Into the Wild.Perhaps it's the fact that I can relate to Chris's character myself where I feel like I can't live like everyone else with the 9 to 5 lifestyle. The pressure of everyday beats down on you where you just want to leave everything but don't have the courage to do so. I consider Chris McCandless a hero and perhaps one day I can break out of this shell and be free just as he does in the film.Eddie Vedder's soundtrack was perfect for the film. I'll admit that Pearl Jam is my favorite band (I wish I could see Rats live), but it doesn't mean that Vedder could screw up a film. In this case, he was completely on. The song society is my personal favorite. The lyrics are right on to the film's message.All the supporting performances were great. Vince Vaughn (not being a fan) was the biggest surprise to me as he was very good for the role. You'll see other familiar faces such as Catherine Keener, Marcia gay Harden, and Kristen Stewart. Interestingly Hal Holbrook was nominated for an Oscar even though he wasn't in the film until an hour and forty-five minutes later.This will easily make my top three favorite films of 2007.My verdict, 9.5/10


                
Let's talk about a chef d'oeuvre,I've seen so many good movies, but very less perfect movies. Into The Wild IS a perfect movie : perfect images, perfect main actor, perfect acting, perfect music, perfect message.Everybody should watch this film, it pictures a model of a philosophic path to happiness. My English is not so good, I'm sorry, I'm French.I just don't want to tell more about this great experience. Just watch this movie in a real theater, or at least on a very big HD screen, because the message of this story is very closely linked with the absolute natural beauty of the United States of America. The wildness.This movie made me definitely decide to realize my dream : crossing America from East to West by foot. I'm actively preparing my trip since six months, hoping to make it real in two years (got some money to gather !). But I've understood the lesson : "happiness only real when...Love you,Bruno


                
I went into the debut screening of Into the Wild, expecting a two and a half hour snooze fest... I ate my words within the first five minutes of the movie! I truly believe that you can feel when your in the presence of greatness... I felt it when I saw the world premiere of Crash three years ago, in the exact same theater and I felt it once again watching Into the wild.Emile Hirsh gives a gripping performance as John McCandess, at times it felt as though I was watching an incredible documentary. I never once though of him as an actor portraying a character but instead it almost felt life like! He deserves Mr. Oscar and so does Penn just for the stunning imagery alone.Hal Holbrook melted my heart and his performance brought tears to my eyes- he is incredible, yet maybe shared 15 minutes of the screen time. I cannot say enough about him- sheer genius casting. Catherine Keener shined in her role as the hippie mom type, to which I think she deserves to be considered in the Supporting Actress category.Eddie Vedder brings each scene come alive with his perfectly place music.Go see this movie it will change your life- the underlying themes and true life premise make you rethink what is possible in life. John Mc Candess was a hero in his own right and Emile Hirsh is trying to tell the whole world with this performance. Trust me you wont be disappointed!


                
I've read a lot of professional and amateur reviews for this film, and about half begin with, "This film is just about some spoiled brat with high hopes and no brains!" And I would say "Yes, it is, BUT...", because by the end the main character completes a 'character arc'.You have to remember that Chris McCandless was young and motivated by the idea that rejecting the materialistic ideology of the Western society he was raised in, his parents overbearing superficialness and unhappy domestic history would attain freedom. This motivated him to go and find freedom in the wild, specifically, Alaska. However, before he gets to Alaska he hitchhikes for two years and meets a series of influential characters. A lot of the time these characters provide comic relief, but when Chris leaves them after forming an emotional bond, you realise that he isn't a great person and that these characters serve to indicate this selfish aspect of Chris' character. But that's okay - you don't have to like Chris! But that said, Chris is hard not to like; when you strip away all his selfish actions you get a handsome and charming man.However, you have to accept as a viewer that Chris was real, and all *real* people are flawed. He does selfish things, he hurts people and people hurt him. That is life. But he is not all bad, none of us are! If you look for the good you will find it - sometimes he's quite a decent guy.Sean Penn has structured the film in several chapters that ascend like this, "Birth", "Manhood" etc. I'm not sure if I liked this aspect of the film. On one hand, it gives Chris' journey another dimension i.e. His journey encapsulates the journey we all go through in our lives. But sometimes I thought it was a little too ambitious to apply that to one man's idealistic and eventually fatal adventure. I also hated how the main title "Into The Wild" morphed from cool yellow handwriting into ugly green block letters - perhaps it was meant to symbolise the rejection of aesthetic comforts? But some aspects of the film I did really like, such as the sensitive and touching voice-over of Chris' sister during the film. In that way, there are three narratives running simultaneously through the film: Chris' family (represented by his sister's voice-over and flashbacks), Chris' hitchhiking adventures (used to show aspects of his character), and Chris in Alaska (the real trial of his adventure, providing many climaxes in the movie, and the final stage of his character arc). This structure is very sophisticated I think (opposed to some reviewers who call the film 'confused' and 'jumbled'), and really draws us deeper into the film.While some people can't be drawn in by how repulsed they are by this rich kid's selfishness and typical anti-society 'tude, the ending serves to change your mind. Chris goes out there to get freedom, because he thinks: Freedom = Happiness However, he realises that happiness must be shared for it to mean anything. He also discards the immature alias he gave himself when he was still an ideologically motivated idiot - Alexander Supertramp - and realises everything must be called by its right name, and accepts himself for who he is - Chris McCandless. In the end, this film evolves into a touching coming-of-age story, having been a riveting adventure story, road movie and family drama.Now for technical aspects of the film (it deserves at least five stars for this alone!) - beautiful cinematography; the shots of Alaska are incredible. The acting - Emile Hirsh is absolutely perfect. There are no Oscar moments; the performance as a whole is complete, perfect and understated. Some of his improvisations are hilarious. The supporting actors are all brilliant, especially Hal Holbrook as Mr. Franz and Kristen Stewart as the young, horny singer Tracy. Chris' partings with Hal Holbrook and Tracy are the most heart-wrenching. Chris rejects a flourishing romantic relationship for his freedom. This makes his realisation that he needs to share it even sadder.My final opinion on the film is that it is well-made, and deserves to be respected, just for all the hard work that has gone into it. Hirsch's dedication to the role and Penn's dedication and sensitivity to the story and Chris' memory. There's only three things left that concern me: 1) The representation of Chris as a hero/Jesus. There were moments when I thought Penn was casting Chris as too much of a heroic figure, when we have to remind ourselves that he wasn't - he was young, motivated and ill-prepared. As much as it pains me to say this insensitive-sounding statement, I have to: his death does not make him a hero. If he had come back alive, would there be a film? I worry about these things. What if the river had NOT become so wide and Chris had been able to return? What if Chris had come back and integrated into society? Would there be a film? 2) His family's involvement in the making of the film - how much power did they have? Have they changed representations of themselves? How objective is this film? Objectivity can never be achieved, but I worry if the family made themselves look better for the film. I think the character arc I see concerning Chris' parents is very likely to have really occurred, but how do I know for sure? I don't know.3) Hypocrisy? Is Chris a hypocrite for living in an abandoned bus in Alaska? No, because it wasn't his goal to abandon modern technology, it was his goal to abandon the restrictions of a superficial society, such as having a definite identity and set future.P.S. I haven't read the book; I'm judging the film on its own merits.
I've read through the User Comments and have found a variety of opinions about the film, Chris McCandless and the book from which Sean Penn adapted his film. McCandless was certainly no hero and the Forest Service in Alaska has been quite blunt in their feelings about a young man going into the wilderness without ample preparation. I can only offer my own opinion, which is of the film itself.As a stellar example of film-making, I loved this movie and found it to be beautiful in every respect as well as immensely touching. The acting was excellent without exception. Emile Hirsch (according to an interview with Penn) put everything he had into the role and I believe that this young man will have a bright future as an actor. To me, the other standout was Hal Holbrook. I've already posted my thoughts in the Forum about the heart breaking farewell scene between Ron (Holbrook) and Chris (Hirsch). I'm in my mid 70s and I really felt Ron's aching pain at having to say goodbye to someone who brought joy to his lonely life. This film and especially that scene have stayed with me ever since I saw it several days ago.I expect that "Into the Wild" will garner some Oscar nominations (actor, supporting actor, director, cinematography, score) and will most likely win a few. It's one of the best movies that I've seen this year.
This was an inspirational movie and i hope Sean Penn gets the recognition he deserves for making such a real movie - which is a a rarity to see in Hollywood. I just spent 5 years on the road travelling non stop around the world doing something similar and wondering what to do with my experiences - and this movie inspired me to write about them and perhaps make a movie. So i am grateful to experience such a piece of art and a person whose life was and is truly of an free spirit epic adventurer.thanks again for sharing.peace and love! :)


                
After a summer of terrible movie experiences, Into the Wild gave a large theater full of Santa Barbarians a pleasant surprise! After reading Krakauers first two books, it was hard to expect the translation would come through as vividly and honestly as seen tonight. One of the most poignant roles was that of Franz, played by Hal Holbrook- who deserves a nod, solely on the basis that he made me cry. This film should touch a nerve in everyone, especially those of us who escaped dis-functional family homes. Really who could blame Christopher? Bravo to the real Chris and bravo x 10 to his on screen actor- Emile Hirsch. The soundtrack was also perfectly tied to the film. Tonight my friend and I needed a reality check, feeling out of balance and unfocused...this film will certainly put your life back in perspective and may even plant the seed of escapism in your minds, as it did ours. Sean Penn- Oscar is written in the stars- again!
It's difficult and limiting to review such an emotionally engaging movie: it's a movie that can only be lived and lived again, the viewer just has to let it penetrate into his soul, mind and body. It's a movie that empties you in order to let you be reborn to a new life, at least to a new perception of what life and happiness are, and what has nothing to do with them. The depth and intensity of the experiences lived by Chris, as much extreme as the lands he visits (which provide an ideal and spectacular scenario for them), give evidence of such anxiety of life and truth, which go beyond the mistakes made by the young boy. Chris is, of course, a victim of an age which makes you believe the necessity to pursue the ideal, in an absolute way, never considering the opposite necessity to come to terms with real life, often hostile, misleading, which provides false values of materialistic happiness, but from which escaping is not always the most constructive attitude. However, his escape will prove to be almost therapeutic to him, since only at the very end of his physical, but also spiritual, and very painful, journey, will the young boy be able to understand the preciousness of true human relations, those which make you long for a human being you can share happiness with, as well as any other human feeling. The emotionally powerful soundtrack by Eddie Vedder helps to let the movie enter, gently but inexorably, into the very inner core of your soul, stirring such strong emotion inside, that the viewer finds it difficult to translate it into words. The word, however powerful and deep, fails when trying to rationalize the strong emotional engagement: you just have to allow yourself to be overcome by it and leave words aside, as too limited and limiting. It's one of those movies which really gets under your skin and cannot but alter your vision of life, forever. A pure and rare pearl within the cinematography of this century, and, I would say, of all times.


                
Thought-provoking, moving, caring, TRUTH. These, along with many other adjectives come to mind when a movie like this is presented to us in such a beautiful way. An adventure ourselves, we come to know Chris, a boy searching for himself, to becoming a man with wisdom. This movie can almost change your way of thinking about life. Your decisions, what you strive for. And Chris does it. He lives for adventure. Not cautions, not society, not materials. For adventure. If you have the chance, see this movie in theaters. Our town of Mobile, Alabama got fortunate enough to get this movie. It's crafted wonderfully by Sean Penn and I thank all who was involved for putting this movie together. I enjoyed it greatly.


                
