Besides the cinematography and music I completely hated Into The Wild. The following is a list that expresses this hatred toward the glorification of Chris Mccandless, a mentally unstable kid who runs away from home. Spoilers. 1. Chris teaches us that when you have problems at home, just run away. 2. Apparently he and his sister are the only kids to ever have to deal with fighting parents. 3. How could he just leave his sister? He obviously loved her and took care of her. But no, he leaves her there with his psycho parents. Never writes her or anything. 4. He was too scared to stand up to his father. He just ran and hid when his dad hit his mother. 5. He turned down a brand new car from his parents to keep a piece of crap. 6. "I don't need money." Umm lets see he needed money for a kayak. He worked for Vince Vaughn and Burger King for money so he could make it to Alaska. Just a little hypocritical there. 7. Apparently being a free-spirit makes you an expert kayaker. 8. Everyone he meets is the absolutely nicest person you could ever meet. 9. The male hippie's lines are laughably bad. 10. Male hippie tells Chris that he and female hippie are not doing good. Chris talks to male hippie for about 20 seconds and then goes swimming with female hippie. Male and female hippie go back to being completely in love. 11. The amount of times the word "Alaska" is uttered is just annoying. 12. Without the abandoned school bus he would have made it about a week. 13. Living in an abandoned school bus is not exactly living off the land, forgetting society. He slept on a friggin cot, had a place for a fire, and had sufficient shelter. 14. Man. Sitting there by yourself in an abandoned bus in the freezing cold. That's living man. Wow. 15. He thought he could make it in the Alaskan wilderness with no map. 16. His story is basically now a tale of what not to do with your life. 17. The only real thing he learned from his adventure is that "Happiness is only real when shared." Umm ya think? There's probably other ridiculous stuff from this movie that I forgot about. This movie makes this kid into some kind of hero when the only thing he accomplished was committing suicide.
I'm amazed at some of the press I've read about this movie an it's main character. I watched the movie because I thought it was going to be about a guy who takes off to live in the wilds of Alaska. I assumed it would be about his preparation and chock full of information about how he did it. I didn't realize it was a true story until the end. Boy was I let down. The entire movie is about some selfish brat who disappeared without so much as a postcard or phone call to his mother or sister. His animosity towards his father might excuse letting dad know about where he was, but his mom and sister? That's about as self centered as you can get, which leads me to doubt the films integrity concerning the family dynamics and Chris's relationship with his father. Whatever his reasons for doing that to Dad, doing it to the rest of his family is sick.According to the Wikipedia entry, and a couple other articles I've read online, there is absolutely no evidence that he poisoned himself by eating the wrong plant (as depicted in the film). He starved to death, plain and simple, because he wasn't prepared for what he encountered in Alaska. If the filmmaker manufactured that, then perhaps he manufactured a few other things too. One mile from where he tried to cross the river was a manually operated tram he could have used to cross. If he had explored a little, or bothered to bring a map, he would have known about it. Intead of being a wonderful story about a guy going to Alaska to live off the land, it's a story of a self-centered brat, whose parents gave him everything, so he gave his money to charity and disappears without a trace, tearing his family's hearts out. Oh yeah, he had a pretty cool cross country adventure which I'm sure his family would have loved to hear about.He should have died in the Colorado river, and saved me about 45 minutes of waiting for him to get to the Alaskan wilderness.Maybe a younger person, or somebody without children, would find something else in this movie. I tried but couldn't do it.
Saw this movie last night with BAFTA - before I go any further, let me just say that the cinematography is amazingly beautiful and "big".The comments from another reviewer about the "shocking random human nudity" baffled me. If you would find the brief sight of a flaccid willy, a topless female sunbather and a 2-second distance shot of a bunch of naturists shocking, then beware! But there was nothing of a sexual nature, and nothing I would not allow my 6 year old grandson to see.Other than the above comments, I am afraid I have mainly negatives.This is the story of a privileged young college graduate who studied various calamities in Africa as part of his schooling. His only personal calamity is that he has parents who have been less than truthful to him about their family history, and who have the audacity to argue in front of him during his childhood. He appears to want some personal angst so badly that he uses this to fuel his requirement for his own "personal issues".In order to "understand his true nature" (yuk!) he drops out of the education system and goes walkabout in the wilds - another prime motive for which appears to be to punish his parents for their sin of being less than truthful to him during his upbringing.I do not think a European audience will warm to the story of such a self-indulgent, cruel character who appears to have no empathy for the people he emotionally hurts, and at 150 minutes I almost felt I had gone through a trial equal to that undergone by the character in the film.What I also do not get is the big deal about living in the wilderness - replete with hunter's rifle, gas lighters and various other technological accoutrements including a derelict bus. Again, another America-centric theme: this time of "frontiersmanship" I would suggest.Finally, I would say that the lack of empathy I felt for the character meant that the narrative did not touch me or make me care about his fate - and the way Emile Hirsch occasionally played to the camera, like a fly-on-the-wall reality show, broke the spell of "suspending belief" that is so critical in allowing yourself to be immersed in the story - it suddenly reminded me that I was merely watching a film All-in-all, I would recommend steering clear.


                
I felt Krakauer's story was compelling enough. For Sean Penn to throw such fictionalized crap into the mix, it is hard to accept.McCandless was barely developed as a character and what we see is a very self-absorbed, humorless, one-dimensional kid. Penn's anti-government views are unnecessarily thrown into the movie--the rude ranger at Lee's Ferry and the sheriff's boat blasting their siren through the Grand Canyon, unable to catch up to a kayaker, sure. The idea of McCandless pushing his kayak on a shopping cart 42 miles from Page to Lee's Ferry was also absurd. The whole kayak-through-the-Grand-Canyon story line was totally unfathomable. How many idiots will try it now? As was Wayne Westerberg getting busted by the FBI (for what--driving his combine too fast? Why does Vince Vaughn have to be in every goddamn movie?), McCandless burning all his money yet holding on to his gold watch, (all vagabonds who are rejecting society need to know the exact time), McCandless riding the rails, (stereotypical "bull" encounter--but did McCandless ever hop a train? I don't think so), McCandless not giving Ron a hug or at least a handshake when he said goodbye to him, McCandless hiking up his belt another notch about fifty times (must be losing weight, duh), McCandless not having a discernible personality, McCandless about to phone his parents but thinking the better of it (what was the point of that?) Also hard to believe was McCandless not banging the Tracy chick (Tolstoy would have banged her!) This must be Penn's version of McCandless deification, that he was too "moral" to bang a hot chick in the middle of the desert.The hippie couple and Tracy were good actors. Hal Holbrook, good to see he's still alive. Emile Hirsch at least looked like McCandless, good to see Sean Penn didn't turn him into a Haitian stowaway or a guy with scissorhands. Hard to understand why he was mugging for the camera, though. The whacked-out Danish couple on remote beach seemed realistic. There are lots of nude and nearly nude European tourists running around remote parts of the American west. That was the movie's biggest connection with me.Eddie Vedder's soundtrack was totally forgettable. You suck, dude. I guess we should be thankful Helen Reddy wasn't Sean Penn's buddy in the music industry, eh? Too bad no "Travelin' Man"/Bob Seger, "Ramble On"/Led Zep, even some old '70's Jackson Browne or '60's Byrds would have helped. And since McCandless was out there during the pinnacle of the grunge era, some music from that period also seemed required. "King of the Road"/Roger Miller was the only tune that fit.McCandless in LA, McCandless catching a train out of LA, McCandless getting beat up by the "bull", McCandless having a weird Sean Penn moment where he imagines he is Leonardo DiCaprio at a Hollywood party ... I doubt any of those things ever actually happened. And like I said, I thought the original story was compelling enough.Good to see The Gap (S of Page) and the road leading down to Lee's Ferry on the big screen, but I doubt McCandless ever went down it. There wasn't any particular shot that came close to capturing the real essence of hitching, and what a freaking shame. McCandless can't even say "thanks for the ride". Stunning how Sean Penn can make a movie about the most famous hitchhiker of our lifetime and not have even one consultant on the set who has ever hitched.The scene where McCandless mocks elderly man Ron for not making the "most" of his life left a particularly bad taste in my mouth. If someone puts you up overnight for an extended time and wants to adopt you, be gracious about it, not a sanctimonious jerk. I'm sure Chris McCandless' parents were thrilled to see their son depicted this way.Also hard to believe is that no one came forward during the making of the movie to further clarify McCandless' journey. No rides in Canada, nothing. Rather than fictionalize what may have happened that Krakauer didn't unearth in his research, Penn fictionalizes what did happen. In reality, McCandless kayaked from below Parker Dam to the Sea of Cortez through relatively tame Colorado River waters. Penn has him negotiating class 4 rapids in the heart of the Grand Canyon--a total sell-out to attract the extreme sport crowd.Closing shot totally ridiculous. The river looks to be about ankle deep, and it's flowing from the wrong direction. No attempt by McCandless to even cross the river. What a joke.From what I read, McCandless in real life was a congenial guy, a great bar person. He had a joie de vivre for hitching and meeting other people. He wasn't the single-minded, Alaska-obsessed prick that Penn makes him out as being. That's what I choose to believe. Shame on Sean Penn for not illuminating us more as to who Chris McCandless actually was.Krakauer's version of ending with Billie and Walt McCandless helicoptering in to visit the bus was gut-wrenching enough for me. Too bad it wasn't good enough for Sean Penn, that great Hollywood visionary.
Biographies are usually about people we wish we had known, people whose lives were of great significance or filled with drama. I think of Patton or Laurence of Arabia or many others. I am sure as movie fans that you can fill in the blanks. Now Sean Penn offers us Christopher McCandless. Who? Was his life a subject for cinema? Let's see. He lived a boring uneventful life tooling around in the wild for a while (should be some dramatic music here) usually by mooching off others or off the technology and civilization he abhorred. He created nothing. He changed nothing. He shaped nothing. He selfishly and thoughtlessly abandoned his family including a sister who loved him and never did him a bit of harm. He managed to walk away from everyone who ever cared about him or wanted to befriend him or help him. He had that always charming arrogance of those who believe they have all the answers to life that us lesser people just can't see. We insist on having a shower in the morning and not having lice in our hair or stinking. More the fools us. Apparently smelling back and hopping freight trains is some king of revelation of truth. If only we would abandon all this modern science and technology and just pee on a tree or look at a mountain. There has always been a cult that believed the secret was to run away. Somehow wasting your life doing nothing is better than spending it trying to actually contribute something. Just be. Just breathe. That's the ticket. Well that is the difference between us and animals. We try to do something, to learn something and make something and we fail and we try again. We do not run away. Why would anyone want to spend over two hours watching this pathetic loser destroy himself. It is like watching grizzly man. One is just waiting and let's be honest, hoping for a bear to get hungry and the real truth to be revealed. Like the grizzly, the wild is not your friend. It is beautiful to look at but you do not belong there. It will kill you for just that reason. Good bye Christopher. Let's hope there is no sequel.
This film was a massive disappointment given the high rating on IMDb. The characters do not come across well and don't encourage any empathy. The relationships between the lead character and the people that he meets on his trip are overly sickly sweet and seem to happen overnight and don't feel credible at all. It is sad that this film is based on a true story given the outcome and the lack of communication with his family, but ultimately it is not a particularly good film and I wouldn't say the acting was anything particularly commendable. I would describe this as a fairly weak 'coming of age' film with higher pretensions, and the only difference being is that it has a sad and unfortunate ending.
Okay, a rating of 3 might be a bit harsh. But this review is more as a warning to people who are not necessarily into the slow moving, abstract, philosophical kind of movie. This is the type that might be awarded an Oscar for its artsy approach, but that most people will find dull and extremely boring. The plot, without spoiling too much, is about a guy traveling on the road, meeting people along the way. It essentially flips between scenery shots of him just walking, spouting indistinguishable poetry, and then ten to fifteen minute encounters with people he immediately hits it off with, before he wanders again. It has like 7-8 of these talking sessions, over more than a 2 hour duration.The main character cites poetry throughout much of the movie when he is alone, which I guess appeals to people who fancy spending their free time reading poetry. It leaves it up to you to find meaning in them, but to be honest, with such a slow pacing movie, many will likely find themselves bored, and poetry works best when you are intrigued and excited initially.In the end, this movie is about trying to make the audience read into the emotions of a wandering loner who has discarded all his belongings and connections. If you are not the kind of guy or girl who likes to intensely try to find subtle meanings to everything, when they are not even necessarily there, this movie will be quite empty and slow moving. Basically, those who enjoy typical "Oscar" style movies where the producer tries his best to put in as much "art" on expense of "content" and "moving story line", will enjoy this. People who are in for a fun watch, or a watch of concrete substance without having to literally work themselves to add meaning to every small thing that happens, should simply avoid. It won't give you anything whatsoever.
I went into this film knowing nothing about it apart from its synopsis thinking that this would turn out to be a good film, and for the first 15-20 minutes it looked that way. However, the longer this film went on, the more apparent it became that the central character was essentially a ''man child" who takes the literature he reads too literally. Throughout the film, he makes countless of irresponsible and reckless decisions that go against what the film portrays him to believe making it more difficult to relate or sympathize with him. His actions mirrored that of a teenager and its worrying that the majority of the public see him as an inspiration. And the irony to how this film ends! This is essentially a character study of a man who is ignorant, destructive and bratty. Simply put. If you want to be seriously vexed after watching the most misguided 2 and a half hours of film ever put together, by all means watch this. It puzzles me how this is in the top 250 list.


                
The main character, Chris, started to annoy me almost immediately and the feeling grew as the movie progressed. Who would be so self-centered and selfish that they would burn their money? At least leave it under a rock for some poor traveler to enjoy! He travels by bumming rides (and food) from others -- how hypocritical can the "self-sufficient" man become? He's happy he found a straw hat in a field -- are we supposed to respect him for that? Perhaps if he had had the skill to make the hat himself, he might have earned some grudging respect. Then he hikes "into the wild" in Alaska (after having bummed yet another ride) and settles in an abandoned bus. He's nothing but a gigantic parasite, going on interminably about how evil money is, while at the same time enjoying the fruits of other people's labor (and money), even if some of the items have been discarded. I wish he had never found the bus, but had had to live under a tree. How long would he have lasted then? To top off his irresponsible behavior and total selfishness, he simply disappears without informing his family, causing them no end of emotional stress. I'm sorry, this character was just an asshole. I'm only halfway into the movie right now, but having read other spoilers, I know he eventually dies, apparently in a senseless fashion. I perversely find myself looking forward to this event, as horrible as that sounds. I cannot believe that this movie was nominated for an Oscar. It's a silly movie about a completely unlikeable and annoyingly naive fool who in the end gets what he deserves.
Maybe the older I get, the less patience I have with people who do  willfully, stupid things.  Having said that, I can't fault the acting or direction of this film.  The cast is very good, Penn obviously knows how to direct his actors,  the vistas are magnificent.  The problem for me is, the central character is someone who is smart  enough to know better, but goes ahead and does the stupid thing anyway.  I try to chalk it up to youth, but the scope of the lead character's  stupidity is so great, I find myself unable to do it. OK, I think.  Maybe when I was 21, I would have done something like that, given his  family life. But the answer always comes back, "Hell, no. I wasn't even  that stupid at twelve."   Christopher McCandless (played by Emile Hirsch ) has a mommy and daddy  (played by Marcia Gay Hardon & William Hurt) who fought a lot while he  was growing up. That's unfortunate. He graduates college and decides  most people lead empty lives. Hey, what a concept. And because he must  have a tremendous amount of rage towards mom and dad, he decides to  hell with it all, tears up his credit card and money or gives it away (  OK, that's kind of cool ) , and thinks, screw it! He's going on the  road! A free spirit! What is his ultimate goal? Alaska! Why? Who knows?  Maybe it's because that's as far away as he can get from mom and dad,  who despite the fact they fought like cats and dogs, are totally  anguished over the disappearance of their son. Who never, never tells  them where he went, or communicates with them once. He never even tells  his sister, the person he supposedly loves, what he intends to do. So  he's not just stupid, he's unforgiving. Yay.  So this over privileged, clueless 21 year old with a liking for Thoreau  & Byron (who probably wouldn't have been caught dead in Alaska, at  least, not THAT unprepared) sets off on his trek for a very cold place,  and on the way, behold, he encounters a bunch of colorful eccentrics,  whose lives he touches, briefly and magically, and then he flits away,  because he is, after all . .a free spirit. Evidently, someone has  neglected to tell Chris the 1960s are over, because he even gives  himself a wifty, 1960s name: Super Tramp.   Eventually, Chris gets to Alaska, and the guy who drops him off as far  into the wilderness as he'll dare to go says to him, "I'll see you in  the spring, if you're still alive." Does that faze Chris? No, because  someone kind of, SORT of told him how to smoke moose meat. The wonders  of nature await! Besides, all he has to do is cross that little creek.  Of course, during the spring melt, the thing becomes a raging river,  trapping him on the what turns out to be the wrong side of where he  should be. Oops.  He finds an abandoned bus to live in, and botches smoking his moose  meat, because maggots take over VERY quickly. Not to worry! He's got  his little "Local Flora and Fauna" book, so he can live off fruits and  roots and plants that aren't poisonous. Except he really sucks at using  the book and he DOES end up eating a highly toxic plant, and in his  starved condition, he doesn't last too much longer after that. He is so  sick at the end even a grizzly bear turns his nose up at him.  I'm supposed to feel sorry for this guy? He was just as self indulgent  and selfish as the world he choose to reject, and being clueless,  nature culled him from the herd. End of story.
I really wanted to connect with this movie. The young hero who tries to find a "pure" way of living and dies tragically is actually one of my favorite archetypes. So is the rebel who breaks the rules.The irony is that director and writer Sean Penn -- a real life bad boy if ever there was one -- really has no idea how to create a bad boy that audiences can like or respect or even understand. In COOL HAND Luke, one shot of Paul Newman sawing the heads off parking meters sets the tone for the whole film. Luke is a victim, but he doesn't act like one. He's cool, (hence the nickname) and he has a sense of humor, even if the world around him doesn't.In this movie there are some great performances and beautiful scenery. But the hero never quite comes across as what Sean Penn wants him to be. He's going for a sort of Christlike spiritual wanderer, but what comes across is a petulant rich-kid punk. When young "Alexander Supertramp" (they don't make rebel nicknames like they used to) burns his money, he comes across as more clueless and spoiled than clever and rebellious. Same with not wearing socks to work. And breaking sensible public safety rules wherever he goes. And dying like a dog in the middle of nowhere. Over and over, Sean Penn keeps asking us to see something that just ain't there. This Messiah literally has no clothes.And yet . . . I have to say that something about this movie moved me. It's important to show the world that there are privileged, educated young men who destroy themselves simply because money and privilege themselves are not enough. A college degree and good grades do not confer any real wisdom, any sense of purpose, or any real self-esteem. This movie gets that much right. Sean Penn makes a real point even while hammering home a false one.On the other hand, it's terribly annoying the way the parents in this movie are such one-dimensional baddies. William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden are totally wasted. Sean Penn is fifty or more years old, yet he still thinks like an angry teenager where parents are concerned. Really he should have just broken out Charlie Brown's old muted trumpet. (Waah waah waah -- wah wah!) and had the parents just be off-stage voices.And I'm not even going to talk about using the incomparably gifted Jena Malone as a mere "narrator." When a gifted young actress has the most beautiful, soulful, intelligent and expressive eyes in the world, you want her ON screen, emoting, not off stage reading from file cards.Now as an English major, I can't end this review without mentioning the insufferable literary name-dropping. Again and again we're told that our heroic dimwit is crazy for Jack London. But it's really obvious that he never read "To Build A Fire" or absorbed the message about what happens to careless, stupid people in the wild. Whether you vote this review helpful or not, please go read this terrifying classic tale. It makes an unforgettable point that this confused movie completely fails to grasp.


                
I'm sorry but i found this film absolutely tedious, on paper this looked an interesting account of somebody's disillusionment with the material world and an escape into the wilderness, i would be more critical if the story had not been true and such a tragic waste of life.I'm a big fan of Sean Penn but there were several techniques that for me didn't work for example the Little House On The Prairie meets The Waltons narration and the annoying post card wordage on the screen, the most irritating aspect was the performance of the leading actor, if i met this guy for 5 minutes i would be making excuses to hit the trail, opinions eh.............................


                
I had insomnia and had gotten this movie on netflix a couple of days ago and decided to watch it.I should have taken a sleeping pill.A co-worker told me this was a great movie,I can't wait to see him.First of all no parent should allow their children to watch this film.It teaches them to just give up on life and everyone who loves you when the going gets tough.In reality there are too many people living destitute lives who in their right mind would willingly throw away everything just to get back at their parents, but only in the end by punishing yourself.All the people that are encountered on this wild endeavor are extremely nice, yeah right.Try hitching in the real world your liable not to even make it to the next stop alive.This movie ways just a complete and utter mess if it said anything it loudly told me to continue to work hard, strive for the best, and don't ever visit Alaska on foot without a guide.My heart deeply goes out to his family I know he was loved and missed.How could anyone in their right mind call this a great film, you should be ashamed, would you want you child to become self exiled from your family, think about it.If so invite them to sit down with you to watch into the wild and be sure they have a note pad to take notes.
i went expecting a brooding beautifully shot Alaskan/western meditation on Nature's virtue and Romantic Rebellion and instead got horribly trite HIPPIE PAP ( complete with an inserted guitar strumming Joni Mitchell love interest! ) ( blah!! ) !!!! the real Chris was an intellectual who read Tolstoy Emerson Thoreau and wanted to strip himself away from society and its vanities.... he ( tried to be ) physically, morally pure; the celluloid version lacked this moral intenisty..... at the very least, surely Mr. vedder could have encouraged Mr. Penn to have his cliché hippies early nineties GRUNGE cliché hippies for Godsake and not the recycled Woodstock wastoids that he throws us... bummer, dude, through and through... ( and i didn't even talk about the hysterically bad/pretentious voice overs he uses throughout ).... it could have been so much more...


                
The main problem of this film is that it does not offer any glimpses into the psyche of the heroes. The frequent voice overs are superfluous and feel artificial. The end result feels like a long and uninteresting music video. It is difficult to imagine what a more capable director of movies that do not rely on dialogs would do with this matter (if they took up the story). Sean Penn should watch movies by Kieslowski to see how to communicate without words. Overall, there is not much to commend here. The camera work is sometimes beautiful but this is more the result of the stunning natural sceneries rather than inspired choices. The acting is unfortunately mediocre as well, even from the more famous cast members. If you decide to pass this title, you will not have missed anything.


                
You will see a lot of reviews here of people calling this movie "left wing bullsh!t", and maybe you'll think, "well, I'm left wing, so I'll probably like it". So let me preface this by saying I'm as liberal as they come.I've seen movies with bad acting, and bad effects, and bad writing, but this movie suffers from a bad underlying message, and there's no way to overlook that.This is story of a privileged young man, 'Alexander Supertramp' who leaves his family and burns his last bit of cash because he feels that 'people are mean to each other' and he can't live in society anymore. Instead of trying to change society though, he decides to leave it completely - but hold on, not that completely.You see, while he complains about life being too easy after cashing a cheque for work he did, he's shaved, clean, wearing different clothes that all mysteriously fit into his backpack, with nice sparkling teeth and not even one little cold (until the very end). He's both still buying his way through life and mooching off people who actually need money and goods - for example the residents of Slab City, the Colorado campsite. The girl he meets there is a character I can actually feel sympathy for; she obviously wants to leave and would if she could. Their relationship is a mystery - not because he doesn't want to have sex with her, but because he doesn't even seem to like her.And finally, I have to agree with many of the other posters here who call Alex's trip to Alaska reckless and stupid. For all his supposed knowledge and ability to learn, he completely failed to prepare for this trip. If the older man he was living with at the end hadn't given him some supplies, and had he not found the bus, he probably would not have lasted two weeks. At one point it becomes obvious that even though he could fish and had a book on local flora, he had never before used it, relying on wildlife he shot.His final 'wisdom', that happiness is worthless if not shared, is ultimately pointless.One scene in particular stands out as representative of the whole movie: Alex, apparently on a routine food run and not too close to his camp, sees an adult moose and immediately shoots it. Nevermind that the moose is clearly too much meat even if he manages to preserve it (which he never learned), or to drag back to the camp, or that he does not have his 'how to skin and prepare game' manual with him - he sees the huge moose and shoots it. In the end, he doesn't get one bite of food out of it.
I went into this film with a certain amount of caution and it seems to have been justified. There are two reasons people seem to either love or hate this film, firstly the character's 'adventure' and ideals, and secondly the cinematography.I don't think its fair to criticize the film over the ideals of Chris, it is there to tell his story. What I do have a problem with is how tediously Penn tries to make this point. The sister's narration, the letters to Wayne, the 'chapter' titles, they were all so painfully labored, as if there was some need to give us everything we needed to get from the film. This for me was the greatest weakness of the film; it lacked any subtlety in comparison to say Kelly Reichardt's Old Joy. What Penn seemed to aim for, and which Reichardt could achieve, seems lost in his inability to let things speak for themselves.On the second point I do think the cinematography was beautiful, but I don't think it was used particularly well. There were a number of visual styles imposed across the film and for no apparent reason. There were also random shots, planes flying overhead, a lorry passing over the camera at a Batman villain-esquire angle, that did not sit well in the overall picture. It seemed to me that Penn was pulling off an amateurish attempt to make his film seem meaningful by overloading it with shallow symbols and as many visual styles he could get his hands on.On a positive note, I thought the film had some real potential, but I'm not sure how much of this came from Penn. Any of the parts where Chris interacts with others were captivating and the relationships that were developed were beautiful. The story could easily have locked onto these with much greater enthusiasm and ignored the self-indulgent attempt at being 'art-house'.Two films spring to mind as useful comparisons to how awful this film was, The Straight Story and Old Joy. Watch either of these and Into the Wild pales in comparison.


                
This film recounts the true story of Chris McCandless, a young man who decided to drop out of society and go live in the wilds of Alaska. Penn should stick to his day job. He employs every cinematic cliché known to man in an attempt to romanticize the story and portray the McCandless as a hero. Apparently McCandless was so charming that he instantly bonded with everyone he met on his journey, and everyone he met was a hippie. However, based on the evidence presented here, the guy was nothing more than a pretentious, self-absorbed, and irresponsible jerk who put his family through hell. Slow motion is utilized in every other scene, effectively doubling the length of the film.


                
If I were granting stars on the basis of the story of Chris McCandless and his "personal journey," I would only be giving this film one star (or less, if I could.) However, I have to admit that Penn did put together a good-looking movie, so I gave it a couple extra stars.On the flip-side of Penn's work, is...crap. (I'm going to assume that everyone knows the basics of the McCandless story and is at least aware of Krakauer's excellent book.) Penn has made some very poor decisions in his direction. The voice-over narration by Jena Malone as McCandless's sister is irritating and completely unnecessary. Penn's general attitude about the government, society, and the place of personal self-discovery is pushed in your face, all the more curious considering how much he owes his personal success to the people he is apparently angry with. (Just how many of the inevitably kind, honest, and friendly hippie-types/free-spirits in this film are likely to have invested in producing his films or even bothered buying tickets to see them?) I also have to make a leap of faith here and assume that Penn in some way admires, or at least empathizes with, McCandless's personal quest and is trying to show us that there is at least something that is worthwhile about it. If this is true, then Penn has really screwed up as a director, since McCandless is actually portrayed as a self-indulgent, narcissistic, ego-centered, foolish, and totally unpleasant young man. (I guess my theory is wrong if Penn actually INTENDED to depict McCandless in this way.) Overall, an average movie about a person who doesn't deserve one. (Read Krakauer's book, as it is much more rewarding and, in fact, more neutral in its tone.)
Do not let my 3/10 rating tell the story. It is not what it seems. After reading many positive reviews on the film, I was more than anxious to see it! So I did.First, the film began somewhat slow, which, as any brilliant film director will agree, is absolutely essential for the development of both plot and characters. However, the pace of this film never evolved. There was no build. At times, in defense of the director, a drowsy feel seemed entirely necessary. I just think a little mix-up in the pacing would have helped this film immensely. Second, although the character developments were strong, especially on the part of the outstanding William Hurt, the plot was comparable to a weakly translated Odyssey. Homer would be disappointed. The numerous different "players" met throughout the story were well acted, but I could not empathize with their lives. Third, I found the main character to be far too rebellious . His character was completely one-sided, and I never got to see both sides of him. Truth, Independence, Alaska... Truth, Independence, Alaska... Truth, Independence, Alaska; We get it. We know what you want. Let's see what you plan to do about it. He was far too irritating as a person for me to get involved in his struggle for independenceFinally, my biggest problem with the film rested in the lack of climax. The ending of the film options were two-fold. Either he lives and becomes bettered from the experience, or he dies at the hand of the experience. The slow and predictable pattern of the film made me apathetic toward the ending, so there's no point in mentioning which route the film takes.With all that said, let it be known that I felt something compelling me to finish the film, even though I could have shut it off. I am glad I did, but can guarantee I will not watch the film again.Film Rating = D+ Recommended = Yes, but only due to it's reputation - not my opinion.


                
Screenplay writer and director of Into the Wild, Sean Penn, has been quoted as having the following to say about Terence Malick's 2011 film "The Tree Of Life"... "The screenplay is the most magnificent one I've ever read but I couldn't find that same emotion on screen, a more conventional narrative would have helped the film". This maybe quite so, but perhaps similar could also be said of his film. As with Malick, Penn extends his subject material till it reaches breaking point and becomes tedious.One of the biggest problems for the subject in this case, is Christopher McCandless, a top Emory Uni student who in a moment of teen angst gives away all his savings, leaves his family without even a word of goodbye and heads out into the dangerous wilds towards Alaska. Sadly, this in itself is immaturity at the height of its ignorance. He's fleeing from parents who seem to disagree between themselves (as seen from the viewpoint of his youthful inexperience of marital problems), they don't understand him (but support his everyday existence needs) and a sister he is supposed to care very much for. Christopher foolishly casts his only remaining money into a fire, then blindly stumbles from one bad situation to the next - eventually having to take jobs with fast food outlets in several failed attempts to support himself. This all goes on interminably for 2 1/2 Hrs. While the landscapes are handsomely captured by documentary photographer Eric Gautier (this feature would have actually been better suited to a 1 Hr TV documentary), it rambles on until our hapless traveler manages to kill himself eating poisonous berries. There are the customary message songs of troubled youth to pad out the moments lacking in solid story. Sadly these songs tend to sound a little tired and lacking conviction. This is not entirely surprising, as talented singer songwriter Eddie Vedder, had earlier written a song called 'Jeremy' about the foolishness of running from your problems and killing yourself instead of standing up and changing things! Wise words. In the performance stakes, Hal Holbrook fares best as a caring, aged widower who befriends Christopher (who in turn proceeds to lecture the old man about getting more out of his life). Today's youth sure do get a bellyful of life long experience at an incredibly early age! The reliable William Hurt looks very well preserved as Chris's Dad. Christopher, ultimately destroyed his family, along with all the positive things he could have contributed to by living. I, like many, also left home, went through all this desperate youthful searching but figured it's better to come out on the other side and contribute to bettering life one way or other. Yes, it's a sad situation but now Mr Penn wants us to spend hours feeling sorry for this wasted foolishness.It's somehow difficult to appreciate the accolades dished out to this work by the Academy and some critics who, on a closer look, probably should know better. From the look of numerous other viewer comments, appears I may not be alone.
Are we supposed to believe the protagonist in this story has no sexual needs? This one issue makes the entire thing laughable. No masturbation alluded to? Total nonsense. His refusal to have sex with Kristen Stewart's character is ludicrous. Getting to the young man's motivation for taking off on his adventure, the story he learned about his parents is barely enough to trigger anything more than underachieving in school. The fact that he's a high achiever with knowledge of his parents' hypocrisy is not credible. Yes, the acting is excellent and so is the cinematography. But the script is a shambles. In his adult period, I believe, he kills a moose, and because he doesn't dress it fast enough maggots appear, ruining it. And so he gives up on shooting game. This is the same person who shot the rapids in a kayak without permission and a deathly fear of water? And where did he become a psychiatrist to solve the marital problems of the hippie couple in two minutes?


                
The question is very simple. Is this movie a lesson for human kind? Do we need to stop thinking and move back to the stone age simply because we can? The answer is very simple. NO! Now the hole point in rating this movie is the way you look at it. As a drama/thriller or as a documentary/adventure. Because if you look at it as a documentary 5 stars is a huge mark. Do we need to teach our children that this is the way they should thing and approach life? Definitely no. On the other hand if you look at it as a drama, as a mere interpretation of a real story you'll find it likable. Not epic. Not the kind of movie that you will remember but still a good one. The plot is good, it has fluidity, the scenes don't jump back and forward like crazy and the leading actor is doing a great job showing his emotions like it ware for real. I personally locked at it as a documentary and that why my rating is low.


                
WARNING...MORE SPOILERS THAN USUAL!Emile Hirsch plays Chris, a young man brought up rich and privileged, but he dislikes his parents, thinks they're assholes. And actually, he's right. The parents (William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden) fight in private and project phoniness in public. Sure, they're assholes. But instead of just moving out, getting his education, and making something of himself, he decides that society is just too sick and ugly to live among people in general. He decides that the only way to live a truthful and fulfilling life is to ditch our cash-happy rat race and live in a shitty bus up in the Great North somewhere...oh, except that he doesn't live there full time, only when the weather's tolerable.Otherwise, he's all over the place, and frankly, I lost track of what time frame we were in, what town he was in, and lost interest in the story in general. But I watched it to the end, hoping that perhaps this very young and self righteous brat would just get this out of his system. There are better ways of "getting back" at your hated parents than roughing it in the harsh elements, eating poisonous berries, and slowly starving yourself until your body gives up the ghost. Sean Penn's writing is sometimes pretentiously poetic and other times just plain poor. I'm sorry, because I like most of his work. This, however, just melodramatic drivel, a story that really didn't need telling.
I personally did not like this movie. I am talking strictly from a story point of view... The direction was good and cinematography worked well.No, I am giving this movie 3 stars because of the "plight" of the main character, Chris. This kid was given life on silver platter. Most college age kids would kill to be his position. Instead, he abandons his family, who, despite what he says, cares deeply about him. And along the way, he meets several people with whom he creates deep relationships with, all of whom he abandons for his own selfish reasons. I just could not sympathize with Chris, considering everything that happens to him, including his death, was his own fault...
