Sean Penn's "Into The Wild" is perhaps best viewed as being part of a recent wave of eco-themed films ("Wall-E", "Avatar", "The Happening", "An Inconvenient Truth", "Grizzly Man", "Dreamland", "Day The Earth Stood Still", "Antichrist", "Day After Tomorrow", "Happy Feet" etc). Most of these films urge their audiences to "return to nature", "retreat to some pastoral existence" or "save the planet" (without looking at the systemic or economic forces which completely undermine or neutralise such wants).Interestingly, aside from "Antichrist", "Grizzly Man" and "Into The Wild", nature in these films is always portrayed as being some kind of mystical, "balanced" system. While mega-studios, quite ironically, advise us to harmonize with nature, "smaller" directors (Penn, Herzog, Von Trier) seem to instead posit worlds in which nature is vile and base. Nature is still portrayed as being majestic and splendid, but is then associated with asphyxiation and choking, death and rot. The only harmony – as Werner Herzog once famously said – is that of overwhelming and collective murder. Murder, then, is the central theme of both "Grizzly Man" and "Into The Wild". Like Sydney Pollack's "Jerremiah Johnson", both films are about young men (Christopher McCandless in Penn's film, Timothy Treadwell in Herzog's) who cut themselves off from civilisation and venture off into the wilderness. Of course both Herzog and Penn initially romanticise their central characters' flights. They see beauty in this journey and a kind of crazy inner strength (McCandless rejects vapid materialism, 9 to 5 routines and sees the modern word as being a hindrance which atrophies humanity and conscience ). But both artists are also careful to counter this idealism with nature at its most violent. And so both films find their heroes "leaving civilisation", but only because they've first suffered a total, psychological collapse. They now disbelieve in their Master Signifiers, in their Symbolic Orders, and see civilisation itself as being representative of that which is arbitrary and chaotic. Both films then end with the deaths of their central characters, McCandless killed by a lowly poisonous berry, Treadwell killed by a mighty grizzly bear. This is not romanticism: the impetus for our adventures is something sad and pathetic, even if they're absolutely right. Their problem is that they've diagnosed civilisation but idealised Nature, a fatal failing; mankind's history is a history of battling the wild outdoors. Respect Nature. Approach with caution.And so both Treadwell and McCandless are portrayed as being disenchanted idealists who cut themselves off from a world they no longer feel apart of, no longer trust, no longer believe in. But while Penn romanticises Christopher's idealistic dream of "entering the wilderness", he is careful to counter this with nature at its most violent. Christopher hunts for food but recoils from maggots, Christopher attempts to cross a river, but nature's violent highways prove too powerful, Christopher forages for berries, but eats only poisonous weeds which ultimately kill him.The result is that Penn celebrates disenchantment and urges one to disconnect (mental breakdown, oft the precursor to wisdom), even as he warns that drifting too far is itself a form of suicide or self-destruction. Chris wants to cut himself off from mankind (the film opens with a quote from the Romantic Movement which advocates "ostracizing oneself from humanity"), but also learns that "Happiness Is Real Only When Shared" (the last dreams he has is of hugging his parents). And that's Penn's irony: it is the connections that Christopher makes with other people as he continues along on his journey which allowed him to survive in the wilderness for as long as he did. When towards the end of the film Christopher turns down an offer to live with an elderly man, he effectively gave up entirely on humanity. This total disconnection, this suicidal action, is ultimately what the film warns of.The kind of balance that the film longs for is thus similar to the teachings of Thoreau, who advocated finding a middle ground between rejecting and fully embracing the wilderness. The people Chris meets (and rejects) along his journey are thus in possession of the life he longs for.Elsewhere the film is about the enchantment of text and the romance of words. Krakauer wrote about Chris not only because Chris' journey was inspired by idealistic books (Chris takes literature rather than food with him) but because Chris was himself a writer and left behind numerous documents. What the film thus does is sets up a war between the word (fantasy) and the image (world). As each level of text is one step removed from reality, image eventually wins, the image of a berry and the failure to correctly read it being what ultimately kills Chris.Audiences typically view Chris as either a "hero" or a "jerk", but he's more a lost, fragile child. Having learnt that everything he knew about his parents and his own history was a lie, Chris began to distrust everything. Suddenly all truths were shattered. The only way for Christopher's mind to cope with this subjective destitution was to then enter a little fantasy world in which he's a "noble adventurer". As he loves meta-acting, Penn thus has actor Emile Hirsch play Christopher as a wounded guy playing the role of the very romantic hero he reads about in books.Elsewhere, like Kirk Douglas' "Lonely Are The Brave", Penn contrast modern technology with primitivism. He stresses the artificiality of the caravans and abandoned buses which Christopher relies on to survive, and counterpoints Christopher's physical death with a near spiritual shot of a modern passenger jet. The film does not condemn modern technology, it recognises it as a necessity. The film then ends with Christopher's body seemingly "transcending" into heaven. The film then rewinds, his body sucked into the ground, Penn's camera pulling back such that Christopher's corpse seems to be asphyxiated by Nature. 8.5/10 – Worth two viewings.
Seriously, f*ck Sean Penn. For someone who 'respects' Chris McCandless as much as Penn claims that he does, he could have done a better and more honest job with the film he made about him.First off, a number of events in the film are completely invented or embellished. Sure, we don't know *everything* McCandless did, but we know what he didn't do. And kayaking down the Grand Canyon, meeting nude Swedes on the banks of the Colordo, and figuring out that he was poisoned were not among them. Unless Sean Penn read a different version of "Into the Wild" than I did. He may very well have. He's Sean Penn, and great, after all. Or perhaps Sean Penn thought to himself "Hey, I'm Sean Penn, I can tell a true story *better* than how it really happened!" I'm thinking that was the case.The movie doesn't even begin to touch base on a number of things extremely important to the audience's understanding of McCandless, both as a character and a human being. There wasn't even a mention of the philosophy he read, or of himself in his younger years, or anything. And, as a result, the *reason* for his actions isn't exactly developed or elaborated upon, and will likely be lost to the viewer if they are not familiar with McCandless beforehand.His parent's side of the story isn't exactly represented fairly, either. Years of anguish and sadness and frustration are casually explained in a few throw-away scenes. Probably because they matter so much to Sean Penn.And, from a purely film-making standpoint, I don't agree with many of the directorial decisions Penn made. The film has more montages than all the Rocky films combined, and more cheesy voice-overs than you can shake a stick at. From my perspective, both are too artificial. Tacky, almost. Neither go well with the minimalist and humanist nature of the story being told, and with McCandless' nature especially. And given the film's largely anti-commercial nature, it only makes sense that the score is done almost entirely by big name musicians like Eddie Vedder. Actually, wait, no it doesn't. Furthermore, Penn's camera placement is clichéd and textbook, and the impact of the scenes is never really all that it could be. Sure, we *see* McCandless' hardship and loneliness and frustration, but we don't *feel* it. At least I didn't.
And man it was pretty good. Though, seeing the temper that Sean Penn went through as an actor, it would have probably been hell as him being the director. I'm kidding. Penn is a great and talented actor that is unarguably going to be remembered in honor of his acting.This movie was based on a book of the same name by Jon Krakauer. Into the Wild is about a post-graduate kid named Christopher McCandless who after seeing his life being spoiled by his parents, decides to live a dream that he sees in Jack London's books: he wants to go into the wild and live there. And over the course of the whole movie, we are introduced to characters that shape McCandless's life and give him some life lessons.I really liked all of the scenes of the Alaskan wilderness that was portrayed excellently through stunning cinematography. It was just beautiful to see the scenes and to see it through a large television. And I thought there were some great acting performances. Emile Hirsch acted brilliantly and was very persuasive with all of the scenes he was in. Also, I give a small shout out to Hal Habrook, who came at the end as Ron Franz, a grandfather figure to McCandless. I mean, a lot of actors over the years of film-making that had to act like a wise old man, but Habrook made his performance very likable and very well done.However, the movie was not entertaining. Before trying to avoid the movie because I said that, keep reading and you will see what I mean. Into the Wild was very contemplative and it was not trying to make the wild look like a fast moving adventure with thrilling in every spot. If it were like that, then that would be entertainment. However, this movie really contemplated the surrounding areas that McCandless went through and showed his interests in those areas. In other terms, the film was slow-moving and was in no rush to get to other scenes. The movie is not meant for adventure entertainment, but more of self-reflection of the meaning of adventure, and for that, the movie deserves even more credit. I think that is what a true adventure movie should do.My dad told me that the movie was in some parts glamorized. Thinking about it for awhile made me realize that there were glamorized scenes in this movie. Sean Penn made McCandless's adventures seem very easy and there was very few scenes of McCandless suffering the hardships of being away from home. And in order to reprimand the lack of drama, they had to put all the drama in the ending of the film. Alright, this is a spoiler, but I do not think it is one because it is pretty obvious what the ending of the movie is and it should not be a surprise to you. McCandless dies of starvation at the end of the movie and when you see his death, he did not die, he DIED. They really made his death really emotional, using flashbacks, deep music, and just scary images of death. The whole intense tragedy was either for Penn to get the producers to sign to his movie or to just show that McCandless's adventures was truly after all, not worth all the grief and it was a stupid mistake.However, if you like adventure, then this is a movie for you. Just do not expect a re-make of Indiana Jones from this. I will give this movie a mid 7.
Into the wild is based on the true story of Christopher McCandless who after graduating college from a well to do family, donated his life savings to charity, left all his possessions, and without telling anyone set off with dreams of roughing it in the wilds of Alaska. After two years of criss-crossing through America and running into a host of interesting characters, he finally managed to hitch-hike to Alaska, where four months after his arrival his decomposing corpse was discovered by moose hunters. He had starved to death, apparently as a result of eating a poisonous variety of seed. It's a simple, but very compelling tale.While director Sean Penn's treatment is full of heart, the movie is almost sunk early by sheer melodrama, especially in the voice overs given to Jena Malone who plays Carine McCandless, Christopher's sister. It almost seems as if at times Penn is trying to make a messianic figure out of the young McCandless, depicting him wiser than his years, healing the broken lives of those he comes across. It would have been better to just humanize McCandless and have the faith that by those standards he would measure well enough. Once the movie progresses past the family back-story, told in regrettable voice over, the movie picks up. The portrait of McCandless that emerges once he gets some more speaking time is actually quite detailed capturing everything from his bookish idealism and his obstinate wanderlust, to his love of beauty and pure joy in the experience of life. A lot of this has to do with the wonderful performance by Emile Hirsch, who gives just the type of performance that only an actor-director is able to get from their actors. Unfortunately, the movie runs far too long, because of some indulgent editing, and loses a lot of its force because of it.While I have a lot of reservations about the film, one thing you can't take away from it is that Penn has managed to create an impassioned portrait of a fascinating young man.
*Spoilers*It's interesting to see how many reviews, both positive and negative, are basing their rating on what the author thought of the lead character. To me, that is a measure of how powerful the film and the subject matter are. No matter what you think of the protagonist, the film draws you in and provokes a strong emotional response.
The film does a good, but not great, job of showing the events and the emotional impact of the events which drove McCandless away from home. The series of relationships he develops are well done, with well developed characters and real emotional attachments. In the end, as McCandless dies alone, we are reminded of all the times he pushed away those who tried bond with him.
There are some elements which distract from the film. All of Emile Hirsch's little improv bits should have hit the cutting room floor with a heavy thud. He's just not very good at improv. The "apple of my eye" bit was embarrassingly cringe-worthy. In addition, Eddie Vedder's sophomoric lyrics make the soundtrack a disaster.
I can understand why so many people are upset about the possibility of other people being led to follow in McCandless' footsteps by glorifying his quest. He was extremely irresponsible and lacking in resourcefulness. Seriously, it never occurred to him that the stream he crossed in the beginning would be impassable in the spring snowmelt? He didn't even bring a map? He could have easily hiked out if he had a map. And in the end, when he couldn't cross the stream, he didn't even try the most obvious next step, simply following the river downstream. If he had, he'd have found a cable crossing less than a mile away.
Despite the flaws, this is a powerful story well told, with many fascinating characters. Hal Holbrook, Christine Keeler, and Vince Vaughn all give outstanding performances. It's well worth watching no matter what your views on the main character.
I come away from this movie somewhat conflicted, not about the picture itself but of it's principal character, Christopher McCandless. I say that with some reservation as well, because when I was his age and fresh out of college, I spent a lot of time steeped in existentialist thought trying to figure out the meaning of life and how to conduct my own. In McCandless's case, there was also the family dysfunction at work, something that I never had to contend with growing up.At the heart of the movie, I don't have a lot of problem with Chris's philosophy of "If you want something in life, reach out and grab it". The paradox in that statement occurred exactly at the time he was saying those words to guitarist Tracy (Kristen Stewart) who fell hard for Chris at the traveler's camp. She was 'reaching out to grab it' and things weren't going to work out for her in quite the same way. So life has it's way of throwing those kinds of curveballs at you.No doubt some will find the message of uninhibited freedom and life without constraints to be an appealing one, but in the final analysis, doesn't the mere fact of existence require one to do the prudent thing? Chris McCandless's death was so unnecessary. Chances are, had he gone on to live say, a full five or ten years in the wild, he might have come to an entirely different conclusion about the meaning of his life and how to be a productive citizen of the world. His reading of Tolstoy offered a clue to an acceptable view of happiness - work which may be of some use, rest, nature, books and music. Loneliness didn't seem to be part of that equation.
I was looking for some good survival movies, one of my friend suggest me to watch "Into the wild". This movie never get you bored, quite entertaining. But, the genre of this is not "SURVIVAL" but "suicidal". The concept of the movie is quite unique. I spend some quality 120+ mins.


                
I was disappointed that most critiques of Into the Wild have romanticized the story way too much. The highlighted ideas, ranging from going back to nature/the innocence, being true, to abandoning materialism, plus the beautiful scenery gave me all the reasons to watch this movie, which is based on the true story of Chris McCandless. With these expectations in my mind, I could not have anticipated to see a young man, despite his curiosity for the meaning of life, waste himself by indulging in anger and extremes. Yes, the story tells us what led to the anger and we understand his pain. I also acknowledge the positive influence McCandless brought for the people he met on his journey. I am even impressed by his uncommonly high moral standard and his open mind to people living on the edge. But, his stubbornness and insistence to stay in the wild was due to his hatred and the urge to revenge his parents. His ultimate goal of finding the truth was a disguised, if not self-deceit, mission to prove his parents' wrongdoings. The hypocrites or even the society he talked about are not anybody but his parents. The ways he chose to find, to reveal, to use the truth all show that he just wanted to hurt his parents and make them guilty. Connecting to nature is one thing, but subjecting oneself to the wilderness without backup or a well thought plan is another. It is reckless and ignorant no matter how much courage or stamina is involved. It is a disheartening story, and definitely not romantic or poetic, with nothing worth glorification except the beauty of nature. I have a lot of empathy for the protagonist and his family, but find the so-called adventure pointless. In contrast, the subplots manage to be geared to the evolving of mutual growth for the characters, including Chris McCandless himself. It is a pity that the built-up of these growths did not sublime soon enough for him to make a rational choice. I sincerely believe that with his intelligence and sense of justice, Chris McCandless could have led a very meaningful life for himself and for the disadvantageous. I was feeling unusually upset when I saw him so blinded from other alternatives. It felt so sad when I looked at his dad break down. The greatest performance was found towards the end of the movie where William Hurt, who looked calm, stepping out of the house, inside which Mom was setting the table for Thanksgiving (or Christmas?) dinner. First a wide shot showed him looking up the sky. Then a close-up showed his face grimacing in pain with his bloodshot eyes. His whole body was drastically trembling. He was actually trying to stop his tears running down his face when he looked up in the previous wide shot. He tried so hard to repress his sadness but it turned out to be a break down. He fell onto the ground in the yard, sitting there with his tightly clinched fists twitching, and crying in total distress. What a heartbreaking scene<U+0085> The bright side on the whole is that, Chris McCandless eventually forgave his parents and felt love for them – upon his death.
I've never seen a movie quite like this one, not an American movie at any rate. The one that comes closest, maybe, is "Easy Rider," but that one was full of plot points and ambition, raggedy though they turned out. "Into the Wild" is more like an assemblage of episodes from a self-made movie, put together with the help of some family friends who happen to be professional actors.Emile Hirsch is the non-fictional Chris McCandless who gives away everything he owns, takes to the road, and winds up owning nothing in the Alaskan wilderness, not even the opportunity to savor the emotional fulfillment of being completely and utterly alone.Hirsch isn't bad either. He is transformed from chubby and cheerful at the start to thin and desperate by the end. I would guess the film sticks pretty closely to its origins, which I think I remember reading in The New Yorker years ago.The narration is based on Chris's sister's memories and on Chris's own journal but narrations can be misleading or sometimes plain wrong. It seems to be all the fault of McCandless's bickering parents. It was they who drove him to these peregrinations. Well -- that's kind of an easy way out. It provides a satisfying explanation for a story that is likely to be otherwise unexplainable, at least until we know more about neurology. It's always easy to find a trigger for behavior in our past experiences. Psychoanalysis rode that horse for generations. In reality I suspect that strangeness in people is partly a given at birth, and the explanations are post hoc and fitted to the cultural climate. It's tough enough being the parent of an odd child without being blamed for every odd thing he does.Where was I? I think I started out for the Sea of Cortez and found myself, like Chris, in the North Woods.The photography is sometimes stunning, often appealing, and sometimes as idiosyncratic as Ray Bolger's dance in "The Wizard of Oz." Step motion, slow motion, negative shots, all are employed but not, thank God, to the point of nausea. The whole film is leisurely, moving back and forth from Chris's encounters at home and on the road, to the Magic Bus he lives in at the top of the world.Good actors. Nobody in the movie flubs it. Catherine Keener and William Hurt are exceptional performers but they have little to do on screen. Hurt does get a chance to register some convincing abject anguish at the end. Hal Holbrook, now an older man, has never been quite as good as he is here. A home run for Holbrook.Does the movie have a point? Well, it certainly tries to impose one on the narrative, something along the lines of spiritual fulfillment is worth any price, even life itself. Hirsch dies with an open smile on his face, gazing at opalescent clouds. (If I remember correctly, the real Chris assumed his absence would be noticed and was waiting for an expected helicopter rescue.) The fuzzy points I would take away don't include our need for others in any but a mechanical sense. (We need others to make our shoes and guns.) There have been successful hermits before. I certainly wouldn't conclude from this story that nature is cruel because it isn't. It's just indifferent. What are we, after all, except a widespread large mammal that happens to call itself Homo sapiens?
The film is well done but not sure I liked the non-linear treatment in this case. Chris seems to have been charming, challenging and plenty adventurous, possibly in reaction to his father abuses when he was a child (according to his sister book). Great recreations. Not sure the story would have so much resonnance if he had survived.
At first, I didn't like the character's behaviour and motives, I find it selfish to storm into people's lives, change it upside down, get them attached to you, and then leave without saying a word. But he then realised that happiness is only real when it's shared. I loved the acting, music and the great camera work. Recommendable if you are into fight club's "things you own end up owning you" theme.
Into the Wild is a tragic movie based on the tragic real life story of Christopher Mccandless. Chris was different and surely his foolhardy ways were directly responsible for his death, and yet you somehow feel for the guy. A part of you wishes he made out alive from the Alaskan tundra, from that yellow bus. The book on which this film is based, Jon Krakeur, is also a must read in my opinion. The lead Emile Hirsh is more than adequate and the director Sean Penn must be commended for not just deftly directing the film but realizing the need to tell this young lad's story. This is a great nature vs man feature film all the more hard hitting because it is true.


                
Into the Wild is a tragic movie based on the tragic real life story of Christopher Mccandless. Chris was different and surely his foolhardy ways were directly responsible for his death, and yet you somehow feel for the guy. A part of you wishes he made out alive from the Alaskan tundra, from that yellow bus. The book on which this film is based, Jon Krakeur, is also a must read in my opinion. The lead Emile Hirsh is more than adequate and the director Sean Penn must be commended for not just deftly directing the film but realizing the need to tell this young lad's story. This is a great nature vs man feature film all the more hard hitting because it is true.


                
The story of a college graduate who "rebels against society" and becomes a drifter/adventurer. One of the things I felt the movie was trying to choke down my throat was the wastefulness and uselessness of society. I did not read the book. But the fact that this was produced by Sean Penn is typical and at the same time comical. There's a song in the film which talks about how much money do we need, and how much space do we need before it becomes too much. That we take and use too much. And yet a quick search shows Mr Penn to be worth $150 million. And I might be wrong but I bet he has a pretty big house. This is where I find the hypocrisy. I don't like to be preached at. As much as he is rebelling against society, he is also rebelling against his parents and his upbringing. The movie is visually interesting with diverse scenery. The acting is very good. The script is good. Worth a watch.


                
An interesting told pretty well told by Oscar winner Sean Penn. At some point in their life all men have the fantasy of just dropping out of society and living off the (hopefully) fat of the land. This movie is about a middle class suburban college student who actually did it. He eventually painfully starves to death alone in a bus inexplicably abandoned in the remote Alaskan wilderness so it is a bit of bummer. However, the two and half hours that lead up to his final stand are a fascinating study of someone who has either the courage or craziness to attempt what 100% of people fantasize about doing but 99.9% would not. In short, pick the right material as a filmmaker and the job almost does itself.
This was an intelligent, interesting and well put-together film, despite the subject matter, based very closely on the short life and death, in 1992, of an idiot. It starts with a young man, Christopher McCandless, heading off into the Alaskan wilderness in the depths of winter, with all his kit in a back-pack. He crosses a small stream and comes across an ex-Fairbanks city bus parked in the middle of nowhere. It is never explained how the bus got there, but it has previously been inhabited. He makes it his base. The film then flashes back to tell the story of how he got here. Despite an unhappy childhood - his parents were more interested in squabbling than child raising, he does extremely well at college and is about to go off to Harvard Law School. However, he gives all his saving to Oxfam, and vanishes becoming a hippie. He travels around most of America, and meets lots of people, most of whom are nice to him, though he usually walks out on them. He develops an idea of going to Alaska, and eventually gets there. On the way, free-riding on a freight train, he is caught and beaten up by a guard for "jeopardising the company's liability insurance"! Meanwhile, his parents and sister are frantically worried about what has become of him. Back in the wilds, he lives off game, and the few supplies he brought with him. However, the game runs out, and after a killing a moose which goes rotten before he can preserve it, he tries to live off edible plants. This doesn't work out, so he plans to return to civilisation. However, it is now spring, the stream is a fast flowing river which he cannot cross, so he starves to death. His body is found a couple of weeks later. Whilst sympathetic to him and his desire to get away from materialism and hollow relationships, the film pulls no punches over the man's general stupidity in risking his neck in a way which is going to cause trouble for other people.The message generally was that living wild in the wilderness is not as pleasant as it looks.
I might not see this film in the same light as many others see it, not because of anything technical, the acting, or the decisions Sean Penn made in adapting and directing.I simply think that the main character isn't the anti-establishment hero that he is perhaps made out to be, but a young man who let his blind yet admirable adherence to principle rob him of opportunities. Not opportunities to make money or meet chicks or garner admiration from strangers, (but at the same time all three), just a boy who never had the chance to see what he might become.Emile Hirsch is this "boy", Chris McCandless, later calling himself Alex Supertramp in a further sign that perhaps he wasn't the mature man he thought he was. I initially found it amusing that Hirsch got this role, thinking almost everything these days goes to Shia Lebouf, despite the fact that he is yet to be entertaining in anything and in fact is downright annoying in most films he has appeared in! The plot is simple because it is a true story, young Chris graduates and instead of following the American Dream and going to college he decides to drop off the face of the Earth and just exist. He doesn't tell his family, burns his money and trashes his car, so why does he keep his clothes and other possessions? Surely roaming naked and free through life is the purest one can be? Also if Chris is such a fan of the environment and is in a position to make a difference with his passion and superior intellect, why does he then ignore that opportunity and remove himself from the system? Regardless Chris and his clothes head off and just slum through life for the remainder of his, picking up odd jobs here and there and interacting with various locals and fellow drifters with the main aim of going to Alaska by himself with only his wits to protect him. There are many flashbacks to various parts of the last years of Chris's life for obvious reasons, as the final stages have a despairing sense of inevitability about them and they would even be more depressing if allowed to run their course.Hints are given to Chris's decision making process by flashbacks involving his family, who while well intentioned appear to have high expectations as a minimum for Chris's future, which is an outlook I'm sure many parents would share. Given the fact that this is a screen version of real events a subtle variance in their demeanor could alter the viewer's perception significantly one way or the other. I would think the director might be prone to wanting a less forgiving view of the parents to further justify the actions of young Supertramp, as that is more romantic than the notion of a young bloke with a promising future dissing his parents, burning his cash and changing his name to Alex Supertramp.Well I'm just saying<U+0085>.Once in Alaska Supertramp finds the Magic Bus, a deserted shell of a schoolbus that serves as shelter and home. While there he uses his accumulated knowledge and smarts to exist, though he becomes unkempt, unshaven and most alarmingly malnourished, and again it is more and more evident that there will be no happy ending.Supertramp has undeniable charm and the allure that rebels seem to garner, but the movie is kept alive by the many bit parts of those he comes into contact with along the way. Vince Vaughn plays an employer that sees what Chris has in store and vainly tries to talk him out of it. Catherine Keener and Brian Dierker play a middle aged hippie couple that are cruising through life without ever really truly roughing it, and most notably Kristen Stewart plays a young teen who would be Supertramp's love interest if he wasn't jest so damn principled! I have scanned a few reviews when I saw that on IMDb this is one of the Top 250 all time rated flicks, and while I don't disagree that this is a fine film I can't see where the extra point or so comes from. Into the Wild is a sad film, as Supertramp left the security of home to find himself, and overreached his abilities to tragic effect. It is worth noting that despite all the romance and high mindedness of young Chris McCandless the note that was actually left on the Magic Bus where his body was found was a desperate SOS message, not a noble statement of belief, it is amazing that a couple of minor decisions in editing and direction can perhaps elevate a tragic story into one of martyrdom.Final Rating – 7 / 10. A fine film involving tragic subject matter made specifically to lionise Chris McCandless. Hopefully if nothing else it inspires someone to pause for thought before venturing out, rather than sending other young people on a misguided adventure to find themselves.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com


                
Nearly everyone goes through a time where they are resentful towards their parents, feeling them to be over-protective, inattentive, or that they simply don't understand their kids. Christopher McCandless was no different, but he took his rebellion to an extreme.Director Sean Penn wants the viewer to identify with McCandless in this way, but his rebellion is so extreme that while he may be likable enough for the viewer to find him sympathetic, it is difficult to empathize with him. This hurts the romanticized sense of adventure that the movie wants to fill the viewer with, which is already hindered if one knows the ending (which most people probably already do).For Chris, this "Alaskan Adventure" is an escape, an escape from the wrongs he finds with normal civilization. More importantly, it's an escape from being trapped with parents who fight all the time, and are living lies that they hide from him and his sister. This feeling of being trapped is something that most people can relate to, but his conflicts with his parents are not developed enough to make as much of an impact as Penn probably intended. Still, we are able to understand Chris's motives. His frustration (and thirst for adventure) are enough to make him leave everything behind and live a life of complete freedom. But not until it's too late does Chris realize that he's pretty naiive and doesn't know what he's gotten himself into. This is a problem (in a general way) that many teenagers face. They feel so trapped by their parents and their desire to run their kid's lives that sometimes the teenagers rebel, but their desire for escapism can blind them to some unforeseen consequences. Such is what happens to Christopher McCandless.The performances are great. Emile Hirsch, who gave a solid performance in "Alpha Dog," is even better here. He's beginning to show that in the near future that he's going to be a force to be reckoned with. It's a challenge to play someone who is so voluntarily "not normal," but every note of Chris's stubborn desire for freedom rings true. The supporting characters are great as well. Hal Holbrook may have gotten the Oscar nomination, but the performance that I thought was the best was Catherine Keener's Jan Burres. Judging by the Academy's love of conflicted, tragic individuals, it's easy to understand why Holbrook was nominated, but the reality of it is that Hirsch equals him).Sean Penn is a great director. His use of nature images enhances the setting and the tone of the film. And they're amazing to look at. Another film that came out around the same time was "The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford." Both films were epic in scale and used plenty of gorgeous cinematography. While the latter was slow moving, "Into the Wild" is not. With a running time of nearly three hours, it may be easy to assume that this is a very slow moving film, and probably overlong. Not so. The film moves along pretty quickly, yet everything is pretty developed (except the part with Sonja and Mads, but they weren't that important anyway. That and the amount of time they interacted was short anyway, at least as the movie intended).Still, even with its flaws, "Into the Wild" is still a great movie. Definitely worth a watch.
As with Terrence Malick's 2005 film 'The New World' parts of Into the Wild come across like a poem on the screen, snowy landscapes, wild animals, flowing streams and breathtaking skies. I'm also a sucker for a voice-over and slow motion if used properly and here director Sean Penn does both to great effect which just adds to the poetic nature of the overall piece. Emile Hirsch should get an Oscar nomination for his role as Christopher McCandless the college graduate who gives away everything he has, college funds to Oxfam, cuts up his I.D. cards, burns his leftover dollars and embarks on the journey that will take him across America and eventually land him in Alaska. After graduating Christopher decides he want to leave society, find the true human spirit, and leave behind his privileged but stifling lifestyle and especially his overbearing and bickering parents. So without telling anyone he sets off destined to find himself. Told in chapters the film follows Christopher from the start where he re-names himself Alexander Supertramp to the final days in Alaska where he lives in the magic bus. Along the way he meets various characters that in some way help to shape him as he travels and as he grows from boy to man. As well as the stunning cinematography, great acting and fascinating story there is the soundtrack which is at times incredibly powerful, with original material from Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder it hard to imagine some of the scenes without it as it is so integral to the plot. Cursed by intelligence and maybe slight madness Alex is documenting his time and when he's not writing he's reading Tolstoy and Kafka amongst others and it's not just his mind he needs to expand as he learns the skills he needs to fend for himself, collecting berries and hunting animals he soon discovers it's not as easy as it seems. But a firm sense of determination pushes him forward and sees him adapt to almost anything. The structure of the film is fragmented and jumps to different time periods which is what keeps you guessing right up until the parting shot which to me was unexpected and left me a little stunned. At two and half hours it is quite a long film but it never feels it and the best way to enjoy it is to let yourself go and immerse yourself fully in the experience. Into the Wild should stay with you long after you've seen it, who hasn't dreamt at some point of disappearing and living free from the shackles of modern life? It is both a memorable and moving film that should become an American classic.


                
I had read the book before seeing the movie and they are very different experiences. In the book you project so much into McCandless world, whereas in the film you are handed down more about what Penn understood from the book. This makes it more difficult to absorb because in some moments you gain a sense of empathy and identity and then it moves into another direction. It is difficult to understand if McCandless is a loner, adventurer or just internally angry. With this you lose a lot of what takes a film from being good to being great.Essentially it is one man's odyssey and personal journey. The narrative of the film drives a certain set of understanding about the character that could have been better addressed if the cast was more stripped down. Too many philosophical points are trying to be made when the only real point is why people choose to take the paths they do. At a level this films tells us what that is but on another level it doesn't add up. There is more to it that we don't get to see or fully understand I think the subject would have been better handled with a different director but Penn made it his baby. By doing that he allowed his own ego to tarnish a film that should have been about the complete absence of ego. Penn clearly would have loved the lead role if he had been 25 years younger so projects it onto Hirsch, who in some cuts looks scarily like a younger Penn - so as an actor Hirsch tries to live up to something he is not. Like a dad cheering a son at football whilst all the time berating him for not doing it how he would.The supporting class don't have any depth to them because Penn ( and this is a good thing) over estimates the intelligence of his audience to fill in the gaps.It is certainly an accomplished film with a difficult subject and kudos for the attempt but I don't believe Penn is of the caliber of Director to pull this kind of subject off - yet.


                
Sean Penn's film about Christopher McCandless who shed his college and suburban life for a fatal nomadic journey is a really disturbing and absorbing film. It is extraordinarily well made and acted by Emile Hirsch. However what struck and disturbed me more than anything was how cruel and self absorbed and selfish our hero behaved. He caused pain beyond belief to his well meaning parents and sister, he burned his money instead of giving it to a poor family who needed it, he squatted in self absorbed diary bliss, he rejected all advances of friendship that did not benefit his mood at the time, ... in fact a good moment to demonstrate how unconscious he was of anyone else's feelings is late in the film when he cajoles an old man to climb up and across a really rocky and difficult mountain blissfully unaware that the hike is physically beyond the old man. He simply has no clue to another person's feelings. So our hero does really silly and dangerous things in his Kerouac style adventure down rapids and on freight trains and hitching lifts and staying as he chooses... and causing heartbreaking grief for his family. I was appalled to find this was a true story and it is to Penn's skill as a film maker that the astonishing selfishness of McCandless' self absorbed pilgrimage is spelled out as clearly as it is. Our hero might have had some teen issues with his family, but the rejection and ignorance of their feelings is utterly vile. Only a rich white teenager could behave in such a rotten way believing in this self righteous bubble that his selfish quest is some misguided noble back-to-basics adventure. In a film of many great scenes the standout was his tortured despairing father collapsing on the road in the suburb where they still lived. The hurt this boy caused! the terrible agony of not knowing where he was, and this brat thought all that was OK because HE was on a selfish quest. Penn's film is a great one and an expose of the sort of ruthless inconsiderate cruelty one generation worries about for the younger.


                
Finally got round to watching this last night. I very much enjoyed the cinematography, the way the story was told and the locations that were shot for the making of the film. It looked beautiful, capturing very well the concept of what it is to be 'free' and to appreciate the natural world by comparison to our comfortable urban/suburban lifestyles. The photography at times was breathtaking and gave a real sense of how epic North America is and the contrast of landscapes within it's borders. The narration in the film and his own advice to himself and others I found to be heartwarming and thought provoking at times. I especially liked the idea of everyone having to measure themselves at points in their life to see if they are truly strong in body, mind and character. There was a niggle that got to me throughout the film though, and it's probably only really based on my own prejudices and life experiences. I found it quite hard to sympathise with the main character, who seemed like a spoilt 22 year-old rich-kid that had read a few books and felt like he knew the world, imparting life-changing advice on unsuspecting hippies (and even a war veteran that had lost his wife and child in a car accident, arguably more learned than a well read college graduate???) along his journey. I'm not sure whether this part of the story has any basis in truth or whether this was an attempt by the family/director/writer to make his life and ultimate death seem more tragic/heroic/entertaining. The basis for his rather melodramatic social self-exclusion seemed to be rooted in his parent's tempestuous relationship and his secret family history, which, in my eyes, amounted to nothing more than an angsty teenager sticking his bottom lip out, dismissing his family and extremely fortunate (albeit frustratingly pre-determined) education/career prospects and selfishly indulging in his own 'quest for adventure' without caring about the impact on his family. People in the world have to deal with much more horrendous things than their parents buying them a new car for their graduation and they do so, usually without torturing the people that care about them. It seemed as though his behaviour was validated by his intellect but again, I suspect this was a spin put on the film, orchestrated by his family, and acted out in particular by his sister, who's character narrates throughout. The counter argument to this is that you are not necessarily supposed to sympathise with the main character. His lifestyle is questioned by the hippy woman who sees her own estranged son in him and by the old man who doubts Chris' claim that the basis for happiness is not in human relationships. The man, wise in his old age, doesn't bow down to this sentiment, instead proposing adoption. The protagonist's ultimate realisation of the flaw in his own argument however, comes when he scribbles, on his deathbed, the words 'happiness is only real if shared'.So on one hand I enjoyed the lead's subversive attitude and determination to follow his own path, rejecting the ugly flaws of modern 'society' and the poetic critique of human nature but on the other, I was frustrated by the way his character was indulgently depicted as a Jesus-like figure, following an intellectual path to an enlightenment that superseded any concept of consideration for others whilst the film barely recognised the inevitable naivety and arrogance of upper-middle-class American youth.On the whole I enjoyed the journey and found much of it very inspiring. At times I was deeply moved, particularly during the scene when he leaves the old man. A film I would definitely recommend to others, I'd award it 7/10. x
Like most films based on a true story, I expected this film to be slow-paced, and I was not surprised in any way.Whilst the overall feeling of the piece is one of loneliness, I got the impression that the main character could and should have gone back home in the end. He stayed out there too long, in my opinion.It was wonderful seeing all the people he met, and seeing how he affected their lives, and how, indeed, they affected his. But he didn't seem to learn anything from the people he met, apart from various trades and skills. If he'd only stopped to listen to them properly, he might have been happier than he ended up.Enough about the character himself, though. The music to this film is terrific. Eddie Vedder, of Pearl Jam, wrote all the music, and did a sterling job, as usual.The ensemble cast is very good, and are directed well by Sean Penn.This film really showcases the natural beauty of some parts of America, and indeed, the beauty of some of its people.Overall, this film is sad, beautiful, yet boring. It drags on a bit, and because the subject matter hardly changes (ie a lonely man travelling up and down the country, meeting people) it is very samey. It's worth watching, but do not expect to take any important messages away having watched it, other than the importance of family and friends.


                
I liked the movie mostly because of its performances, specifically the Emile Hirsch's and Hal Halbrook's. I thought Halbrook should have won the Oscar.As for the controversy surrounding what the meaning of the film and of McCandless's death was, I'm going to go with the Alaskan rangers on this one and say that McCandless was arrogant and suicidal. His mom and dad didn't seem like the best parents in the world, but I have more sympathy for them and their loss than I do for McCandless himself. Thousands of young American adults grew up under worse circumstances than McCandless, but most of them don't die for a half-baked political statement that nobody is listening to anyway. The thing that irritated me about this movie is how ambiguously it treats its main character. Throughout most of the film, it portrays McCandless as an almost Jesus-like figure. Indeed, during his death scene, the editor inter-cuts images of McCandless suffering from malnutrition with angelic camera movements of the sky/clouds as if McCandless is ascending to Heaven. On the other hand, in his final moments, McCandless seems to admit to himself (and the world) that he may have made a terrible mistake and most of the colorful characters he meets on his journey seem to agree that his extremism will get him in terrible trouble. I much preferred Werner Herzog's documentary Grizzley Man which is about a similar true story of a man who that died while camping in Alaska. Herzog is less ambiguous on the point that his subject's life and death is a warning against defying common sense for the sake of idealism and is a meditation on the human condition and its place within nature. Penn's film felt hero worship for a man who essentially tied himself to a railroad track and expected the train to go around him.
That's what the movie hero writes in his diary in the end. This movie tells the story of a young man who after graduating in university with very high marks decides to abandon home, family and everything and go to live into the wild in Alaska like if it was his promised land. He is pushed into that not only but what they call the lies of modern civilized life and social hypocrisy but also because, thinking like that, he is particularly hurt by his parents lies about their past private lives. While the movie progresses we hear his sister's voice off stressing the most important moments and aspects of his life. In my opinion the message the movie wants to pass is that there is a mistake to show revolt against society by running away to live with Nature and alone. In his course to Alaska our hero (who walks and hitch-hikes all the time) stops sometimes here and there to get occasional works that can give him a little money to enable him to support himself on his course. In those moments he creates bonds of friendship and love with lots of people but always rejects any possibilities of staying with them in his stubborn march to Alaska where he wants to spend at least a great part of his life in contact only with Mother Nature. He leaves lots of people who have become very fond of him, very unhappy with his absence. Mother nature is not always paradisiacal and may also be very cruel sometimes and even violent. And for instance the wild food it provides can be poisonous. Adding to the movie's credit are the beautiful landscape images and the splendid background music and songs of the country type.


                
