Sean Penn's new movie Into the Wild arrives on the wave of a well-regarded novel about a college graduate who decides that the anger and violence in civilized society is too much to handle and commences a journey through nature in order to truly live life as it was meant to be. This film is a wonderful glimpse into the life of a kid, wise beyond his years, and the bonds that he creates with people along the way. A victim of excess in wealth and a shortage of love, Christopher McCandless hid inside his mind behind knowledge and philosophy, building up his intellectual strength, as well as the physical, in order to complete his trek, ultimately leading him to Alaska. Penn never falls into the trap of showing too much heartbreak on the side of McCandless's parents, because he doesn't want the audience to second-guess the decision he made. There is no debate to be had here, our protagonist has no alternative but to get out and live off the land. Only being completely self-sufficient can he grasp a meaning for his life and one day perhaps go back with that knowledge fully learned.Emile Hirsch is absolutely brilliant with his good-natured attitude and affable charm. His character believes that human contact is not necessary for happiness and never seeks out relationships. However, his character is so likable that they find him and latch on, not to change his mind, but to experience his level of being and hopefully learn something from him and help enlarge his vocabulary on life. The people he meets help him to fully grasp the decision of life in the wild and be able to survive it. Never coming off condescendingly to those he crosses paths with, Hirsch always holds a smile on his face. One scene, where he meets up with a couple of people from Europe, proves how contagious a clear outlook on life without the troubles of societal restraints can be. These three kids have a blast, if only for a few minutes<U+0097>with Hirsch being chased by the police for rafting with no license<U+0097>and it makes one wonder if maybe we all should take a journey into nature and feel the freedom and full warmth of heart that a lack of stress to succeed in the business world can give.All the supporting players are magnificent at helping show the side to McCandless that Penn needs on display to succeed. Hal Holbrook, Brian Dierker, and Catherine Keener are by far the best of these side characters with Vince Vaughn and Kirsten Stewart adding some charm too. Dierker, Keener, and Stewart play hippie, flower-child type roles and allow Hirsch to show off how modest and unselfish he is. This is the family he deserved to have from birth and he is the son they wished their lives had earned them. At their best, all four together give some of the most emotionally charged moments in the film. Holbrook, on-the-other-hand, helps give insight into the philosophy that Hirsch needs to live with in order to survive the loneliness, looking him in the face, to come in Alaska. It is truly fascinating to see how every person adds something to his overall experience and to the tools he needs.Hirsch deserves a lot of credit because he truly outshines the film itself with his dedication and sacrifice to the role. The length of time needed to allow him the ability to lose the weight necessary for a main plot point in the movie is crazy. If the time wasn't that long and Hirsch did it all rapidly, I'm even more impressed. With all that, there are many instances free of dialogue that he needs to carry with body language and actions alone. True, much of this is enhanced by a wonderful soundtrack from Eddie Vedder, but evenso it is a remarkable performance. Kudos to Sean Penn for a gorgeous filming job also. He captures the countryside with grace, while infusing many moments of visual style by slow-motioning glimpses, knowing when to show the family left behind, utilizing informative and essential voice-over, and even breaking the fourth wall. When Hirsch first looks into the camera, at the audience, it does not seem unnatural in the slightest, but instead an amazing link for the viewers to take a look into his soul like those that crossed his path have. McCandless is so pure that it almost feels like glimpsing the calm protectiveness of God.


                
When Chris McCandless (Emile Hirsch) graduated from college, he had one goal in life - to finally break away from his unhappy family and the constraints of society in general and live off the land in Alaska. The episodic film flashes back and forth between Chris' adventures in Alaska and the months leading up to it, focusing on the people who befriended him, including an aging hippie couple and a lonely, old man (well-played by the venerable Hal Holbrook).Based on a true story and narrated with many of Chris' journal entries, the film is an emotional roller coaster; I was torn between admiring his youthful idealism and courage and hating him for the pain he inflicted on his family. The movie feels much like a documentary as it follows Chris hitchhiking and working his way across the country and then surviving, at first, quite well in Alaska.Emile Hirsch is well-cast as Chris and makes you care about him right from the start. He did all of his demanding stunts himself and even lost 40 pounds to play the ailing Chris. It is a very touching story. Amid the splendor of the wilderness but ultimately alone, Chris finally understood that happiness is only real when it is shared. Highly recommended.
Sean Penn's 'Into the Wild' is a passionate and faithful evocation of Jon Krakauer's book about Chris McCandless. It's the troubling and complex story of a young idealist and seeker who was also a rebellious child and beloved brother who gave away his $24,000 savings to Oxfam after college, went off in an old Datsun and left his family behind, and disappeared for two years wandering the country, only to be found by hunters dead of poisoning and starvation in an abandoned bus in the wilds of Alaska.It's been said as a criticism of Penn's movie that it isn't as neutral about McCandless as Krakauers's book. It is true that Emile Hirsch as Chris, who called himself Alexander Supertramp on the road, is such a joyous and appealing character it's hard to focus on the arbitrariness and foolhardiness of the young man. Hirsch gives his all. He has shown his knack for playing bad good boys<U+0097>particularly in 'Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys' and 'Lords of Dogtown'<U+0097>and for playing wild misfits<U+0097>in the little seen 'The Mudge Boy.' This is the first great role he's had, and he deserves it. His work is a wonderful melding of "negative capability" and generosity. It comes naturally to him to embody exuberance, boldness, and joy. If there was something off-putting or stern in the real-life McCandless, it's not very noticeable in Hirsch. But Hirsch's enthusiasm makes sense of the great adventure and self-discovery this story recounts. (Sadly, McCandless never seemed more ready to embrace life, and to overcome all his doubts about people and family, than right near his end.) All the faults McCandless had and mistakes he made made are there in the story as Penn tells it; if he has altered facts (and necessarily left some out), he hasn't done so to make the young man's plans seem clearer or his choices wiser, and the movie is replete with specific detail.'Into the Wild,' true, is itself a little on the wild and loud side, with its occasionally obtrusive Eddie Vedder soundtrack, it's insanely vivid characters<U+0097>like the young Danish couple on the banks of the Colorado, Vince Vaughan's intense, grinning grain farmer, Hal Holbrook's fabulously sad, shut-down old widower. There is another kind of overload in the occasional use of split screens. But it all unfolds very much as Jon Krakauer's book does, with interludes at the "magic bus" where Chris met his doom constantly intercut with episodes from his travels earlier during his two wander-years. And incredible episodes they are: roaming with a warm hippie couple; illegally and hair-raisingly running the Colorado rapids in a kayak; working in the big grain elevator and loving it; riding the rails and loving that too, till he's caught and beaten; escaping a flophouse in L.A.; staying with old Mr. Franz (Holbrook), learning from him how to engrave leather belts and persuading him to climb a mountain; and then off into the hostile snow country with a big back pack and sheer will. Many voiceovers from Chris's sister add more about the sibling relationship than was in the book; the family "fearlessly" cooperated in the film-making. McCandless's stern NASA honcho dad (William Hurt) and uptight mother (Marcia Gay Harden) are as unappealing as he saw them, but are not overdrawn<U+0097>or underrepresented. Among other things Sean Penn's film is a remarkable balancing act.It's obvious this story had to be made into a movie, and it's hard to imagine how anyone could have done it better than Penn and his fine cast. All Penn's directorial efforts have been heartfelt and earnest, but this of his films thus far is his greatest artistic success and has the widest appeal. Into the Wild is a good balance of the emotionally wrenching and the thought-provoking. It contains so many themes and poses so many questions<U+0097>about youth, about time, about responsibility. Chris isn't to be confused with Herzog's 'Grizzly Man'. He's aware of the danger of nature. It's just that he has the hubris of daring to approach it with too little knowledge and experience, knowing the risk, and taking it. And indeed he might have made it and gotten back out, but for two or three terrible mistakes. Nature is unforgiving.Chris McCandless was unforgiving too. But if he read the romantic Bible of his own life lived in those intense two years and lived to tell of them, the film suggests, he would have learned to love and forgive. He was bright, talented, passionate about life, a seeker or rare moral fervor who read and thought and recorded all that happened in those last days. His death was sadly premature. But there are signs<U+0097>they're clear in Krakauer's book<U+0097>that he made an impact on the world he inhabited and the people he met. Vince Vaughan's character shouts, "You're one hell of a young man. You're one hell of a young man!" He died terribly alone. But maybe the tree that falls in the forest is heard after all. "Quant'e' bella giovanezza," goes an Italian renaissance verse, "Che si fugge tuttavia." How beautiful is youth, which flees straightaway. McCandless' story embodies those lines.'Into the Wild' seems more moving and thought-provoking than any other recent film, and may be destined to become some kind of classic<U+0097>an 'Easy Rider', some have said, for our times. It's about society and nature, about family, about idealism and aloneness; most of all it's about the dangerous, heartbreakingly brief and beautiful romanticism of youth. In those two years, Chris McCandless lived a whole, remarkable, life. And Sean Penn has captured those two years for us.
I just saw this in Chicago at an advanced viewing, I did not read the book but I do remember seeing the event on the news.The movie was epic- over 2.3 hours long, but there was never a dull moment. There were some risqué shots that I enjoyed, in particular one where Chris looks into the lens (which I think worked really well.) This film showed how beautiful this country is and how one person can be so in touch with that (makes you think about embracing life). Emile did a great job as Chris, dealing with a forked up home life is something almost everyone can relate to on one level or another. I think this movie will serve as an eye opener for a lot of people.William Hurt was great, Catherine Keener was excellent, as was everyone else and the locals were very enjoyable to watch.The music contributed by Vedder was awesome as well! I definitely cried about... 4 times. The ending was so dramatic (because it was real and had to handle the final moments of a young man that we came to like). It seemed like the movie could have ended in several places, but overall I'm glad it decided to hit the 2.3 hour mark....Afterward Emile did a Q+A where he pretty much talked about his experience being in Alaska, meeting Chris's family, acting with Sean Penn, made a joke about speed racer, etc. It sounded like a great time and it was clear that he was really enthusiastic about the project and proud of it.
I agree with many others who have said that the main character makes some bad decisions (And you haven't?), and I agree that the film's story is far from the greatest story that has ever been made into a film. However, the story here is an important one that has a lot to say about being human. The story itself is certainly not at all an easy one to tell through the cinematic medium. Nonetheless, I really do think Sean Penn has captured this story nearly as well as it possibly could have been told on film, and that in itself is a stunning accomplishment. This story is so real, so human, that it reaches out and has obviously grabbed a ton of peoples hearts, including mine. The scenes themselves give off a very authentic feeling, even where some parts are somewhat rushed through for the betterment of the whole story, it ends up working well in full scope. Many of the scenes are extremely intimate, including the scene where Hirsch looks directly into the camera to increase this very aspect I feel. I know a lot of people have criticized this part, and I agree in most films it would have no place whatsoever, but here it is a very daring and effective decision by Penn in my opinion. Much of the film displays a vast amount of scenic beauty, and the scenes at slab city are nothing short of 'classic'.To me, the important thing to take from the film is not why Chris decided to leave his parents and society. Nor do I think anyone can in their right mind criticize this decision he made. That is pointless. The fact is that it was his choice, whatever his accumulative reasons may have been is beside the point. The value here is in what he learns from the experience, and the incredible way in which he and Sean Penn have now shared that message with the rest of the world.Eddie Vedders music was obviously the perfect choice for this film, as it sways with emotional depth and helps to carry the films authentic feel. There are many great acting performances here as well, none better than Catherine Keener's brilliant delivery of grace and genuine heart.The story here ventures into the territory that drives all human experience. The search for authentic heart that all people, knowingly or not search for.The heart searches for heart, only to find itself treading in a sea of broken hearts, all cut from the same Divine Cloth. The One, and the many...forever lost within ourselves."Happiness only real when shared" Chris McCandless9.5/10
I saw this movie at an advanced screening in Nashville on August 23, 2007. Although it was a little long, it was a great movie.The movie follows an Emory grad who struggles to find the meaning of life. He travels across the country (ultimately to Alaska) and along the way he touches lives and becomes a man.This movie really makes a person reevaluate their priorities in life and I personally found it to be inspiring. The director did a beautiful job with the story line and the landscapes were incredible.Vince Vaughn plays a small part and is his usual lovable self. Emile Hirsch was wonderful and has a bright future in acting. One shocker was the random brief nudity of men and women.This movie is worth seeing at least once.


                
I have to say Sean you did buddy. This movie is ultimately awesome!! We need more films like this. I had the opportunity to see this film last night and I loved it from the very beginning. The cinematography was absolutely awesome and breath-taking. If more people would worry about other human beings rather materialistic things we would be in much better environment. I truly believe Happiness is SHARING as well. When you see a "HOMELESS" looking person, or someone who doesn't have what you have, you should NEVER judge how they got there. I have to tell you this movie really touched me and makes me want to live more to the fullest to make a difference and to be a better person.


                
Of all the animals shown in this movie: The Kodiak Bear, the Grey Wolf, the Bald Eagle, the Moose etc, only one has the ability to make dreams.... that animal is man. From director Sean Penn, Into the Wild captures in detail one of the defining features of the human species; to be able to have a dream, and the desire to fulfill it. Despite a somewhat clunky two and a half hour running length (which may feel loger depending on how old you are) Into the Wild is an adventure that becomes one with the viewer. It is a demanding project but the work has paid off nicely, and I'll raise my glass to it for that.Into the Wild is based on the true story of Christopher McCandless. After graduating college as an A+ student in 1992, he chose to leave his materialist society and stuck up family behind. He chaged his name to Alex Supertramp, and embarked on a quest for Alaska. On his journey, he covered thousands of miles of American wilderness, on foot, by train, car, kayak, meeting a plethora of weird and wonderful people along the way.It is absolutely vital for the movie that the character of Chris/Alex is one whose company we can enjoy. After all, his journey is ours. Emile Hirsh's performance is definitely sufficient. He is a little wacky but in a good way. He is also talented, bold, determined, and fun to be around. I suppose it is also worth noting that he has a pretty face.A movie like Into the Wild is also demanding on the crew. After all, the storyline covers about half the country, which of course means lots of transportation is needed, and lots of landscape imagery. The camera is all over the place, referring of course to locations (not movement). Into the Wild is a gorgeously photographed picture, which is backed up with a great song score from Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder. I remember a couple years ago during Oscar season being annoyed that his songs were snubbed, because of eligibility rules.My one problem with the movie, is that the editing feels a bit tripy. Into the Wild frequently plays with time in a Pulp Fiction manner, and some of that time concerns flashbacks related to family melodrama. These scenes are conveniently short but they don't seem important enough to be worth showing. I suppose it's also worth mentioning that the last half hour could use a few trims.No movie is perfect of course, and no human being is perfect either, it is not until the end of the film when we realize that about Chris. But I'll say this much, the journey was worth it, and if you can spare an hour and a half for Into the Wild, I think you will agree with me on that.


                
Simply stunning real-life account of college graduate who simply disowns and ditches the American society, lifestyle - and his parents - to make a life in the midwestern/Alaskan wilderness. Along his path he also encounters and affects a handful of diverse people in both profound and truthful ways... A clearly victorious labor of love for director Penn, as it uses voice-over, appropriately themed songs and nature philosophy quotes (if a few too many) just as effectively as the beauty of nature's scenery itself to tell an Americana (and the fate of quite a man) like no other. An honest, heartfelt celebration of following a dream of freedom and simplicity - gaspingly well made - that resonates even deeper, of course, if you agree on its values and statements (like me). Rousseau smiles in his grave! Also astonishingly, effortlessly acted down the line with a fantastic Hirsch (who to me is an uncanny cross between Johnny Depp & River Phoenix!) in the lead; it wouldn't work without his performance. Give that man more big roles!9 out of 10 from Ozjeppe.


                
Chris McCandless, a young man of twenty four took his last breath in this world in August 1992 - alone. Found starved to death in an abandoned bus in Denali Park, near Fairbanks, Alaska, he had left his affluent home in the Southern U.S. after graduating from Emery College, tuned in to the call of the wild, turned on to the spirit of Jack Kerouac and Henry Thoreau, and dropped out of a society he rejected for its commercialism and greed. Directed by Sean Penn and based on Jon Krakauer's book about Chris' life, Into the Wild is a celebration of youth with its idealism, desire for adventure, and also its arrogance and short-sightedness. Penn, who seems deeply connected to his subject, consulted with Chris' parents after waiting ten years for their approval to undertake this project. The reuslt is a sweet, thoughtful, and deeply moving film but, like its main protagonist, full of contradictions.The debate over whether Chris was a highly evolved truth seeker or a vengeful and self destructive personality is not answered either in the book or the film. Ever looking for the real McCandless, Penn fills in the gaps with a semi-idealized version but since the only knowledge we have of the real person is from Chris' journals, letters, novels and poems, and the thoughts of his sister Carine (Jena Malone) narrated in voice-over, who he was remains maddeningly elusive. In spite of Chris' ultimate discovery about the true nature of happiness, Into the Wild is not a message film but a voyage of discovery in which a headstrong young man gradually acquires the wisdom to reach out to others, even to his parents in a fevered dream. More than a story about a return to nature, or a white middle class youth's protest against his parent's values, it is a search for authenticity in a world that has forgotten what truth looks and feels like.Chris is engagingly played by Emile Hirsch who had to ride the rapids of the Colorado River and lose 45 pounds in the process of making the film. He brings a quality of instant likability to his role, though at times he skirts around the edges of the character without fully inhabiting him. The film is divided into four chapters that signal Chris's growing maturity. It begins in Alaska, then flashes back to the two-year journey that brought him to this point. Along the way, he gives away his $24,000 inheritance to charity, burns all of his money, abandons his car, changes his name, and hitchhikes across the country and up to Alaska, never once communicating with his distraught family.It was part of Chris' contradiction that he rejected human relationships, yet was able to give of himself to those he met along the way. He makes a friend of Wayne (Vince Vaughn) his boss as a farm worker in South Dakota, an 81-year old retired veteran (Hal Holbrook) who offers to adopt him, a 16 year-old singer-songwriter (Kristen Stewart), and a pair of aging free spirits Rainey and Jana (Catherine Keener and Brian Dierker). These contacts appear to be genuine but McCandless keeps his distance. When Jana tells Chris about her own son who ran away and hasn't been heard from in two years, he seems curiously unmoved and is silent when Jana tells him how children are often cruel to their parents.Backed by original songs by Eddie Vedder that never seem discordant, Into the Wild is a beautiful film that should be remembered at Oscar time, if only for Hal Holbrook's masterful supporting performance. Though it occasionally lapses into clichés such as Chris telling Tracy that "If you want something in life, reach out and grab it" and melodramatic scenes where the sun emerges from the clouds just at the right moment, the film has a grasp of the grit of life and ultimately becomes transcendent. While we may rightly view Chris' short life as a tragedy, but as Albert Einstein says, "the real tragedy of life is what dies inside a man while he lives".Whatever else could be said about Chris, and as a parent I am appalled by his cruelty in refusing to contact his mother and father or even his sister for a period of two years, to him life was a game that was only worth playing 100%. Those who refuse to take risks in life may stand in judgment of McCandless and call him stupid, yet some have forgotten what it is like to be young and some never knew. He made mistakes, serious errors of judgment, yet in the end I am reminded of what George Bernard Shaw says, "I rejoice in life for its own sake. Life is no "brief candle" for me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations." Chris McCandless life was a candle that burned brightly on both ends, then flickered and died but what he has passed on to us is a splendid torch.


                
BUT having said that i would like to tell you that there are different perspectives in which you can analyze the life of Christopher .....You will be emotional and thrilled after watching it ..... The acting is top class ..... Emile Hirsch is really good ..... narration and picturasation is good too ... Its a joy ride ... BUT BUT when you come out of the theater and think about it you may feel that it was a stupid story, Christopher's decisions were bad ... he was kinda narrow minded and arrogant .... but it depends on the way you see it .... I found out three point of views of analyzing the life of Christopher ...1) The character of Christopher is portrayed as a psychic boy who leaves his good life to go out into the wild and dies out there .... which is very insulting to the memory of late Christopher McCandless ... the director should have thought about it before creating a movie on his life ..... 2) "HAPPINESS IS ONLY REAL WHEN SHARED" ... this line touched my heart .. some people think they are happy when they are alone .... but that happiness is just an illusion .... take an example .. suppose you travel the world and see different places .... experience nature and all .... you will feel that you are happy at that moment .... but when you come back home to tell your friends and loved once what you experienced and when you show them the photos etc. and when you look back into the past to see what you had done and remember those moments , you feel happiest ...... that happiness is more than what you felt when you actually experienced things .... And if you die during the tour and never get a chance to share it with people, would you still feel happy? ...... will you be able to say in your dyeing moments "I was happy when i died "? ..... I don't think so .... At that time you will realize how stupid you were to leave everyone and stay alone ...... CHRISTOPHER REALIZED THIS WHEN HE WAS DYEING ..... HE REALIZED THAT THE HAPPIEST MOMENTS IN HIS LIFE WERE THE ONES HE SPENT WITH THOSE PEOPLE HE MET DURING HIS JOURNEY .... 3) why do we choose a career ..... to get a good job and hence good money .. Why we want money ... so that we can buy happiness .... whatever we do in our life is for buying happiness out of money .. for us and for our children .... The story tells you that money is not the only way to get happy ... there are numerous ways which don't require money .... different people have their own ideas of happiness .... you just have to decide which way to choose and reach out and grab it ... e.g : the character felt that he will be happy by living in the wild ALONE, not getting into relationships and bonds ... but his lifestyle didn't permit it ...... so he left everything ... changed his lifestyle and went out to do what he wanted to ... he did what his heart told him ...... I think this is the point of view which the director saw ...... its positive and certainly you will enjoy the movie more if you analyze it this way ...... a 9/10 for the movie cause i felt happy when i saw it .....
This movie really had an impact on me. I am so very moved by the true story about this young man. 
I highly recommend this movie.


                
Sean Penn, one of the finest actors of this decade, has put together a masterful work filled with incredible images and a touching story that speaks to us all about the basic essentials of life. Into the Wild tells the story of Chris McCandless, a successful college graduate who gives his money away to charity and goes on a journey heading towards the wild, beautiful nature of Alaska. His thinking stems from his home life, which was not that stable as a child. His parents fought constantly, and the alienation he felt from them only drove him to alienate himself from everybody else. He thrives by himself and does survive quite well for awhile. While traveling across the American west, he encounters a married couple of hippies, lovingly played by Brian Dieker and Catherine Keener, a young girl who falls for him, played by the remarkable Kristen Stewart, a corrupt farmer played by Vince Vaughn, and a lonely old man, portrayed by Hal Holbrook in an Oscar-nominated role.All these people influence Chris and he influences them. Penn paces this just right and constantly moves back and forth between the climax of the journey and the events leading up to it. By the time Chris actually plans to head straight for Alaska, we feel he's seen enough. He feels he hasn't. Chris is a young, idealistic, headstrong young man who wants to follow in the steps of his heroes: authors Tolstoy, London, and Thoreau. He wants to live off the land, alone, with no need to have contact with society, which he basically shuns. Us being society, it is hard at times to agree with him, but we also are drawn to him, as are most other people in the film. We want him to succeed, but just like Chris, we don't quite know what he is looking for out there. It may be peace, or freedom, or maybe simply God. Whatever it is, it's something bigger than himself, and he dies in the process.Despite this downcast ending, Sean Penn has made a remarkable film. The screenplay goes on a bit too long at times, but the direction is perfect. The cinematography is gorgeous, perfectly capturing the awesome beauty of nature not just in Alaska, but wherever Chris goes. This is a powerful piece of work that is nothing short of inspirational. If there is any film from 2007 you look up, it should be this one. It will motivate you to live life to the fullest and find that, "Happiness is best when shared." Just like Chris.
Into the wild, based on a true story, is a slow paced started masterpiece of a movie which grips you just when you start to doubt if this is anything for you to watch. This happens when Eddie Vedder starts using his incredible voice in the soundtrack, following some great colorful scenes of nature and freedom. From there on the story grips your heart by the root.What a great soundtrack Eddie Vedder has made for this film! Beautiful peaceful, raw and heartbreaking.Emile Hirsch impresses a lot as an actor in this, but some of the supporting actors are really fantastic as well. First of all Hal Holbrook who eats the screen as a charming old guy filled with wisdom and affection for life and humans. But Vince Vaughn, Catherine Keener, William Hurt...It wouldn't surprise me if Sean Penn is another Clint Eastwood in spe. I hated his acting as a young actor, started respecting him a few years ago. Now this storytelling, the way this filming is put together is pure art. Clever art. Clever film-making.The way the film reveals the reasons of Chris McCandless runaway is outstanding, as well as the clipping which makes the viewer easily understand how Alex Supertramps trail was found and documented.The film is so beautifully made, it makes one scared some will follow in Chris McCandless footsteps. Though the story gives a warning.Chris himself understands the real meaning of life, but too late to get back into the real world. He left a lot of broken hearts, and a lot of sobbing cinema goers.It's a 10/10 but the first 30 minutes loses one of the stars due, as the film could easily have compelled right from start.
Freedom in sharing and freedom within...the very core of ultimate freedom seemed to have been explored.I always enjoyed Sean Penn's raw work as an actor....and was looking forward to see his work as a director.. Also,Emile Hirsch did an amazing acting job.Any actor who gives so much of himself or herself as Sean Penn does, can be exciting to experience when he /she brings to a movie in the direction.I was very pleased to see the movie at the Landmark Sunshine Theater in NYC.Truth is that freedom is so personal and at the same time is in context with the community or nature where that person lives..Truth is often between the lines.We live in a world which is said to be "civilized" and yet alienating . Many reasons seem to be the cause of this...thank goodness for films like these to help balance out things..Intimacy is also very connected to the notion of freedom. Learning to be intimate with one's emotions,body , spirit,etc....are a prerequisite to being able to be intimate with others...Others or the environment are sometimes the catalyst that a person needs towards freedom and intimacy . Freedom or at least the notion of feeling free is the fuel to ultimate intimacy. A delicate balance is somewhat challenging but highly rewarding. This movie reminded me of my life experiences ,when I was totally alone in nature, by choice, and what was revealed to me by circumstance... life is truly an amazing gift and the greatest gift is in sharing.Thank you Sean Penn and wish you a continued success in your sharing.Claude Laniado actor/producer/psychiatrist


                
Knowing the bare bones of the story of Christopher McCandless, and having seen Sean Penn's debut feature The Indian Runner, I went into Into The Wild with reasonably high expectations. The finished film far exceeded anything I could have hoped for - especially from the mediocre advertisements - to become the very best film I have seen in 2007 so far (previous title holder: Zodiac) and one of the most affecting film experiences of my life.Having said that, I almost don't want to praise the film too much, as it would raise expectations to a level that might not be met by all viewers. This was, for me, a very personal film to watch. Penn (writing and directing) has created a version of McCandless that transcends mere biography or American travelogue (though it is both) to become a cypher through which I judged my own outlook on life and the actions and choices I make everyday. While it never preaches or takes one stance over any other, it is difficult to look into McCandless' eyes (Emile Hirsch in a career-defining performance) and not see your own soul reflected and questioned.On a purely visual level, this is an astoundingly good-looking film. Panoramic vistas are juxtaposed with minute details, nothing dwelled on too long, but long enough to give a very real sense of place and environment. Its easy to empathise when Hirsch looks on a herd of animals charging across the mountain-side and tears form in his eyes. You feel the cold, the wet, the warmth and you understand. This marks a huge leap forward for Penn as a director, very quickly establishing a visual short-hand in order to cover so much time and so many events in significant enough detail.At the same time, he has populated the film with some of the very best character actors working today in order to establish maximum character with minimum screen-time. Perhaps the best example of this is William Hurt, who - while only on screen for several minutes - has one of the most moving moments in the closing minutes of the film, in a single, short shot, devoid of words. Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, Kristen Stewart, the always reliable Marcia Gay Harden and first-timer (according to his IMDb profile) Brian Dierker all turn in touching, pitch-perfect performances.But the highest plaudits must go to Hal Holbrook and Hirsch himself. Holbrook is guaranteed to make you tearful without being maudlin or overly sentimental (Robin Williams: take note!). While he may look frail, he has lost none of his acting chops and delivers an important counter-point to McCandless' final stages of his journey north to Alaska, as well as a surrogate father figure in place of the parents that McCandless left behind. His role in the film is similar to the moment in The Straight Story when Alvin Straight meets a young, hungry hitch-hiker and tells her about the importance of family. And Holbrook fills it with subtle glances and expressions that say so much more than the words coming from his mouth.Emile Hirsch delivers a performance the likes of which has never been hinted at by his previous roles. In more ways than one, it is a completely naked performance, filled with warmth, charm, fear and fearlessness, determination and vulnerability. It is, in no uncertain terms, an invisible performance, one where you see two people on screen: Christopher Johnson McCandless and Alexander Supertramp, not Emile Hirsch the actor, even when he breaks the fourth wall and looks directly into camera. This is a dangerous technique, but one that, rather than removing the viewer from the experience, pulls you closer to the character looking at you.In all aspects (including the gorgeous cinematography and Eddie Vedder's score and songs), this is a triumph the likes of which we rarely see in modern cinema. That it stands to be one of the very best, most enduring films of a year that brings us Zodiac, No Country For Old Men, The Assassination of Jesse James and There Will Be Blood is testament to Penn's growth as a filmmaker and his understanding and interpretation of the source material.While the final 20 minutes are among the most difficult I personally have ever sat through in a cinema (I found it hard to breathe during one particular scene, openly weeping during others) this is a rewarding, potentially life-changing experience and a unique work from a major voice in American cinema. The very definition of "must-see".
Most of the negative reviews around Into The Wild focus on two things. The merits or otherwise of Chris McCandless and the accuracy of the story. Whilst I can understand a degree of frustration at the addition of at least one fact to romanticise the story and the man, I feel sad that some people are so judgmental of others that they cannot enjoy what is a truly beautiful and thought provoking film.At best the protagonist was brave and principled. A voice all too infrequently heard as society careers ever more headlong towards pure materialism. A man who understood that the health of the soul and the clarity of understanding his place was of utmost importance. At worse he was a selfish, ignorant and pretentious brat. A man who was so wrapped up in the tough cards life had dealt him that he unconditionally abandoned the one person who loved him and had been dealt those some cards. A man who failed to recognise that for all the relative pain he had gone through in his adolescence, he also had been given the intelligence and opportunity to really do something with his own life.This is what makes Into The Wild first and foremost such a satisfying story. It shouldn't matter which side of the fence you fall, so long as you can appreciate the polarising nature of the character. My emotions towards him swung wildly with the narration of his sister and then seeing the positive effect he seemed to have an everyone he met on his travels. I don't judge him for his foolishness; I think life has judged him quite enough for that already.Of course none of that covers the beautifully captured scenery, pitch perfect soundtrack and wonderful pacing of the film. The two and a half hours flies by despite the episodic nature of the story, thanks to the inter cuts between the magic bus and what led to it. Emile Hirsch does everything he needs to as the lead and the supporting cast fall in behind up wonderfully. Of particular note are William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden as the parents and Catherine Keener who maximises every second of screen time in her portrayal of the roaming hippie, haunted by the reminder of her estranged son.There are few films capable of prompting debate quite like Into The Wild and that is a thoroughly fine trait to have. Plus it's a damn enjoyable watch.


                
This is a comment, so I leave out describing the story here. Don't read it, just watch the film everybody! INTO THE WILD is a film that stays. It stays in your mind, body and soul. It's about pure freedom, about a young man who just did it. The acting, directing, camera work and editing is all beautiful. Sean Penn does a great job again, this time on the other side of the camera. So does Emile Hirsch and the rest of the cast and crew. The film makes you take something back home from the cinema. If you listen to Eddie Vedders unique soundtrack after having seen the movie, it makes you wanna go out and see the world. It touches you and makes you wanna be free in all possible ways. Great cinema.


                
I can only imagine that there are many others, like myself and Chris, who want to be free of those "irksome obligations," and just take off. Unfortunately, most, like myself, will never do it. The story of Chris is a vicarious thrill for me.I was anxious to see him head to "slab city," ever since I saw Plagues and Pleasures on the Salton Sea. It has been one of those places I wanted to explore. But, that had to wait as he headed for South Dakota. It didn't matter where he went, there were outstanding scenes to experience and great people along the way.I have to say that Vince Vaughn really impressed me in this film. This is not the Vince Vaughn that I do not like.Rather than wait 12 years for a permit, he just took off down the river. If he hadn't he wouldn't have met Sonja and Rads.Finally, Salton Sea, and Rainey and Jan (Catherine Keener) again; and Tracey (Kristen Stewart). He was a gentleman and saved her for the vampire to come.A stop on the way to gain wisdom from the great Hal Holbrook, and it's time to go. "But when you forgive, you love. And when you love, God's light shines through you," Knowing people like his parents and the fact that similar things have happened due to their actions regarding their children, makes this story all the more personal. It is one that anyone can gain by seeing over and over.A magnificent story, great scenery, fascinating people, and a grisly ending.Emile Hirsch was amazing.


                
...When you forgive, you Love And when you Love, God lights paths on you...Learning the meaning of "happiness sharing" ,Emile Hirsch get on this running away from society and family searching the wildest side of his soul. The deepest connection with nature. The meaning of life. Along the road he'll find out many friends who took care of him and helped to go to the north. Alaska was calling.The movie is interlaced with past scenes regarding Alaska trip, and scenes regarding Alaska living life. The interlacing gives rhythm to the movie and make it far behind a boring slowness that had could ruin the great atmosphere of the entire work that reaches an holy calm and sense of freedom.Since Seneca years (3 BC-65 AC) trip were used helping soul becoming healthy, and now more than then we need to find our selves, where society pushing everyday to control everything, many sensible human being could suffer lack of freedom more than others. I think that everyone have had or will have an experience like that. It is not necessary to go to Alaska, but wherever is good to find our personal light inside us. Our truly self.I think that the movie meaning is much below the appearance. Emile Hirsch sacrifice his self to make everyone has watched the story understand the limits of meaning research. "Sharing happiness" and "reconciliation", kinda like the gospel of the lost child. He didn't succeed in turning back to forgive, his path had a cruel and lonely ending...but probably we find ourselves when we forgive, and once we forgive, we can go back and solve our past. Forgiveness is related to Love, and Love is related to life. Just forgive and sharing happiness. That is what I learned from this movie, that I can tell...it made me pouring a drop at the end, an unexpected one by the way... I advice everyone watching it, better alone,in a calm and lonely place, you must feel into the wild! Hopefully this could be an inspiration for someone else future thoughts!Roberto, Milan (Italy)


                
Into the Wild is an alternately enthralling and wrenching portrait of a young man who ran from his problems and searched for peace and found paradise and, in turn, anguish and despair. Chris McCandless' journey is a gripping travelogue that's both a cautionary tale and a vicariously exhilarating experience; man, it looked like he had a whale of a good time, but man, did it end badly for him.First and foremost, what makes Into the Wild work so flawlessly is that even knowing the final outcome doesn't change the overall effect that movie will have on the average moviegoer. Based on McCandless' real story, the movie pulls few punches in how the protagonist is depicted; he's neither a saint nor a sinner, just an idealistic (and not naive), troubled college graduate who feels adrift from literally everything: parents, life, friends.Chris (Emile Hirsch) is a highly intelligent Emory College grad, the son of a NASA scientist (William Hurt) and an entrepreneur (Marcia Gay Harden). But unlike other privileged young citizens, Chris has no intentions of enjoying the gifts and wealth his family and connections have afforded him. Instead, he gives away his life savings of $24,000, abandons his beat-up Datsun, leaves his family behind (without telling them), and sets of on a trek around the country.Chris's travels take him literally all over the country, across the midwest (where he runs a grain harvester for Vince Vaughn), to the Rocky Mountains, to the Grand Canyon, the Hoover Dam, Las Vegas, even down to Mexico, winding up at his ultimate resting spot: deepest, darkest, remotest Alaska. The story is told in two timelines, one of the present (the time shortly before and after Chris discovers an abandoned bus in the Alaskan wilderness), and one of the past, the events leading up to Chris's Magic Bus time. And the two timelines are brilliantly juxtaposed with each other by director Sean Penn, who doesn't just show us a perfectly linear chronology of how Chris came to be in an abandoned bus; he shows us the story behind the adventurer, the believer, the angel, the tactiturn rebel, the iconoclast.So what made Chris McCandeless decide to ditch everything and live off the land like some latter-day flower child? I'll explain no further than to say that his upbringing, under the commanding, demanding eyes of his overachieving, arguing parents, played a huge role - but perhaps not the only role. In short, Chris decides he simply does not wish to be part of the rat race; he does not wish to be trapped in a meaningless job working for a meaningless company doing trite, soul-destroying things. He wants to live and learn on his own. And that's where the inspirational aspect of this kicks in. He sets out to accomplish something undefined (i.e., the abstract Find Himself) and winds up absorbing more knowledge through his experiences than most people do through their lonely lives of quiet desperation.Along the way, Chris meets myriad people, and it's genuinely touching how much of an impact he has on their lives as he passes through. In particular, Catherine Keener plays an aging hippie whose love for her soul mate (Brian Dierker) has begun to fade; the mere presence of the Christ-like Chris magically changes that, for the better. (A lesser film might have had Chris and Jan sleeping together to foment complications in everyone's relationship.) Chris tells everyone he meets that his ultimate goal is to live in the Alaskan wilderness, consequences be damned; everyone tells him not to do it.The impression we're finally left with of Christopher McCandless is that of a clever, thoughtful, engaging young man who had more demons than a nightmare of Clive Barker dopplegangers. Haunted by his own harrowing childhood, he escaped as literally and figuratively as he could, living by the seat of his pants over thousands of miles of gravel, sand, and asphalt. His motives might have been a bit selfish (he never did try to contact his family, the film tells us), but his heart seemed to be in the right place otherwise. Which made his demise all the harder to bear.Hal Holbrook, playing a crusty benefactor to Chris in the Arizona desert, earned an Oscar nomination, and it's well deserved, but even stronger accolades are due to Hirsch, who underwent tremendous physical changes just to play Chris McCandless properly. And the final scene, the waning moments of Chris's life, is so vivid and packed with emotion that you almost can't bear to watch, peeking instead through crossed fingers. Hirsch is so excellent in the role that it's a travesty of some magnitude that he wasn't more widely recognized for his grueling, gutty performance. Even more so when you realize the guy later played Speed Racer and previously had been best known for being Judd Hirsch's kid.


                
A beautifully filmed and well-acted tragic story of a man's struggle into the wilderness to escape from society. Featuring Sean Penn in the directorial seat, this is the true story of Christopher McCandless who took the name Alexander Supertramp as he hitchhiked across the country to Alaska in the early nineties. The film is over two hours long and a bit lengthy to watch when stuck in the middle but rewardingly good when finished. It is like The Motorcycle Diaries in a sense only without the political stance and the motorcycle and company. Emile Hirsch is a stunning discovery in this brilliant career move. Although opinions on the main character's views vary especially considering the conclusion to his journey, the important thing about this film is that it makes you think about your own humanity and precepts and whether or not life has become more than a game of survival for you. This film takes an aura quite like most road movies but it is one of a kind and certainly one of those films you'll never forget.http://iwascalledclementine.multiply.com/reviews


                
Sean Penn is becoming one of America's most interesting directors. Although the story-telling here might be conventional, he has his mission.This is about the top student guy, bound for Harvard, who gives his money away to head freedom. That means crossing USA and entering Alaska.But freedom has its prize. He meets several people, who don't approve this freedom in different ways. They give him, voluntarily and not, examples of what life really is about. Nobody makes it on this earth without a society, which can mean so many more things when just the state. If you avoid it, you'll get punished by freedom itself.This is something as unusual as an ideological movie, with a certain morality put there on serious purpose. It doesn't judge the hero, it judges ideas in a way we haven't heard of from American film-making for quite a while. That's interesting.


                
A movie is rarely so pure, honest and wonderful as Into the Wild. Not only the excellent acting, the brilliant cinematography and the leading hand of Sean Penn, but also the unique feeling you get while you let yourself completely go in this adventure, make this movie a truly masterpiece! Sean Penn proves again that he is not only one of the greatest actors, but also a very talented movie-maker.From the first minute till the last, it takes you to another place. You have to let yourself go in this amazing experience and absorb it how you want. Either you love it or you hate it.


                
Sean Penn's film "Into the Wild" was based on true events and will haunt viewers long after the final credits fade to black. A recent college graduate, disillusioned by his parents' materialism and duplicity, Christopher McCandless heads off on a meandering journey with the goal of eventually reaching Alaska. Once he has "disappeared" by abandoning his car, burning his money, and erasing his identity, the young man wanders the American west in search of himself. The ensuing road movie details the various encounters that he has over the months and years of his journey of discovery. Although Christopher has lost faith in human relationships, he meets and seemingly bonds with a number of people, all of whom take to the engaging, often charming, young man and try to help him. However, he unsentimentally severs his bonds with each, although they apparently have developed feelings and care for him. Rejecting friendship, Christopher seemingly has no romantic feelings or sexual desires either, and he rejects the one overture that is explicitly made.McCandless's wanderings eventually take him to the Alaskan wilderness where he takes shelter in an abandoned bus and manages to survive on fish and game. The film flashes back and forth between his time in the bus and earlier episodes. The words of his diary are quoted throughout the film, and his eventual realization that there is little joy in life without sharing it with someone comes too late. Emile Hirsch fills the physically demanding role of Christopher and plays it exceptionally well. Among the people Christopher encounters, Catherine Keener and Hal Holbrook stand out as a mature earth mother and a lonely widower, respectively."Into the Wild" was made with the cooperation of the McCandless family, who were brave to have exposed themselves and their feelings so publicly. Well played by William Hurt and Marcia Gay Harden, the parents emerge as typical appearance-obsessed Americans who cannot understand their son and mourn and grieve at his alienation and absence. They are not villains, and the son's actions wreak more pain on his family than they ever deserved or inflicted on him. In fact, the young man leaves much pain behind him in his ultimately selfish journey. Not only do his parents and sister suffer, but a young girl, an old retired widower, and a generous middle-aged hippie couple all fall victim to his charms and eventual abandonment. Although Christopher seems convinced that he is on a noble quest, there is nothing noble about inflicting unwarranted pain on those who love you. The words of his final realization and the images that end the film will be etched indelibly in viewers' minds. With both the screenplay and direction to his credit, Sean Penn has fashioned an outstanding adaptation of Jon Krakauer's book and has moved beyond "promising" to "accomplished" status in both roles.


                
