Banshee is the kind of show that leaves you scratching your head wondering, "What is this?" The headlines would have you believe that Lucas Hood (the main character) is an ex-con master thief who gets a second chance at life by taking the identity of the new sheriff in the town of Banshee. There are a couple of problems here. The first is that Lucas meets the sheriff in a bar who provides laughably bad exposition which is almost as contrived as, "You know, I was hired without anyone knowing what I look like and if I died, it wouldn't matter because I have no family and no one knows that I came here." He is shot 45 seconds later. The other is that the writers seem to forget that Lucas is a "master thief" because during the course of season 1, he makes one attempt to steal a painting and completely messes it up by his own stupidity. Making us wonder, just how good of a thief is he really? The rest of the season is dedicated to proving to the viewer that Lucas is not only stupid but also a bonified asshole who does almost everything in his power to make the town and the police suspicious of him. Strangely, all of his behavior has the town MILFS and underage Amish models flocking to his door swooning.The violence in this show is (HILARIOUS)like watching a live-action Tom and Jerry cartoon. Lucas is beaten within an inch of his life almost every episode but he just gets up and usually gets laid afterward. One of the MILFS I refer to above also takes a beating that normally would be hard to watch but through Wile E. coyote logic not only lives but starts running around her son's school bleeding everywhere. The school nurse finds her and suggests that she lie down and sleep it off. After finishing the season, I am not sure if the show is just dumb or tongue and cheek. What I am sure of is that everyone in Banshee would be better off if he just died because other than getting sexy ladies to drop their drawers, he gives no reason for the viewer to like him.While this show is not good, it certainly is entertaining. Anyone who enjoys gratuitous (sometimes cartoonish) violence and Grade A T+A will find this to their liking. However, viewers who like to ask the question "why?" will end up laughing out loud.
The first two things I tell my clients are: keep it real and assume the audience is smart. What does 'real' mean? It depends on the genre but generally it means believable as in, "oh yeah, that could have happened" within the confines of the story, year/era and place.So here we have a guy who just got out of prison. The first thing he does is go to a bar, have sex with the waitress and steal a car. OK so far. But then he drives it - a conspicuous muscle car - into Manhattan, smashes up a salon, gets back in the car, puts the pedal to the metal because there's bad guy after him, gets smashed up, runs away (really bad acting here), gets shot at, a double-decker comes out of nowhere and flips over, he gets shot at again at an even closer range but doesn't get hit, the gunman (who looks like his twin brother) stops shooting for some reason, he then steals a motorcycle just as it's pulling into a parking spot and gets away while the owner gets shot. Meanwhile not a single cop to be seen, in Manhattan, in a city with 35,000 cops.All of this took place in 6 minutes of the first episode. And that's as far as I got.
The show really starts of well with strong characters and good acting. The Pilot was very good. But from episode 4 it all goes down the bucket. Not only does the reality setting get totally implausible, but also the action is very 'hero-favoured'. It makes you feel you're watching something written within the mind of 10 year olds who have taken a strength and endurance potion. Such a shame. I could (just) stomach the fact that no one in Banshee has any suspicion about the Sheriff's identity or that not even the mayor says: "But this is not the man we hired". It's when women of less than 60 kg can withstand (and eventually win) a fight with a 95 kg fighting machine that my eyes kept rolling. Implausible is a good word to define 'Banshee'. But then so much other shows are even worse in that department.


                
