I don't agree with some of these harsh reviews - I find it to be an EXCELLENT series, with the genius touch of Alan Ball (6 Feet Under, True Blood) - yes, there are some imperfections, but the 4 leads work great: the hero, Antony Starr, is cool and tough, the babe, Ivana Milicevic, is SMOKIN' hot, and a legitimate actress, the Pennsylvania Dutch mob boss, Ulrich Thomsen, is uniquely menacing, and the bartender buddy, Frankie Faison, gets the job done as usual. The supporting cast are also excellent (deputies, thugs, etc). The pace is snappy, the plot moves nicely and with suspense,the action is brutal, and I'm definitely hooked on it.


                
So... on this tired evening, I found myself on IMDb looking over my old reviews. I'd completely forgotten that I'd reviewed "Banshee", but I was thoroughly amused to find that I'd originally rated it a 2/10. My original title for the review was "Eight is Enough: Too Unoriginal To Take Seriously; Too Predictable To Care", going on to say that "Banshee" was a "dumb boring unoriginal show" full of formulaic characters and plot points. At that time, I had expected to ditch the show after the first 8 episodes.Um... time to fess up, dear readers: I finished Season 1 AND 2. So it's fair to say, I'm hooked. Sort of.Many of my original complaints still hold true in my mind. The show IS still dumb, the characters cartoon-like, and the violence and sex over the top; however, the big difference now is that I get that it's THAT KIND OF SHOW. It's like a comic book- pure mindless escape. And for all of it's flaws, it's stupid fun! I think I was originally just taking it too seriously.It's absolutely not a smart show like "Breaking Bad" or "True Detective". It's not classical, jazz, or progressive rock... it's heavy metal, grunge, and maybe a touch of hillbilly country.So how did I get hooked? A few changes in the plot turned me around (no spoilers here), and the story/storytelling grew progressively more complicated and interesting.It's good for what it is. It's not groundbreaking art, it's just fun. I will also say that, for all of my praise, I could retire the show from my life without too much remorse. A mild recommendation.


                
Saw all the episodes twice and it was so good I showed a few family members. I saw the trailer of this one night surfing the internet looking for new TV shows to watch as I was out of fresh new stuff as lets face it who watches TV these days.The first episode or two are very slow and you may not really care for it so I really questioned whether or not I liked the show but by the time you see the fight scene in the casino you realize. How the series ended leaves it open for lots of stuff to go on.How it could improve , we've established there's a love story there's some adult scenes considering it's the guy who made true blood I've been told but certain episodes or scenes in the show should have been obliterated before they made the final cut. There was some key ones really stretched out like when the two guys went in the school and saved Dava (however her name is spelled). The gay Asian guy was hilarious and so forth , the flash backs added a great element to the series but this show could have been better. It's probably going to gather dust in my collection of movies and shows. Maybe some better cliffhangers to really want us to see more episodes and some sort of mystery to really keep us guessing like they did in the following or Dexter.it's not the worst show I've seen this year but clearly not the best. It could be worse like Bates motel or Hannibal!
I was gripped from seasons 1-3 .... amazing cast, charismatic leading actor, really good moments of action and some incredible characters.Yes the violence might be hard for some to stomach, but I personally loved the gritty dark nature of the show, and I utterly loved that the hero/antihero is himself a violent disturbed flawed character.And then we get to season 4, which ultimately left me disappointed. It had its moments but ultimately built up to a tame, unsatisfactory ending.Banshee sadly ended with a whimper, and not a bang.Enjoy seasons 1-3 but don't get your hopes up for a fantastic ending, it's a bit of a let down.


                
Banshee, the first of several new mid-season shows to premiere, tries to bring something unique to the already crowded crime drama genre. While the final vote is still out the pilot gives some hope of it's potential success. That is not to say that there aren't any issues. The biggest of which is the base premise of the show and your ability to accept it and enjoy the ride. OK so a guy fresh out of jail on the run from mobsters who want to kill him for some reason leaves the state (parole officers tend to look down on that) in search of his share of the loot from heist that sent him to jail and his women goes to Amish country and with help of circumstance and his Asian cross-dressing super computer geek hairdresser friend becomes the new sheriff <U+0085> and breathe. If that hasn't scared you off yet you may be in for some fun .As a premium cable show it does have it's requisite allotment of sex and violence. Quality of production sit it some where between HBO and Starz. The pilot does feature one of the more intense, stunt heavy car chases I've seen on a TV show. Which is a good sign of their willingness to spend on the production of the show.With solid acting and writing Banshee makes a good lead off batter for the mid-season premieres. While it didn't knock it out of the park , it defiantly makes it on base. We'll just have to see if the rest of the season can bring the show home for the score.Rating: Show: tentative 3.5 out of 5 stars - Episode: 3.5 stars out of 5 stars... and this has been The Mack Minute. Find more of my reviews @ http://mackminute.blogspot.com/


                
I got a early Christmas present in the form of a chrome cast, my brother in law is here visiting and was logging into his premium channels for us to watch some some movies on the CC, I came across this show, and gave it a go, and was totally hooked! I binge watched the entire first season in 2 days, then I started the second season and gotta say, I could see a marked difference in the story, meaning they are trying too hard to develop one! It went from "ok a decent storyline" with a lot of "Holy smokes" in every episode to Hey what happened? this is starting to look like they want to turn him into a good guy here, with a way overdeveloped love plot. no no no no! this is not what we want, did you guys get a new writer or something? Bring back the crazy shenanigans and blow stuff up with a bunch of crazy plot twists! There is a ton of boring drama shows already. Im not sure if I will even finish the last 3 episodes of season 2 as I'm just "meh" with it now. (ok I admit I will, just to make sure i don't miss something) but if doesn't get better I wont watch season 3 in Jan.


                
Banshee could be a great show. Good premise, plot, complement of good and bad guys, lots of action. HOWEVER, the gratuitous sex scenes with him between her legs was SO DISGUSTING that I will never watch it again.How far have we come to attempt to get an audience with this garbage? Each year it gets a little worse, but Banshee goes way over the top. It is too much WAY TOO MUCH. Get rid of the awful sex scenes and you will have a good show.Leave it in, you have lost me and my wife Most disgusting sex scenes on any show. It is now hard core porn.A little bit of garbage really spoils the soup.


                
Let me start out by saying that I had no interest in watching this series over the four seasons that it aired, and I never did watch it. My disinterest was due to the promotions that advertised the series. I was turned off by the over the top violence. I got the impression that there was next to no story, and that the series revolved around an unrealistic amount of gun play in a real-world universe. Despite this bias, I elected to watch the pilot episode three days back from this writing. I was motivated by the fact that Cinemax was airing the entire series one after the other. The pilot episode of Banshee confirmed my suspicion that the quantity of gun play was absurd in this real-world universe. But it was the premise, the characters, their relationships to each other and the eclectic community of Banshee that pulled me into the series. Over the next three days I binged through all four seasons. Despite this, I would like to point out to the producers, if the entire series was not all there for me to view, one after the other, I would not have given any time to watching and waiting for this story to play out. And even while I binged through the series, I fast forwarded through the parts I found dis-interesting and tedious. The reason why I did binge through it was because I became emotionally invested in several of the characters, and I was eager to see how their stories played out. I am writing this review to voice my complaint about the series ending. Primarily, what held my interest in this story was Lucas, Carrie and Deva. Their situations in Banshee was intriguing. Some of the conflicts that went on around them seemed a little silly. I don't know why Lucas went to war with Proctor. What was the upside in that? I can understand personal and ethical disagreements creating conflicts over the course of the series, but Lucas went after him from the beginning. Nonetheless, I ignored this puzzlement, and several fortuitous happenstances that befell Lucas, because I was invested in one premise that ran through the entire series: Lucas loved Carrie, she loved him and they had a daughter. So, when Lucas rode off into the sunset at the end of the series, I couldn't help but feel betrayed. Lucas was out, free and clear, Job recovered much of the money they stole and then lost, and Gordon was out of the picture. Lucas and Carrie must be around forty years old in this story. This is not an age when people entertain thoughts about what they will be later in their lives. They have a daughter. They have a history, and they were finally free to have each other. So, why in the hell did they just part like that? That hurt. I was rooting for them, and the writers and/or producers crushed that hope. Thanks a lot.
