Every once in a while a show comes along that catches you completely off guard; you only want to check out the pilot because you've read a comment or two on IMDb comparing it to some other show you kinda like – and BOOM: you're blown away. That's what happened to me with 'Banshee'.It's amazing this show hasn't found a bigger audience. It has its fans, sure, but as far as the amount of steady viewers is concerned, it's nowhere near playing in the big leagues – yet. When I started to watch the first episode, I expected a decent, but low budget 'neo-noir' crime show with some sexy women and a few good shoot-outs. What I got instead is high-octane pulp cinema that gets your heart pumpin' with adrenalin from the first second, and an opening chase/shoot-out that wouldn't have to hide behind any mega-budget action production Hollywood has churned out recently.Needless to say, I was hooked. This show is raw, gritty, brutal and over-the-top; it's got everything most action films lack these days – and it's absolutely NOT PG-13. Granted, it's pulpy, trashy, sometimes even down-right ridiculous – but I loved every minute of it so far. The production values are among the best I've seen on TV and the cast is fantastic. Up until now, every episode felt like an injection of pure testosterone (and let's be honest: sometimes, that's just what the doctor ordered). My favorite guilty pleasure at the moment. 8 stars out 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
This is the most talked about TV series at this time, and this is because of its ruthless pace in the storyline. Speaking of the very 1st episode within 5min from the start what we get to see is, an Ex-con, Drugs, sex, nail biting car chase, fraudulent identity and some hand to hand action which make us believe that every object around us is a deadly weapon. Well, now you can make an estimation of the pace of the story telling. Apart from its pace & unique action style, the acting and the making is of descent level, no need to say about the intensity of the thrills. overall it's an excellent piece of work which will indeed entertain you in every aspects, if you know what I mean ;) Highly recommended!!!


                
Banshee is packed full of action twist and holds the attention of the viewer no matter was seems to happen next. Banshee is a show I will be continuously be watching for those very reasons. The plot is incredibly interesting for a action television show, which I have to admit are not my first choice. I tend to stray away from action more or less because I feel the majority of them is mindless killing and weak plot lines. Even though the sex scenes are profound they are extremely<U+0085>real, and shouldn't be taken lightly they may be hard to watch at times but if you keep a open mind you should have no problem. the story is the best part of this show and they leave out just enough information to keep you guessing, not as good as breaking bad but a close second or third. enjoy the action and don't miss the bonus scenes after the credits.


                
The series 1st episode is very promising. The story take place in a town named Banshee. We see an ex-con (Antony Starr) who has old enemies and a lot of shades in his past. Of course there is a beautiful (or should i say smoking hot!!) female character (Ivana Milicevic) who was this ex-con's ex-lover. And the ex-con (to avoid his enemies and be with her) assumes a dead sheriffs identity. The thing that mostly entertains me is the look on the main character's face. Its like nothings can touch or hurt him. And of course there is the irony of felon becomes law-bringer... Anyways we just have to sit and watch the ongoing episode's to have the right opinion. But kids beware; there is a new sheriff in town...
Banshee is a TV series that might look overly stupid and vain on paper but it has a lot of things to offer.Of course the series has it flaws. It is often very violent at the detriment of realism, which sometimes lacks ridiculously and it contains a lot of unnecessary sex scenes.And yet, somehow, it works! At least for me. As I said this show is quite violent, bloody, filled with tons of fights, brutal characters, killers etc. So if you can't handle all that then move along this is clearly not for you.Now, is the show only about fights and sex? It's NOT. I'd say that this series revolves around strong, more or less well written characters whose interactions often yield extremely intense and satisfying scenes. Lucas Hood being the pivotal point that allows everyone else to shine when needed.What personally got me hooked to Banshee, aside from outstanding performances from Antony Starr, Ulrich Thomsen(Kai Proctor), Trieste Kelly Dunn (Siobhan Kelly), Ivana Milicevic (Carrie Hopwell/Ana/Anastasia) and many more, is the general atmosphere and very unique aura of this show. Man, the tension is strong in that one! Banshee also managed to get me on an emotional level that I clearly did not expect from such a show. Though the series displays a very high level of violence and brutality, they surely put their soul into it. Most action sequences were truly impressive, even more so for a TV budget. The fact that it is a very adult and dark story gives this gripping and thrilling quality to the action. I was often at the edge of my seat during dangerous situations and genuinely scared for the characters involved.Finally, Banshee surprised me by somehow being able to display truly contemplative, touching and powerful moments throughout the series as well as being able to deliver on most of its main characters's development which is quite a feat for a series that often rolls all over coherence. That was made possible by the acting, the writing, the music and directing that surprised me more than once. The emotional aspect might seem insignificant but ultimately; it's what allows me to overlook major flaws of a fiction with ease.In a nuthsell, if you can't handle a high level of violence or if you can't relate to the characters and care about them this show probably isn't for you. Otherwise, if you like action-packed, gripping stories with strong, well written characters and a story that does not take itself too seriously but still manage to bring about powerful scenes, give it a go and you're in for one hell of a ride!Final Verdict: 8.5/10. This rating is not an attempt to evaluate the actual value of the show but merely reflects my own appreciation of it.


                
Banshee spends its first five minutes telling viewers exactly what they're in for: hyper-fast plot lines, action, sex, criminality... and the unexpected. The pace slows down to something more normal after that hyperfast introduction but it's still very quick compared to most television plot lines. They don't waste a second of screen time.It's also extreme compared to anything else I've seen on TV. The violence is frequent, graphic and brutal, sometimes even hideous. The sex is the counterpart to that: there's a lot of flesh on display and a lot of people getting their game on. Sometimes the sex isn't nice or happy either. The thing about both of these isn't the quantity (there's a lot), it's how they're both done.Extreme but believable, in a nutshell. The sex might be almost a drinking game at times (who isn't the main character going to get with?) but it feels real in a way that I haven't seen in a TV show before. It's rough, it's raw, and just because people have been lovers, it doesn't mean that they love each other. The negotiation doesn't stop on the morning after.The fight scenes are expertly choreographed. The moves are correct and they're not shy about improvising weapons with whatever they can get their hands on. One of the things that impressed me most about the fights is something understated: there are frequent shootouts, mostly with pistols. People miss. A lot. The entertainment industry is plagued with the cliché of the impossible pistol shot, but it doesn't happen here.There has to be more to it than sex and violence, and this is where the show really does excel. All the main players are caught in a tangled, interlocked web of lies, secrets and history. The acting is uniformly good to excellent - and the two leads are fantastic. Characterisation gets better as the show progresses, and characters evolve and change. It'd work without the graphic material, the obvious stuff is simply the icing on the cake.Great dirty, nasty, rough escapist fun. It's a bit cartoonish at times, a fair bit of suspension of disbelief required, but never a dull moment. This is basically the best show I'd never heard of.


                
I missed this the first time it came on telly, and am only now able to get around to watching it. Watching season 3, so that tells you something! It engaged me, the characters are interesting, and when some of my faves got taken out, it hurt!Sex, gore, action, violence, vigilante justice. A 'cop' doing what we all wish we could do: punish the bad guys. Even though he's no saint. If Lucas cares for you, he will go to the ends of the earth or die to protect you. I think many people want a 'Lucas Hood' in their lives :D


                
A mysterious ex-convict leaves prison and arrives in Banshee, Pennsylvania tracking his love Anastasia Rabitov. He is at Sugar Bates' bar when a fight breaks out. One of the dead is the newly arrived Lucas Hood who is set to take over as sheriff. With the help of computer hacker Job, he takes on the identity of Lucas Hood and becomes the new sheriff in town. Ana has lived a life of suburban mom Carrie Hopewell married to DA Gordon Hopewell. Her oldest daughter Deva is actually the daughter of the mystery man. Rebecca Bowman rebels against her Amish upbringing to join her criminal uncle Kai Proctor. There are other criminal power bases in the native community and the neo-Nazis.This is unabashed pulpy goodness. There is sex, brutal violence, over-the-top action, and hard characters. The most unusual aspect is the brutal violence against women and by women. The show doesn't hold back with the blood splatter and the kinetic action. The characters are well-drawn and memorable. This is one show that knows what it is and how to do it.


                
O.K. ! That is to say, i liked this new show a lot.For me,it seems i,m a lot easier on reviewing television shows ,than movies.As with my flicks,i need something with a bit more than a "meat and potato,s " style plate placed in front of me when i,m ready for a new dish.I ,as per my taste,had no expectations,i just sat back and waited to be entertained .I was. Like my women,i like a good mystery,and style.This new show had both.Great cast,story ,and ,like a date that i actually enjoyed,i,m dying for a second adventure.Well written,and carried out,this show has what it needs to keep people wanting more. If you follow my reviews,you know i rarely kiss and tell,so,no spoilers.all i can say is, judge for yourself. Action,mystery,crime drama,good solid cast,with a style that seems to be going to have more layers than a large onion.Just keep peeling.I know i will.


                
Brilliant series with extreme violence and an intriguing plot. Sure, the main character beds almost every attractive woman he comes across but the story and the hook at the end of every episode is perfect to keep you glued to the screen for the next episode.Can't say much about the plot since it is pretty simple. An ex-con, released after serving his time, goes through a small town in the middle of Middle America and due to some circumstances, passes himself off as the new sheriff. Suffice it to say that this is the most basic explanation, but the consequences affect almost every one in town, from the sleepy police department to the mayor to the district attorney and the local mobster.This is NOT a series you want to watch with your kids. Its got lots of sex and some of the bloodiest and most gruesome acts of violence I can recall seeing on TV apart from GoT. The characters are easy to identify with and my favorite was Hoon Lee as Job, the cross-dressing tech genius with a smart mouth who seems to be one of the two only sensible friends our hero has. Frankie Faison plays his role perfectly as the mellow, weathered ex-boxer-turned-bartender who offers sage bits of advice to Hood and generally keeps everyone grounded, even though he is usually overwhelmed by the things that keep happening in and around his bar. I would have given this series a solid 9, but for the weird and totally off-track direction the final season starts out with. It got better and back to its basics by the middle of the season but the first half left a bitter taste in my mouth and dented the admiration I had for the way the writers had kept the series going on the past 3 seasons. Nevertheless, this is just my opinion of it and I still heartily recommend this series to anyone looking for a solid 45 minutes of action- packed entertainment.


                
This is similar yet different. It is like an old detective novel, filled with fights, sex, and sex. You can almost guarantee after a knock down drag out fight that sex will happen. It really is over the top, but I think that is why I keep coming back. You get some good laughs and some CRAZY fights followed by some sex. The acting is pretty good, the bad guys are really good bad guys and and the good guys are pretty good bad guys. Job is great! I love how we so far as of this writing have no idea what Hood's real name is. They do not hold back at all, if you like crazy fights and sex galore than this is right up your alley. Banshee is the town that seems to never sleep.


                
I find it interesting that the main protagonists here are a New Zealander, Balkan and Danish. Thats great, cause that is what America is all about. Inclusion. Thats good. Love America. They deserve the Love.


                
Just got started on this show. Seems a little like Ray Donovan on tour in the Hamish community. That said it is a watchable affair with much potential down the line.


                
New on board, first impressions. Its Breaking Bad meets Ray Donovan. No bad thing.


                
Just started to watch the third season of Banshee and I still like it a lot. It might not have a huge success like other series but to me it's a very entertaining show. If you don't like a violence and rough sex scenes then you won't like it because there are plenty of scenes like that in Banshee. The actors all give a good performance. The actresses are smoking hot. The script is what it is, to me it is entertaining, to others it might be over the top, but it's for sure not boring. I find the story well written so that you stay interested in what's going to happen next. There is constant action, a lot of brutal violence and a lot of nudity. Like I said, if you don't like that then you should pass on this series but otherwise just relax and enjoy the show.


                
My friend living in New York told me about this show when it started. So I thought I would give it a try so we could have something to chat about not really giving it much of a chance. So I caught up on the first season and thought it was OK C+ maybe. Then the second season really picked up steam and now I feel it is a real A series. I love the characters, acting is first rate, the girls are lovely and the way it's presented it is very well done. From the start to the imaginative way they finish the episode. I feel if you are not watching this one you are missing out on a real fun series. Maybe NOT to be taken so seriously, but first rate. Alan Ball is an artist and entertains. Looked what happened to "True Blood" after he left. UGH!


                
I just found this show and I am on the last episode. At the beginning I found it awesome, I just loved the rock music, the fight skills of our guy, the sex scenes and characters, the city, everything was fine. Then sex scenes started to appear in every episode. You know once or twice is OK, its provoking, seeing tits every time is boring, it kills the shiver. I have a critique about the girl, Deva. I loved her style from the first view, but everything in town - she is involved. It's too obvious. The drugs, the high school attack, she is everywhere and all the time in the middle of all shits. Other thing, the blood. Blood is not pinkie-red like a syrup, and when somebody get beaten like Ana, she can't just jump and run, you know when you cut your finger making salad it needs two weeks to heal. Too much fight, and they are like some kind of Rambo guys. And last, why the heck "Lucas" lick his underlip all the time? Like some cow damn it! It was cute first few episodes, then it started being annoying. Pretty annoying!


                
I'm catching up on the episodes and am on #3 right now. So far, I'm really enjoying the show. It's racy, good bits of action, gritty with the "bad" guys, and some good twists so far with character development. I'm wondering though if I've missed something in the family tree of the Proctors specifically Rebecca. In the first episode, we find out that Kai is son to the elder Amish man. The wagon loading scene, Kai calls the man "father". In the second episode, when the elder Amish man comes to the Sheriff's station to let them know about the rave, he introduces his daughter Rebecca to the sheriff. (We had just seen her hook up with the sheriff following the wake) Then in the third episode, when Rebecca is at the bar and hooks up with Hood again, the bar owner calls Kai to let him know that she was back at the bar again. When Kai arrives and is waiting outside in the car, she walks outside and calls him Uncle. Kai even goes on to say she is his sister's daughter. Now I'm no genealogy expert, but if the elder Amish man is Kai's father, AND Rebecca's father, doesn't that make Rebecca and Kai sister and brother? The only explanation that I can think of is that the family is lying to each other as to Kai's real relationship, but why would they acknowledge him as an Uncle if they are so embarrassed by him? Not sure if this is a writing error or if they are spinning a wider web of lies intentionally. Bit confused here, has anyone else caught on to this??
