I am nearly fifty years old. A sober grown man. With children. Children with whom I have now sat through hundreds of movies. Many of which I have enjoyed. And I am not completely hardened in my sophistication. The opening music to The Lion King brought tears to my eyes when my little ones were but wee tots. But still, these are after all just children's movies. In another life, I would never have seen them. And, really, one can't take such movies too seriously, can one?And so, this summer, after the ritual badgering, I dutifully trudged into yet another Disney "adventure" movie. Named after that tired old ride in Anaheim I first went on in 1965. I mean really, how much can you expect?And then, it happened. The swirling intoxication. The stunned feeling. What? Who? How? Was this a movie? Or a religious experience? Perhaps more like an addictive experience...I cannot remember ever willingly paying to see any movie not starring a relative of mine more than twice, and I can count those movies on one hand. I have now seen "Pirates" four times. The only thing keeping me from seeing it again is the sense that this whole thing is just getting out of hand. I cannot get enough of it. It's like walking into a painting that you never want to come back out of. My children ask, with a note of concern in their voices, "Dad, you really like Pirates of the Caribbean a lot, don't you?"And that Depp fellow. My God. I never had any idea who he was, but his name sounded like something created for a pubescent cover-boy for magazines published to hook thirteen year-old girls on make-up and bad music. Wasn't Depp the name of some hair-goo product back in the 60s?I am a straight male. I have several good friends who are gay, but have never fantasized about any gender but the female. But now I understand how women can experience swooning crushes on male film stars. He is simply extraordinary. So sly, so seductive, so canny! I read an interview in which Depp said he went through a slight depression when he had to stop playing Captain Jack Sparrow. I can see why. His inventiveness and sheer pleasure in inhabiting the character come through in every frame. How can I admit to my children that I now troll through fan websites about a former teen heart-throb?I often don't even watch the Academy Awards, and I certainly never have any emotional investment in who wins.Except for this year.Go Jack.And, in a time when many big-budget movies are little more than a hodge-podge of loosely- connected "money shots" this movie puts all the pieces together, with a sense of fun and light-heartedness in special effects that are simply dazzling. I find myself laughing with dizzy appreciation when Barbossa barks out, "You'd best be believing in ghost stories, Miss Turner, you're in one!" and the grinning skeletons come into view, with Badelt's pounding score keeping time to the beat of their maniacal deck-swabbing. And then there's the scene of the pirate-ghouls slithering up from the darkened sea on the mooring cables of the Dauntless, like infernal cats stalking their prey.And now to the music. I can just hear the effete aesthetes dismissing this score, as Mr. Zimmerman anticipates with his winking "overproduced by" credit on the cover-liner. "Bombastic." "Overdone." "Absurdly Stupendous."Well, perhaps it is, for those who spend their lives evaluating such things. To me, it is absolutely transporting. I first listened to it while doing a work-out on a rowing machine and found that I tripled my usual distance. It was like mainlining some hazardous tachycardic amphetamine.Once again, the children were wondering, "What's up with Daddy? Is he OK?"Perhaps I am just losing my grip, having an adolescent movie get to me this way. But when those final credits roll, and Captain Jack narrows his eyes and says, "Now, bring me that horizon. Drink up me hearties, yo ho" and the music swells ... it is difficult to put into words the effect it has.At this point my children have to yank me forcibly from the theater, lest I persist in watching the credits to the bitter end, and bid good-bye to the little monkey once more, wiping tears of exultation from my eyes.This is not just another "entry" in the summer blockbust sweepstakes. It is an exquisite work of fantasy and inventiveness, a true classic, on the order of "The Wizard of Oz." I do hope Depp's performance garners not just awards, but a place in the pantheon, something we old fogies -- and our gently fogeying children decades hence -- will show to our children and grandchildren like a revealed treasure. I cannot recall any movie having such an effect on me.


                
When the daughter of the governor of a Caribbean island, Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), is proposed by Commodore Norrington (Jack Davenport), she faints, fells into the sea and is rescued and saved by the pirate Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) but he is arrested and sentenced to death for piracy. Meanwhile, the town is attacked by the ship Black Pearl, commanded by the former first mate Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), who leaded a mutiny against Captain Jack Sparrow years ago. Barbossa kidnaps Elizabeth, and the blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), who loves her, releases Jack Sparrow and they steal the fastest vessel of the navy to follow the Black Pearl, Will trying to save Elizabeth, and Jack trying to retrieve his ship. Along their journey, many secrets are disclosed about the course of the Black Pearl and her crew.The supernatural adventures of Captain Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann, Will Turner and Barbossa are so spectacular that really deserves to be included among the best movies (Top 250) in IMDb. This film has action, humor, romance, mystery, special effects and is so delightful that the viewer does not feel the running time of 143 minutes. I saw this movie for the first time on 24 April 2004, and I have just watched again today (10 Feb 2007) enjoying the same way as in the first time. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Piratas do Caribe <U+0096> A Maldição do Pérola Negra" ("Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl")
Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is not y/our typical Errol Flynn type of machismo, swashbuckling pirate; nor does he play another Disney Captain Hook. He's more like Fagan in "Oliver." Capt. Sparrow's ever so fey. That's his charm.Though the pirates on the "Black Pearl" ship are dead & sometimes in their skeleton form they aren't scary enough for kids since this is a comedy.The story line goes as follows: A governor's daughter is in charge of a young boy her own age who has been pulled out of the sea by her father's bourgeoisie crew. She notices his necklace is a pirate's & takes it from him to protect him from being hung to death.But, the golden medallion is the last 1 of a pirate's treasure that has cursed the "Black Pearl" ship's crew. Without its return, with the blood of the boy on it, the skeletal crew remains dead, unable to feel any life in themselves; they are also not killable since they are already dead.Capt. Sparrow (Depp), though a bumbling comical pirate who's bent upon owning the "Black Pearl," the ship the cursed crew stole from him, plays a marvelously lovable & lucky pirate who is the super glue that holds together the loose ends of the movie. Depp gives his cutest performance I've seen; he's now my favorite pirate! The script is clever; cinematography is fine; special effects are spot-on.
This movie is a must fo anyone's collection. It's clean, exciting and fun to watch. It gave me a whole new view on piracy. I mean every pirate in movies and plays before this either had a parrot, a peg-leg or an eye-patch. Pirates of the Caribbean doesn't have any of those stereotypes. Depp plays his role brilliantly, there is not a dull moment when he's on screen and Bloom portrayed the love-sick blacksmith perfectly as well. Knightley's role was a bit modern(strong, take-charge feminist), but that also added to the movie, she was great. I could go on about the actors, but there wouldn't be any more room, they were marvelous! This movie is mysterious, every single time I watch it, I can barely pull myself away from the screen! THis is without a doubt, the best movie I've seen yet.(A)


                
Having always been interested in pirates, curses, and adventures (when it comes to movie entertainment) this movie appealed to me the first time I saw a preview for it. I've watched this movie at least a dozen times and I still can't get over how amazingly well Johnny Depp fits the part of Captain Sparrow. His gestures, facial expressions, and his script make this movie not far from a masterpiece. Honestly it took me 2 or 3 times to completely understand the plot and all the dimensions of the curse. However, watching all the extra scenes and info on the DVD made me realize how much fun the director had making the movie (when was the last time you saw a pirate movie that cool??) Again, I greatly applaud Johnny Depp's performance and I can't wait to see Pirates of the Caribbean 2!


                
I was a huge fan of The Pirates of the Caribbean long before the movie, so I was very nervous--would the movie do justice to the attraction? Or would it be another stinky pirate movie? The first time I saw it, though, I knew it would be a hit. The casting was perfect, the music spectacular, the special effects astounding, the story intriguing--this was as close to a perfect movie as I have seen in a long time. It's great fun, making you laugh, gasp, hold your breath, cheer, and sigh, and it appeals to all ages--I even heard grandmothers commenting on how adorable Johnny Depp was! It's not surprising that we've seen more of Keira Knightly, who gave quite a twist to the "damsel in distress" role. Orlando Bloom was a pleasure to look at, but his character was the only "cardboard" one of the lot. He did OK, and at times was great, but overall he was just overshadowed by Captain Jack, whereas the other characters seemed to hold their own. Maybe he was tired from fighting trolls (Lord of the Rings)? I've seen the movie a good two dozen times now, and it just never gets old, mostly thanks to Depp, who so deserved the Oscar for his performance. Maybe he'll manage it with one of the two sequels. Even if he doesn't, though, this will be one of his best roles ever, and it's truly a movie that everyone involved can be proud of.


                
I guess I am a bit of a nut when it comes to pirates, but there simply aren't enough films that depict this brilliantly caricatured era.Pirates of the Carribbean adds to the mix a tad of supernatural elements and makes a very standard plot into a fun adventure by adding several memorable characters. The special-effects add to the feeling of the film, but at no point does the film become too big. There's no plot to conquer the world. Everything in the film is very down to earth and personal.Johnny Depp naturally adds to the film with his brilliant performance as Jack Sparrow, possibly one of the most original characters I've seen in a long while. He's become one of my favorites alongside such figures as Darth Vader, Bond and Riddick.A very nicely done adventure. Brilliant movie!


                
This movie is a very funny romanticization of those Pirates of the Caribbean during the early 1700s, yet touches a deep & wonderful sense of adventure in us even now.The sea "pirate" that is Captain Jack Sparrow is that childlike spirit that lives in all of us - "despite all the evidence to the contrary" - and has its source beyond and without any definition of worldly authorization. J.R.R.Tolkien had a saying - "not all who wander are lost".And another truly great thing about this movie - it is not in the least pretentious or heavy handed nor does it wallow in personal issues like so many self-important films today.'Pirates of the Caribbean - The Curse of the Black Pearl' is just one very cool, well made and fun movie!! p.s. if you liked this Pirate flick - another kind of 'pirate' in our more contemporary times (1992) that you might enjoy and might want to check out is 'Captain Ron' (as in the movie with Kurt Russell). Two very different movies but the spirit of Captain Jack Sparrow could be a match with 'Captain Ron' in another time and place .


                
Gore Verbinski follows up The Ring with this incredible family film. Johnny Depp turns in another incredible performance that should get a laugh out of everyone. This is the type of incredible family adventure/comedy that should be a favorite of the youth in this generation as The Princess Bride was for those before it. Both movies give you that good feeling and have that quality where you never get sick of watching it and hearing the lines over and over. This is a film that everyone should see a couple of times, just to enjoy the pure fun it has to offer. The great film was a surprise to me, since I knew it was based off of a Disney ride and I thought it was going to be a film for kids, but it is definitely something that can be enjoyed by people of all ages. Captain Jack Sparrow is the pathetic yet savvy and smooth pirate that you can't help rooting for. Orlando Bloom is the one actor I don't particularly care for in any movie, but he doesn't bother me in this one. Geoffry Rush is cast perfectly and the special effects are nice. If you haven't seen this great film yet, go out and rent it or buy the DVD which is loaded with extras that will keep you happy.


                
Before this film i had never heard of Johnny Depp, Keira Knightly or Geoffery Rush but i had heard of Orlando Bloom. I had never even seen the trailer to 'Pirates of the Caribbean'! My sister first saw the film and told me so much about it and told me that I really should go and see it with her... I kept on saying no because it just didn't appeal to me. I then spoke to other people about it who said it was great so i finally decided to go and see it. From start to finish i was taken on a swashbuckling adventure! It had everything that a movie should have... love, comedy, adventure, a kidnapping and cursed pirates after treasure. The film was mainly carried by the fantastic Johnny Depp... playing the slightly drunk Captain Jack Sparrow who's main mission in the film is to get back his ship 'the Black Pearl'. However, he ends up taking on board Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) a blacksmith who is in love with the Governers daughter Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightly). Elizabeth is kidnapped by Pirates and it is up to Jack and Will to save her. However the Pirates are cursed and are neither living nor dead...they must repay their blood otherwise they will be cursed forever. So as you can see there is a lot to go by on the film. Can Jack Sparrow be trusted? Will they reach Elizabeth before it is too late? Will the pirates ever be rid of the dreaded curse? Watch this film as it is perfect for anyone! This film is one of the best epics every made! Watch it...you will not be disappointed!


                
I must say when I first watched this movie, I loved it, I loved the plot, music, characters, and the actors. The actors are so good in this movie that I surprised that they were even acting, and pretending to be like the people in the movie. Johnny Depp really did his best in this one, and I was not even the smallest surprised that he did an amazing job in this movie. Seriously, if they picked anyone else for the role of Captain Jack Sparrow, then I would not like this movie, and no one else would like it. Everyone I know believes so, and no one yet has stepped up and said something about changing the actor for Captain Jack Sparrow.The writers did an amazing job with the script, but obviously Johnny Depp did a little improv while acting this role. Very good improv at that. All the other actors where good too, Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightly, and Geoffory Rush, which happened to also be one of my favorite characters in the movie also. Oh yes, the role of Barbossa really knocked me in the head. His acting was almost as good as Johnny Depp's. The way he looked and talked just freaked the hell out of me and I just wanted to scream my lungs out.The special effects in this movie also got me too, the way the Skeletons look when the moon rises really got me. The special effects people did an amazing job at that, as well as the Make-Up people. Putting Make-Up on Johnny must of been tiring for both him and the people, as his role had a lot to do with that. I for one would not like it at all, I can't even handle 2 days of it.10/10, most people would agree that this movie is very stunning, and well done. The actors play their roles as if they themselves are that person, and all the other people who made this film possible, I bow down to your success pf getting into half of the worlds hearts.


                
"Me? I'm dishonest and a dishonest man you can trust to be dishonest honestly. It's the honest ones you have to watch out for... You can never predict when they're going to do something incredibly... *STUPID*" "You need to find yourself a girl mate... Or perhaps the reason you practice three hours a day is because you have found a girl and are otherwise incapable of wooing said strumpet... You aren't a eunuch are you?" "As long as you are just hanging there pay attention the only rules that matter are these: What a man can do and what a man can't do. For example you can except that your father was a pirate and a good man or you can't but, pirate is in your blood boy and you will have to square with that someday. Me? I can let you drown but I can't sail into Tortuga all by me onesis Savvy? Now can you sail under the command of a Pirate or can you not?" These are just three of some of the most memorable quotes that Captain Jack will let you listen to if you watch this movie. Trust me you will love this movie it has been... is... and will always be loved by people of all ages and generations. You can still be cought up in it even though it takes place years from now.
Wow was this movie good! I don't think I've ever seen a movie like this before! I went to go see it when it first came out in 2003 at a huge theater and it was almost completely full, but luckily I got in. I wanted to go see it because people kept on bragging on about it so I just wanted to check how it really was, and to tell you the truth, I don't regret any of it.This is also probably one of Johnny Depp's best movies. He was a perfect and sometimes even funny character in the movie. He met the exact pirate voice, which is kind of weird because I haven't heard him talking like that before. Also, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley did a good job. It was just a really good movie with an awesome storyline.The reason I'm giving it a 10 is because of the plot, the cast, the acting and so forth.. And I feel that it was delivered in this amazing pirate movie! So if you're bored one night, and decide that you wanna rent a movie that you haven't seen before, I suggest picking up Pirates of the Caribbean, as you won't be disappointed.


                
i saw it a long long time and i liked it no i loved it. it was excellent i am going to watch the new movie Johnny Depp was great. and so does Keira Knigthley i am going to watch it another time if you didn't watch it you need to watch it. you will love it it has action and adventure and zombies but who are afraid of zombies? its not suitable for kids but some kids that have 13 years old and more can watch it. great movie i can't wait to watch the 2 or even if its a long long trilogy i will watch it.10/10or even 1000/1000


                
Johnny Depp is truly an acting legend of recent years. This film is proof of it. He is always very considerate of what roles he takes on and is usually a totally different character in each of them.Jack Sparrow is no exception. He is absolutely hilarious, as is his accent which does ring true; plus his friendship with Orlando Bloom's character Will Turner also rings true. There is chemistry between Depp and whomever he shares dialogue with because he is central to the whole movie - thankfully. Depp is my all-time favourite actor, I think he is so much more talented than he gives himself credit for. Bloom and Keira Knightley form the romance, which expected in all modern movies so I can't complain because the acting is great all round. Another talented actor who proves himself in this movie is Geoffrey Rush. Like Depp he brings charisma and comedy to the role, as well as threat. Barbosa is a character you love to hate (because of how he treats Sparrow as you will see for yourself and what we learn from their history).Jack Sparrow's drunkenness will have you splitting your sides with laughter, believe me. If not then you can't possibly be viewing the same movie. 'Yo ho a pirate's life for me' was sang by Depp and Knightley who are rightfully paired by a campfire in one scene. There is a spark but the romance is firmly between Will and Elizabeth (Knightley). A great movie I would definitely recommend for anyone over the age of 12 who loves a good action movie mixed with comedy, romance and the talent of Johnny Depp! I give it full marks
Despite the obvious gift of total hotties in this movie (Ahem: Johnny and Orlando) the plot, for the most part, is very original. Sure, it's about Will Turner going off to save the woman he loves, but the plot is so intricate and delightful that the first time you watch it, you don't even concentrate on how gorgeous these men are, but more so on the plot.The actors were well-placed as their characters, but most importantly the characters were believable, due firstly to the writers. The CGI effects were truly amazing, as they were able to characterize the skeletons to the characters, which made it easy to keep track of them.Pirates, well put together, is not just a family-fun movie or a chick-flick, but rather something that just about anyone can enjoy: action for men, romance for women, and humor all around.Shorlty: humorous and captivating, this is a must-see. One can only hope that the second and third movies are as well-written.


                
This movie tops them all with AMAZING direction, AMAZING moods, AMAZING music and mostly AMAZING OF ALL AMAZINGS... acting! I have the biggest passion for Johnny Depp and thought this was the most hilarious role to have him play. He did it flawlessly! and he's so hot! Just an added bonus. Orlando Bloom was probably at his best in this movie as well, and because i don't really like him at all, that is definitely a huge compliment to say the least. And if all i told you about this movie is that it was produced by Jerry Bruckhiemer, then you would automatically know it is something worth watching. From The Amazing Race, to CSI, Jerry Bruckhiemer produces everything worth watching. And don't get me started on the flawlessly beautifully talented Keira Knightly. She is beautiful, has the cutest accent and is extremely talented! Honestly, if you didn't like this movie you have got to have something seriously wrong with you - it's a classic to be remembered for the rest of time!


                
This film is absolutely mind-blowing!I watched it the first time and was very impressed with Johnny Depps performance as Captain Jack Sparrow.He really put his effort into this film and suited the part very well.I was also impressed with Keira Knightleys performance as Elizebeth Swann she too suited the part very well.I am very glad that Pirates of the Caribbean 2 is coming out next year!!!!I think that the beginning was fantastic and introduced the characters well.The storyline as a whole was very impressive.This film is fun of laughter,romance,action and a lot of drama!This is a film you have got to watch!!!


                
This movie works so well on a variety of levels. Despite being so outlandish, Depp's pirate is clever, creative and believable ... except that he doesn't seem like he'd ever be able to back down a crew of pirates; to wit, his crew abandoned him on a desert island. That he could come back over and and over would create respect in many and, sometimes, those who seem craziest are most feared, so perhaps he could do it.Verbinski knows what he's doing but I wish so much of the movie hadn't rested on Depp's shoulders. That being said, it still works beautifully and Depp's acting is spot on. I guess it comes down to this: When you're watching the movie it can be totally absorbing and any criticisms spring to mind only when the lights are up and I've moved on to other things. I've seen the movie several times and get sucked in every time. If I were to judge a movie only by my thoughts after it's over, that wouldn't be fair. I believe you have to judge a movie mostly by what's on your mind during it and give much less criticism after wards. The movie IS the moment, not the trip home.


                
I thought that this movie was the best!!! I thought it was the best movie because it has Johnny Depp in it!!! :p Boy is he hot!!:D:D:D:P:P:P I think that anyone who sees this movie has got to agree that it is one of the best movies ever!! I hope they make another move!!! I wonder if there will be as much suspense in the next two movies as in the first movie?? I hope to watch this movie again and again because it is the best movie in the world!! I just have to watch any movie with Johnny Depp in it cause he's the best actor in the world!! Why don't you go out and get it and see for yourself that is is an awesome movie!!


                
I think that this is one of the best movies that i have ever seen. I own it on DVD and watch it every time that i get the chance. I can not wait for the next one. Hopefully it is as good as the first, but i have no doubts. Johnny Depp is a great actor and he plays the part of Jack Sparrow well. Orlando Bloom is great too. I think that all the actors played a big part in making the movie and they put it all together and made it come to life. Thanks to everyone involved!! The next one sounds really good and as soon as it comes out i am going to gather up all of my friends and we are going to go see it in theater. It is going to be really fun and i hope that it comes out soon because i can't wait.


                
Magnificent! I will start off with the one problem so that I can end by thrashing it with compliments: Too long. If they had just cut out all the crap in the scenes which made this movie so long it would've gotten a perfect 10 from me (I gave it a 9). But anyway, no movie is perfect. To the compliments, Jack Sparrows (Johnny Depp) was out of this world. His performance was just outstanding. No one in my opinion could have done the role better and I could probably find a better person for the role of just about every main role in a movie except this one. The way he says things are the kind of jokes that make you laugh in your head and think about what and outstanding movie it is without laughing out loud. It's like when you go a movie with someone and you don't hear them laugh once but when they come out they say it was the funniest movie they've ever seen it's because the jokes are the kind that if you laugh out loud you're going to sound crazy. That's what all comedies look for and this one got it right with Johnny Depp.


                
When the "Pirates of the Caribbean" was released, I was really looking forward to watching this movie. However, I finally managed to watch it many months later and I LOVED it!It's a breath-taking movie, with an interesting plot and great performances from the actors. Although the movie is a little bit long, nobody can get bored while watching it. What I liked most -and I think most people liked- is Johnny Depp's performance. He was GREAT, he perfectly played the role of Jack Sparrow and whenever he appeared, he was "breaking" the "gravity" that prevailed in the movie and turned everything more pleasant and funny, by reminding us that he's a really great actor, something he has already proved many times so far.Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley were also very good and proved that they are two talented actors. However, they are still quite young and I personally think that their performances seemed rather indifferent, comparing to Geoffrey Rush's and Johnny Depp's.To sum up: I found this a great movie and anyone who hasn't watched it yet, he should definitely buy the DVD!Finally: Many people say it's a good movie, while others disagree. However, there is one point that nobody can doubt: Even if you are not a fan of such movies, it's worth watching just for Johnny Depp!


                
A movie that was suppose to have Orlando as lead, is taken by my beloved Johnny Depp. I have been a fan of his since I can't even remember how far back. I not only drool over him, his talent is true and original. How many sexy males do you know that would or could pull off a very believable rendition of a punk-rock pirate named Jack Sparrow. The plot is almost perfectly mending to all genre's and pulls anyone in by its diverse levels of movie goers. If you like action, comedy, and anything with Johnny Depp, this is the one to see. I recommend other Johnny Depp movies, and that you keep watch on Keira Knightly, and Orlando Bloom for other upcoming movies to see that they are savvy actors and actresses.


                
Wow. Originally I thought this movie wouldn't be so great, but after I saw it, I realized how stupid I had been. This movie is fantastic. It's Romantic, funny, a little scary, historical, and, of course, action packed. Is there any genre this movie ISN'T? The plot and characters are well-developed, and It's the kind of movie that you just want to see over and over again. And, it seems to get better every time I see it (approximately 10 times)! The only flaw is the fact that if bootstrap bill had in fact taken a piece of gold (which we know he did; he sent it to Will) then he would have been affected by the curse. And..If he was affected by the curse, he would be immortal. So...How did launching him off a cannon into the ocean kill him? I guess that's why there's a "Pirates of the Caribbean 2"... I can't wait. As Captain Jack Sparrow might say, "Go see this movie. Savvy?"


                
