If this is among the best from Hollywood, I don't think I'm going to another for a long time.I know I'm in the minority, but I just don't see the point of this movie. Its plot was totally predictable, filled with all the usual silly impossible heroics. The protagonists, by all rights, should have been killed many times over.The movie also had a rash of other implausibilities, e.g., no one on the protagonists' crew died despite sustained mortal combat against a superior foe, who by virtue of a curse, could not die. The ending was especially nonsensical: several times throughout the movie, Orlando Bloom had been condemned to death (of course, he implausibly escapes each time) after having saved the life of the beloved fiancée of the commander (and daughter of the governor). Then at the end, they simply lets him and his accomplice go?!?! Even the Johnny Depp character, which admittedly had some charm and craftiness, didn't make sense: why was he seemingly quasi-drunk all the time, slurring his syllables? And why all the eye-makeup? In the end, I wonder about all the money spent on this movie, and about a society in which a silly, pointless fantasy can be lauded as among the finest cultural outputs in years.
I was so bored with the fighting at the end, it ruined the whole movie. And why does Johnny Depp sound like he's drunk, but hardly ever drinks? The special effects were nothing compared to other movies this summer.  I think I'll go see "Seabiscuit" again, so I can forget about this stinker.


                
I can't understand why so many people are raving about this film. To me it was just one long yawn. It conformed to a current style of film-making which sadly involves substituting boring stunts and ho-hum special effects (all of which have been seen countless times before)instead of a decent storyline and real atmosphere. This sort of treatment was fine during the 1980's when Indiana Jones and the like seemed fresh and fun but surely young cinemagoers are entitled to something more intelligent in 2003 - such as a plot that makes sense, straight acting and some semblance of historical accuracy. And another thing.. where on earth did Johnny Depp get that accent from? He sounded and looked like an inebriated Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones!


                
If you voted 10 for this film, you'd better be 10 years old or else this is simply unforgivable.Pirates of the Caribbean is a truly excruciating experience. I hate this film on so many levels, covering so many aspects and ranging from crew to cast that it actually makes me physically ill to watch. So if I hate this film to the core, then what's the 2/10 for, you ask? The answer is; I think this film could be entertaining to kids and the odd pre-teen. It is, after all, a Disney production based on a popular Disney ride in a theme park and I think this explains its paper-thin plot of "saving the damsel in distress (Keira Knightley), killing the bad guy (Geoffrey Rush) and having an over-the-top comedic sidekick (Johnny Depp) whilst doing it".I don't know whose genius idea it was to cast Orlando Bloom as the romantic and heroic lead, but this choice helps him cement his position as the resident Hollywood lucky-guy, getting by without so much as a shred of talent, but inexplicably being offered big-budget project after the other. Furthermore, my theory is that Bloom's bad acting is contagious and affected the rest of the cast of Pirates of the Caribbean like a nasty case of the flu. Keira Knightley is a stunning woman but all she does here is pout with her pretty lips until she gets to deliver some cheeseball tough-chick line like "You like pain? *WHAM* Try wearing a corset." I'm no member of the Depp camp but I think he has pulled off some great performances in the past, but in Pirates, he is so over-the-top and corny that this can impossibly appeal to an adult audience.So aside from the cringe-worthy "corset" line by Keira Knightley, the dialogue-writing on the film really puzzles me. It's like it's camp but not intentionally. I believe this film truly thinks it's clever and amusing when it's only extremely embarrassing. Juvenile generic action sequences, long-drawn segments, contrived performances, dumb plot and overblown special effects make Pirates of the Caribbean an unwatchable adventure.2/10


                
Yes, dear Disney fans your dreams have come true. Your youth can be prolonged. There is an other formula that will turn the average adult into a giggling teenager. I have seen it happen in a big cinema in my city. Mature folk that went hysterical by the dozen as flying cutlery landed in eyeballs. Please man, stop it! Go see a flick to get out of the daily routine, but please stay a bit critical. Just for the record: These words do not sprout from the mind of a bitter person, but from a bitterly disappointed one. Once again a great concept has been completely overdone in the wrong direction. It has been said before and that does strengthen me to discuss it one more. This genre is weirdly annoying 'the portrayal of gruesome (in this case 18th century buccanic) violence combined with Uncle Walts very own vision on slapstick'. What is the message and who is supposed to be addressed? Is made for big children or for small adults? In one way you might say that in works for those you have a good time watching this film. In an other way I would like to take great distance from exactly those people over 18 that reward this flick with anything over a 4. Hereby I do so, bunch of gullible kid souls. I declare I was in the wrong place at the wrong time. My mistake, 'cause I had wrongfully set my sights on something like Mutiny On The Bounty (1962 and 1984) meets Master And Commander(2003).


                
What a terrible movie!! I give it a two, because Johnny Depp is incredible and makes it ALMOST worth it (not quite, really), but there's only that much good he can do to a movie with a botched plotline, and ferociously dim-witted, unfunny dialogs. It hardly made me laugh: one can't squeeze all that much fun out of uninspired actors left on their own, discarded plot elements, random fights, and a slippery glass eye. It seemed it would go on forever: I enjoyed about 5 minutes of it, and hated the rest. A hopeless waste!


                
Ho-hum.  What the heck is everyone seeing in this film?  It's really long and drawn-out, edited in the usual thousand-shots-for-every-three-seconds-of-film Bruckheimer manner, and the script is mediocre at best.  The audience I saw it with were psyched when it started, and then what followed was almost two-and-a-half hours of indifferent silence.  If this is "the movie we've been waiting for," this summer is finished....  Johnny Depp's performance is jaw-dropping, all right.  Jaw-droppingly awful.  Skip it!


                
This is the most over rated film since Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. The Film is beautifully shot and is nice to look at for the first ten mintues or so but then it gets so boring and your mind begins to wander. I am just glad I didn't pay money to see this big-budget piece of garbage. It is unfunny and unexciting.Skip it.


                
I usually love anything that Johnny Depp is in, but this film is an exception, mainly because they picked the worst actress in the world to play the leading lady. Keira Knightly is given so much credit about being the finest female actor in Britian, I think however that her acting in this film somewhat contradicts this statement. She is truly terrible, the only bit i thought she was good was when she fell off the castle wall. But otherwise this film is quite good, i thought Johnny Depp was brilliant playing Jack Sparrow and also looked gorgeous in the process, which isn't very hard for Johnny Depp. Unfortuanatly i could only bear to watch this film once because of keiras unemotional presence and Orlando Bloom being overcast by Johnny's shadow.


                
All the action in the world couldn't save this poorly laid out story from practically putting me to sleep.  Johnny Depp's performance (despite the Oscar nomination) has got to be his worst in what has otherwise been an accomplished career.  The camp, the predictability, and the ridiculous characterization almost caused my friends and I to walk out after the first twenty minutes....I wish we had.


                
This movie was awful.No nice, big setsUgly costumesBad makeup (dark eyes)No tension, no character developmentForseeable story lineFull of pirates cliches (parrot on shoulder)(Sorry for my bad english, I'm German)


                
Basically this film has completely copied the famous 1990 computer game monkey island. In which the governors daughter is kidnapped by an undead pirate ghost and you have to rescue her. It even copies ideas like being stranded on an island and going crazy (like how herman toothrot was stranded on monkey island for so long and went mad). The idea of finding a ship and a crew. And it copies other things like not only it being set in the caribbean and having a voodoo lady, but the actual set and having to row through a swamp to get to the voodoo lady's shack, pirate towns made of broken ships and so many things just completely lifted from the game and lazily put into the film. The main villain of Pirates of the Caribbean also looks identical to the villain in Monkey Island. If you search for this on google, youtube, or anything, you can see how pirates of the caribbean just completely ripped off this game and is a really uninspired unoriginal film. The thing I did like about the film is probably Johnny Depp who seemed to play an alright quirky, silly pirate.


                
this is straight up kids fare. I mean I just saw the last twenty minutes on TV and it was horrible! It reminded me of the original Treasure Island, which I saw at age 10 or so. The "romance" was horrible, the dialogue was horrible, it was unbearably corny, Johnny Depp turns into a skeleton man and then back, why I don't know, Orlando Bloom was cute but not much use. Johnny must have done this in order to get the free dread extensions, which were also horrible and changed ornaments every five minutes---would he have time to do his hair while waiting to get hanged??????????? ARrrrrrghhhhhhhhhhhhhh the gold stuff looked like stuff you get at Burger King. Ick!


                
Without Johnny Depp, this basically animatronic mess would have been ignored by anyone with half a brain.  But the general reactions to it underscore one aspect in particular:  popular films, whether truly good or truly bad, have lately demonstrated that a large component of the viewing audience haven't a clue about what constitutes good cinematic art.While many of us of a certain age look at movies as an extension of dramatic art moving forward in time from Aristophanes to Arthur Miller, just as many if not more of us seem to evaluate them based primarily on the sort of criteria usually reserved for rating computer games and cartoons. Literature and history be damned; if it ain't got visual sparks, it ain't no good.I did manage to stay awake through this one, wondering from time to time what the hell I was doing it for.  Depp provided the sole depth, an ironic gem in the midst of a sea of motile muck.


                
Aside from Johnny Depp's Quirky performance -- always worth watching -- this was a pretty lame attempt at action-comedy. The special effects were of course competent, and the camera work was good, but the writing and plot were thin and amateurish.  Perhaps I should not have expected more, given that it's just a Disney SFX vehicle with a bankable lead, but I thought this fell far short of the hype. The apparent premise that some of them were dead and cursed to go on and on ... it seemed to change somehow toward the end, as if no one was sure what the rules really were. It's set up of course for a seQuel, probably even lamer than this one. I wouldn't have minded if I hadn't paid four bucks to see the thing on Pay Per View, but I guessed wrong on this one.


                
That's not exactly true of this overblown, over-budgeted, over-long, and over-praised piece of garbage. I've seen plenty of things that were worse. But this movie, which is somehow at the time of this writing on IMDb's Top 250 page, was something I greatly anticipated seeing in theaters.But I, like so many other fans of genuine cinema, was deceived and betrayed. That is because this movie is just another in a *huge* line of recent (dating back to the '80s) films that favor massive amounts of special effects, action, and star power over any semblance of substance. The special effects are good at certain parts (I like the curse reveal), but you can tell they sucked up *far* too much money. And the action is well-conceived, but a two-year-old could execute it a darn sight better. And star power? Don't get me started-- it's sad to think that Johnny Depp has ever been considered as being in that category. He has no talent, no taste, and no respect for either himself or his audience. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley have potential-- but it all goes seeping out of their heads from just being around Depp (watch the movie; I think you can see the leaks!)While not wholly poisonous, this dim and dull "blockbuster" is pretty terrible. This is another high-profile example of the recent cheapening of the American cinema.


                
I cant believe how highly this film and Johnny Depp are rated. I thought that Johnnny Depp as a pirate was about as believable as Tom and Jerry. He minced on to the screen looking like a young girl who was blacked up and given a false moustache and beard. His accent although better than Dick van Dykes effort in Mary Poppins was unconvincing, and the character was lame, effeminate and generally rather laughable. This would be great French and Saunders material.In fact Jennifer Saunders would probably be more believable than this!Action scenes were rather more convincing. sorry switched off, it was that tedious.


                
I watched this movie with some friends at the cinemas a long time ago and I'm reviewing it now because ads on TV about the sequel jogged my memory. I can see now that Curse of the Black Pearl is very popular among IMDb members, especially among females and young people. If you are a young female you are much more likely to think you enjoyed this movie than if you are an old man. That's what the demographic breakup statistics say. I remember being very disappointed with this film and one reason why I was disappointed was because it was so long. I remembered getting up at the end of the film and because the film was so long my butt was aching as if someone had jabbed a needle in it. I am not averse to long movies but this one in particular was just not at all entertaining. The first reason for this lack of entertainment I think is the behavior of the characters. Johnny Depp's character is deliberately crazy. If one of my friends were to act like that in real life I would stare at him and after some time I would ask him, "Man, what is wrong with you?" In this movie, I am consistent with my behavior and badly wanted to ask Johnny Depp's character what was with the crazy behavior, but of course Depp is just acting and I obviously can't talk to the character through the theater screen, so that just left me feeling frustrated. Most of the movie is filled with humor that I didn't find funny at all, but many in the audience obviously thought it was very funny. As with the Depp character the humor was just crazy and weird, but of course humor is very subjective so it's a matter of taste I suppose.Another issue I'd like to bring up are the fight scenes, which I thought were very disappointing as well. The reason is because they were very plain. Usually in a fight scene I like to see something coherent. I want the camera to stay and I want the fight participants to engage in intense, suspenseful, but also aesthetically pleasing fights. The fight scenes in this film don't have that elegance. A bunch of people just get together and the camera cuts and shakes as if we're looking at everything from the perspective of a drunk man.The plot is another sorry part of the movie. That woman (as you can see I'm not good with names) was your typical annoying pretentious woman and at the end when she kisses the guy I actually said out aloud in the theater, "Oh, please!" How clichéd can you get? It's like a fairy tale your parents might read to you as a kid.


                
Good Pirate Comedy Adventure Film for the whole family. The story lacks spirit and depth but still manages to keep from sinking. Very good acting. Johnny Depp portrays his character very well here also. A liitle too watered down but this is due to the Walt Disney style. Only for big fans of family style Adventure Comedy films and fans of the lead actors........


                
Johnny Depp must work a potent magic on his admirers: by its power he's able to communicate to them, and to them alone, the character he has it in his head that he's portraying. The rest of us have to do a good deal of guessing, since the actor goes only a little way in manifesting his purpose by means of the normal external signs, e.g. facial expressions, body language, tones of voice. Lacking these to go by, I hazard that in this movie he thinks he's impersonating a would-be buccaneer who's generally too drunk, lazy, incompetent, or good-natured to carry off his boasted predations: a role for a W. C. Fields or Wallace Beery, not a performer with the look and the aura of a spoiled altar-boy twenty years past his prime. The star's deficiency might have been compensated for in some measure by intelligent casting of the leading lady; but the one we have here is Keira Knightley, doing her usual, i.e. wanly striking poses for an imaginary photo shoot. The villain, Geoffrey Rush, supplies the color and panache the other two lack; but there's not enough of him to go around. The movie is rather at pains to present itself as a piece of good fun; but for me it was a piece of hard work, all on account of the director (the same one who bumbled up the American "Ring"). He appears to have one virtue: shooting all the script he has, so that all the pieces are there, as they often are not in films these days. But the pieces are nearly all wrong: in the staging, the perspectives and proportions are so far off what one might imagine in reading the script (or any of its published story-izings) that one almost has to revisualize the movie as it goes to get what it's about. And the script, which is a mishmash at best, is confusing in places. The first scene ends with the pirate ship bearing down on its apparent target...and then what? Pondering this enigma distracted me from subsequent developments for a good hour or so; not that they compelled much interest in themselves. I feel a gallon of ill will toward this movie: as a product for sale, which is all it is (it's a lot farther from being a work of art than the amusement ride that inspired), it's a piece of inferior merchandise, with its seams still unfinished. Yet buyers seemed not to see that. Depp's magic at work again?


                
Boring. That's what it is. Just plain boring. It doesn't deserve the hype it gets. I've seen the movie twice and was bored both times... and I really wanted to like it because all of my friends did. The acting might be okay. But I felt nothing for any of the characters or the story. As someone who, again, gave even the likes of Troll 2 five stars, the fact that I was more invested in a bad movie's story than this supposed "good movie" is really saying something. It's a total snoozefest. I honestly didn't find a single scene interesting. Even the Doctor Who knockoff "The Curse of the Black Spot" was more entertaining with better characters and a good story. No thanks. So that's my synopsis, I barely remember what happens but I don't really care. I didn't like it at all.


                
