Maybe I'm just getting too old for these childish popcorn munchers, but I found this movie to be tedious and contrived. It was SO predictable, in fact, that I was quoting lines before they even happened.Do movie audiences still NEED to see a man leaping from a second story balcony to avoid an explosion? This movie was so packed with stereotypes and shallow eye-rolling dialogue that there is little to no room for any creative originality.If it were not for the always delightful Johnny Depp, there would be little need for this movie at all. Splice together ten of your favorite Hollywood Frontal Lobotomies in to one big safe happy crapfest, and you'll achieve the same result.In short, the movie was entertaining, but not deserving of any special attention.


                
This is a perfect movie if (A) you are a twelve year old boy, (B) you like to see stunt men ejected from explosions over and over and over again (C) you will watch anything with Johnny Depp, regardless. For more discriminating adults, the two and a half hours of noise and chaos unrelieved by any semblance of careful plotting becomes tedious. Depp is certainly fun for the first half hour, sending up the pirate image by coating his eyes with kohl and sending up the Disney image by acting a little less than wholesome, but after a while, one longs for more than people screaming with swords in their hands backed up with a bombastic music score that underscores the emptiness of the enterprise.One longs for the sense of heroic purpose and genuine derring-do exemplified by Errol Flynn/ Douglas Fairbanks, Jr, or Burt Lancaster in such grand adventures as The Sea Hawk, Captain Blood, Sinbad The Sailor or The Crimson Pirate, all recently released on vivid, family-oriented DVDs; Pirates From The Carribbean is cynical corporate entertainment, the humor ironic or tongue-in-cheek, and, though marketed as such, is really not for children unless they are so desensitized to blood and savagery from video games that nightmarish visions do not bother them.


                
what do you get when you have a movie that is over-hyped it can't live up to the expectation?you get pirates of the caribbean.my hopes were through the roof for this one based on all the ads and great reviews.man,what a letdown.this isn't necessarily a bad movie,but it is nowhere near as great as i was led to believe.the acting was okay,and there was some humour,but i think it tried to be funnier than it actually was.there are many films made with very small budgets,including marketing, and many turn out to be fine and sometimes successful films.i guess hollyweird just doesn't get it.then again, i guess i don't get it either since i believed all the hype and went to see this movie.i give it 5* out of 10 based mostly on the acting and some humour


                
*Minor spoilers*Much praise has been held over 'Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the black pearl', and not one, but TWO sequels are in production.The movie is also rated 7.9 and #227 (today, may 08 2005). The cast is very good, but the script and plot is WAY to cheesy for me to take in. I find it ironic that a very good movie like Master and Commander, who is also a pirates-vs-soldiers movie and a hell of a good one at that, aiming for realism, gets surpassed by Potc with a plot of undead pirates walking on the bottom of oceans and turning to bones by night? There's also a lot of bridges that doesn't really add anything to the action (the movie tops 140 minutes), which only becomes an annoyance. Fun for 11-year olds mayhap, but for us a bit older... Crap. Go see Master & Commander if you want a movie with some story. 4/10
I'm not much of a fan of Disney movies, pirates and Johnny Depp so I was really reluctant to see this Disney flick. I was pleasantly surprised by how the movie started. I was actually riveted, by the funny action and the amazing performance of Depp. Like I said, I'm not a Depp fan and I usually can't stand him in anything but as Jack Sparrow, Depp is totally amazing. Depp created a real character here, no matter how campy he is. Unfortunately, once the pirates invade the port and the story concentrated on them, the film became really tedious and I didn't care about anything. The film should have concentrated more on Sparrow and the two other characters. The pirates, or ghosts, are devices and it's almost impossible to care for them. The story became sillier and sillier and Depp, who's the ONLY good thing in this movie, went missing for long periods of time. Bloom and the actress were pretty much flat. And this film is very LONG!!! Oh well...


                
In 2011, i tried opus 4 with Penelope and it was so slow, so dark that I felt asleep in my seat ! Now it's the second (!) time i try to watch this DVD because of Keira and it happens again ! even if the production is baroque and visually stunning, the pace of the movie is terribly dull and its attraction wagon moves faster and is more exciting ! Sure there is efforts to have a dense story and there are strong characters and funny back roles as well, but the way it's told and filmed isn't dynamic : so it's a pure Disney movie as every age can follow what happens on screen, old or young ! The action sequences are quite boring and repetitive, Deep gets irritating with his pantomimes, Pryce with his usual dandy manner (he is not John Cleese !) and getting aboard and out of ships isn't really exciting at the end ! With this dragging ambiance, i felt again asleep when Keira was abducted ! At least she was here because she is really the revelation of this movie as well as the fighting skeletons by moonlight ! Withtout them, i couldn't have sustain such a long movie for which i have the big feeling to have seen it already before !


                
POTC: TCOTHBP was occasionally interesting. What can one expect, the movie is based on a ride? Keira Knightley fills well the lovely young woman role. Johnny Depp is occasionally hilarious and interesting.What largely lacks for POTC is the story (hey, I understand, the ride was supported by effects and posing too, but it is only a few minutes long) and... well... the male second. While one can certainly understand Orlando Bloom's Will Turner's interest in Keira Knightley's Elizabeth, one can't, however, understand the reciprocation. I understand actors' withering beside Johnny Depp's irresistible, on-screen energy and force of personality, but poor Orlando Bloom nearly puddles beneath the glare. For LOTR all he had to do is stretch his neck and furrow his brow and that, beneath his lovely, light locks is what we needed from him there. Unfortunately for us, it seems that producers haven't yet realized that is all he can do.Geoffrey Rush ranged from over-the-top (which worked) to occasional attempts at being a sympathetic character (which didn't).There are some decent moments of entertainment including some laugh-out-loud funny lines involving Captain Jack Black. But this is not a keeper -- at most, a renter, preferably a borrower.
'Pirates of the Caribbean' is an old-fashioned adventure pirate film, combining new animation techniques with humor, romance, and pirate battles. The film is not a great film by any means; it is simply fun. The film moved a little slow in some places, and I was not impressed by Johnny Depp's performance at all. The film really had little to offer in terms of an original story, but if you are looking for a film that is fun and something to liven up a dull evening, this film is okay. Children and adults can both enjoy this. It's not great, but it can probably be enjoyed by a wide audience. I give this a 4/10 because I did not think it was anything special.


                
First off, having a movie based on a Disney ride seemed ridiculous. Second, having Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom together in a movie seemed terrible. The outcome? A painful 2 hours I'll never get back. The movie doesn't even have a pirate theme. There's no stealing, killing, drinking, etc. Just fighting off fake CGI skeletons on a stupid ship. I don't know how this garbage made it to the top 250 list. The cheesy dialogue, dull action scenes, cardboard acting, lame use of CGI, and the ludicrous plot made this as one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I'm also beginning to think this is a total chick-flick, since the only people who watch it are peppy girls who drool over Depp's fake look in the movie.


                
A tiresome Walt Disney kiddies movie with appalling dialogue and a Bodger Award for the most dreadful performance by a leading actor in a major movie of all time. Everyone just woodenly and stiffly and badly moves through this movie repeating their dreadful lines with a lack of enthusiasm. Some embarrassment is evident. The storyline is pathetic and boring and dull. The initial action is limp and dull. In fact dull is the key word. Dull and boring and bad and wooden. And how on earth did this ever get filmed. Surely it can't be that hard to make an exciting, interesting and worthy pirate movie in such pleasant locations? The movie does pick up toward the end with some decent fight scenes, and a bit of swashbuckling, but it's too little too late.


                
Johnny Depp is in this movie. He wears a cool hat and swaggers about like a drunken bohemian on the loose in a boarding school. I could watch him for hours.There's other stuff in this movie. Orlando Bloom possibly plays the hero, but he's about as boring as he's been in every other movie he's pretended to act in. Keira Knightley fails to fill out her dress, but that's okay because she's cute too. Geoffrey Rush plays another retired rock star, and between him and Depp the movie is nearly watchable.I stayed awake through this movie the first time. The second time, not so much. The third time, I'm not sure. I intentionally turned it on a fourth time while I was on a trans-Atlantic flight and needed to sleep. The plot is kind of unintelligible, with characters escaping and getting captured and being held in prisons and escaping again every five minutes or so, and no one ever bothers to clear up which ship they're on at any given moment. It's a little too lead-footed to really be swashbuckling.But anyway, it's got Johnny Depp. He's cool, right? He does stuff in this movie, so that must mean something. I'm not sure what, though.


                
In theory, Pirates Of The Caribbean really could have been a good film. What with Johnny Depp playing the campest pirate ever and a young couple at the centre of it who just want to get together were it for those damn undead pirates and the woman's fiancée. Such inspired ideas however admirable can not salvage this film. Under the hand of director Gore Verbinski, Pirates Of The Caribbean dispenses with character development, comic timing and structure in favour of constant frantic movement and an eagerness make sure that something is exploding, somebody is falling down a trap or Johnny Depp is eliciting a wisecrack every two seconds. Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom are hopelessly bland when they should be appealing while the visuals suggest a much cheaper film than its $115 million budget would have you believe. Some critics have noted that Pirates would have benefit from a 45 minute truncation of its running but even in its first quarter of an hour, I found myself getting bored. The script is also weak, with Saturday morning cartoon show level humour and not one inspired moment. The only notable thing about this film is the clever CGI used on the undead pirates and the lenience (and some might say praise) with which critics have graced it.Do yourself a favour and see Disney's Peter Pan instead, it's a funnier, more technically groundbreaking, more artistically credible and infinitely more entertaining pirate film than this two and a half hour bore. It'll probably keep your kids more entertained too, not to mention it being more suitable for them.


                
This movie, as 99% of Hollywood's productions, was made for kids and teens, or people who think they are still kids. I don´t want to say it's bad or stupid, it's just...like a floppy, disposable, toy. As an adult, I felt a waste of time sitting down and trying to watch this kind of material, even with one of my kids besides me, enjoying it. Saying this, if you take this movie seriously you can point out the following: 1. It lacks of historical accuracy or even the remotest realism (pirates were bandits blessed by the Queen who used to attack Spanish vessels, I guess, or someone told me that). 2. All the characters are caricatures from a comic strip 3. The plot is 0, nil, nought, zero. 3. The formula: Maximum adventure with Minimum suspense (poor Hitch!) 5. Avalanche of FX to keep the children amused. 6. No dialogs, no conflicts, no real life. But, who wants these things today?


                
Nice effects but not enough to want to see this film again.   Just another action film, the storyline has been done again and again. Formula, formula, formula. I found myself looking at my watch too often.  The only saving grace...Johnny Depp.  He is always interesting and if it weren't for him, I wouldn't have gone to see this thing.


                
A friend with whom I watched this film summed it up better than I ever could.  "I've never seen such convincing effects look so unconvincing."
as for the meat of the movie, without Johnny Depp, we would have walked out. he saves this from being a miserable adventure flick and makes it into a tolerable adventure flick.it's got lots of pretty visuals and swashbuckling action and whatnot, but it wasn't worth my $8.50.  matinee... maybe.


                
Well, I liked the costumes and the sets.  You could tell they spent alot of money making this movie.  The skeletons were fun.  But as far as the plot goes, half the time it just felt like this confusing mess.  And while I loved how Jonny Depp looked in this film, I didn't like the way his character was written.  I felt like I was watching Richard Simmons in a pirate costume!  I think I would have liked this movie better had it been more of a horror film instead of an adventure movie.  I think it would have worked scary.  I would have liked Depp's character to have been tougher.  I guess this movie is okay if you like pirate films, but it just wasn't what I wanted.  I would love to see it redone with alot of horror, but I know I'm dreaming.  So, see it for the costumes, but don't expect it to be a great film.


                
A BRIEF SUMMARY: Elizabeth Swann, the daughter of the new island governor, is traveling by ship with her father to their new home. The come upon a ship, ransacked and burned by pirates. Suddenly, Elizabeth spots an unconscious boy, Will Turner, in the water. When Will is brought onto the ship and laid upon the deck, Elizabeth spots a gold medallion around his neck. Fearing the authorities will arrest the boy as a pirate, Elizabeth steals the medallion. Years later, when Will and Elizabeth grow up, they share an adventure involving the medallion, an unearthly pirate crew and `the curse of the Black Pearl'. `All opinions are vanity <U+0085>' including my own. Well, I guess I better prepare myself to be clobbered once again for trashing a movie `everybody loves'. `Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl' is most illogical movie I've seen since `Lost in Space'.  `Lost in Space' at least had three shapely women in body-hugging space suits. PCCBP has Johnny Depp. Johnny has turned in some really good performances (`Edward Scissorhands,' `Ed Wood,' `Sleepy Hollow,' and, especially, `Don Juan DeMarco') but his loose, effete `Jack Sparrow' is more `Captain Morgan' than Captain Kidd. That is, the rum is doing most of the acting. WARNING: SPOILERS Well, let's see, all the crew of the Black Pearl except Jack Sparrow, BUT INCLUDING WILL'S FATHER, have been cursed for stealing Aztec gold. As part of their curse, food turns to ashes; and, while they cannot die, in the moonlight they are clearly rotting corpses. HELLO!  If they cannot die, HOW COULD THEY KILL WILL'S FATHER? If they are really rotten corpses, WHY DIDN'T THEY DIE AS SOON AS THE CURSE WAS LIFTED? I can understand why Will wasn't cursed, BUT WHY WASN'T ELIZABETH? Oh, because she did it to save Will, THEN WHY WAS JACK SPARROW CURSED? Oh, because he was Captain of the Black Pearl; DO YOU REALLY THINK A CURSE WOULD BE SO SELECTIVE? I can understand why the Black Pearl crew became rotting corpses when they were cursed. They spent a period of time suffering from starvation and thirst, but WHY DID JACK IMMEDIATELY BECOME A ROTTING CORPSE? Oh yes, I've heard, `Forget the logic and enjoy the fun.' How much fun is there in an adventure movie where the only mortals you care about are so central to the plot you KNOW they cannot be killed? I enjoyed the production values, the music and the performances, but I never forgot this is a BAD pirate movie. If you really want to have fun watching a good pirate movie, see `The Crimson Pirate' or `Swashbuckler.' If you insist on seeing a bad pirate movie, see `Cutthroat Island'. At least it makes sense.
Depp looks good, but he always looks good. He alone makes the movie, and that's not lasting for the movie, only lasting for Depp. This is a tragic disappointment to those who love pirates. It follows the recent trends of dark ghost stories stylistic eye candy, but underneath it's empty. Someone said to me that it's going to be a classic, only because pirate stories tend to be. Some people can't see the forest for the trees.


                
An "adaptation" of a ride at Disneyland seemed like kind of a flimsy idea, so I'm not entirely surprised that this overblown entry in the 2003 summer movie season isn't all that good. Johnny Depp stars as Jack Sparrow, a humorously goofy pirate who walks with a constant, drunken swagger. Depp, as always, gives a fun and eccentric performance and gets some great lines in, but unfortunately he's the only thing worth remembering about this movie. The story and all the other characters are a total snooze. Jack is trying to get his ship, the Black Pearl, back from a group of skeletal ghost pirates (led by a hammy Geoffrey Rush) who have kidnapped the beautiful Elizabeth Swann (Winona Ryder look-alike Keira Knightley) in order to use her blood to bring them back to life. Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) is in love with Elizabeth, so he teams up with Sparrow. Bloom, from the "Lord Of The Rings" movies and Knightley, from this year's great "Bend It Like Beckham" are both interesting actors, but the characters they're playing might as well be cardboard cutouts. There is lots of action and some twists in the story, but I found very little of it interesting. In fact, Johnny Depp's likable performance and one-liners were all that kept me awake through the ridiculous 2 hour, 15 minute running time. It's directed by Gore Verbinski, and I guess it shows he can direct a big summer movie, but it completely lacks the small-scale style and effectiveness of his earlier films like last year's eerie "The Ring" and especially the quirky, sadly underrated "The Mexican".
And when the army of skeletons shows up in the end, all I could think about was how much cooler it was in "Army Of Darkness". I liked Depp's performance, but in a nutshell, the ride is better.


                
Average action adventure Disney yarn is watchable mainly due to good performances by Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and the lovely Keira Knightley.It's the tale of a pirate ship called the Black Pearl, once captained by the eccentric Depp, whose new captain <U+0096> Geoffrey Rush is looking for a pirate medallion that ends up in the hands of Knightley, the daughter a rich governor (Jonathan Pryce). Throw in Bloom as the dashing hero with a sketchy past and a major crush on Knightley, and you've got yourself a special effects ridden harmless piece of entertainment. Downsides are too many silly additional characters, who will only be of interest to very young viewers, and at 143 minutes, its far too long - they could have cut out about half an hour of footage off at least.Nice to see a fairly original idea through, although I hear it is based on a computer game(?) or something (I may be wrong), instead of the countless sequels that have cluttered up the cinemas over the past year or so.<U+0085>..saying that, no doubt there will be a `Pirates of the Caribbean 2' through, sooner rather than later!!


                
I fell asleep while watching this film in a THX cinema.  While this weakened my understanding of the film's plot, my 11 year old companion cheerily filled in the details on the drive home.I sympathized with Johnny Depp who, like me, seemed to have just woken up prior to many scenes.  While I was clueless as to what exactly was going on, Depp pulled off well his wake up calls and instead appeared to have a brilliant, original take on the plot twists.  Move Depp, on probation, into the "watchable actor, sole reason for buying ticket" column.Hollywood producers accept pirate projects at their peril.  Maybe it's a challenge match for those with money to spare.  Someone today no doubt pitched a TV series based on the pirates in 'Six Days, Seven Nights'. Pirates.  Hollywood.  Fairbanks.  Swashbuckle.  Search me.


                
This movie could have been absolutely fantastic, except for one thing -- Johnny Depp's unfortunate choice of playing Jack Sparrow as a drunken, mumbling git. The movie (though a bit long), is great fun, with swordplay, gunplay, zombies, cannons, and witty dialog -- this last spoiled in part by Depp's insistence on mumbling all his lines. Although apologists say that the character was supposed to be crazy with the sun (for an incident we later learn was only 3 days long, and well-provisioned at that), it seems to me that it was just a completely bad choice of characterization. Better by far to have picked as a model the Burt Lancaster portrayal of Captain Vallo "The Crimson Pirate" (1952 -- as I suspect the writer intended -- "Vallo" --> "Sparrow"). In that movie, Lancaster was perhaps the ultimate "Ha-HA!" character, with the same winking- at-the-audience kind of verve that the Jack Sparrow character sort of had. (Indeed, the walking-the-boat-across-the-bottom scene is right out of "Crimson Pirate", along with the generally acrobatic ship scenes.) This and various plot holes (which involve massive spoilers, so I'll leave them out) took a possibly great movie, and made it a so-so experience for me...
