The movie deals with a curse on pirates , then they abduct the starring named Elizabeth Swan (Kiera Knightley) with the aim she free them of a damned spell.
But she's helped by a likable pirate named Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and a rush blacksmith (Orlando Bloom). They will have to confront a nasty villain (Geoffrey Rush) and his henchmen.The motion picture mingles adventures , action-packed , thrills , tongue-in-cheek , rip-roaring , humor , love and results to be enough bemusing. The film runtime is overlong : two hours and some , but is neither boring , nor tiring but entertaining.The movie there is a homage to the pirates' films , paying tribute to classic pirate movies , also to Ray Harryhausen and his picture ¨Jason and the Argonauts¨ regarding the living skeletons . First-rate interpretation by Johnny Depp ,he plays like a ¨drag queen¨ and Robert Newton in the film titled 'Blackbeard'. Having decided that pirates were the eighteenth century equivalent of rock stars, Johnny Depp's characterization of Sparrow was inspired by close observation of his friend Keith Richards from Rolling Stones , though he emphasized in interviews that it was not an impersonation. Kiera Knightley is beautiful but lacks her experience who proved in his following hits , becoming a first star . Kiera was only eighteen years old when this movie came out. Oscar winner Geoffrey Rush (Shine) is excellent but overacting , at times .Colorful, glamorous cinematography by Dariuz Wolski and lavish production by Jerry Bruckheimer . Klaus Badlet's music as well as direction by Gore Verbinsky is riveting . It's followed by two sequels : ¨Dead man's chest¨ and ¨At world's end¨ with similar actors and technicians .The Pirates of the Caribbean franchise is the tenth highest grossing franchise ever.Rating: 6,5/10 . Good.


                
I very much enjoyed this movie the first time I saw it but lost interest on the second viewing, for some reason. It's the usual Disney adventure story which means the same good and bad traits I usually find, namely:THE GOOD - Nice camera-work and very slick-looking on DVD. Interesting characters, mostly here the ones played by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush. It's difficult to find a role in which Depp doesn't play someone odd and/or fascinating. The story has a good mixture of drama, action, suspense and humor. Keira Knightley is attractive as the female lead and the story is interesting for the full 133 minutes (the last 10 minutes are ending credits.)THE BAD - Once again, the messages are "laws are made to be broken;" "rebels in society are the good guys while authority figures are the villains," and the girl wants the poor man over the rich man, etc. etc. That all is so '60s clichéd by now, you'd think the Baby Boomers in Hollywood would grow up, but apparently not. These traits are in almost every film, including a worldly outlook on everything, which includes glorifying occult nonsense. Disney will never change.OVERALL - A fun movie, thanks mainly to Depp, director Gore Verbnski and his cameramen, and successful enough to spawn a sequel.


                
I enjoyed the first "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie. I consider it to be a very well done pop-corn flick which was very well directed, managed to combine in a clever way the comedy, the adventure, the action and the fantasy (And this even adds some little hints of horror) without insulting the intelligence of the viewers.It is something that whole family could enjoy, and it certainly has many virtues that deserve appreciation: The production values are wonderful, the soundtrack composed by Hans Zimmer is excellent, and the performances of the entire cast were more than appropriate. Even when the story of the movie isn't very deep or complex, the result is pretty satisfying.What I don't understand is the absurd comparisons between this movie and superior films such as "The Lord of the Rings" from Peter Jackson or the original Indiana Jones trilogy. Those movies are in a completely different league, and (for me, at least) were life-changing experiences, with many memorable scenes, while this didn't have anything remotely comparable to that. "Pirates of the Caribbean" it's a decent adventure flick, but it's way too overrated. Well, at least this movie was worth-watching and entertaining, unlike the sequels.
Two reasons to see Curse of the Black Pearl (and I'm speaking more to adults, kids will see just about anything they can get into admission-wise) are the effects done on the crew of the Black Pearl, and two performances amongst those that were OK but nothing special- Geoffrey Rush as the taut, creepy captain of the Black Pearl, and especially Johnny Depp as the somewhat unconventional captain Jack Sparrow. On this site it's said that Depp patterned his character's moves and voice after Keith Richards, which I can see, however my first impression watching him was that he was basically playing Raoul Duke from Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas in a pirates cap and with gold fronts. This is indeed an original turn for Depp, even if we've seen him do something like this before, and it helps when a persona is this fresh in a story that counts the numbers a bit too often.Curse tells of a governor's daughter, Elizabeth, who is on the verge of being married to an uptight British officer, despite to pining of blacksmith Will Turner (LOTR's Orlando Bloom). When she is kidnapped by a looting band of pirates one night, he enlists the help of imprisoned Jack Sparrow to find her and the Black Pearl. But when the curse is revealed to Elizabeth that's when things get suspenseful (to a degree). One thing that makes this a worthwhile time for the kids is that it's the first PG-13 film from the Disney people, and though it might have fared a higher calling if it was under a different studio with an R rating, it can give them a chance to see some scenes parents may find a little risqué. For instance, at one point Jack and Elizabeth are stranded on an island (which is all I'll say as to not spoil it), and he finds a stash of rum in a hiding place, and then the two get hammered under the moonlight. Another instance is when the curse is first revealed, once again under the moonlight, and this can be a perfect introduction to the magic of zombies. The action scenes, however, are the weakest scenes of the film, which is a let-down since there's some good choreography in the swordplay, but there's just something about the way they go on that doesn't catch the viewer in (at least me) like how other action scenes this summer have. By the end of 'Curse', the audience can see it's nowhere near greatness, but as popcorn fodder it is a pick of the moment. B-


                
Say `Pirate Movie' in a crowded theater and you're likely to be facing a mutiny or a stampede, and for good reason:  the rollicking adventures popularized by Robert Louis Stevenson and brought to life by Errol Flynn have, of late been replaced by overblown soulless drivel along the lines of Polanski's `Pirates' or `Cutthroat Island'.  Jerry Bruckheimer and Johnny Depp to the rescue.Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is quite likely the unluckiest pirate alive:  after  having suffered the ignominy of mutiny and being marooned, he finds his way to port in the one town that has a serious hate on for pirates.  If that weren't enough to spoil his already bad day, Sparrow is thrown back into the fray when he promises young Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) that he will help rescue Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), the young woman kidnapped by  Sparrow's  old enemies.  Oh, and there's that pesky little curse to contend with<U+0085>Let me state from the outset -  this is a fantastic movie that epitomizes what a summer movie should be.  It features  oodles of action <U+0096> both in the form of swashbuckling sword fights and big time explosions, is packed full of accessible humor, boasts great special effects (note: not gratuitous), has beautiful and eerie locations, nasty villains, reformed heroes and fantastic performances.  Am I making it clear that I liked this movie?Orlando Bloom is solidly low key in his first post `Lord of the Rings' outing, and makes good use of the martial skills he leaned while filming the trilogy.  His character is equal parts tragic and noble, and he balances these  the facets well.  While Elizabeth could be rightly classified as the obligatory damsel-in-distress of the piece, she most certainly is not helpless <U+0096> Knightley brings the same determined  empowerment that she displayed in `Bend it Like Beckham'.   You have to give props to any woman who can act and kick butt while bound in a corset and frilly fluffy dresses (and yet somehow manages to look even more beautiful while doing so <U+0096> forgive me, I'm only human<U+0085>). Geoffrey Rush is deliciously devilish as Captain Barossa the dark hearted scoundrel of the piece, the, who dispenses death the with a smile.  You know he's bad just by looking at the man's teeth!  And then there's the Depp factor.Johnny Depp could long ago have been a major Hollywood star <U+0096> he certainly has the charisma, the drive and enough  talent for a few careers <U+0096> however he's made a conscious decision to stick with character driven  films, which are often only found in artsy or  edgy films.  Thankfully  he chose to tackle this role with the same fervor<U+0096> Depp is hilarious as John Sparrow, the glib roguish pirate cursed with a streak of goodness and bad luck, who seemingly dances between madness and lucidity.   To say that his portrayal binds the film would not be indulging in hyperbole, as he brings all the elements of the story and the characters together.  Is that all there is you might ask?  Not even close.
****Okay, I'm going to give you a warning here <U+0096> if  you haven't seen the trailers some potential spoilers lay  ahead****.
 The CGI work in this films is remarkable on several fronts:  the film does not rely upon them, they are not excessive and they actually enhance the film.  The characters'  transition from human to skeleton and back (there sequences are rapid and many) are amazingly fluid and realistic.  Need more? The swordfighting are beautifully choreographed, the city sets are brilliant, the pyrotechnics in the battle scenes are pure Buckheimer (read: big, loud, and many) and the film is also fit for the youngsters.If you're in the market for a film that will appeal to anyone between the ages of  5 to 95 , look no further.
Nice idea and a good start for a beautiful movie franchise.


                
Title - Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black PearlDate Released (UK) - 19 July 2003Average Rating at Time of Review - 8.0Position in IMDB's Top 250 at Time of Review - #248Directed By - Gore VerbinskiStarring - Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush & Orlando BloomPlot - Blacksmith Will Turner teams up with eccentric pirate "Captain" Jack Sparrow to save his love, the governor's daughter, from Jack's former pirate allies, who are now undead.I saw this film many years ago; I imagine it wasn't long after its release. I didn't remember much about it, but I must have enjoyed it as I have watched every other Pirates of the Caribbean movie upon release. 
 Over the years I have (half-heartedly) attempted to watch this film for a second time, but have never felt up to it. Until tonight.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is not a perfect film, it can barely be classed as a great film. In fact, I was surprised to find it holding a spot on the Top 250. Upon watching it, I can understand why - it is an incredibly fun film that had me entertained throughout its runtime, despite its shortcomings and made me want to come back for more. 
 More importantly, it reignited childhood fantasies of sailing and plundering the seven seas.PROS:
 - The Music: This has to be mentioned. The music in this film is such a huge part of what makes it so enjoyable. It perfectly balances a sense of urgency while still being fun to listen to, enhancing any scene it accompanies. - The Action: I was impressed with how well the action was handled in the film. Watching the trailer will have you believe it is made up of action scenes thrown together in the editing room, littered with quick cuts and close ups. Thankfully, this was not the case. The main point of the action is always in focus and easy to follow and makes the experience much more enjoyable.  - The Story: One can imagine when watching that this was never planned as only one movie. What the writers have done with this film is created a world. A world that feels loved in and offers more to explore. There is plenty of foreshadowing of things to come in this and future films of the series, whilst still managing to make an entertaining, standalone pirate adventure. CONS:
 - The Acting: I know that the film doesn't take itself too seriously and it embraces that, which I can appreciate. However, barring Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow and Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, I found a lot of the acting and character interactions to be stiff and hollow with no real gravitas to the words being spoken.  - Character Development: Character Development is important to me, especially if I'm to be invested in these characters and their fates. This is why I was let down when none of the characters develop in any significant way over the course of the film and when they do, it feels shoe-horned in for plot purposes. I find though, that both of those cons can be forgiven; as I mentioned, the film doesn't take itself seriously and doesn't ask to be. What it does do is offer a wholly entertaining, thrilling ride through a world and society long-lost to us. A world that hadn't had the greatest luck in the film industry. 
 I thoroughly enjoyed my time with these characters and this world and look forward to visiting again with Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Mans Chest.


                
Plot; A pirate teams with a blacksmith in an attempt to rescue a young woman from the cursed crew of his former ship.Having not watched this since it originally hit DVD four... teen years ago (gulp), I was surprised by a number of things. For one, why did I wait so long to revisit it? I remember thinking it was fun (and at the time, refreshingly different), and the former certainly still holds true. Perhaps more surprising is Johnny Depp's Captain Jack Sparrow. Over the years I've watched the various sequels (save for the latest one), and there was--if memory serves--a severe level of diminishing returns. But even more, I remember Depp's Sparrow being a total buffoon. Seeing him here I realize that what happened was that Sparrow became a caricature of the character Depp created in the original. To be sure Jack Sparrow's got some quirk to him, but he's not the ever-slurring gag-a-second clown I'd pegged him to be. He's got an edge here. A swagger. And he wears it well.Though it's a tad too long for its own good, it still moves by a brisk pace and has a tight focus. Its enormous success spawned a "Bigger is better" philosophy for at least the next two sequels, and that's a shame. I'll eventually get around to revisiting the rest of the series and seeing this Summer's sequel, but my memory says that fun walks the plank at the sword tip of spectacle.
This first of the Pirates Of The Caribbean series, Curse Of The Black Pearl was a milestone in the career of star Johnny Depp. I always liked Depp since 21 Jump Street and he always chose quirky products where he did great as an actor, but the films were more often than not less than successful commercially. With this film first and foremost Depp got himself linked to a commercial success that spawned several sequels. His box office was now secure.But also this is a once in a lifetime chance to do a part that calls for some of the most outrageous overacting you'll ever see. I think Johnny Depp might have been channeling Robert Newton in one of his pirate films, be it Blackbeard or Treasure Island.In fact the plot is a lot like Treasure Island in the sense that Depp is looking to get back his ship the Black Pearl. It was taken over by his former First Mate Barboso played by Geoffrey Rush and the whole crew Depp included is under a really bad curse. A couple of civilians, governor's daughter Keira Knightley and blacksmith Orlando Bloom are also part of the adventure.The Pirates Of The Caribbean blends both the swashbuckling adventure film and the horror genre quite nicely. I can certainly Robert Newton in the part had this been 60-70 years ago. This is one film as are the rest in the series to just kick back and enjoy.


                
When the daughter of the governor of a Caribbean island, Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), is proposed by Commodore Norrington (Jack Davenport), she faints, fells into the sea and is rescued and saved by the pirate Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) but he is arrested and sentenced to death for piracy. Meanwhile, the town is attacked by the ship Black Pearl, commanded by the former first mate Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), who leaded a mutiny against Captain Jack Sparrow years ago. Barbossa kidnaps Elizabeth, and the blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), who loves her, releases Jack Sparrow and they steal the fastest vessel of the navy to follow the Black Pearl, Will trying to save Elizabeth, and Jack trying to retrieve his ship. Along their journey, many secrets are disclosed about the course of the Black Pearl and her crew.The supernatural adventures of Captain Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann, Will Turner and Barbossa are so spectacular that really deserves to be included among the best movies (Top 250) in IMDb. This film has action, humor, romance, mystery, special effects and is so delightful that the viewer does not feel the running time of 143 minutes. I saw this movie for the first time on 24 April 2004, and I have just watched again today (10 Feb 2007) enjoying the same way as in the first time. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Piratas do Caribe – A Maldição do Pérola Negra" ("Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl")


                
I must confess, at the beginning I was not very enthusiastic about seeing this movie. I wondered "What new thing can be told about pirates?" not to mention that pirates movies were not precisely my main choice, due to terrible flicks such as "Cutthroat Island" (yuck), but then I said, if I'm going to criticize a movie I have to see it, right? OK, so I went to the movie theater with my pals, expecting to see a big waste of money, but, you know what? You can imagine, I LOVED IT! yes, I found it really amusing, but not banal, you know, everything was perfectly synchronized to work, to make laugh, even to scare. I have to say that Mr. Johnny Depp's performance is OUT OF THIS WORLD, fantastic, I'm not saying that his previous films were not superior, actually, some of them are; but I rediscovered Mr. Depp with this film, he is really a comedic actor. I can even suggest the Academy a well deserved award for him. Or for Mr. Geoffrey Rush. AMAZING! he is another great actor who doesn't take himself so seriously, giving his character a special dose of sarcasm and fun. Then, the lead couple, Orlando Bloom & Kyra Knightley (hope I wrote it right), they just do their job, I'm not saying they're bad, but their characters are not really as appealing as Depp's and Rush's roles are. But I must say She is gorgeous. Then, the delirious crew of the Black Pearl, they are simply funny! What else, oh yeah, the art direction, the costume design, the special effects, the makeup; those characteristics that can even be more important than the story of acting (Terminator 3?), but in this movie, they just combine perfectly to deliver an excellent product.


                
I saw the movie for the second time and decided to write this review. I don't think it's a good idea to write one just after you saw the movie for the first time, because you can be too impressed by the movie and therefore not thinking clearly.The movie is nice, very nice, and I'm sure I will see it multiple times more, but to say »it's the best movie ever« is as ridiculous as the fact that all three movies of the »Lord Of The Rings« trilogy are in the top ten of all times on this site. A great movie, in my opinion, is the one that raises important issues and forces you to think about them and generates strong emotions together with superb acting. So, by definition, I tend to like dramas a lot. I know I can't expect this kind of things in an adventure movie. So, I saw POTC just to have fun and I had a great time. It's a movie which was designed to make a lot of money and entertain the whole family (like Disney's parks), and it did its job perfectly. I can imagine it must be so magical for the kids. Jack Sparrow, brought brilliantly to life by Johnny Depp is so charming and witty. I bet there are children out there arguing at play because everyone wants to be the Captain. Bloom did all right but that's it. I'm kinda romantic guy, so I did like scenes between Orlando and Keira, but I can understand they were very pathetic for some people. She did much better in them, he was basically just staring at her.The story is interesting enough, it has golden treasure, curse and pretty good twists, effects are impressive, movie is also very funny. So, if you are looking for some fun, this is the right choice.


                
Absolutely entertaining. Jack Sparrow(Johnny Depp) a rogue pirate joins the efforts of a young blacksmith in saving a damsel(Keira Knightley)in distress and fighting a ghostly group of villainous pirates to recapture a ship he claims has been stolen from him. Sword clashing adventure and off beat humor coupled with some very good special effects makes for an interesting escape from the real world. Depp proves himself a master craftsman. What role can't he play? The cast also features Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, Jonathan Pryce and Damian O'Hare. NOTE: It has been said that Depp patterned his pirate character after spending some time with Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones.


                
...the thing about this movie is... if you haven't seen the ride, it's cool. But if you have seen the ride, even better.What I would like to know, however, is does this mean that there are going to be movies made from every single one of Disney's rides? And then, will rides again be spawned from the movies?So we're stuck in a never ending cycle of Disney-to ride-To Movie-back to ride.. and so on...Does anyone know of any other Disney rides being turned into movies?Does anyone know of any other themepark rides that were turned into movies?


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this very clever movie. It's a fun ride and I really did appreciate Depp's unusual character.That said, this is no masterpiece. It is, rather, a very enjoyable and expertly done piece of fluff and a rather long advert for Disneyland. It's basically a lovingly rendered rehash of all the well-known clichés of 80 years of swashbuckler films with a bit of "Sinbad the Sailor" thrown in. This is like Ray Harryhausen (all hail!) would have done had he CGI tools at his disposal.Pirates of the Caribbean is fine entertainment and it's certainly a far better movie than the recent Star Wars efforts. But it's no masterpiece. It pales in the wake of classic swashbucklers like "Captain Blood" (Errol Flynn) or "Treasure Island" (the one with Jackie Cooper and the Disney one with Robert Newton), or even the recent "Master and Commander".Let's put POTC in the "fantasy" category. Within that context I would rate it much higher than within this TOP 250 FILMS category. It is a great fantasy film.As a "spoof" it's not in the same class as "Blazing Saddles" or "Young Frankenstein" or "Love and Death", but it's very close and a job well done.Good film. Rent it.


                
And I really mean it! I have absolutely no idea how this pirate movie manages to enter the IMDb's Top 250 Movie List, but I guess most of you viewers love The Curse of the Black Pearl for some good reasons. However, I don't find it entirely revolutionizing in any sense. First of all, the plot's simply too straightforward in my taste (the script is pretty cheesy and tiring as well) and like any typical Hollywood movies, expect lots of the same old swashbuckling stuff and highlighted special effects without being mesmerized by its overall b-movie context. Aside of these criticisms, Johnny Depp is brilliant as the goofy Jack Sparrow but the rest of the cast is just plain OK. The Curse of the Black Pearl seems to be a no-brainer and doesn't hold my interest any longer now. If you want a quality pirate (or ship) movie, I highly recommend you to watch 'Master and Commander: The Far Side Of The World' instead. It's far better than this dire action movie, for my sake.


                
I love pirates but I thought this was a pretty disappointing movie.  Sure, Depp was great--he usually is.  His lines were some of the best in the film. I did enjoy the boats and sets a lot. However, I did not like Orlando Bloom and found him dull and irritating. Keira Knightley was clearly just chosen as a pretty face, since she wasn't too exciting, either.  It's a shame to see someone as talented as Depp paired up with two such inadequate actors. The film itself was long and without real substance.  I did enjoy the "cameos" from specific parts of the WDW ride, though. Oh well.  I'd watch it again, but probably with the sound off.


                
This is an excellently made movie except for the script. There is one pleasurable twist, but that is not enough to carry the already predictable plot. Also, there are many lines which detract from the adventure and make it almost as much a comedy. That's fine if done in moderation (in my opinion), but this is done to excess and makes the movie appear more as a kid's adventure flick than an attempt at making a story.This movie is only worth watching to see Depp's performance. Johnny Depp is superb as Capt. Jack Sparrow - utterly convincing. Yet the rest of the cast seems contrived and fail to carry any weight. They act as if this is a "made for TV movie." It could be the directing, but then how would one explain the same directing that Depp received?The mechanical special effects were ok (6/10), while the rest: production, lighting, photography were excellent(9/10) and the computer graphics were superb (10/10). They brought something new to computer graphics - well articulated skeletons as well as the immediate switching between body and bones in different light. Overall, in my opinion, the movie earned a 7/10.-ZafoidPS: A slight node to political correctness occurs in a few scenes thus downgrading the already flawed movie. Definitely see it for Depp.-Z


                
A movie based on a Disney ride? You gotta be kiddin' me!! But somehow, they did it...a thoroughly entertaining film with a surprisingly funny script and great over-the-top performances by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush swashin' and bucklin' their way through this send-up of the Errol Flynn genre...Maybe a little CGI-heavy, but Walt would have loved it...And as for 17-year old Keira Knightley, her pirate ship has most assuredly come in...Some fun DVD extras (short history of piracy---the original Disney ride history)...Extravagant costumes, sets and make-up but the performances don't get buried, and that's as much as you can ask for in this type of film...My only fear is that if this catches on ("Haunted Mansion", etc.), they'll be making a movie about the concession stands at the park before too long..."AAAAARGGGHHHHH MATEY!!!!", indeed!!


                
So many things could have gone wrong with this film. (And to hear tale from some of the commentary, many did). I mean c'mon...four writers create a script based upon a theme park ride? This could have all the charm of a film based on a video game like such classics as "Super Mario Brothers" and "Street Fighter."Now to be fair I haven't seen either of those nor ever will, but neither had Johnny Depp at the helm. Much has been made about his swishbuckling here, but I dare anyone to see this and not keep his/her eye on the Sparrow. In the commentary, he and director Gore Verbinski talked about some of Depp's original ideas for the character...including a prosthetic nose. Hmmm, maybe that's where the Keith Richards' idea originated? To see the best use of a faux nose so far, see Vincent D'Onofrio in the excellent "Salton Sea."But back to these high seas, high crime and high entertainment. Look the ride itself had to be made suitably accommodating to put a lot of different butts in seats, and so was this film. But think of all the other action/adventure blockbusters that simply went bust.I recently saw "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen" which despite Alan Moore's impetus wound up extremely ordinary. And we had to elect Schwarzenegger as governor just to prevent him from making any more films after "The Rise of the Machines."So for the people who complain about the plot, to make such a popcorn movie, you have to traffic in larger-than-life myths that *need* to be familiar. Lover's need to be separated, one must promise her love to another to redeem her true love. Toss in an absent father (Bootstrap is about as dead as Luke Skywalker's dad was.) Allow there to be a chase and make sure the original chase is after the wrong goal or gal or gal's blood...and your on your way.So the key here, like the ride itself is not in revolutionary twists along the way but an attention to detail as we are moved along. The pirates' code and parley, splendid spectral special effects, the tie-ins to scenes from the ride. Little bits of the dialog..."Robert's your uncle, Fanny's your aunt"..."Welcome to the Caribbean, love"..."Impersonating a cleric of the Church of England..."I want you to know that I was rooting for you mate"..."Cotton, he says you missed a spot." (As spoken by a mute man's parrot and translated by the first mate.)This film is more than clever enough, and looks gorgeous, even on the small screen...though I and you imagined reader should have seen this on the big screen. The use of CGI was less "siege" and more "see." Verbinski largely forsook his first name and avoided  egregious amounts of gore.Yes it's as inflated as a Macy's Parade balloon, but its the smaller things that keep this afloat. I'll give it one stars for each of the seas, and hope we don't get half as many sequels...7/10By the way, the DVD I got from NetFlix was only IBM PC compatible for the bonus features. Not only Captain Barbossa is a fan of Apples, raise the flag for a MacIntosh Mutiny!


                
I half expected Errol Flynn to appear at any time. Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightley head a fine cast in this rollicking adventure about a cursed pirate crew and their quest to undo the curse. I don't want to give the story away too much, but suffice it to say that Bloom figures prominently if unwillingly in that quest. Plenty of action and adventure along with excellent at-sea shots make this a well executed film. All in all, a great time!


                
I would have given this an B+ if they had cut about 30 min's from the middle of the movie. PotC has its faults, numerous ones if you care to dig deep, but it is by far one of the most entertaining movies of the summer 2003. 
Johnny Depp does a superb job as Jack Sparrow. The character showcases his versatility in one of the most refreshing characters I have seen in a long time. And newcomer Keira Knightly shines onscreen in her role as Elizabeth. It seems as if Orlando Bloom was may have been left in the dust in this film by his dashing costars. His acting was rather one dimensional, and suspiciously similar to his character of Legolas in "The Lord of the Rings". But who's paying attention to his acting, anyways?  Overall, this pirate movie is non stop laughs, action and adventure. Savvy?  Rating: B


                
When i was at the cinema waiting to see The Matrix Reloaded, a trailer appeared before me for a certain pirate movie. The first thing which went through my head was, oh God, please not another pirate movie, especially one made for the kids during the summer holidays. My fears were confirmed when the Disney logo appeared at the end of the trailer. There was no way in hell I was going to see this movie. Then, people started telling me about a certain guy called Johnny Depp. Now, I have never seen a movie with Johnny Depp in it, so I wasn`t really moved when people told me that he was the best thing in this movie. Anyway, lately a friend and I decided to rent the movie just to see what it was like. I watched it and I must say, it IS a Disney pirate movie made for the kids for summer. However, it is also a very entertaining movie, in parts. I can see why it has done very well at the box offices around the world and why people keep going back to see it. If you haven`t seen this movie, the fact that it is a Disney movie should not discourage you, and the fact that it has pirates in it, well, in all fairness it is one of the best pirate movies I have seen, well worth a try, you won`t be disappointed.


                
"Pirates" is a fun adventure film that breaks out of its "based on a Disneyland ride" chains and delivers a near-perfect summer family blockbuster.The film is aided tremendously by the casting, especially Depp and Geoffrey Rush. All of the performances are very good, and it adds immeasurably to the quality of the film. The production is also very well done, right up to the great visual effects. However, one let down was the music, which features a pounding quality heard in many Bruckheimer action films.The characters are brought to life with the skill of the "Indiana Jones" or "Harry Potter" movies, yet somehow the overall film seems to be just a few notches of "The Mummy" and "Tomb Raider" movies. Unlike the latter movies, however, it seems a sequel or two could really help lift "Pirates" out of that same category and into the heights reached by "Indiana Jones".The verdict: about as good of a summer blockbuster as could be hoped for.


                
I have just watched the dvd of this movie and unfortunately it left me feeling it was not as good as I had hoped.The film is a bit too long and for periods nothing really seems to happen. At least 30 minutes could have been trimmed to make it a tighter, more thrilling event.Depp is the star of the show, playing Captain Sparrow with aplomb, and is well supported by Bloom, Rush and Keira Knightley, looking very dishy and a future star in the making.The effects were excellent, and the fight scene at the end where the cursed pirates pass in and out of moonlight(and passing from skeleton to full person)is extremely good.It just left me feeling it could have been done a bit better, perhaps with a stronger storyline. Still, I seem to be in the minority, as the film has made a mint and a second installment is on the way next year.6.5/10


                
