Although I had expectations ( from watching the trailers ) that this might be a good movie, I was still surprised that it's as good as it is. The story is actually more complex than I had expected, involving cursed pirates and their quest to rid themselves of the curse. I won't say more than that so as not to spoil it if you haven't seen it.There aren't as many action scenes as I had thought there would be in a pirate movie, but the ones that are in the movie were very fun and enjoyable. After seeing it, I think it had the right balance of action and drama. There are also, of course, a lot of funny bits interspersed between the action and drama. Some really good special effects also add to the enjoyment of this movie.I wasn't much of a fan of Johnny Depp until I saw this movie. I think he deserved to win the Academy Award for best actor. It's largely because of his performance, IMO, that the movie was so good. Most of the supporting cast did well, mind you, just that Johnny Depp stood high above the rest. I did find Orlando Bloom's performance a bit wooden, but other than that the acting was good.Basically, it's a really fun movie and I'd give it about 8 out of 10


                
"Even I love Johnny Depp, and I'm male," a previous reviewer declares, tongue in cheek. Well, I wouldn't go quite that far, but there's no doubt whatsoever that when I lost my heart to this film, Johnny Depp's outrageous Cap'n Jack Sparrow had almost everything to do with it. I don't normally review 'current' films, so the very fact that I'm writing this highlights an almost unprecedented event - after endless failures, Hollywood has finally rediscovered the spirit of the classic swashbuckler movie.With hindsight, I think the one brilliant decision that was made at some point - given a modern production environment - was to *separate the roles* of hero and swashbuckler. You can then have your worthy Costner-type juvenile lead, as required, who has to Come To Terms with his Past (although his eventual fate is a trifle unexpected in conventional terms...) - *but* you can also have your essential and irrepressible swaggering rogue (of course, he totally steals the film from the moment he first appears, but *that's* no hardship!)The moonlight special effects were overdone, in my opinion - not that they aren't believable, but that they would have been more effective if used more sparingly, for occasional flashes of nastiness rather than solid minutes of battle. However, that's a minor niggle. The stunts are energetic, highly satisfactory, *not* computerised, and on occasion even carried out by the stars :-)The other saving grace of the production is its humour - not that there aren't a few over-arch knowing references, but on the whole it manages to send itself up without suspending disbelief in the process. Jack Sparrow's first arrival on the scene (with total aplomb aboard a steadily-sinking boat) is a prime example, as indeed are the vast majority of subsequent scenes involving this character...The basic Romance and Rescue structure is satisfactory enough, with the addition of the requisite Feisty Female for the 21st century (though I felt the character would have been a little more historically plausible if she had been a little less liberated - she clearly possesses a stronger character than her young man, she doesn't have to strive to be his physical equal as well...) However, it is the pirates themselves who really make the film, simply by being a pack of unreconstructed and uninhibited villains (from the Jeffrey Farnol School of Historical Dialect) who are far larger than life and totally unselfconscious about it. To quote the opening words of the 'Guardian' review: "we have been waiting [50 years] for a modern pirate film featuring someone who, in all seriousness, actually says the words, or perhaps the two-syllable single word: 'Ah-harrrrr!'"Jack Sparrow, as swashbuckler extraordinaire and consummate rogue (of course, totally honest in his own way... ahem) is the main attraction of the entire film. Not so much loopy as totally round the bend - outrageous and unpredictable (there is a running gag throughout the first part of the film where he is repeatedly described as "the worst pirate I've ever seen", as in "the worst at it", only for the preposterous tactics in question to prove spectacularly successful).This character saves the hero in more ways than one - without him, the film would be another "Mask of Zorro", a rather stodgy attempt to update an old favourite for modern-day sensibilities and compensate with more and flashier sword-fighting (swashbuckling is not *about* fighting! It comes into it, yes, but it's not the point.) But together, the pair work off one another beautifully - reliability and inspired lunacy, self-doubt and cocky flamboyance, dogged devotion and shameless self-interest. The only question is which, precisely, is the sidekick...There are two beginnings to this film, neither of them bearing any relation to the wooden costume-drama-by-numbers prologue that actually opens the movie. The moment when events start to move (it could scarcely be less subtle) is signalled by the swell of the theme music for the first time at Sparrow's initial appearance. But for me the moment when the film really took off was in that instant during his first escape, when he seizes the rope and swings up, up, and out, in a classic swashbuckler move from the past that brought it all flooding back... and my heart flew up after him into my throat, and remained enjoyably in that position until the end of the movie, when the audience began spontaneously to applaud.The film is far from perfect - characters like Captain Norrington (*please* - 'Commodore', like 'Prime Minister', is a job description, not a form of address!) and the Governor are little more than pantomime stereotypes, with only frustrating hints of humanity to indicate that they do after all have potential denied them by the script. Annoying anachronisms slip in - "it's okay", "I was rooting for you" - most of the nautical jargon comes out with about as much sign of comprehension as a phonetic rendition of a foreign language, and Sparrow's one precious charge of powder gets soaked through often enough in the course of the plot to be utterly useless by the end. Both hero and heroine come across as wooden and thankless roles. Orlando Bloom may be costumed to look increasingly like Errol Flynn during the course of the film (was it my imagination, or does he spend it gradually cultivating a duplicate of that famous moustache?), but, alas, any resemblance ends there.But then it doesn't really matter. It is Depp, not Bloom, who has inherited the mantle of Flynn and Fairbanks in this film. Jack Sparrow was the character who caught my imagination - and, since I'm extremely impressionable, also had a distinctly peculiar effect on the way I stood and walked for several hours later. And there's not many films can say *that*..! ÿ


                
Spoilers herein.Disney films usually have a moral. Here they stretch themselves in several ways beyond the obvious first-time PG-13 rating. The implicit moral here is that it is okay to steal so long as the establishment is unreasonable. And further that there is a higher justice.What's interesting is how the Disney machine works. They'll exploit any cinematic notion they can to give a thrill if that thrill is somehow tied to increased admissions. Disney has the industry's most advanced lab on these matters: they track artistic notions and cognitive science in quest of maturing artistic notions as fodder for their products. This is no collection of artistic types, but serious scientists, intent on engineering your response.Put those two together and here you have an interesting theft: the wholesale adoption of the architectural camera. We saw it in "Nemo" where the whole thing played with the three-dimensionality of the space. We saw it in the second Harry Potter movie, where they paid lots of attention to the placement of the situation in relationship to the actual building of the school. In Hollywood filmdom, this technique -- always locating the camera in relationship to a wall -- was developed by Terry Gilliam. That explains why Depp works so well with the effect. He knows where your eyes are supposed to come from.Rush has worked on four films that reference the placement of self in space. These two together: the good and bad pirates, are both intelligent actors that can listen to the lab. This is an engineered product, openly stolen from others (like the equally well- engineered "Charlies Angels 2").It's not as clever as "Nemo," not something you will actually remember like "12 Monkeys," not something that challenges you like "Panic Room" started out to be, not as self-aware as "Hulk"s swoops. But it uses the same notions, and uses them well enough to give a good ride. Now that this has entered the mainstream, what's next for real creative types?Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
Johnny Depp is superb.  He makes the movie, hands down, and I couldn't imagine it being anywhere near as good without his magnetic, amusing performance.The film/locations look stunning, and the story is good.  In fact, there's very little wrong with this fun adventure - the effects are superb (especially fighting in & out of the moonlight) - but I don't think it quite lives up to the hype (everyone I know said it was fantastic, but I see a lot more films than they do).First off, the pacing drags here and there (not really during scenes, but between the set-pieces).  The swordfights (and other fighting bits) are inventive, but let down by lacklustre angles and editing.And in the script, they've tried (a bit too hard) to make comedy duos out of two of the royal officers, and two of the pirates, with scenes that would fit right into a Disney cartoon but only serve to hold up the story in this live action film.  And while Geoffrey Rush is always great to watch, he just isn't evil enough.In fact, I think that's the real fault of the film - it's written as if it were a cartoon.  For a comparison, it's not as good as The Goonies.But go see it.  Johnny Depp = most entertaining performance so far this year.


                
I didn't see this movie till it came out on DVD back 2 years ago.I regretted not seeing it in theaters, because I kept thinking it'll suck, because it didn't look like it be anything similar to the ride at Disneyland.But I was surprised to see that it's a very well done action movie. And surprised that it's even done by Disney. Cause it's not the common Family Friendly movie you'd find from Disney.The movie of course takes place in the Caribbean and during the 16th or 17th Century era. Which is when pirates ruled the 7 seas. A ship was sailing across the Atlantic which came across a wreckage of another ship. With only one passenger who is a young boy named Will Turner. Who had a gold medallion in his position. A girl named Elizabeth noticed the medallion to be pirate related so she took it and hid it from the ship's crew so that way they wouldn't think that Will is a pirate.8 years later Elizabeth is more grown up and Will is a blacksmith who makes and repairs swords for the army of the seaport town of Cape Royal. Life was very calm and peaceful till Jack Sparrow came ashore of Cape Royal. He is not your average pirate and he's very well known throughout the Caribbean. And there's a lot more to his back story than there seem to be.The medallion that Elizabeth holds is the key to breaking the curse of the pirates of the black pearl.I gotta admit i did like it quite a bit. I just wish I knew it was going to be a must see movie. It had action, great special effects, plenty of humor in some parts, and great characters to know while watching the movie.It's also unlike the common pirate movies you'd see anywhere else. Which is because it's a modern day made pirate movie. Those who are obsess with the ride might enjoy this movie a lot.


                
I've always liked this movie. It's lighthearted and grand all at once, with an iconic character and performance at its center that still feels wholly fresh and original despite the overbearing nature of the character in subsequent films. And his introduction is so good; iconic even.Despite the presence of Jack Sparrow, it's Elizabeth Swann that's the true protagonist here (and the first 3 films). She's solid, and so is Keira's performance, and it allows the strangeness of the story to creep in from the margins without overwhelming the main narrative. The romance with Will Turner is definitely the weakest aspect of the movie, but it doesn't detract from the fun of the story and it's certainly necessary for the film to work as a whole.I love the throwback to the era of sword fights and battles with cannons on pirate ships. When I think of adventure, I always look to this movie. The rousing score definitely helps, but also the open ocean and the tropical locations. They really make the best use of the blue waters and palm trees. Romance, daring escapes, backstabbing, ancient curses, comedic bumbling; it's all here, with great production values and a sharp eye for the visual witticism.


                
I never believed I was going to enjoy CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL as I stuck it in the DVD player . After all it was produced by Jerry Brukheimer who's only real critically acclaimed film BLACK HAWK DOWN is down more to director Ridley Scott rather than producer Bruckheimer and let's not forget he also produced Armageddon and PEARL HARBOR two of the most obscene wastes of money Hollywood has come up with in recent years . In fact I would have paid good money NOT to have seen either of these films The production team seem to have taken a leaf out of the Peter Jackson book of film making by casting hunks as heroes with Shakespearian trained actors in the supporting roles . The cast are very good . Johhny Depp was atrocious as an English police inspector in FROM HELL but here as Jack Sparrow his camp English accent is entirely in keeping with the tone of the film . It also makes good business sense too , just think of the amount of 20 something woman who'll go to watch Depp play a swashbuckling rogue . Same with Orlando Bloom who's incredibly popular with a teenage girl audience . Keira Knightley ? Yeah she's really fit but like these other much hyped English Roses such as Julia Ormand in LEGENDS OF THE FALL and Kate Winslett in TITANIC I doubt if she'll be a household name many years from now , she is good as the ballsy heroine in this though . The always under rated Jonathon Pryce is slightly disappointing probably because like so many great stage actors he's not very good with camp humour . By an ironic contrast Geoffry Rush gives the best performance as the villain , a performance that may see him get an Oscar nod as best supporting actor There does seem to be a lot of debate as to how well this film will do at the Oscars . I very much doubt if it'll be up for best picture or director ( It is a fantasy film and this genre is always over looked by the academy ) but it does deserve a handful of technical award nominations in the fields of cinematography , editing , sound , costume design and special effects . Unfortunately it's going to be up against RETURN OF THE KING and MASTER AND COMMANDER which means a probable empty treasure chest for these pirates which is a pity ***** SPOILERS *****No review of mine is complete without a few grumpy complaints so here they are : Once again the Brits are shown to be stupid and incompetent but that's Hollywood for you , while there's a serious plot hole at the end where it's revealed that Jack Sparrow has been suffering from the curse all along so how did he manage to stay out of the moonlight without anyone noticing his skeletal state ? And how did he manage to get drunk on rum ?But no matter I liked this movie and I thought I'd I never say this but I hope to see the words " Produced by Jerry Brukheimer " a lot more in the futureUpdate - Sorrymy mistake . Jack wasn't suffering from the curse all along . Thanks to the forty or so people who wrote to me pointing this out


                
SPOILERS THROUGH:Well believe it or not I just saw this movie! Up till now I had no desire to see it. I'm not a particular fan of pirate movies and not a big fan of action/adventure type flicks(though that's been changing a bit in the last few years.) But I have to admit I have been curious. So many people I know have seen it and told me I am really missing out on something special. So I did indeed see it this week. And the movie got me! I thought it was excellent.As has been mentioned, the best part of the movie is Johnny Depp. Now I'm not exactly a huge Depp fan. I appreciate him and do think he's an amazing actor but have never taken to him as strongly as some other actors. But I have to say, his portrayal of Jack Sparrow was brilliant and easily the best role I've ever seen him in. Depp takes this role and Creates an unforgettable history making movie character. His Sparow is fun, funny, mischievous, lovable and quirky. He definitely made The movie for me.And the cinematography is fantastic. The movie rippled with adventure and drew the viewer in immediately. The campy fun atmosphere was perfect as was the larger then life quality. If one's ever been on the famous pirate ride, they will find things they recognize about it too. And Bloom was very good as was Kneightly as the fiery pirate loving Elizabeth. Perfect casting.The movie may have been a little long for me and I won't say there weren't a few draggy moments but by and large this was a wonderful adventurous ride and I really felt bad I didn't see it when I originally came out though I'm not sure I'd have appreciated it as much then, if I had. As mentioned, I had been gradually getting more into these type of flicks and I think the more appreciation one has for the action/Adventure film the more they will appreciate this though it is the type of film one can enjoy without necessarily being a major fan of pirates and sword fighting. The reason that is so, is because, simply put, these characters are fun and different as is the movie and there are moments of pure exhilaration. That's something that a good adventure movie needs(actually almost any type of movie) and Pirates has it. It is so utterly unique it isn't surprising to me now that it has received so much recognition though I admit I didn't get it before I saw it.Not that there were not some negatives. The biggest one is the length of some of the sword fighting scenes. Some of them I thought, just went on an unbearably long time, particularly the one toward the end. It did get to the point where it really became a little numbing and unless one is terribly into the sword fighting element I think a lot of people might feel that way. I'm not sure how long the last sequence was but it seemed like hours. I wish that had been a bit shorter. One scene I loved though, was the fight between Depp and Bloom in the beginning. That was excellent and one of my favorite scenes.So....I would give this an 8.5 out of 10 and can't wait to see Pirates two which I will be doing very soon. I'd recommend this to anyone who hasn't seen it and maybe Skeptical. It's a mighty fine time!!!!
This film has several good reasons to go and see it:1) It's funny, exciting well worth seeing.2) Its got Johnny Depp. Reason enough. You'll like Jack Sparrow far more than Will Turner, I can guarantee that.3) Geoffrey Rush. Again, enough reason to see it. I wouldn't call him frightening, just scarily cool, dark and ugly. Very different role to the voice over of Nigel the Pelican.If you like him 4) Orlando Bloom... not good reason. He's pretty. Can't say much else about him though. He was better in Lord of the Rings. He's better being silent, elf-like and graceful. 5) Keira Knightley... *shudders*... is better off playing people like Jules in Bend It Like Beckham: half friendly and half bitchy. Bizarre face: she's got a dazzling smile but a really pinched disgusted look the rest of the time. Not the best choice foe Elizabeth Swann.6) Johnny Depp again.7) It's fun. Really. And its got really impressive effects. It might not be the best pirate film to come out for a while, but it enjoyable all the same.


                
Just kidding. "Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl" is an extravagant and sumptuous feast albeit an awful lot of talking...and we all know pirates were long on plunder and short on words. It's politically correct Disney all the way with this watered down and convoluted family fun fare which has delighted the critics and public alike. However, there was no black eye patch, no peg leg, no hanging from a yard arm, no pieces of eight or dubloons, and its common knowledge that planks were always walked blindfolded which was a big part of pirate fun. Also, what's up with sword fighting someone you can't kill? Good stuff even if it was an encyclopedia version pirating as opposed to the more real good ol' Hollywood version of the buccaneer. (B+)


                
For some time now I have been putting this movie down because it didn't seem to appealing to me when I first heard about it. Now, I know, I was so wrong to say I didn't want to see it. One reason was because I knew the sequel was on the horizon and that I felt I should see the first in order to get a sense of what Pirates was all about. I loved just about every aspect of this film. The acting was great and the story had so much to tell that I never felt like the film was long just for the sake of being long. Johnny Depp played a great pirate and so did Orlando Bloom, only in the latter part did he really shine though. The story is pretty simple but is an old tale that people of all ages will react to, for some time, as they always have. The effects were not over the top and they were done to a point where I thought I wouldn't care if I could tell the difference between live action and CG. The only thing I felt to be off balance was some of the Disney dumbness, that plagues most Disney movies and was probably put in at the request of Disney to make it more audience friendly. Overall I felt that I saw a movie and not some action flick with no backbone....ie(STORY). When I was finished, the movie gave me a sense of pride I have not had in a long time when I watch film. I have seen something I will never forget.


                
Johnny Depp is a fine actor. I enjoy him in all his roles, and in fact just finished seeing him (again!) as Don Juan Demarco, an underrated movie where he and Brando interact so well. He also did a fine job here as Captain Jack Sparrow, the pirate without a ship. Keira Knightly is fine as the beautiful maiden in distress. Geoffrey Rush, one of the great and versatile actors of our time, is superb as the evil and wiley nemesis Captain Barbossa. The special effects are very well done, and the cinematography is beautiful. However, both times I have seen it, I was never able to get into the story, the curse, and the pirates who appeared as skeletons under moonlight. It is a good and fun movie, but maybe more for the younger crowd, as my 15-year-old neighbors and my two young grandchildren enjoyed it very much. I don't believe it belongs in the top 250, nor does it warrant the (so far) 34% of '10' votes on the IMDb.


                
*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I had low expectations for this one. A movie based on a Disney theme park ride reeked of desperation. The trailer didn't help me either. "You want pain? Try wearing a corset!" Ah ha ha ehhh. My brother saw it and said it was fantastic. He wanted to see it again. This is a guy who only goes to the movie theater if the movie really excites him. The last flick he saw in the theater was "The Two Towers". So I went with his advice and saw it with him.Upon arriving in the theater, I noticed the crowd was made up of mostly little kids. This was the first warning sign that I was at the wrong movie. Then came the coming attractions.  After seeing trailers for "Brother Bear" and "Freaky Friday", I was sweating bullets. I started envisioning a movie in which pirates were singing and dancing to "Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum" while families floated by on rides taking pictures. Happily, the movie surprised me."Pirates of the Caribbean" is a ton of fun. There are three reasons. One, the immense amount of sword fighting action. The movie's motto: When in doubt, add a sword fight. Two, Johnny Depp. He is hilarious as Capt. Sparrow. He was born to play a pirate. I could go for the continued adventures of Capt. Sparrow. Three, the ghoul/zombie angle for the pirates. If they were just normal pirates kidnapping a pretty girl, the movie would not have been half as cool as it was. The special effects were outstanding. Geoffrey Rush was also very good."Pirates of the Caribbean" is one of the best movies of the summer. Well worth seeing. I had a lot of little kids babbling and having to go to the bathroom at my theater. Maybe I need to see it again too.
I've heard tons of people talk about this movie but I've never actually seen it. I thought it looked like a goofy movie not very serious. But I decided to watch it and I actually really enjoyed. There were a few jokes that I found pretty funny but not too many to make the movie cheesy. Storyline was amazing as well.


                
This movie is entertaining with great cinematography and performances. This movie is both funny and dramatic. I'd highly recommend watching this movie. The action and comedy is perfectly balanced to create the most enjoyable and least stupid movie of this series.


                
This swashbuckling adventure movie, simply put, blew me away. I had seen it multiple times as a child and I liked it then. But now that I'm an adult, I love it. When I watched it when I was younger, I mainly just viewed it as a mindless action movie with pirates in it. Now I understand it a lot better, with the treasure /curse being the focal point of the movie.This aspect of it drives the movie forward, while also having some fantastic action sequences inter-spliced throughout. The pacing of it was great, in a similar regard.Also let's not dismiss the acting here. They brought in some heavy hitters...Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush,...and they ALL hit it out of the park. The crew of this film also did an amazing job, having good time-appropriate costumes and the effects were decent, given when it was made.Overall, the first Pirates is a great way to spend two and a half hours. It might seem like a long running time, but it does not drag at all, as each minute is filled with cinematic bliss.


                
While I have seen this movie three or four times, I re-watched it this past summer in order to prepare for the 5th insert. I am 20 years old and enjoy adventure/action movies. However, I am cautious when I see "Disney" on a movie. This movie begins with well created context and helpful details to set the plot of the movie. The witty comments and actions of Jack Sparrow challenge the logical sensible actions of William. As the movie plays out, the plot does a good job of staying on track.With that being said, the 2 stars I did not give to this movie would be for the beginning of the movie being action filled and witty and while Depp keeps the witty ideas present, in my opinion, the high point/climax of the movie felt like the slowest part. All in all, re-watchable, fitting for most above 12 years old


                
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) is the first film in the Disney Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. This franchise has been a humongous money maker for Disney. This first movie introduces us to what is probably one of the most widely known characters ever know, Captain Jack Sparrow, played by Johnny Depp. This really is an interesting character. I'm not a big fan of Johnny Depp, but I will say that he was the correct pick for this character, I've really taken issue with how he represents characters before (Charlie and the chocolate factory), but this time I think he did a good job. His character is complicated because on one hand, he is someone we root for and someone we're amused by because of his humorous nature and personality, and then on the other hand, he's a flawed character that steals and cheats others. But it's a whole lot of fun to watch Johnny Depp plays this humorous captivating character, hence his academy award nomination. We are also introduced to Will, played by the ever handsome Orlando Bloom. Will is one of the most commendable characters you'll ever see, he's a noble charming character who everyone has no choice but to root for. And then we have Keira Knightly playing Elizabeth. She plays Blooms love interest. But what I loved about her role is that she's isn't just some female for Bloom, she is not a damsel in distress. Yes, it's great to see her and Will fall in love and to see their great romantic chemistry, but it's also awesome to see Elizabeth stand up for herself and take charge in different scenes. She played her in a very bad ass way, which makes it so much fun to watch. The plot of course revolves around pirates invading and these characters I've told you about going up against them. There's more to it than that of course but that's the basic overall plot. I really enjoy watching this now ever famous film. It deserves the positive reception it received when it came out. 8/10 for Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.


                
PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL - 2003Directed by Gore VerbinskiStarring Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and Keira KnightleyPlot Overview: <U+200B>Capt. Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) arrives at Port Royal in the Caribbean without a ship or crew. His timing is inopportune, however, because later that evening the town is besieged by a pirate ship. The pirates kidnap the governor's daughter, Elizabeth (Keira Knightley), who's in possession of a valuable coin that is linked to a curse that has transformed the pirates into the undead. A gallant blacksmith (Orlando Bloom) in love with Elizabeth allies with Sparrow in pursuit of the pirates.The movie equivalent of the phrase 'Lightning in a Bottle'. Such a fun, inventive, creative and enjoyable movie that was seriously sensational considering it was based on a ride. It is a swashbuckling adventure and a heck of a ride from beginning to end. It is just so much fun.The plot for the movie is overly complicated for a movie of this calibre. But if you peel back the overly complicated layers, it is a very fun and entertaining adventure at heart. I also really like the ending. It is such a perfect way to end the movie. Inventive, entertaining and fun. That is the heart and soul of the film translated into 5 minutes.<U+200B> Johnny Depp was great in this film, back when he acted not 'stumbled onto set for all that $$$'. <U+200B>CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow is a great, fun, likable character. Again, back in the golden age of 'effort'. I am really not a fan of Orlando Bloom and I do not see the appeal of him as an actor. He wasn't that great in this movie and neither was the character. Turner wasn't likable, funny or entertaining. He didn't fit with the movie tonally and was just a bore to watch. Keira Knightley was good as Elizabeth Swan. I bought her performance for the most part. As far as her character goes, Swan was just a generic love interest for the first half but as she slowly becomes an empowered and strong female character, I really liked her. One thing I could really have done without was the love story between Bloom and Knightley. It wasn't even that well done and love is the LAST thing on my mind when I think about Pirates. <U+200B> Geoffrey Rush is incredible as Captain Hector Barbossa. You can tell he was having so much fun and relished every moment in the film.<U+200B> As an antagonist, Barbossa was both threatening and funny, which blends the world of pirating and this film's tone perfectly.<U+200B> Other supporting roles, such as Mr Gibbs(Kevin McNally) and James Norrington(Jack Davenport) were all pretty good and they were at least interesting.<U+200B> The effects are pretty impressive and look decent. Not realistic but they have a fun, goofy nature to them which I think fits in tone with the overall film. The cinematography in the movie was very good and it looks very nice. The editing can sometimes get a little dodgy, especially during some fight scenes. Thankfully, it isn't that frequent and the action was still thoroughly enjoyable. Both the costume and set design were excellent. And the score for this movie is one of the most memorable scores since the year 2000.The humour for this movie works very well for the most part, with Depp and Rush being clear standouts for it. <U+200B>The action is, when you can see it, very fun and inventive and enjoyable to watch. Clearly a lot of effort was put into it and I applaud the actors because I think they did their own sword fighting and whatnot.<U+200B> The Curse of the Black Pearl is a very fun ride from beginning to end and I can highly recommend it. It is definitely worth a watch. I'll rate this film 8 'Savvys' out of 10.


                
If this isn't the best movie of the summer then I don't know what is. Johnny Depp gives one of his best preformences as Cpt. Jack Sparrow. 
The movie had a fine mix of humor and serious.  The special effects(primerily visual) were excelent.  The film makers even stuck in some well liked and known scenes from the ride.I will be suggesting this to all of my friends, family, co-workers, etc.


                
I wasn't expecting much from this movie but walked out of the theater commenting that this was probably the best movie I've seen yet this year and now that I've thought more about it, it is.  I will even go as far as to rank it up there with the LOTR movies, which is saying a lot.  I still think the LOTR movies are at the top but Pirates was at least in the same league.Jack Sparrow couldn't have been casted any better, Orlando Bloom continues to prove himself, Geoffrey Rush was excellent as always and the newcomer, Keira Knightley (who is a dead ringer for but acts a lot better than Natalie Portman), was refreshing.The writing was superb, the effects were top notch and I gave it a 9/10. Excellent!


                
'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl' is one of the most entertaining films I have seen in years. It is not really great, but every single aspect is terrific and that makes sure you don't see its flaws very easily. One of the flaws is the logic, but in a film like this things are not supposed to be logical, so why bother asking that kind of questions.The story, pretty standard with the usual twists, is actually quite good, or at least good enough to keep our attention. I could tell you about it but I think it would sound too silly; it kind of is. We have stories about a curse and a pirate ship called the Black Pearl with its Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), we have a pirate named Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), we have a young man named Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) who loves Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley). She loves him too but she is about to marry Norrington (Jack Davenport). Her father is Governor Swann (Jonathan Pryce), not the most unimportant person.What curse there is on the Black Pearl you have to see for yourself. Neither am I going to say why the curse is there. Let me just talk about the good stuff. The visual effects are marvelous. Everything looks (and sounds) great. Locations, costumes, makeup. The sword fights and the battles between the English and the pirates are exciting, there is never a moment you are bored.It is not all fighting and visual effects. In the quiet moments we have the most wonderful performance from Johnny Depp. His Jack Sparrow is one of the characters from the movies you are going to remember and the fact that he earned an Oscar nomination for this part says enough. He is so good you almost forget the other actors. Geoffrey Rush comes close to Deppp as the villain Barbossa and actors like Bloom and Knightley play their parts quite well. Unfortunately for them they are always in the shadow of the perfect Depp.There are more good things that make this film entertaining, but I would have to go in detail. I think I have given you enough reasons to see this film (and believe me, Depp alone is reason enough). For a very good time 'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black pearl' is as good as it gets.


                
In the eighteen century, in the West Indies of the Caribbean Sea, there roamed a magnificent seafaring group of individuals who prided themselves in not only creating an adventurous and certainly idealistic way of life, but enamored a secondary generation to emulate their deeds centuries after their demise. They became known as The Pirates of the Caribbean. Today, the Disney group is satisfying the demand of the visual interpretation of said pirates. Reflecting and certainly echoing their traditional exploits is Disney's film version of the same name. In this film, Johnny Depp, is fabulous as Captain Jack Sparrow. This individual is a small package filled with more excitement than a barrel of gunpowder. Throughout this film he consistently invites the viewer to follow him from multiple escapes, duels with sword makers, damsels in distress and British Soldiers from the port-cities and market towns, in search of a cursed ship called The Black Pearl. Strewn throughout this adventure are Depps' fellow actors which include, Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, Orlando Bloom who is superb as Will Turner, Jack Davenport as Norrington and Keira Knightley, as Elizabeth Swann whom seems at times incongruous and out of place as the precursor of a modern feminist. Despite the awesome, incredible, often ideal locations and speculator scenery, studded with everything, but the essentials allowing the film lack to resolution for Sparrow or the viewer. Often we anticipate either, to be thrust into yet another hair-raising adventure or a ghost chasing episode which is setting itself up for a further sequel. Thus despite it's wondrous appeal, and Sparrow's ever changing destiny and demeanor, ( which by the way is a bit, effeminate, the film lacks adhesion to either traditional pirates or to their eventuality. In the end, it's a good film, which insists on re-creating itself again and again. ****


                
I have just watched the original Pirates of the Caribbean for the third time. The first time was in the theater in '03, and the second time was when my brother bought the DVD in '04. While the first viewing was fun, I remember the second viewing as rather pedestrian. But I'm glad I watched it again now (after having seen and enjoyed the sequel), because I wasn't bored for a second of it. The dialog is sharp and funny (at times even intelligent), the story progresses very well, and the production values are top of the line (even if '03 CGI looks dated now - but by "production values" I mostly mean the beautiful sets and environments).I was struck by how much of the action of the sequel is prefigured in the original movie, and how some puzzling details that are explained in the sequel were never revealed in the first movie (such as the "compass that doesn't point north", which only in the sequel is revealed to be pointing at what the holder most desires).So while I originally rated the first (and the second) movie a 7 out of 10, I will now emend that to an 8, for both movies. They're a couple of great romps, packed with action, ideas, characterization and eye candy.The third movie, unfortunately, was a huge disappointment for me... :-(
When I saw this movie, I was surprised ---no--- out right stunned as to the kind of movie that could be made based off of a Disney ride. This isn't some simple point "A" to point "B" plot, these characters aren't mechanical merry-men and the score isn't the work of some back-stage maestro on a keyboard. Everything about this movie was incredible and surprising, and the more I watched it the greater it seemed to become.The acting of this film was outstanding, with a full and able a cast as could be wanted. The greatest was, of course, Johnny Depp's performance. He always chooses very quirky, very unique and singular, characters to play, and Captain Jack Sparrow fits Depp's natural tendencies. He's a quirky and awkward character who acts as if in a perpetual drunken and ataxic stagger. Accompanied with typically slurred words and uncomfortable body language, this would, in the hands of most other actors, be an awkward and uneven performance. But Depp pulls it off flawlessly in this striking and memorable addition to his acting repertoire.Orlando Bloom, fresh off of his work as The Lord of the Ring's Legolas Greenleaf, plays the blacksmith William Turner, and easily holds his own next to Depp. While his part is not nearly so... colorful... it is, nonetheless, equally memorable. He is a believable performer who has noticeably grown from his Lord of the Rings performance. He acts as the antithesis of Depp's character; a serious and emotional individual to contrast with Depp's quirky and aloof character.This, personally, is my favorite performance of Kiera Knightley's, even overshadowing her Oscar-nominated performance in 2005's Pride & Prejudice. While this role is clearly not meant to showcase her talents, nor is it as necessarily deep or spotlighted as Elizabeth Bennet's, it is a clear and charming performance. She takes on a somewhat comedic supporting role and really shine in it. Her timing matches up well with her costars'; her comedic delivery leaves nothing to be desired. She's rather impressive in a role that could have become another "damsel in distress" awaiting rescuing in the hands of a lesser actress.The remainder supporting cast all deserve mention for their talents. Geoffrey Rush shines marvelously as the villainous Captain Barbossa, Jack Davenport gives a stiff yet convincing performance as Commodore Norington and Jonathon Pryce give a light comedic performance as Governor Swan. Even David Bailie and Lee Arenberg played pleasant comedic performances as Cotten and Pintel, despite also playing the parts of decent villains.The score was absolutely outstanding, a singular masterpiece all its own. Every song, every line, every measure, every note, is so striking that by simply listening to the score on its own you can tell exactly what part of the movie would be playing alongside it. It stands as one of my favorite movie scores, and Klaus Badelt has nestled himself along such greats as John Williams, Howard Shore, Danny Elfman and Elmer Bernstein. I personally preferred it to Return of the King's score (Which is really, really saying something, as that was a masterful composition), and the fact that this wasn't even NOMINATED for best score is a travesty to the history of the Academy Awards.Visually, it was outstanding. The special effects for the undead pirate crew were pretty impressive. But they weren't overly obtrusive; for how obvious they were, the effects were actually rather subtle still. The only part where they become a little hokey is when Kiera Knightley's launched into the air on a sort of trampoline. Other than that, the effect were flawless.Overall, this is an excellent movie; perfect for families, action fans, comedy fans and fans of any of the main actors/actresses. It is certainly deserving of all the praise it's received as well as it's position on the IMDb top 250 (currently 237). This is a surprising gem of a movie, and one that it's quite difficult to find a person who absolutely dislikes it. It's a very safe movie to recommend to everybody.


                
