You will always remember this as the movie that made Johnny Depp a superstar and almost got him an Oscar.The fact that he didn't win isn't a problem,since thanks to him this is the best pirate film ever made.The opening concept is a clichè:a beautiful woman(Keira Knightley)is kidnapped by a bunch of filthy pirates(led by Geoffrey Rush's Barbossa)and the man(Orlando Bloom)who's desperately in love with her decides to track them down.From now on,things get unexpected,as he asks another pirate for help.And it's no ordinary pirate:it's Captain Jack Sparrow(Johnny Depp),a lying,cheating,but charismatic scumbag,the hardest man on Earth to predict,not to mention quite unlucky and clumsy("You are,with no doubt,the worst pirate I've ever heard of" "But you HAVE heard of me!").It's got all the elements of a classic pirate movie,elements that would give this flick a 9/10.So,why am I giving it a 10/10? The answer is simple:Captain Jack.From the moment he makes his entrance,justly included in the Empire Top 10 Entrances of all time,we know he's the reason people will keep watching the movie.He 's Depp's best non-Tim Burton-character ever,and I can't wait 'til he returns.See you next summer,Captain!


                
This film impressed me right after the first viewing, in August 2003, after which the following followed and so quietly peacefully, imperceptibly, I probably approached the mark of ten views. In principle, it's worth it, this film can already be called a legend, and it's a pleasure to watch such films.And now also compare with the sequel, but in fact someone seriously believes that the sequel came out better than the first episode. I, of course, do not agree with this, but I will not argue, everyone has an opinion, and there will be euphoria from viewing (views) of the "Deadlock Chest" and people will soberly look at the "Curse of the Black Pearl" and realize that the second part is not even nearby worth, but it is also a product of the highest class.The first film is better, maybe not all, but in humor and the plot exactly, and even such a banal sign as novelty, in the second part we saw only a sequel, a slightly different story with the same characters, and in the first film, it was all new , and moments are brilliant. When I speak genius with regard to this film, then, of course, I have the look of Jack Sparrow in the incredible performance of Johnny Depp.
This is one of his best roles, from the very beginning he was performed in a genuinely brilliant way, from the first appearance on the screen to the eighth when he sailed on a small boat, flowing through all the cracks, to excellent music - completely capturing the episode, one of the best in all movie. And his first step to Port Royal, an English colony in the Caribbean. And after it began ...The whole genius of Jack Sparrow's image can not be conveyed in words, that's why we watch this film and review it time after time, and expect the continuation. Especially the second part is the benefit of Jack, and in the first and except for Jack there was a lot of interesting things.About humor, plot, music, I already said. And also this is the Captain of the "Black Pearl" Barbossa, some minor characters among the Barbosa pirates and among Jack's team. In addition, you can add to the appearance of Jack in the city of Torturra, a meeting with old friends and friends. Or repeated scenes, when Barbossa and Sparrow are in one frame. All these and other episodes can only be admired, for, they do not bother and remain in the memory.
The plot of the first part is much more interesting than the plot of continuation, besides the ship full of skeletons under the moonlight, where it surpasses the ship from the team in the form of sea monsters-yudisch. Special effects are here and there at a level, at a high level.Pirate films now go to the screens of the world a little, and no one can surpass the Pirates of the Caribbean Sea, here in fact there is even a romantic story between Elizabeth and William, the only problem for them is that it moves back to the second or third plan , thanks to the excellent performance of pirates of their roles.Young Bloom and Knightley could not support the level of their older colleagues, I would say that it's forgivable for them, if they were not so important to the director and producers, and in the eyes of ordinary fans of this film, they are not visible, they swam far beyond the horizon, only, unfortunately, sometimes appear on the screen saying important phrases, for me these characters are superfluous.
About Bloom, you can talk separately, his goal is to play a simpleton, spinning around the main character, sometimes trying to throw out an incredible and very daring trick, in the first part he still copes with the role of a simpleton, but when he tries to play the guy, everything fails, he does not go, and should run all career in a skirt of Paris. And in the second part of it they are already trying to make a serious man, give a chance to steer at the head of the film, but time to think, because Jack can not block him, and he does not want to be funny, but could try, maybe an idiot with the protagonist - his role ?The screen time for the Knightley-Bloom duo is very little allocated, I mean when they are together, and for this it is necessary to say a special thanks to the creators of the film, this does not allow to turn the film into a love story of two childhood friends, but, damn it, from time to time they turn out to be in one frame, and these frames can easily be called not the most interesting for the whole film, in the sense of an acting game, because these young actors do not show anything super-ordinary.
Ditch the ocean, shoot cannons (even with forks), rob ships and ports here is the destiny of pirates, and after they also appear on the screen under the magnificent setting of Verbinsky - that's the real movie. The spark from the sensations is getting stronger, the film practically does not allow him to tear himself away for two and a half hours of viewing, except for the episodes of Knightley-Bloom, but this does not prevent the movie from watching when Jack Sparrow appears from the second to the second.The film really deserves only flattering reviews. The ending of the film, although romantic, but much better than in the second part, when I did not see the ending, it was simply not invented - it's the main and very big minus of the second part, but now the conversation is not about it, because the first part ended very much in rating , I do not mean the MPAA rating, but the main thing is that it's a cobblestone in the sequel garden.This movie you will remember as the best one in which Captain Jack Sparrow was almost hanged.


                
Oh and what a movie this is. There is something for everyone in the family with this movie, romance, action, drama, horror, adventure and fantasy. A quality of acting rivaling no other movie in recent times, except for the Rings trilogy, but that's another thing altogether. I have watched this movies so many times that I can't even keep track. This movie never gets boring. Johnny Depp is at the top of this career with this film!! A must see, many times over. A true classic! The cursed tale of a pirate ship's captain, marooned by his mutineering mates and left for dead on a desert isle. He returns with another ship, this time stolen from the Royal Navy, in order to reclaim his rightful command of the infamous Black Pearl, a ship so evil that hell itself spat back her dead. He is joined by the son of a murdered pirate ship's mate, a swordsman who's skill and craft are equal to that of Robin Hood himself. The boy is motivated by love for a woman, herself of royal blood and captured by those mutineering pirates of ill repute in order to release a curse cast upon them from the captured gold of the famous Spanish explorer and conquistador, Hernando Cortez. With the Royal Navy in hot pursuit of their stolen ship, the captain and the boy, along with another crew of pirates, make haste for the Black Pearl, execute a cunning plan, and live happily ever after. Well, not exactly like that but almost. This film is destined a classic because of the dry, witty comments, superb acting of the entire cast, outstanding writing and special effects, and it's about time someone put this swashbuckling story to film. Rated PG-13, which is the number of times you should see this movie.


                
This was one of the best movie that I have ever seen! I didn't see this film at the cinema, but I really wish I had because it has instantly become one of my favorite movies of all time. I bought the DVD because I'd heard good things about the movie, and I've been to both Disneyland Paris, and Disneyland Florida and loved the Pirates ride at both of them. Having been on the ride, it's quite easy to spot many things in the movie that pay tribute to the ride, especially in the town scenes. I wasn't sure what to expect when I bought the movie, but I definitely didn't expect to laugh so much! This movie has such a wonderful combination of excellent acting, astounding special effects, and dry humor. Johnny Depp steals practically every scene he occupies, and Geoffrey Rush is excellent and sinister in his villainous turn. It's about as high-quality fun as one might demand in a summer blockbuster, and will have you singing "Yo ho, ho ho" for days and days to come. A "pirate's life" is plenty the life in "Pirates of the Caribbean", an worthy, intelligent sea-faring adventure guaranteed to leave you, at the very least, plenty satisfied.


                
The poster doesn't do justice to this movie. It has single-handedly brought the genre back from the dead. Yes, the plot requires actual concentration on the details, but that's part of the fun. The pacing is fast when it needs to be; the camera can linger, too. Depp is a wonderful pirate: cocky, self-assured, disarming, dangerous, single-minded. He flouts the rules and rulers with the aplomb one expects of an outlaw. He brings a particular zest to the role that he skews in interesting directions. Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann (see Maureen O'Hara in The Black Swan) is one of the few fully-realized female characters in a genre film. Her bravery and longing for adventure are clearly shown as traits held even as a child. So it's no surprise to see her reject the proper suitor and insist on meeting the pirates personally. Orlando Bloom is pretty, but pale except in one smashing fight scene. Fun, fun movie with great outtakes on the DVD. Go see it; then rent Captain Blood, Against All Flags and the Black Swan.


                
This one of those movies which you want a GOOD second part of the history, buy you find that the money destroys the movie, this part of the movie shows a great pirate Jak Sparrow, the way that Deep acts in this movie is very natural and makes a great acting, everyone fits on its character and the plot of Barbosa seeking for that Cortez's gold is very original.I haven't seen the third part because ¡the second one was so awful!, in my opinion the acting gets loosed (just look the difference between Jack Sparrow on the 1st movie and the 2nd one) and its one of the most boring movies i've ever seen.Remember, thats the second part, but i totally recommend this movie, its very fun and it got too much nominations, but finally it deserves them


                
There are two few action-adventure movies now a days that delivers such original characters, played by a truly incredible cast. When I first saw The Curse of the Black Pearl as a boy I was fascinated. There where Pirates, cannons, sword fights, treasures funny monkey's and a beautiful girl, What more could you possibly ask for. I can still remember when I saw Jack Sparrow for the first time. He may not of had the typical "hero" qualities that would see in somebody like say William Turner, but that is what made jack so undeniably brilliant, he wasn't somebody we have experienced before. He was a witty, drunk, Sword fighting Pirate, with a flare for the dramatic. Seen for the first time in possibly the greatest hero entranced ever made. I glanced my stunned eye's at the screen to behold the one they called Jack Sparrow, or should I say "Captain" Jack Sparrow. There he stood in all his glory, the anthem soundtrack blared as he stood on top of his wooden sinking ship, or boat... As he floats by the pirate outlaws hung by there necks, with a sign on them that states "pirates Ye Be Warned" he stops bailing his sinking boat in time to offer a kind salute, to his fellow dead pirates.Its not long in till we are swept away by a amazing story of a two men desperately trying to find the loves of there life. One a Pirate after his stolen ship, and the other, a working hard blacksmith boy, trying to find his true love. Luckily for them, both loves have been taken by the "crew of the dammed". Barbossa, the fearless pirate with a pet monkey, yes a pet monkey. It soon becomes apparent that everyone in the story wants something, and they will screw and back-stab anyone who gets in there way, honestly this film there are know such thing as true friends, everyone will become an enemy in time.After years of watching this film, it still reveals itself as nothing more but a great adventure movie, just plain fun. So why not give it ten out of ten. There is everything you want in an adventure movie, girls, fights and a little magic and mystery. Not to mention some of the best 1-liners you will ever hear, "you best start believing in ghost stories miss turner, you're in one", and my personal favourite, the very last line in the film, as Jack prepares to embark on more of his adventures he quotes "bring me that horizon" as the ship sales off into the sunset.


                
i loved this movie although i don't think it is the best out of all the pirates of the Caribbean movies. it starts out with jack sparrow (johnny Depp) a notorious pirate who has just been over thrown by the ruthless Barbossa (geoffrey rush) who now owns the black pearl (a pirate ship). while he is on a British colonized Caribbean island he meets the beautiful Elizabeth swan (keira Knightley). Elizabeth swan has a connection with the black pearl that she does not know until pirates from the black pearl attack the island that she is on and kidnaps her. when she gets on the ship they ask her what is her name she Elizabeth turner, but little did she know turner was the name another pirate that used to be part of the black pearls crew. jack sparrow knowing this while in prison. when a young blacksmith named will turner (bloom) who secretly has a thing for Elizabeth turns to jack to get her back.so over all this was an excellent film no doubt
Pirates of the Caribbean is a well-written, well-made, and well-acted film. Do not expect a simple action film; it is humourous and creepy, fascinating and thrilling.  Like most films, there are a couple of holes here and there in the fabric of the story; but this film wasn't made for the Oscars, it's meant to entertain and it succeeds in full at that.  It's a jolly good time with some good actors (and great Academy Award Winner Geoffrey Rush) and high adventure on the high seas.  Not to be missed!


                
As everyone here can see, many of the comments about this movie is positive. The Writing was excellent and i can give it a 9/10 for just its writing. There are tricks and twists in this story. Hence, for those who have not vote, watch this movie again and concentrate with their actors and the script. I am sure that, you are going to enjoy this movie for the next round. I think there will be another movie coming out for this, hence i encourage everyone of you to watch it. Although not a classic piece of film-making, the movie was never intended to be such and did exactly what it intended to do - entertain. The make-up and costumes for the pirates were very well done and most of those same pirates were very well played. The town of Tortuga and the ships were also quite impressive. Geoffrey Rush was very good in his role as Barbossa, although perhaps he should have been more evil. Jack Davenport and Jonathan Pryce were very good in their roles as Commander Norrington and Governor Swann. However, as already mentioned a million times, Johnny Depp completely steals the show with his wacky performance as Captain Jack Sparrow. This character should have been pretty one-dimensional but instead he's larger than life. Sparrow is a very memorable character. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley had perhaps the two worst performances in this movie. Their characters were so flat that one truly doesn't care what happens to them. Looking handsome or pretty just doesn't cut it. Another complaint is the extended scenes involving fights with skeletons. Although the CGI pirates were impressive, the fight sequences near the end go on far too long. That said, the movie is still surprisingly good and very entertaining.


                
This is one of the best movies i've seen in a long time. Each actor did a great job. But the one that really stands out it is good old Johnny D not to mention he's hot but he has a lot of talent. his portrayol of capt. jack sparrow is what makes this such a great movie to watch he's funny charming and witty. my suggestion is to go out and buy the DVD. it has a whole CD of special fetures that are just as good as the film. I rate this movie 9/10. The extras on DVD are fantasticE to get it, it will be WELL worth the money, you will not be disappointed one bit. I have seen it MANY MANY times and I still find it funny, it REALLY is a must see film. The only problem with this movie is Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightley. Too much screen time for such unimportant story lines. Pirates should have just been more on Captain Jack Sparrow and less on the sickly love birds. It doesn't add much to the story.


                
Yes, yes, yes! A gorgeous swashbuckling rouge, pirates, monsters, a damsel not so much in distress and a monkey. How could anyone resist it? One of the most entertaining films i've ever watched. It's smart, funny, engaging, exciting and it's fun! One of the rare films where you are actually taken on adventure.You admire and love Jack, you feel sympathy for the villains. You want to be a part of this world. It somehow manages to touch the child looking for adventure in everyone. A film you can watch again and again and again...Capt. Jack Sparrow takes a podium on the eternal hall of fame for heroes and his adventures I imagine will endure as long as Indy's.Bring me that horizon!


                
OK, here we go... 2 years after initially seeing this movie, it finally hit me. This movie should have been absolutely terrible. It had a mediocre plot, terrible screen writing, Disney (which, at this point in time, if it didn't have Pixar attached, it sucked). The initial character development and interaction was contrived and shallow. So, why such a wonderful movie?Because of the people behind it. Everyone talks of Johnny Depp, whom i will agree got robbed of a worthy Oscar that year. He is an excellent actor, whom was hilarious and refreshing in what could have been a cliché role. But, we cannot forget the ENTIRE cast. Geoffery Rush, once again adding his own ingredient to a meal already been had, played a devilishly enjoyable villain. Orlando Bloom gave us proof that he can, in reality, handle dialog with other characters, and i believe successfully broke the chance of possibly being type casted. Keira Knightly added a visually stunning character, which would have been understood from the beginning. But, she didn't allow her character to fall into such an easy "no-so-damsel-in-distress" role, which has been played again and again.In essence, it was the people involved that made it what it was. While i'm concerned for the sequel, this is truly an adventure classic, with very little cliché's, awesome and intriguing characters, beautiful and fluent choreography, awesome set design, and most importantly, a cliché' and boring plot/script in the hands of true talent, who were able to break it from the Blockbuster purgatory that it was doomed to.
I loved this movie the first time I watched (when it was playing in the theaters) and I loved it again when I watched it yesterday. And I bet I'll love it the next time I watch it. It's a fantastic movie. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun watching a movie. Did I mention I loved every minute of it?This one has everything: good and entertaining story, well written script, fine direction, good acting (excellent acting in the case of J. Depp), great costumes and locations, nice looking effects, humor, cool characters, swordfights, ghosts, romance, great villains. WOW!! In short, this movie is awesome. And besides, pirates are cool!The best thing about the film is, without a doubt, J. Depp's character: Jack Sparrow (sorry, I mean CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow). Depp delivers an outstanding performance, effectively shadowing everyone else, as the goofy, somewhat crazy pirate captain, proving once again he is a great actor.If you expect deep ideas and dealing with important issues you won't find it here, but if you just want to be entertained and have a whole lotta fun I strongly recommend Pirates of the Carribean. I give it 9 out of 10 simply because of the fact that it provides 2 hours of great fun no matter how many times you've seen it.


                
At first glance, you can be forgiven for being sceptical about Pirates of the Caribbean. A movie title taken from a slow-moving, Disney theme park ride in a genre in which Hollywood has failed to make any real imprint onto since Errol Flynn's swashbuckling days. On closer inspection, however, Gore Verbinski's latest offering, penned from the writers of Shrek, boasts an impressive cast and a trailer showing just a glimpse of some the amazing CGI special effects that no Summer Blockbuster can do without. So, did Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean 'shiver me timbers' or did it make me want to run off the nearest plank? I am pleased to report that this film more than lives up to the preceding build-up. It looks gorgeous (helped along by the fresh faces of our disgustingly handsome hero, Orlando Bloom and his, 'bonnie lass' Keira Knightley); it has just the right mixture of romance, action and comedy and is a showcase for one of the most mesmerising and innovative performances this year (move over Errol, Mr Depp has landed.) Probably one of the most underrated and the most unconventional actors in Hollywood, Johnny Depp masters the character of Captain Jack Sparrow and creates a half-drunk, half-insane pirate, delivering the gags with almost perfect comic timing and an assortment of hilarious mannerisms. Alongside Depp, Geoffrey Rush plays the villainous Captain Barbossa, doomed to live as a cursed man because of his greed and piracy. Rush ensures that Barbossa is a genuinely creepy character whilst even managing to evoke a degree of sympathy for him as he wanders miserably through life in a desperate struggle to lift his curse.A script containing every ingredient you would look for in a movie of this genre backs up these superb performances. Without ever taking itself too seriously, Pirates of the Caribbean, embraces all of the old pirate clichés, to produce a cracking story, exciting action sequences and enough double-crossing buccaneers to provide one of the most entertaining two and a half hours I have sat through. The CGI special effects create amazing fight scenes as Barbossa and his cursed crew exchange their human bodies for that of ghostly skeletons as they are hit by the glow of the moonlight. All praise goes to the special effects team that created these seamless transformations. Not just a fun Summer Blockbuster but also the movie that has resurrected the swashbuckling genre, Pirates of the Caribbean comes highly recommended. Yo-ho-ho, roll on the sequel!!! 9 out of 10.


                
It's not going to be the best film you see this year, maybe not even this month or this week...but it's refreshing and entertaining all the way through thanks to some smart direction, a clever script, and a delightfully off-kilter performance from the master of such turns, Johnny Depp. Here's the reasons I liked this movie so much:1. Johnny Depp is a hoot. Jack Sparrow is by far one of the strangest yet most endearing anti-heroes ever to grace the screen. You never know if he is drunk, crazy, or cleverer than you. All of Depp's quirks and mannerisms and line readings keep you constantly off guard and entertained.2. Jerry Bruckheimer, the producer of some of the biggest film travesties ever ("Armageddon," "Pearl Harbor") actually hired a director who can sustain a shot, control epic scenes, pace a film, and set atmosphere without tricky camera movements or overused special effects (finally a summer movie where the effects aren't wall to wall CGI and actually seem special). By delivering this after "The Ring" Gore Verbinksi proves he is the best for-hire/hack director working in Hollywood. He's into the old-fashioned razzle-dazzle type of film-making, you know the kind that doesn't give you a headache and has some scope and where you can actually tell what is going on in big action set pieces. He can do family films ("Mouse Hunt"), horror thrillers ("The Ring"), and now big-budget action adventures. Though he shows no signs of being an auteur or having any kind of grander scheme to his work, I can't wait to see what he tackles next.3. The film has a bloated run-time (almost two and a half hours) but it's not because it takes itself too seriously or knocks you out with set piece after set piece. You see, for the first thirty to forty minutes this film actually provides exposition and develops characters. What a novel idea! I had almost thought Hollywood forgot how to do that.4. Last, but certainly not least, Kiera Knightly. She's got spunk, she's hot, has a British accent, and some of the most natural acting chops of any young actress working today.It made me forget that it was based on a Disney theme park ride and that Big Jerry B bankrolled the whole shebang. All in all a heck of a good time.


                
When I was first planning to view this film I must admit my expectations where not that high. After all, the title did give a cheesy feel to the whole thing. However, I must say that within 10 minutes of the film I was completely spellbound by the film, characters, and plot. The fight scenes where well done and not over dramatized, the animation of the skeletons was smoothly done, and the acting was incredible. The most surprising factor was how Johnny Depp played his character Jack Sparrow. Normally I am not a Depp fan per say, I enjoy his work but I don't exactly find myself fascinated by it. This role, however, gave me a whole different view of how truly talented Depp is as an actor. Depp took on a whole different role that even varied in the way his character Sparrow carried himself and mastered it like it was nothing.Bloom was also a pleasant surprise. A few minutes into the film in you completely forgot about the elf and focused on the character in front of us. After seeing Bloom in this film I can honestly say that he is not a typecast and will well be on his way to the top. Rush was excellent as usual and portrayed his role as `a captain so evil Hell spat him out' with such humanity you actually felt a bit sorry for the cursed pirate.
All in all, this film is a rare gem to come from behind the Disney vaults. Along with the superb acting the writing, camera movement, plot, and timing was perfect. Not once did you feel the length of the movie setting in like `Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil' or like watching `The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring' a third time. Humor, drama, action, and adventure where perfectly balanced out to make this film the movie of the summer.


                
The first in the "Pirates" range of movies and it does not disappoint. Action, adventure and full on humor all the way.


                
Introduction of Jack Sparrow and his witty acting amazed us all. This was a unique concept with right blend of acting and presentation. The Captain with a ship like Jack and his amazing crew and all never forgetting. This is not only fantasy but diplomacy as well with East India Company playing its politics in the sea. What happens when the hero himself is a pirate.. Worth watching.


                
When I saw this fifteen years ago I thought it was good. Rewatching it I found it in continually engaging with exciting scene after another. In my first viewing I dndn't care for the Orlando Bloom character but his role seemed to fit better second time around. The only criticism I offer is that it seemed to go on and on - perhaps it was ioo long.


                
Two major constituents make Pirates of the Caribbean a cinematic attraction: dynamic inventiveness and the great spectacle. The first is seen in the encounter with the sword between Bloom & Depp in the Forge, where we exploit all possible springs of accessories, planks, beams, gears, for a high-flying fight that sends us back to the beautiful hours of aerobatics of a Errol Flynn Some 70 years ago. The second is played in the pretty successful effects of the zombie pirates passing under the lighting of the moon, including this very nice underwater walk.
If you're ever in the mood for just a flat out entertaining flick, you can't go wrong with 'Curse of the Black Pearl". I wasn't writing these reviews when this movie first came out, didn't even know there was such a thing as IMDb. So I'm finally getting back to it this many years later and even though I'd forgotten a lot about the story, I was blown away all over again by the outrageous antics of Captain Jack Sparrow and those transition scenes where the skeleton pirates manifest in the moonlight. In fact, the story itself might be incidental to the special effects and physical stunts that highlight the action in the film. Johnny Depp of course makes the movie with his swish-buckling (yeah, I misspelled it on purpose) approach to the character, and you couldn't ask for a more fetching lady in distress than Keira Knightley, although she managed to hold her own against most of those menacing pirates quite nicely. Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush round out the rest of the principal cast, and each did a superb job. I've never gotten beyond this movie's sequel, 'Dead Man's Chest', but watching this one again inspires me to go forward and check out all the rest.
Looking back on this movie, I remember at the cinema when I went and saw it back in 2003 that the introduction of the character Jack Sparrow was the best character introduction I have ever seen and I still think that. Other than that, the movie is solid with a good deal of awesome action and jokes.


                
"Pirates of the Caribbean", first of the name is an excellent film, it is undeniable. The actors are all very good, although Johnny Deep surpasses everyone from the beginning, the moment when he arrives on the mast of his ship which is mythical and which allows to make of Jack Sparrow the image of the film (then of the saga) and tying it to Johnny Deep who made him "his" character. Definitely one or THE best film about piracy on the part of a very good realization, excellent sets, special effects that have not aged and an Original Sound Track that remains and will remain in the annals of cinema, an excellent film that justifies largely a 9/10! Mythical.
So far I have seen this movie 2 times and I can't get enough of it.  This movie is so great, it's so well done, Gore Verbinsky (sp?) has done an outstanding job directing this film, his skills to tell stories and to make them look amazing is shown here.  The story is about a curse upon the Black Pearl and their crew, they search the way to get rid of the curse.  The characters are very well developed, everybody in the cast makes does a great job portraying their characters. Especial mention to Johnny Depp, who does a great performance as Captain Jack Sparrow, his accent, way to express himself and even his aspect is so real!  Orlando Bloom does a good job as well, as Will Turner, and of course, the great Geoffrey Rush, one of the best actors at the moment.  I just love every single one of his movies, and this one is one of his bests.  He is so convincing as the evil captain of the Black Pearl Barbossa, he's one of those villains who are extremly evil, yet charming.The especial affects are unbelievable, it is great to see some pirates become skeletons and suddenly change to their human shape.  ILM did an awesome job in this movie.  The music is also a key thing in the movie, it's just perfect, it suits to every single scene of this movie. 
As a summary, I believe this is probably the best movie of the year (Adventure genre that is), this is definitely a must see for everybody, kids, old people, teenagers, everybody will enjoy this movie. 10/10


                
