The premise is simple enough; A woman wants to split from her husband in order to leave the country since he won't leave with her in order to care for his terminally ill father.But as soon as we clear the premise the film drops the subject completely and instead meanders off to tell us about a comically inept housekeeper, her irresponsible husband and the laughable nature of the Iranian justice system that attempts to make sense of the mess. Except nothing is played for laughs.It completely baffles my mind why this film wasn't more focused on its central plot, instead we get a badly paced debacle that feels a lot longer than it is. Every scene looks the same, sounds the same and plays out more or less the same with very few exceptions. It quickly becomes obvious no care at all was given to ways in which set design, audio and environmental cues could be used to move the film along.If this were a school project I'd be impressed, there's solid acting and the basic shot structure is competent. But judged as a film that won an academy award I must say it's highly overrated, especially when all the missed opportunities are taken into consideration.
Probably one of the most boring movies I ever watched in my life. Even the title is misleading, because only the first and last scene have something to do with the actual separation. We see Simin (the wife) and Nader (the husband) in front of a judge debating the reasons why they want to split. Actually, Simin wants to split, Nader seems not to care one way or the other – which certainly does not give much motivation to continue a marriage.The two have a child – Termeh - who is staying with Nader, while Simin moved back with her family, waiting for Termeh to decide if she wants to leave the country with her or stay with Nader. After the introduction of the main characters, the story derails. The in-between two hours of excruciating boredom are filled with the story of Razieh, an ignorant and over-religious woman hired to take care of Nader's father, who suffers from Alzheimer and is the main reason why Nader wants to stay put.Razieh makes a total mess out of a relatively simple job and ends up creating more trouble for herself and everybody around her, including her jobless and irresponsible husband.What has this to do with the separation of the title? Little or nothing. The movie goes on and on about Razieh and her troubles, loosing track of the alleged main characters. To make it worse, even the ending is a total let-down. A smug, "I-am-clever-than-you" joke played on the audience. Therefore, "A separation" starts slowly and goes nowhere just as slow, in a fake-documentary style.I am sure such a story based in Europe or the US would not have won an Oscar, but it is not the first time – nor will be the last – that a movie wins a prize for obscure reasons that have nothing to do with cinematography.Finally, I read some of the other reviews mentioning "tension and drama", "phenomenal", " best movie of the year" and more gushing and hyperbolic positive remarks. Probably they refer to another movie, or the audience fell asleep and dreamt about tension and drama that are not to be found in this one.


                
Last week, despite the fact that I normally despise Iranian movies, I went to see Asghar Farhadi's "A Separation". To make a long story short, the film was more or less disappointing. It's not that it was not good, but that it had nothing to offer internationally. I've seen movies by Fellini, Truffaut, Godard, Chabrol, Bergman, Korosawa, Tykwer, Kubrick, Lynch, Fincher, Burton, Allen and other genius minds in the universe of the seventh art; and this movie didn't even have the potential to be compared to their works. "A Separation" had a better script in comparison to "About Elly", though, to my idea, the ending was pretty immature and not as sophisticated as the rest of the film. Acting was OK, but cinematography, mis-en-scene, editing, and direction still needed massive improvement. Sound, music, use of colors and etc. have utterly been neglected by the director.Honestly, I believe the voting for this film is absolutely political and has been given blind, and in no way, this movie could be placed in the top 250 films of all time; if you take a look at that list, you see Fellini's "8 1/2" below this film. I mean anyone who's seen "8 1/2" knows that "A Separation" doesn't hold a candle to it at all. So I ask all of you patriotic Iranians not to mingle art and politics and take off your hallucination glasses and see this movie where it stands. I give it 5 out of 10 for the screenplay and the acting.
