While I give props for the realness of the plot, the movie is downright boring. It can scarcely evoke empathy when showing the harrowing situations the male character endures, and annoyance at the unbearable, unbelievably self-centered wife.While not liking characters has nothing to do with how good the film actually is, in this case, it's the only thing that stays after you are finished with it.I'd pass unless you are a husband during a marital crisis looking for a reason to rant at an (sorry for the repetition, but it's the perfect adjective) unbearable spouse.


                
Same as the other stereotypes. this movie has nothing special to offer. watching this movie is a waste of time and money. won Oscar? yeah! Oscar became more and more political these years. If you were familiar with Iranian movies then you would understand that the script, cast & crew or many other thins in this movie is boring and repeated over thousands times in other Iranian movies. and why all of a sudden one of the almost unknown directors in Iran became famous and made such a movie and won the Oscar prize!? if I want to rate this director from 1 to 10 he will get 3 maybe 4! P.S: For your information, this review has written by an Iranian who doesn't support the current regime in Iran at all. then stop attacking critics by false accusations.


                
I am a 54-year-old woman and I saw this movie with my 78-year-old father. Neither one of us could really see a point to this movie. First, we agreed that the couple showed no love for each other, so it didn't seem all that tragic that they were separated. I thought the point might be showing the Dominoe effect of how one thing leads to another until things get really out of hand. My father thought the point could either be showing the consequences of several people lying or the consequences of the father's stubbornness in not asking his wife to stay. Perhaps the point of the movie was simply to serve as a vehicle for making social commentaries.We were also very disappointed that there was no ending to the story. There was more than one unanswered question. In the end we never found out which parent the daughter chose to live with, nor, in fact, whether or not the couple would get back together. We also never found out what happened to the missing money. At one point the father said that it was the exact amount of the caretaker's salary. However, both my father and I thought the caretaker was sincere about not taking the money. Did the mother take it when we saw her counting money near the beginning of the movie? If so, why would it be the same amount as the caretaker's salary. Another unanswered question is why the caretaker's husband allowed her to keep returning to take care of the elderly father instead of doing it himself as it appeared he had agreed to do. Had he gotten another job at a motorcycle shop?
Unbelievable! This film won the Oscar for best (foreign) film in a language other than English. Frankly, In Darkness and Mr Lazhar are far more deserving with better stories and far better acting. The Academy members were probably fascinated by this glimpse of daily life in today's Iran. In fact, it does fascinate but disturbs also. Seeing all these submissive women wearing the chador, even in their own home, is very disturbing. These women asking for spiritual guidance from Islamic law is revolting to anyone who cannot imagine a society where equality of the sexes is absent. The men on the other hand live a fully contemporary life without any shame. The story is weak but the elephant in the room has to be this heavy repression which is felt in the daily lives of these women. That is the true drama here. I was eager for it to end.


                
I've hesitated for a long time, but yesterday I "finally" watched this movie with my wife.We were both very disappointed and surprised at the same time. It is hard to understand how a movie with such a high rating and positive reviews, could be just (below) average level: - the story is flat and far away of being unique - the acting is good but clearly not to be remembered - the atmosphere... I never felt so uninvolved in a movie like in this one Even the (praised) parts related to the Iranian culture and religion weren't something illuminating. Interesting but true... it was like watching some Slavic (ex Yugoslavia, Russia etc) movies from the 80's with a strong emphasis on socialist regime.In conclusion - a movie I would not recommend to any of my friends.


                
Although I enjoyed the movie since it's a part of my learning of Farsi, I didn't really find the catharsis that I expected in the beginning. the movie was quite rushing to the end without a careful consideration to what we, commoners, could have caught with these accelerating events. In my opinion, the producer couldn't implicate the viewer to be a accomplice in his project of depicting the under world of the Iranian family, namely, the ghost of divorce. What are we supposed to do as viewers? the cast didn't let us in. Also, the climax was a little mountain that took but minutes. Added to that, the movie hints at the cultural breach or xenophobic trend toward what is Arabic. In one of the scenes when the daughter was rehearsing some vocabulary with the help of the father she came across some words that are from Arabic and she chose them. The reaction of the father was negative by stating that it should not be Arabic. Yes, Farsi is considered among the oldest languages in the world but that didn't prevent it from borrowing or loaning new words like " mother", "father",..etc.


                
