I just saw this movie and I highly recommend it. The way the story was going totally unexpected and many surprises occur throughout the movie. There is a lot of dialogue and over talking, which makes it a bit hard to read the subtitles, but you will manage to understand regardless. The story of the movie is a one that everyone, no matter what the background is, will relate it. The acting in the movie was extraordinary, all the women and girls did a great job, both young and old were superb.The movie is also educational, since you will get a glimpse of how Iranians are living their lives in Iran. The religious, societal, and family issues that they go through. Also, what I liked in the movie is that it had nothing to do with the Iranian politics, but of course you will be able to see how the regime affects the people.


                
A married couple are faced with a difficult decision - to improve the life of their child by moving to another country or to stay in Iran and look after a deteriorating parent who has Alzheimer's disease.There are not many well-known Iranian films, and this one came out of nowhere and blew everyone away. Mostly, because I think it challenged people's expectations of what Iran can be. And when I say people, I mean Americans, who probably think of Iran as a harsh, backwards place rather than the cultural center it is.The story itself is a great one, and it should come as no surprise that an Oscar nomination for best screenplay followed it (a great achievement for a foreign film). Again, being Iranian surely helped... this is a story that strikes at the heart of expectations and shows just how modern many Muslims are. (This should not be a shock, but somehow for many people it still is.)


                
This is a powerful character-driven film about how the destruction of one family. It explores how every member of one Iranian family are affected by living with someone suffering from Alzheimer's disease. This is a delicate topic and A Separation handles it very sensitively. It was also really interesting watching this film as a foreigner. I am a Westerner, but it was really intriguing watching a film set against an Islamic background. Although I don't think that A Separation was perfect. Its characters were largely unlikeable due to how they are all so dishonest. If only they told the truth, then they wouldn't have gotten themselves into such bad situations.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/Mv35HZ


                
I believe one of the main causes that make us award the so called "Foreign movie" is their fresh cultural perspective of life that it adds to the cinema heritage. we can't but appreciate and honor those who present us this great gift to cinema combining it with artistic achievement. and that was the case with Fahradi and his (A Separation). the Iranian cinema is well known of it's excellent cinema, even though it could be regarded globally as not popular, but I believe that the effort made such as the one in "a separation" shades a lot of light to this original cinema. A separation is an original movie, I guess that at less is a fact beyond discussion. It's simply had every thing a good movie can present; it's engaging, vivid, well written, and had a marvelous acting cast and screenplay.. the movie is a social drama prospect, a movie that forges out questions more than answers, and even though it puts the audience form the first scene in the judge chair,I don't believe that was to ask for our presumption or judgment, rather it seeks to have us only as a witnesses. As audience we are in a very difficult position in this case, for the fact that we witness a very complicated case of constant dispute between the couples Simin and Nadar over their daughter, and then it got more complicated when another couple shows up and accuse Nadar to be the cause of the wife apportion. I should admit that, the intensity of the movie may bather me a little bit, because it keeps the one intense all through the movie, in fact we may notice that the movies scenario is built mainly on these disputing dialogs. Yet, there's so much things fascinated me as well, the things that attracts me the most was first of all is the screenplay; the camera shouts are very intentional and expressive,the acting is superb, thank god not over reacted nether cold and flat, a thing even great movies slip in sometimes. the writing and scenario deserve no doubt an award, because event thought the story is basically simple and linear, the movie's threads are well compose, so it may keep the ones breath on hold to the last minuet of the play. No doubt Fahradi presents a very committed serious cinema, and the best testimony of this fact is its frequent understatement such as "-I'd prefer that my child do not grow up under these circumstances, as a mother I has this right -under what conditions? what conditions ma'am??" the work as a whole implies a lot of figurative elements, and could bears a lot of different interpretations. at last I guess I have to say something about the thematic point of the work, as a social drama, the movie presents two ways of life that we might lead and leaves to us and Terma (the daughter) to chose between them, which are; "N- she had to stay to learn! S- to learn about what stubbornness and confrontations! N- No, so she could learn not to be cowered like u!!" what dazzle me the most in these dialogs is it's strikingly honesty. the ending of the movie leave the parents at the door of the court room waiting to know the decision of their daughter of which of them she will chose to live with... who would you think she'll chose? what would' you chose?


                
There is only one thing that is extraordinary in this film: the ubiquitous prevalence of the colour grey, or of subdued colours like brown or green. The faces are greyish, the houses are grey inside and outside, the cars are grey, the hospital's waiting room is grey, the dresses and chadors are grey or at least black (!). All female persons, including the 5 years old daughter of the cleaning lady, wear a chador. It is only at the very end, while the camera depicts the scenery in the hospital, at least one young women appears in normal street gown.I don't believe that this colour reduction was the intention of the director or cameraman. This grey here is not really a symbol for the hopeless position of the protagonists, it is not like the blueish prevalence in Jean-Pierre Melville's "Le samouraï" with Alain Delon.This film is an intimate play, and not a bad one; however the absence of suspense at least half of the time creates some mild boredom in the spectator and the wish to see some setting in the nature - and not only the ones with battling and chopping adults.I remember another Iranian film, a much better on i.m.o., wherein a man goes to the hillside to commit suicide. There is currently some hype about NADER AND SIMIN, but I remain convinced that it will be forgotten in a few years.


                
The rating that this film has on IMDb gives one a false sense of what is good in this particular picture.There is lots to like, with an excellent script executed with a high level of skill by all of the major players. The acting of the two male lead roles is particularly excellent, with some moments of genuinely convincing and sudden violence.Likewise the cinematography is excellent with impressive shooting taking place in all parts of the film, and you really do become immersed in the conflict, thanks to a flowing and coherent narrative and an engaging story.So why do I not agree with the average 8.5 current rating on IMDb? Well, despite the film dealing with its subject matter with flair, the story itself falls a little bit flat in that ultimately its just a story about a domestic conflict that, for want of a better term, grows arms and legs and becomes bigger than the sum of its parts. Its just a story about an accident where the parties disagree and therefore it never takes off in any meaningful sense but rather ambles along in a plodding fashion until the film ends, suddenly, without anything having really been resolved.Some might argue this is representative of the complexity of the issues involved and I wouldn't disagree with that, but as a viewer this is a little unsatisfying and although I enjoyed it, this film does not warrant the place among the 'greats' that its current rating affords it. I would recommend it to anyone and it will provide ample food for thought, but then so does an episode of Big Brother if you're determined to think about why people do what they do in complex social situations involving different people with different opinions.You won't regret watching this film, but I'd be surprised if you are blown away as well.


                
Watching films from across the globe has certainly been an interesting experience, and this film was pretty enjoyable to watch. The only thing I would say is that the film is a bit long, and seemed to go in circles for a bit, but is otherwise engaging.The acting is amazing, with the actors and actresses really giving emotion to their performances. Moaadi and Hatami as the separated husband and wife show the tension between their characters really well. Moaadi does really well with the debating scenes, as he has to argue before a judge multiple times. Hatami is also really good at delivering her lines, and the portrayal of her character's emotions definitely shines through. Bayat does a pretty good job too, though I did not really connect with her character.The script is well written and gives me more of a sense of Iranian culture. The film has a lot of speech and it was pretty incredible to watch them argue and debate about various events. The delivery was key, and they managed to pull it off. But because of the many arguments, it can be a bit hard to follow and at times is a bit heavy.Also, the story is pretty complex because of the many plots involved, and like the few International movies I watched before, there is no real conclusion. I was pretty peeved at the ending, but once I thought over it, I realized how conditioned I am to Hollywood films that I want a sense of closure every time. However, the way this film ended is pretty ingenious and it fits the characteristic of the film.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
Written and directed by Asghar Farhadi, "A Separation" watches as Simin (Leila Hatami) and Nader (Peyman Moaadi), an Iranian husband and wife, drift toward divorce. The film then switches gears and becomes a murder mystery, Nader accused of inducing a miscarriage in Raziah, his employee.Much of Farhadi's film watches as Termeh, the couple's daughter, struggles with issues of truth, justice and family loyalty. Should she support her father, who may have accidentally killed a child, or her mother, who longs to leave Iran? As Termeh pines for connection and reconciliation, the rest of Farhadi's cast seem hell-bent on drifting apart. They're separated along economic and cultural lines, some bank clerks, some houseworkers, some unemployed, some wrestling with questions of finance and faith. Farhadi's blocking and editing also stress a certain exclusion, characters separated by doorways, veils, staircases and windowpanes.Farhadi's previous film, "About Elly", was preoccupied with class divisions. With "A Separation" we see semi-secular urbanites (Nader and Simin) clashing with a more conservative, God-fearing couple (Raziah and her husband, Hodjat). But though a portrait of an Iran that is in the throes of an identity crisis, seemingly pulling in two different directions at once ("What is so wrong with Iran?" a judge asks), Farhadi is careful not to taint either side. Simin, a strong, modern woman, is initially chastised for wanting to leave Iran, her husband and his dying father, but becomes a hero of sorts later on. Raziah and Hodjat's relationship, meanwhile, may seem volatile, a parody of patriarchal domesticity, but he worships her, defers to her judgement, and it is her God which gives Raziah a sense of ethics which surpasses even the morality of the more self-serving Nader. Even Hodjat's violent outbursts throughout the film are portrayed sympathetically; the guy's just lost his child."A Separation" won the foreign-language film Oscar, as well as a slew of other awards (the Golden Bear at Berlin). With much of the Western world (UK, US, France) and elsewhere (Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey etc) hell-bent on nuking Iran and sucking on its resources, "A Separation" does well to contest, albeit unintentionally, various racist stereotypes. One must remember that Iran has essentially been subject to a sixty year propaganda campaign and covert war (as well as the West's backing of Saddam Hussein in his overt, eight year war against Iran). To many, the perception is that Iran is a backward land populated by sexist lunatics, snarling bogeymen and homophobes (the UK "legalized homosexuality" in 1967, the US essentially did the same in 2003 by repealing sodomy laws). That she's a modern nation state which houses people of all shades and beliefs is a fact lost on many. Even her much disparaged civil rights records – Iran's government is indefensible, moronic and brutally repressive - puts many Western puppets/allies to shame, is in many ways causally related to British/CIA actions, and betters the contemporary and past human rights track-records of most major superpowers.Interestingly, Iran's government has a conflicted relationship with "A Separation". They praise it for its oversees success, and even some of its writing, but also chastise it for drifting from the party-line. Like the characters in Farhadi's film, Iran's censors aren't quite sure where to stand. Farhadi's film itself contains various judicial figures who epitomise Iran's ideological hypersensitivity. These judges preside over lies, absurdities, are unconcerned about truth, and spring into action only when their authority is challenged.Fittingly, the film ends with Termeh faced with a choice: to leave Iran or to stay with daddy. Farhadi's hinting at a nation's uncertain future, but we know with some certainty how history unfolds. Months after Farhadi's Oscar win, Hassan Rouhani was elected President of Iran, a "moderate" cleric who marks another small step toward further human rights and gender equality. It took Britain hundreds of years to separate church, state, monarchs and overthrow the Divine Right Principles (the country is still symbolically theocratic). The United States skipped all that and went straight to cigars, oval office fellatio and bombing for Jesus. How long will Iran's theocratic Assembly of Experts last? And more importantly, how much will progress depend on Iran's real-life Simins and Termehs fighting rather then fleeing? It's a question which Farhadi himself asks. "Every time you face trouble, you give in rather than confront it," Nader tells his wife, a tactful woman whom Farhadi eventually reveals to be expert at diffusing dangerous situations.8/10 – See Mohsen Makhmalbaf's "Kandahar" and Zhang Yimou's "The Story of Qiu Ju".
Interesting Iranian drama. Has character depth and the central plot is intriguing. At times you feel true empathy with the characters, no matter what the cultural differences (if any).However, it takes a while to get moving. The first 1/3rd or so of the movie it just seems to drift. You would normally say this is character development, but in this case it just seemed over-indulgent micro- detailing.Once it does get going, it is not overly compelling. The ins and outs of the court case make you feel the writer-director is manipulating you into choosing a certain side, and being quite judgemental in their manipulation. The more this went on, the more disinterested I became, as I felt the writer-director was going to let their own views and prejudices dictate the outcome.This said, the movie resolves itself well. For all the judgemental manipulation, justice is served in the end. The ending may seem odd, but is right for the movie, showing you the true point of the movie.Good performances all round.
This Iranian film was one listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I had seen the DVD cover a few times and certainly wondered what it was about, but I didn't know that it was the nominated and won awards in the foreign film category, so I was definitely watching it. Basically middle class Iranian couple Nader (Peyman Moaadi) and Simin (Leila Hatami) are on the verge of divorce, despite still loving each other somewhat Simin has exit visa valid for only forty days and he wants to move for a better life with ten year old daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi), but Nader will not leave his father (Ali-Asghar Shahbazi) who suffering Alzheimer's disease, despite him not knowing who he is most of the time. Simin eventually moves out and goes to live with her parents, Termeh stays with her father in an action to try and bring her per divorcing parents back together, and he meanwhile follows advice from Simin hires a man called Hojjat (Shahab Hosseini) to be his father's carer while during the day he is at work, but Hojjat can't make it on the first day. Instead Hojjat's wife Razieh (Sareh Bayat) is desperate for the money, being mother to infant daughter Somayeh (Kimia Hosseini), and shows up to do the work, a few days pass and she continues in her husband's continued absence, and between her and Nader an incident occurs that could threaten their place in the community. Eventually all adults and children make their decisions as what is the best thing to do for themselves, of course the decisions bring justice, humanity and well-being into consideration as well, the poignant end of the film is the divorce between Nader and Simin being finalised, and Termeh is left alone to decide which parent she wants to live, the parents waiting in the character lasts through the end credits. Also starring Shirin Yazdanbakhsh as Simin's Mother, Kimia Hosseini as Somayeh and Merila Zare'i as Miss Ghahraii. The performances are all fine, I admit I lost my way a little with what was going on between particular characters, but overall I got the gist of the story, it is an interesting take on a domestic situation and how all facets of it will change and affect others in the mix, a watchable drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film of the Year, and it was nominated for Best Writing, Original Screenplay, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film Not in the English Language, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good!
