2011 was especially bleak for films in general with the exception of a few. This film however towers over all the few bright lights that emerged and gave it a kick in the chest to bring to life of what has otherwise been a forgettable year. "A Separation" is a film which hails from Iran, a country which despite it's oppressive regime has always managed to surprise the world with a few film gems of it's own, and this might be the jewel in the crown. Directed by Asghar Farhadi, the film talks about love, bitterness, sorrow and happiness that befall a family during it's arduous times. In this case the tumultuous period is personified by the separation that the two main characters are going through. This is not because that they are not in love with each other anymore, but because their circumstances and their goals are far apart from each other to achieve any hope for reconciliation. The wife wants to leave for America because she believes that the move will bring hope to their daughter's life. The husband does not want to go because he has to care for his ailing father who is suffering from Alzheimer. Both the causes are noble and are for the things they deeply care about, but it is also tearing them apart and brings forth further predicaments to all characters within the film as it puts into perspective the lengths people will go to protect, not only their families, but also themselves.The film is a return back to grounded realism and the influences to the film can be attributed to Ozu, Satyajit Ray who used simplicity to tell their story to enhance the aspect of reality. The directing in the film uses a perfect pace to piece together the events and the director creates a screen to personify his neutrality, as he engages the crowd to assess what they think. This was a technique used by Ozu with a certain guile which has never been matched, but I am sure even the Japanese Master would appreciate the feat achieved by the director. Farhadi did however use some aspects of fundamental camera grammar created in Hollywood film-making to express the varying reactions to the characters embroiled in it. The writing was ingenious and strayed as far away from melodrama as possible to create a scenario where the screen was inhabited by ordinary people and dealt with their feelings with a certain subtlety rarely seen today. The acting was unbelievable and it strengthened the mood for realism as the director got great performances from Peyman Moadi, Leila Hatami, Sareh Bayat and Shahab Hosseini. Their characters were very different and they dealt with their situations as such but the actors hit the note with their characters to show their desperation, their fear, their love in a way which was believable for them to do so. The star of the film was Sareh Bayat who should be nominated for an Oscar for her portrayal of Razieh, Nader's father's nurse, and it also brought to screen the genius of the young Sarina Farhadi (the daughter of the Director) who was on screen not because of her father, but because she deserved the merit on her own as proved. All in all, this is a great film and it would be a major crime if the Oscars do not recognize it's greatness simply because it is not in English. Nominations for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay, Actor and Best Supporting Actress are certainly due unless the Academy loses it's brain once again. A great watch for everyone and if you haven't seen it, see it now so that you don't miss out on what has truly been the film of the year.


                
I have never lived in Iran, so I cannot comment on the accuracy of the film as a portrait of Iranian life. But it certainly convinced me of its authenticity in terms of the problems faced by most ordinary people at lot of the time. I assume that the characters were played by actors, but they never seemed like actors and never intruded their own personalities into the piece. The film raised a number of importance moral questions, without preaching at the viewer and no easy answers were offered. I had one reservation - about an event hidden from the viewer but critical to an understanding of the action. However, apart from this, I thought it was excellent.


                
"A Separation" is the foreign-language film of this year's awards season. After it won the Golden Globes last week, you know it is a cinch to earn an Oscar nomination for Best Foreign Film and most probably win the coveted prize for its country of origin, Iran."A Separation" is about a middle-class Iranian family. In the first scene, husband and wife are divorcing after 14 years of marriage because of a disagreement on migration. Wife wants a better life abroad, while husband does not want to leave his Alzheimer-stricken dad. Caught in the middle is their 12-year old daughter. When wife leaves their home, the husband hires a poor woman to be his dad's caretaker while he is at work. From there, this harrowing family and societal drama evolves into situations you will not expect. The climax and the ending were so effectively executed. You will not want to leave even while the final credits are already rolling.It appears that director Azghar Farhadi is really a big name in Iran, and that he already has previous acclaimed films. I will want to check them out. His control of his story and his actors (who you would not even remember are acting) is amazing. You get sucked into the story, and you will not want to get to the bottom of things until the final resolution. It has an underlying allusion to the conflict between the old and the new customs. It is an interesting peek into the family dynamics, religion and criminal justice system in Iran. I have seen only one other nominee in the last Golden Globe, "The Flowers of War." The scope and genre of the two films are vastly different and is hard to compare. But I could say that "A Separation" is the tighter and better- written film.


                
It would be very easy to taint this film with an opinion outside that of its origin. The West is not in any position to judge. Yet it is beyond race, it is beyond sexism, it is beyond religion, as all are mere positions of a shadow, shifting, reaching, shrinking, neither right nor wrong. This is a film, who core relates to a basic principle, that of responsibility. This factor is a disputed trait the world over, no matter the origin. Withhold your judgments, consider the consequences for those involved, embrace humanity, and understand where the decision making process comes from. Sure we might do it differently, but would the end result be any different? Fractured? Stripped. Shorn of truth. It doesn't make it any less right.If anything, this film demonstrates our common humanity. Sure the rules aren't the same but our needs are. It may be titled a separation, but it may be more appropriate to called it a universal unification.We are more similar than dissimilar. A poignant, challenging piece of cinema.


                
With all the horrible and negative stuff we keep hearing about Iran in the news you would almost forget that there also very ordinary people living there, with all their own needs and emotions. And it also always keeps surprising me that a country, that is considered to be so conservative, keeps on delivering so many great movies, with also often a sort of social commentary in them, such as also this movie carries out.I'm often quite fond of these simplistic but very honest and straightforward type of drama's, that have a real sense of realism to them. You feel that nothing ever gets exaggerated with any of its drama and emotions and all of the characters and situations in it feel very real. But what I foremost liked about this movie was that it surprises. It surprises with its story and this movie can really catch you off guard. You think that the movie will be heading into a certain direction with its story and several of its independent plot lines but then things suddenly change, somewhere around the middle, when the story is taking a 180-degree turn and suddenly the movie starts to become about something totally different. Don't worry, I wont spoil it and say what it is but it is truly something that gives the movie more depth, emotion and tension, which makes the movie altogether an even more intriguing watch.I also loved how the story isn't always telling you everything and you are constantly wondering what is the truth and who is lying and why. This also makes the movie unpredictable and also provides it with plenty of surprising and interesting plot twists, in the movie its second half.It's also dealing with some delicate issues, for an Islamic movie that is. Issues such as divorce and Alzheimers are being handled, while you could also see this movie as one that is criticizing the Iranian legal system, by showing some of its flaws. But it's also definitely not afraid to show the flaws of us, human beings. This as well obviously adds to the overall realism of the entire movie.And it's definitely also a well put together movie, that is also a good looking one. The dynamic camera-work really gets you involved with all of the characters and events and the movie has a pleasant pace to it. There is nothing pretentious or overly artistic about this movie, like perhaps some similar movies often tend to do. It's really being an honest movie, about real people, dealing with real life- but not always ordinary, situations.It's always hard to judge the performance of actors that act in a language I just don't understand but all of the actors in this movie still managed to give me a feeling that their performance in it was really great and very natural. This goes for basically all actors, both young and old.Of course it's true that you need to be into these sort of movies to fully appreciate it but I just can't imaging someone not being taken by this movie.8/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Greetings again from the darkness. This one finally made it to Dallas and it's now clear why it is not only the Oscar favorite for Best Foreign Language Film, but also received a Best Original Screenplay nomination. It's truly that good ... and powerful ... and thought provoking. I caught myself changing my mind more than once on some of the issues these characters faced.The film opens with Nader and Simin (Peyman Moadi and Leila Hatami) in front of a judge to determine if they will be granted a divorce. Simin wants to take their daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi, the director's daughter) to study abroad. Nader doesn't disagree with the plan, only the timing. He refuses to leave his Dad, who suffers from Alzheimer's, alone in Iran. In a poignant moment, Nader points out that while his dad may not know him, he still certainly knows his dad. This is the first of a recurring theme throughout ... there are numerous ways to look at every issue.When Simin moves in with her mother, Nader hires Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to be his dad's caregiver. After a few days, Nader and Razieh have a heated argument and he pushes her out of the apartment. Next thing he knows, she is in the hospital after a miscarriage. She files a claim saying Nader pushed her down the stairs causing the miscarriage. The core of the story is the actions of the key characters during the inquisition by the judge/inspector. Nothing seems clear cut and each character's recall and statements vary from moment to moment.A key point is that these are all basically good and moral people. Muslim believers in various stages. None would purposefully sin, yet each is trying to protect something or someone. The script is fascinating in its detail and subtlety. It moves like real life rather than a movie trying to get crammed into a 2 hour window. Written and directed by Asghar Farhad, the film deserves all accolades and acclaim. Let's hope it finds an audience in the U.S. We could certainly use more stories and films like this.


                
I never thought , I sit next to an American in US and watching an Iranian movie , Thanks to Asghar Farhadi. So happy that this movie could get lot of awards. The most important thing which is making me happy is " out of Iran " They see we are like them " loving our kids, family , and ...." Thanks Farhadi for opening a windows from the brighter part of our country. It shows how people think and try to survive, How people care about their children, their fathers and their future , How they deal with their normal life , how they try to just having life as a normal human being. Yeas , Iranian women can drive , yeas parent go and take their kids from school , they help them in homework.


                
A Separation is a simple story told in a complex manner. An Iranian couple seek a divorce in the opening scene with the mother, Simin, explaining to an unseen judge that she wants her 10 year old daughter, Termeh to have a better life by leaving the country. Her husband, Nader wishes to stay in Iran to take care of his elderly father who has advanced Alzheimer's disease and needs constant care. Simin leaves her husband and daughter and goes to live with her parents. A woman desperate for money, Razieh, is hired to watch the old man and soon realizes it is too much for her to handle. There are no light moments, and be prepared to pay close attention to detail for it to come together in the end. This is emotionally and intellectually draining material in rapid fire Farsi, so speed reading subtitles is required.The acting is superb all around and this is an exceptionally well made movie by Asghar Farhadi, a very talented director. As an ensemble, this is as good as it gets, with everyone involved being so believable that the film has the look of a documentary. A very memorable drama indeed.


                
"A Separation" directed by Ashgar Farhadi, and winner of the academy award for best foreign film is a serious and engaging drama giving the world a story of Iranian life replete with excellent cultural nuances and originalities. (spoilers) The movie starts out running with what seems to be a break-up between a couple but really masks the true story of social class fighting. The narrative is superbly written - especially the main conflict where the truth is nicely obscured to create suspense and tension for the audience. We're wondering what exactly happened, and yet some important questions even as the credits roll are left unanswered. Worthy of it's award and one of the better movies of late.
Widely acclaimed as one of the best films of 2011, A Separation was released in my country with quite a delay, but I could finally confirm the virtues from this Iranian movie, whose deceptively simple screenplay hides devastating reflections about the human nature, not to mention a very interesting look to the "normal" life in Iran, a country which might be misunderstood by the inhabitants of the Western world. Having said that, I liked this film more because of its cultural content than because of its screenplay, and I think it was a bit overrated.As I mentioned in the previous paragraph, one of the main reasons why I liked A Separation pretty much is because it introduced me to the daily life of Iranian people, who are much more "Westernalized" than I imagined, but still subject to the omnipresent influence of religion in every aspect of their existence. Independently from the family drama which impulses the film, I think that the most important function from A Separation is as a "demystification" of the Islamic culture which, thanks to the cinema and TV, has surely taken much more exotic and sinister dimensions in the minds from the rest of the world (specially to those of us who consume abundant quantities of North American popular entertainment). Needless to say that that doesn't only reflect the natural environment from A Separation, but also its solid screenplay, which simultaneously finds the differences which separate us from the characters, and the similarities which connect us to them, regardless of the part of the world we are in.As for the formal story of A Separation, I really appreciated the fact that it ignored the schemes from commercial cinema in order to employ an organic and realistic development of events and decisions which mold the characters' destiny. In that aspect, A Separation isn't like other family dramas...and however, it covers the same narrative field without using dramatic clichés to make us feel the emotions and conflicts from the characters. The performances are perfect, and one of the main reasons why this movie works is because we perceive the characters as real people from the first scene. Meanwhile, director Asghar Farhadi shows an excellent handling of cameras, locations and scene choreographs, but without unnecessary outshine; I would almost say that A Separation looks like a documentary, but I don't want to give the impression that it belongs to the "simulated documentary" niche, because it's not like that...the sensation of realism and immediate presence is precisely due to the fact that the camera doesn't hinder nor is noticed. We are in the same places the characters are, and that can occasionally feel uncomfortable...Nevertheless, I have to say that I couldn't understand some details from the story completely well because of my ignorance of some aspects from the Iranian society (for example, I never understood whether the "lenders" have an official influence in judicial processes, or if that's just an instance of governmental corruption). Besides of those "cultural holes" (which are naturally my fault), I found some moments repetitive, which I think could have been deleted without making the film loose the impact, at the same time that would have made the movie a bit more agile. However, A Separation definitely deserves a recommendation, and even though I enjoyed the cultural experience more, I can't deny that the film is very good regarding screenplay, performances and direction.


                
I'm having a hard time reviewing this film. I just can't help weighing my reaction to films against the consensus. It seems shallow, because, the thing is, I found this to be a very good film, but, compared to the general reaction, I found it merely that and not "OMG BEST MOVIE EVERRRR!!!!" The film is quite complex. Nader (Peyman Moadi) and Simin (Leila Hatami) have reached an impasse in their marriage. She wants to leave the country with her daughter, but Nader cannot consider it at this point, because he's taking care of his disabled, Alzheimer's suffering father. After Simin leaves Nader, he must find someone to take care of his father while he is at work and his daughter is at school. Having little money with which to hire someone, he hits upon a desperate, pregnant woman, Razieh (Sareh Bayat), whose husband, Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini), is unemployed. Hodjat is the one Nader wants to take care of his father (Razieh is, for religious reasons, not allowed to physically engage the old man when he needs to use the bathroom or whatever), but Razieh must do it for the first few days. Unfortunately, she's unable to handle to huge responsibilities that come with the job, and she quickly runs into some horrible troubles. Those horrible troubles lead to other horrible troubles, and soon she and her husband are in court suing Nader, with Nader counter-suing them. In some ways, the film plays like a really good episode of Iranian Law & Order. That's definitely of great interest, because Iranian courts are quite different than our own (some may say more corrupt, but, honestly, probably not by much; I think a lot of this situation would play identically if it happened in the United States). While the issues presented are quite interesting, and the moral and class issues are entertaining to contemplate, I had some fundamental problems with the story. First, no matter which way you slice it, Simin comes off as a terrible human being. Nader would have agreed to leave with her and their daughter if he hadn't been forced to take care of his father. Presumably, if Simin was still with Nader, she'd be the one caring for the old man. Now, we all know how much that would suck, but Simin really couldn't help take care of the father for a year or two until he passed? Instead, she dumps the entire crappy situation on her husband (and daughter, whom she wants to steal away, too) to deal with on his own. The film never provides Simin with a realistic reason for making this decision, instead treating her like she's being reasonable, just because the director wants to seem unbiased. And then there's the whole issue of the lower class Razieh and Hodjat. Without spoiling the story, I must say, I was always entirely on Nader's side for the whole court case. Sure, he made some poor decisions, but the accusations against him are fairly unjust. The film gives him some baggage when he lies about a key element of the story, but, really, the lies seem pretty minor compared to the other side's lies. It's all very intriguing, but, I must ask, where is this "BEST FILM EVER!" stuff coming from? It's very blandly filmed in a hand-held documentary style, with maybe only one or two good shots and edits. The performances are pretty good, especially Peyman Moadi. All in all, though, good, but nothing revolutionary.


                
This film is about an Iranian woman who asks for divorce from her husband, and its resultant repercussions."A Separation" starts off very intense, as the woman fiercely battles for a divorce in front of a judge. She does not fear the authority, even if the culture and social norms are against her. This remarkable opening is impressive, and I can safely say that this momentum is maintained throughout the rest of the film The plot is followed by a battle of morality and self interest. The two couples concerned all react differently to the situation, sparking an interesting character analysis. What seemingly decent individuals would do to protect their honour and self interest, and how far desperate individuals would fight for perceived justice. These complex character portrayals are so engrossing and through provoking. There is not a moment of slack. The ending twist is surprising, and adds to the brilliance of this film. "A Separation" is a must watch film.


                
*Spoilers Contained Within*The first hour or so of this film had me a bit skeptical of the high praise lavished on this film- the plot seemed to trudge along with no real twists or surprises. Yet director Asghar Farhadi is no slouch and knows exactly why every scene plays out for the exact duration that it does, and the pay-offs come in the second hour.Still, this isn't just a typical suspense film where the trick lies in the "reveal" of the third act, as those reveals are only one piece of the puzzle. Indeed, my impression is that the moral ambiguity brimming under the surface as a result of the narrative twists and turns is the real substance of the film. No character is without his or her foibles- even the relatively innocent children make decisions that arguably make complicated matters even more labyrinthine. Because of this, the viewer can never truly be sure which character to side with and I suspect this is one reason why it was initially hard for me to become engrossed in the movie. That the filmmakers managed to create an engaging story in which each character makes complicated/morally tenuous decisions for completely understandable reasons is a major feat- I can think of only a handful of movies lacking a protagonist to "root for," while still utterly engaging their audience, and even fewer still which do so successfully.There's a lot to digest after the film, though no big action scenes or Oscar-baity breakdowns. The issues raised may be indicative of the issues facing Iranian society, but can be generalized to reflect societal issues in any community globally. The acting is also top-notch and not overly showy and I feel it benefits from not featuring any recognizable actors (to an American audience, at any rate) in more fully immersing the viewer.This isn't a knockout film that wows and dazzles, but it is an intricately built work that deftly pulls viewers' allegiances from one character to another in an incredibly understated way.
its a film by asghar farhadi.he is e one best Iranian directors now and in this film we can see he's progress so clear.In he's two previous film's we think about a sin or mistake and after see the film we think about the others reaction's but in here we are in our life and we can feel all of the peoples who live in the story. we can feel "Terme" and farhadi could show his choice and we can enjoy of see that. but about the vote I see some of IMDb's user's are surprised and some of them are nervous ,i want to say to them Iran have a feeling people and today we have so political space about all of issues.This film is on of most political issues who this vote is a reaction about that who cant decrease the value of if it.


                
2012 Academy award winner for best foreign language picture, Iranian social drama A SEPARATION follows the legal struggle between apparently wealthy, middle class Nader (Peyman Moadi) and housekeeper Razieh (Sareh Bayat), after a dispute leads to tragic consequences. Recently separated from wife Simin (Leila Hatami), juggling a career and responsibility to his 11 year old daughter, and caring for his alzheimer's stricken father, Nader is a man with a very full plate. Razieh is equally burdened by her pregnancy and the need to earn money following her husband's redundancy, while her incredibly devout religious beliefs only seem to make things more difficult. Ultimately when their two lives clash, such a frustrating situation is born that the film is at times exhausting to watch, yet always completely compelling.A SEPARATION is a glimpse into a world not often seen by foreign audiences, the day to day minutiae of life in relatively affluent Iranian society, where class and religious beliefs come into conflict in unexpected ways. There's something so absurd and darkly humorous about so many of the realities these people must endure, particularly in regards to religion, yet never does the film feel phony or forced. As each character gets drawn into the dilemma more and more and the blame game spirals out of control, so too does the narrative style constantly circle back on itself while never nearing any kind of resolution. A SEPARATION is maddening by design, representative of what seems to be an incredibly intricate and baffling bureaucratic system, compounded by archaic religious doctrine and difficult social politics. It's by no means an easy film, but for anyone willing to step outside their comfort zone, it's a rewarding experience, with much to take in and no doubt discuss afterwards.tinribs27.wordpress.com


                
One of the best film in iran with a strong drama
Shahab Hosseini is a one of the best actor in iran
i love this film


                
This movie is so realistic and well acted by all performers that we even lose the impression of watching a fiction movie and feel that we are peering indeed into the houses and offices of real people. The plot bais is very simple. In modern Iran a wife wants to go abroad for proffessional motives and wants her husband to go with her. He doesn't want to go because he must stay to take care of his father who has got Alzheimer disease. The wife then asks for a divorce in court and leaves to stay with her parents. They have a young daughter for whom this situation becomes a psychological problem. The husband must hire a woman to take permanent care of his father. The situation however gets too complicated by mutual accusations: the man accusing her of having abandoned his father for some time at a given moment and he fell to the ground when alone and hurt himself and also of having stolen money from there; the woman accuses him of having pushed her out of the house which made her to fall on the stairs and suffer an abortion since she was pregnant. This brings all of them to the court of justice and other people enter in scene including the woman's husband who didn't know she had been hired to take care of the old man. The plot develops itself in severel conflicts of lies and truths and sayings and retractions that lead to severe somewhat unexpected complications. Since we are in a Muslim country where most people are deeply religious the invocations of and oaths on the Koran are frequent.
A movie full of realistic authenticity in terms of people, scenes and situations.


                
I would be hard pressed to come up with another movie that keeps the viewer so conflicted and anxious about the characters over the course of it's run time. There's literally no down time to catch a breather here because virtually every scene involves the principal players bickering with each other, over matters that are not trivial. I was particularly intrigued by the daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi, daughter of director Asghar Faradi), caught between two parents who can't come to terms over mother Simin's (Leila Hatami) desire to leave Iran for a better life, and father Nader (Peyman Noadi), who harbors a strong sense of duty to remain and care for his own, Alzheimer's afflicted father.Following the incident with housekeeper Razieh (Sareh Bayat), Termeh acts as her father's conscience, constantly prodding him with questions about what happened and his culpability in Razieh's miscarriage. Though her best advice is for Nader to tell the truth in court, it was with great insecurity that she appeared before the judge to answer questions about what she knew or had observed or overheard among the various parties involved. She answered honestly about knowledge of a doctor's phone number shared between her tutor and Razieh, but for all that, she was able to evade the question of whether her father knew about Razieh's pregnancy, because the judge never asked her about it. That knowledge about the pregnancy was crucial to the judge's understanding of what happened and how he would deal with the case. So in effect, Termeh did not follow her own advice and was severely conflicted over her decision.As good and as tightly scripted this story was about the conflicts between the parties, the primary thing that bothered me about it was how the plaintiff's side (Razieh and husband Hojjat), consistently talked to the defendant's side (Nader and Simin) throughout the story. Sometimes the conversation was cordial, at other times confrontational. That did not resemble the American system of justice that I'm familiar with, and I can only assume that strictures among opposing parties are different in some way in Iran. Perhaps because each side was operating without an attorney before the judge had something to do with it. Still, it was odd to see how the parties came together to put together a monetary settlement, even if Nader was not going to go along with it.The picture concludes with as much ambiguity as everything leading up to it, and the viewer is challenged to come up with their own interpretation of who Termeh will agree to live with following this ordeal. There are compelling reasons why she would pick one parent over the other that work for either choice, so the question remains, what would you do? I have my idea, but you'll have to watch the film to come up with your own.
And I ran, I ran so far away, I just ran, I ran all night & day, I couldn't get away<U+0085> Sorry to get all "Flock of Seagulls" on you in the beginning of my film review of the Iranian foreign film "A Separation", but I had to since there will be a flock of puns in this review as there normally are in all my movie reviews. "A Separation" has received mucho critical acclaim and even received Best Foreign Language Film and Best Original Screenplay Oscar nominations. I thought the movie was very well-crafted by Writer-Director Asghar Farhadi and was very deserving of its Best Foreign Language Oscar nomination, but I would not separate "A Separation" as one of the best screenplays of the year; so yea, I do not think it was worthy of its Best Original Screenplay nomination. Hey "A Separation" lovers- before you separate from my review, please let me explain why. Before I do that, I have to do the "explain the movie plot thing" in my review. "A Separation" is primarily about Nader and Simin, an Iranian couple on the verge of a separation (ya, that is the title of the movie) because Simin says that she wants to flee from Iran to a better land, and Nader does not want to join his cousin Ralph Nader in America and therefore wants to stay put in Iran to take care of his ailing father. Due to the separation, Nader hires the deeply-religious Razieh to take care of his father. An argument between Nader and Razier on the caring of the father turns "A Separation" into a tailspin of turmoil for the characters involved. Director Asghar Farhadi directs this downward spiral with cerebral supremacy an authenticity; I did enjoy Farhadi's direction far more than his screenplay, which was solid but not of Oscar nomination material due to its basic verbal exchange between the film's characters. Peyman Maadi and Leila Hatami excelled with their starring performances as Nader and Simin. And teen actress Sarina Farhadi was astounding as their teenage daughter Termeh, who does not want to be the Termehnator of her parent's marriage. I am going to give you the good fortune of a separation from my puns as I end this review, but please do not separate yourself from "A Separation" viewing. **** Good


                
Going strictly by its press releases, one might conclude that the Oscar-winning "A Separation" is mainly about the difficulties Iranian couples face in procuring a divorce. But that turns out to be a fairly small part of the movie, actually. In fact, on a political level, the film is more of an indictment of a legal system wherein a person who inadvertently causes a woman to have a miscarriage can be charged with the murder of that child.But politics and social reform take a back seat in the movie to its human drama, as writer/director Asghar Farhadi provides us with a naturalistic tale of ordinary, decent people trying - but often failing - to lead ordinary, decent lives in a world too often ruled by the cruel exigencies of random chance.Simin (Leila Hatami) is seeking a divorce from her husband, Nader (Peyman Moaddi). It's not that she really wants a divorce; it's that she wants the two of them to move out of the country with their 11-year-old daughter, Termeh (Sarina Fahadi), to seek a more promising future for themselves somewhere else, but Nader wants to stay in the country to take care of his father who is suffering from Alzheimer's. However, the judge deems that there are not sufficient grounds in this case to grant a divorce. When Simin moves back in with her parents, Nader is forced to hire a woman (Sareh Bayat) to take care of his father during the day while he's at work. It is at that point that the real trouble begins.I don't want to give much more of the plot away than that; suffice it to say, the movie is a realistic drama made up of characters who are neither heroes nor villains, sinners nor saints. There's plenty of blame to go around for what happens in the story - and at times it feels a bit like an episode of Adults Behaving Badly - but Farhadi always make us aware of just how flawed but well-intentioned these wholly recognizable figures are. Their customs and religious beliefs may seem a bit foreign to Western eyes, but the issues of marital discord, of caring for an elderly parent, of trying but often failing at being a role model for one's children, and of refusing to accept the consequences of one's actions are universal in their scope and nature.There's a certain redundancy in the narrative and an occasional flatness in the storytelling, but excellent performances and a bravely inconclusive, lady-or-the-tiger fadeout hold us in the movie's thrall.


                
Very well made with the look and feel of, what we Brits call, a 'Kitchen Sink Drama'. Lots of very naturalistic dialogue showing people how they actually are. Great performances all round, particularly from Peyman Moadi as Nader, Leila Hatami as Simin, Sareh Bayat as Razieh and Shahab Hosseini as Hojjat. I should also give a special mention for the young Sarina Farhadi, who played the daughter Termeh with great feeling.Although it was very good I did have a couple of problems with it. First of all it was very heavy on dialogue which made keeping up with the subtitles a little tricky. More than once I had to go back so I could properly understand a passage. Secondly, I did find it a little too long, it has quite a slow pace but I felt certain things could have been moved along slightly quicker. By the end I was looking at my watch<U+0085> never a good sign. Having said that I did find it quite compelling with an interesting insight into the legal system of a country we know little about here in the West. Over all, despite these few shortcomings, still a worthy watch with some excellent performances<U+0085> RECOMMENDED.My Score 8.3/10IMDb Score: 8.6/10 (based on 56,371 votes at the time of going to press).MetaScore: 95/100: (Based on 41 critic reviews provided by Metacritic.com at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score: 99/100 (based on 141 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score: 93/100 'Liked It' (based on 14,327 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog: Thoughts of a SteelMonster.


                
This film is beautifully shot, acted and directed. The characters are complex and almost universally decent and sympathetic. It starts quite slowly, piling detail upon detail of the characters' lives onto the story. Eventually I realized what the main conflict was and I was drawn into it.All that said, in the end I was a bit bewildered as to what point the director/writer was making. He's so careful to be even-handed and fair to all of the characters that I'm not sure where his film finally lands, or what it is saying.I have strong expectations of a theme emerging in a film like this, but so far, just a few hours after having viewed it, I'm not sure what that theme is--something about the dilemma of lying for good reason, or the difference between the law and justice.Maybe someone here can help me out.


                
A SeparationThe worst part of separating from your spouse is deciding who'll get to ignore the kids during the week and who gets to on the weekend.Fortunately, the offspring caught in-between her parents' separation in this drama is desired by both sides.A marriage is torn apart when Simin (Leila Hatami) decides she wants to flee Iran so her daughter (Sarina Farhadi) can have a better life.But her husband Nader (Peyman Moaadi) is resolved to care for his father who has dementia.With Simin gone, Nader hires a caretaker (Sareh Bayat), who later accuses him of causing her miscarriage when he expels her for stealing.With Nader facing murder charges, Simin must return and defend him.Using marital separation to analyze Iran's religious, sexual and class divisions, A Separation is an intense and indelible experience.Besides, estranged wives always return home once they start to miss their husband's farts. (Green Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca


                
a great indeed excellent film full of idea that keep the film moving and grips the (i.e. this) viewer. It has a twist in every other scene, -- quite unusual as one associates 'twists' in film with the horror/thriller genres - But this is a brilliantly told story, as realistic as it could be, and like I say, rolls along like a dynamo. Some of the critics on this site seem to expect more from it because it's a foreign language production or a 'world' movie; but that's subjective. If I was Iranian, and I went to the local cinema and saw this I would be very proud. Also, I disagree with those who say it's sexist; the male characters portrayed are flawed to say the least.When I say it's 'realistic' I admit I can't say how accurate the portrait of the Iranian justice system is, I have never been there, but I was left with an indelible insight. Not just into that but also human relations


                
With the massive availability of entertainment at the click of a mouse, all national cinemas need to innovate in order to stay in the race as the competition to produce 'excellent films' is becoming tougher day by day. This is also true about many Asian cinemas which have hitherto relied heavily on exotic elements in order to win awards at film festivals as well as viewers in cinemas. At this juncture, it is a positive news that Iranian cinema has moved from its ubiquitous depiction of children. This is a constructive development for those who closely monitor its development as there are other better stories to be told than producing feature films about the lives of cute little ones. After watching the initial five minutes of "A Separation" nobody would fail to understand the reason why a large part of Western world got interested in it. For a vast majority, it clicked as it has 'divorce' as its main focus. However, the film doesn't waste any time to change its principal focus to concentrate more on mistakes made by two protagonists : a man who cares more about his father and his independent wife who has her own beliefs. What is important to note is that both the parties are equally right about issues related to modernity and tradition. The film presents a primordial ethical dilemma : What to choose, How to choose and Why to choose ? More and more Asian societies are confronted with dilemma of this kind because as small children, it is extremely difficult to take proper care of old people. As a screen writer, director Asghar Farhadi has superb imagination as there are various twists and turns in the story but his film is dotted with moments where minor yet crucial things don't seem to fit well. Like all films, "A Separation" too has its fair share of glaring inconsistencies : How can a young girl child have the kind of maturity which one expects from grown up children especially in her manner of answering questions and putting questions ? How can a physically feeble old man suffering from Alzheimer's disease have the ability to go out all alone on a busy street ? Apart from these minor glitches, there are some scenes where deliberate padding is equally evident which somewhat lessens the seriousness of this film. For example : The adolescent girl reading a passage about class differences in Iranian society. Although the film is replete with 'dénouements', one better than the other, the film doesn't have any other "wow factor". Nevertheless, it succeeds in winning numerous hearts due to its humane subject matter. As a film is the subjective affair of viewers, it can be rightly said that generalizations wouldn't work in the case of his film as all people have the right to behave in the manner which suits their personalities. In hindsight, this film is a grim reminder of all the family issues which the Western world seems to have forgotten. It doesn't shy away in presenting its philosophical underpinnings. It is as if all the 'ifs' and 'buts' of ordinary people's mundane lives have been rolled in a single story to deal with ethical issues which director Asghar Farhadi valiantly attempts to tackle. On a lighter note, if a humorous "Making Of" is appended to end credits, there is all possibility of seeing everybody involved in the production of this film especially actors laughing with joy over the phenomenal success achieved by this film. Finally, no review will do justice to this film if one doesn't mention the plight of two innocent, little girls who have to suffer a lot in this film due to their parents' capricious as well as irresponsible behavior. May the children never suffer anywhere in the world !!!!


                
