Caught "A Separation" in Amsterdam last night, fully unprepared for its greatness. I hadn't been swept off my feet for a while, but this Iranian Hitchcockian drama sucked us in for 123 minutes and left us very, very impressed.I'm mainly writing this review to assure every non-Iranian IMDb-reader that you absolutely SHOULD see "A Separation". I will be shocked if this movie doesn't win an Academy Award. The acting is great, and the script is probably the best I've seen in five years. The genius of Asghar Farhadi's story is that it piles on the tension and drama without resorting to fireworks, trickery or shock and awe plot effects. It also manages to perfectly balance the plights of several protagonists. Very few screenwriters have this capacity.If this movie reminds me of anything, it is "Ladri di Biciclette" (Bicycle Thieves), which has a similar seemingly "simple" story setup. But then "A Separation" is much more developed, much more complex, much richer. Go see it.


                
And it comes from Iran. The first thing you read on the screen is "In the name of God". Well, anyway it's the best story, the best cutting, the best actors you've seen for long. And few films are that stomach-turning, although there's hardly any physical violence.A wife wants to go abroad. Her husband can't because he wants to take of his senile father. The wife moves and the husband hires a woman to look after his father.And then the screw turns, although most of the story takes place in everyday Iranian life. The center of it all is perhaps the daughter, who is nearly teared apart. But it takes time until you realize that. Anyway, I can almost guarantee you sit the film through, until the final post-texts has passed.So amazingly clever.


                
I've never seen an Iranian move but the country has a rich movie culture that has broken through with A Separation which won the Golden Bear, best actor and best actress awards at Berlin earlier this year. And I can understand why.Don't go expecting lavish cinematography, this is shot on hand held cameras, or certainly on fairly shaky tripods throughout, often under the harsh glare of fluorescent lighting that throws a watery blue cast over the action at times. But that is highly appropriate because this movie has a creeping sense of voyeurism throughout as the intensely private happenings of a family, and perhaps country, in turmoil steadily build up into a furious climax.The plot is complex to say the least, but one can keep up by fully concentrating on each twist and turn of this micro-thriller.The oppression of the Koran in this staunchly Muslim country carries a heavy burden throughout the film and it's the most frequently used prop as one of the characters in particular, the victim of a central crime, seeks spiritual guidance throughout. It's importance and oppression is palpable.The story concerns the vain attempts of a wife (superbly acted by Leila Hatami) to leave Tehran with her husband to improve the life of their 12 year old daughter. But the husband cannot force himself to leave his Alzheimer's afflicted father behind and so stalemate ensues and divorce becomes the only alternative, this results in a separation and so the father (played to perfection by Peyman Moaadi) is forced to hire a nurse to look after his desperately sad father during the day.One thing leads to another and inadvertently the husband pushes the nurse so that she ends up aborting her child.This sets off a horrendous chain of events that I will not reveal here for fear of spoiling it for you.Suffice to say the tension mounts throughout the movie and culminates in a heartbreaking decision for the couple's 12 year old daughter that is resolved in a way that Michael Hanneke would applaud vigorously.This movie deals with important themes of family loyalty (more than love), duty, the oppression and folly of religion and pride.Without overbearing pride much of the consequences of this film would not happen. Time and again you silently shout at the screen "just do the right thing and this mess will be resolved." They never do.It could almost be played for laughs so farcical are the the situations the main protagonists find themselves in. But this is no comedy, far from it. It's a tearjerker and feels bitterly real, believable and often futile.It's as good as its billing. See it.
Have you ever been watching a movie where you could not take your eyes of the screen, not even for one second to take a zip of your wine? This movie is for me a thriller, even though labeled a drama. The shoots were artistically taken; I see a beauty in a scene when a woman is walking with her long vein downstairs. Couple arguing in front of a judge where when she was asked whether the man beats her because she wants a divorce saying: no, he is a good man, but I want a divorce.This is a universal story set in Iran. Universal human emotion set in an Islamic country. It is difficult for me to pinpoint what the theme(s) of this film. Yes, it begins with a separation of a couple after years of marriage and having a daughter in stake. But that was only a trigger. A trigger to a journey that seeks the boundaries of human existences. A journey where things are not black and white, but somewhere in between. The characters have their flaws but I somehow feel sympathy for them, even for the one who is violent. Perhaps the movie is about asking question what is a good person, in a situation where it is very difficult to be one.
I'll just get to the point,if you are previewing for something to watch, there is no way you can play the 1st 3 minutes of this film and stop. It hooks you straight in, and for me, I LOVE that in films.the story is just AMAZING, and the way it's portrayed, the director makes sure you are following behind with EVERY MINUTE OF THE FILM, as it unwinds. the casting is just brilliant, as if they were just born to play this film and then die. they achieve in captivating the emotion of the story VERY well. EVERY SINGLE ACTOR int this film did a great job.what's even more amazing, it's how low budget this film is (300K us$).as a conclusion; 3 good things about this film; (1) the story-line, well written and well scripted (2) the cast, well selected, and amazing acting (3) the setting, and the lack of a score! (yes, & it was a great idea!)


                
Wow, i haven't caught a show that's been more real and intense in years. The acting and directing for this film made me feel like i was watching a documentary. That in itself is laudable. As the story unfolds you the viewer is left to guess the plot and to second guess yourself as to who the protagonists or antagonists are in the film. The film manages to grasp and reflect human nature which is complex and multi-faceted. You'd be left guessing and predicting the plot while trying to understand the characters and the choices they make. The film also aids us in understanding the roles of religion and culture... and more into human characteristics that go beyond those. A great film that i'm still thinking about and the acting and directing really shone through it all to help make this film so realistic and personal to the audience. Two thumbs up and no wonder it has been so highly rated!


                
A Separation is not only a film with a good story – but it also shows a different image of Iran and the people who live there. We always have a wrong image of them because the occidental media want us to think that they are different from us (the occidentals) – but they are not. They are people who work, who pick up the children at the school, who have personal and familiar issues – just like we have. It really should have a good distribution to change this way of thinking.The film is beautifully made and the characters are built like real humans – not superficial or predictable as we have been seeing in a lot of mainstream films. They are strong - in their personalities and emotions. But, as real humans, they do something that we usually do: lie. The film - and the audience will only discover this at the end - has its whole conflict based on this issue. Just to show us how one lie can lead to misunderstandings that we don't have any control.Overall, it is a simple film but complex at the same time – simple because it is not a big production, but complex because it deals with so many human emotions that even us in real live sometimes can't deal with.I recommend.


                
One of the best movies I've seen in the last couple of years. It just shows you that life is not only black and white. Great characterization, one of those movies where you don't have good and evil characters. It is so deep and well developed, simply filled with greatness and if there was more justice in this world this movie should have won more than "only" one Oscar. Every character is well implemented in the story and it just keeps you in front of the screen until the end. Please see this movie, you won't regret it :) Iran seems to have very talented actors and directors. I'd give 10 to the acting, especially to the young girl Somayah and Peyman Moadi as well. I'm glad I discovered this actor and I hope so to see him in more movies. Really really talented. I promise you, you'll enjoy it. Prepare for the greatness and please see it in the cinema because you'll enjoy it more.


                
"Love does not consist of gazing at each other, but in looking together in the same direction." ~Antoine de Saint-Exupery The ability to see events from different perspectives is one of the most important elements of a successful relationship, whether it involves a married couple, a parent and child, or a group of nations. Warring parties are always convinced that they have right or, in some cases, God on their side. To them, every action they take is fully justified and every act the other party takes is sinister. The failure to see other people's perspectives is in full view in Asqhar Farhadi's brilliant A Separation, winner of the Best Foreign Film award at the Golden Globes and nominated for an Oscar in the same category. Farhadi does not ask us to choose sides but to observe how decisions made with good intentions and for the alleged benefit of others often have the opposite effect.The film opens in a courtroom in Tehran as Simin (Leila Hatami) speaks to a judge, unseen by the camera, asking him to grant her a divorce from Nader (Peyman Moaadi) her husband of fourteen years. Simin wants to leave the country and take her 11-year-old daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi), with her to seek better opportunities abroad. Nader, a bank employee, however, will not leave Iran because of his responsibility to care for his elderly father (Ali-Asghar Shahbazi) coping with Alzheimer's disease. Even though they have been married for fourteen years, there does not seem to be any hint of compromise. Unable to obtain the divorce because the judge deems the issues not "serious" enough, the couple agrees to separate with Simin going to her mother's house and Termeh staying with her father.To help care for his aging father, the well-off Nader hires Razieh (Sareh Bayat), a pregnant, less affluent young woman with a four-year-old daughter. Whether or not Nader knows she is pregnant will become a contentious issue later in the film. Razieh, a devout Muslim, who has not told her husband Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini) about her employment, is conflicted when she has to change the clothes of the incontinent old man, and feels compelled to ask an Islamic authority if it would be considered a sin. Things become even worse when Nader returns from work and finds his father lying on the floor barely breathing with Razieh nowhere in sight. When Razieh returns home after she claimed she had to do an important errand, an angry Nader accuses her of stealing money and asks her to leave immediately.Resistant to leave, he pushes her out the front door, causing the pregnant woman to fall down the stairs. Events begin to spin out of control when Razieh has a miscarriage and her irate husband takes Nader to court for murder. As the case is presented in a preliminary hearing before a judge, the divide between the families escalates and each person is guilty of concealing the truth in order to protect themselves or a family member. A Separation may sound like a melodramatic soap opera, but it is far from it. It is a powerful, realistic, and beautifully acted drama full of constant tension and uncertainty, a film in which each person must confront the fact that the walls they have erected have not led to nurturing relationships.While the film is not overtly political, an underlying sub-text is the depiction of a male-dominated autocratic theocracy, a political system based on force, oppression and the alienation between gender and class. Eager to enhance their daughter's education, the couple hired Miss Ghahraii, a teacher (Merila Zare'i) from her school to come to their flat to provide coaching for her upcoming exams, but it is painfully clear to see how much more she is respected than Razieh, who stays in the kitchen during family gatherings. As the adults fight over perceived injustices, the children, as is often the case, endure the most pain, conflicted by their love and dependence on their parents and their desire for morality and justice.While Termeh seemingly hides her pain, her face reflects the terrible burden her parents have put on her by their inability to see the world from other points of view, the kind of tragedy that has plagued mankind for centuries. As Farhadi has wisely said "What I hope is that the viewer will not know whose victory to wish for." When responsibility, love, and sacrifice are not present, there can be no victory for anyone.


                
¨What is wrong is wrong, no matter who said it or where it's written.¨ Critics have been raving about this Iranian film and after finally getting the chance to see it I can see why they were so pleased with this social drama. It is a very well told story with great performances. Filmed mostly with a hand-held camera, the movie feels very authentic and real. At moments you forget you are seeing a movie, and feel like you are watching a real family with real problems. Iranian director, Asghar Farhadi, knows what he is doing and delivers a near perfect film. He captures a glimpse of an Iranian family and lets the camera tell the story. What at first seems like a movie that's going to focus on the separation between the husband and wife later becomes more complicated and interesting when the main character is charged for murder and we see the way the Iranian law system works. We also experience how the entire situation affects the different members of the family. I also liked the final reveal near the ending as I wasn't sure how the story was going to pay out, and it worked really well. Most foreign films tend to deal with social issues since these movies are cheaper to make and they don't count with the costly productions that Hollywood films have to create spectacular visual effects and action scenes. That is why more emphasize is put on the storytelling in order to capture the viewer's attention. The storytelling here is the center of the movie and we truly care for what the characters are going through. We can relate to these people despite their different culture and beliefs. They have to deal with similar issues that most families need to deal with, and that is what makes A Separation a universal movie.Nader (Peyman Moadi) and Simin (Leila Hatami) are getting a divorce because Simin wants to leave Iran and find better job opportunities in another country. They have been waiting over a year for their Visa to go through and once they finally get it Nader decides he doesn't want to leave the country because he has to take care of his father (Ali Asghar Shahbazi) who has Alzheimer. Simin won't leave without her daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi), but she wants to stay with her father since she knows that if she stays her mother won't leave. Simin ends up moving to her mother's home and since she's gone Nader has to find someone that can take care of his father while he is at work. He hires a pregnant lady named Razieh (Sareh Bayat) who stays at the house while he's off to work. Razieh is very religious and she doesn't feel like she should be working at an adult male's home, but she has to take the job since her husband, Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini), is in debt and without work. One day Nader arrives home only to find the door locked and no one answering. He finds a spare key and enters his home only to find his father lying on the floor tied to the bed. Nader unties his father and gives him respiration and fortunately he survives. In the middle of the chaos, Razieh returns to the house and Nader is so furious that he pushes her out of the door. The next day Nader is called to court since Razieh loses her baby and wants to charge him for murder. This is where the mystery of what really happened begins as both sides try to prove their point.A Separation recently won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign film and rightfully so because it's a powerful film. It will probably be one of the nominated films for the Oscars, and as much as I liked this movie I still didn't find it as powerful as other foreign films I've seen such as City of God, The Prophet, and The Secret in Their Eyes. This Iranian film is still great, but I don't think it would be on my top 5 list of the year. It's still a strong and memorable movie and probably the best foreign film of the year. The performances are also really great, I really loved these characters and they had real good material to work with. For those people who think everything in Iran has to do with terrorism, then they should definitely see this movie and realize that most Iranians are just normal citizens like everyone else. The one thing that director Farhadi does seem to criticize about his country is the way that the law system works. There aren't any lawyers involved, every man has to defend himself in front of a judge like if they were having a normal conversation. A Separation is a great film and no wonder it became the first ever film to win three Bears from the Berlin International Film Festival. This film is worth checking out, and I would really like to see Farhadi's previous work since I wasn't familiar with him before this.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/


                
'A SEPARATION': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five) This year's likely winner for Best Foreign-Language film at the Academy Awards (in which it's also nominated for best original screenplay) is this Iranian drama about a couple living in Iran who separate and the complicated problems that arise because of it. It was written, produced and directed by Asghar Farhadi. The movie stars Peyman Maadi and Leila Hatami as the couple and Sareh Bayat and Sarina Farhadi in key supporting roles. The movie is an all around grade A production and a powerful realistic drama about arguments and pride and how they can easily get the best of us.The movie revolves around Nader (Maadi) and Simin (Hatami) and their 11-year-old daughter Termeh (Farhadi). The three live in Tehran with Nader's father who has Alzheimer's disease. Simin wants to travel abroad in order to provide better opportunities for Termeh but Nader feels obligated to stay in Iran and take care of his father. So when Simin leaves home Nader is forced to hire a caregiver named Razieh (Bayat) to take care of his dad while he's at work. Many more complications and arguments arise when Razieh is hurt on the job.The movie is said to be an honest and accurate depiction of life in Iran but I found it to be a very honest and accurate depiction of people and life in general, showing how similar we all really are. The disagreements that so easily get out of control in this movie are ones I think we can all relate to. The characters in this movie represent so many in many ways. That's where I think the movie's biggest strength is. The acting, writing and directing are all top notch and combine together to give a very real portrayal of human life and how we all interact with each other.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vj0JA1sJBzw


                
Asghar Farhadi amazes me. When I first heard about "About Elly" I wasn't sure what it was going to be like but when I sat down to watch the movie I was literally blown away by the writing, acting and the direction of course. Still, I wasn't sure if he could repeat the same success with "Nader and Simin" and yet again I was blown away."Nader and Simin" is more than anything an experience, pretty much like 10 by Abbas Kiarostami was but with acting taking the place of realism and striking even more powerful. The plot for me didn't matter, what did, was the settings, the court scenes and how fluent and realistic every character's actions or dialogs were. You feel for every character, you laugh and cry with all of them and still you may just as well hate them for no reason at all.There's also the often presented questions with no answers: Who's the girl going to choose? Who took the money? Who's to blame? and ... and the answer is clear as hell, who cares? As long as there's a great story to tell and an amazing two hours to spend on a splendid product, who really cares?All in all, I have to admit that this is cinema at its best and this movie isn't at least nominated for an Oscar for foreign language film then I'm definitely losing my whole faith in the Academy Awards for ignoring such a wonderful installment only because of political beliefs.


                
This film is highly recommended.Divorce is always a messy business. People who once loved now lash out at each other with an intensity that rivals the pain, hate tends to envelop each word, and every family members' lives are inexplicably changed. Sometimes time can heal the suffering and happiness can eventually be found, but that seems the rarest of commodities. In this year's well-earned Oscar-winning foreign film, A Separation, that possibility seems almost non-existent. Throughout our world, we rely on the court system to handle the legal and monetary matters and are left to personally handle the emotional toll as we access the damage we inflict on each other. Laws are made to protect its citizens from harm or injustice. And yet, sometimes these statutes have an opposite polarizing effect on its people. There was a time, in our own country, when women could not vote, alcohol was illegal, and education was deemed separate but equal. ( Granted, there still are disparities in our legal system, when same sex marriage is not sanctioned, woman's rights are again being questioned, and immigration laws are punishable, but let's try to stay on task. ) Any country must amend the laws and change its archaic rules if its society is to prosper. In this multi-layered drama, the Iranian court system is taken to task in a film so innovative and neo-realistic in its direct approach to a common problem experienced by many families. A Separation presents authentic characters with all of their human weaknesses suddenly thrown into dire situations that totally engage the movie-going audience in such a honest and straight forward way. In Asghar Farhadi's gripping Iranian import, the law sets up deliberate legal and moral repercussion in its separate but unequal treatment of a family caught in an unjust and emotional dilemma.Nader ( Peyman Maadi ) and Simin ( Leila Hatami ) are faced with problems that are tearing apart their marriage. Simin wants a better life for her daughter, Termeh, and wants to move away to another country while her disagreeing husband needs to care for his father who suffers from Alzheimers. Their break-up is inevitable, but the decision to separate leads to some devastating results. Nader hires a day nurse, Razieh ( Sareh Bayet ), an abused and deeply devout woman, to care for his father while he is working, never telling her hot- tempered husband Hodjat ( Shahab Hosseini ) of her plan. This arrangement leads to further complications amid the many secrets and lies compounded by everyone involved. Their strong personal will to survive a legal system bereft of any justice becomes a central issue in this compelling courtroom drama.These are flawed people faced with life and death decisions. The choices made by them have far-reaching cultural, political, and religious ramifications. Director Farhadi agilely sets up the plot and then purposely structures his film so that the viewer never really knows the exact circumstances that leads to the compounding of the issue at hand. His intricate screenplay has a Rashomon influence, as he edits the film to only show fragments of the case from differing points of view. This tends to complicate the viewer's own point of view as certain facts are left obscure and deliberately left to skew the outcome. ( There are some logistical factors that remain unexplained too.)That said, A Separation is still a thought-provoking and hard-hitting film, impeccably acted by its cast, especially Maadi as the proud and stubborn patriarch. Special kudos to Hatami and Bayet as the women caught up in this male dominated culture, trying to make sense of their purpose while protecting the children they love. The child actors also bring a wonderful naturalness to their roles. Farhadi's literate script examines their plight and ponders the ethical and religious connotations that weigh on its characters as they deal with truths and half-truths that, in turn, destroy each of their lives. Sometimes, the truth doesn't always set you free. A Separation is a must-see for any seriously-minded moviegoer. GRADE: B+NOTE: Visit my movie blog for more reviews: www.dearmoviegoer.com


                
1.The movie Challenges viewers by making lots of questions about "Law" , "Judgment" ,... in their minds which can obsess one's mind for quite a long time . These questions are formed in viewers' minds and it's remarkable that The answers are not direct and fulsome , in other words you can see a gray layer over the whole movie(There's no pure right and wrong) 2.The actors are completely into their roles and they represent classic roles so that they take viewers in the movie with themselves . "Asghar Farhadi" has been really cautious about all the roles and he's been able to depict the scenes very naturally and believably .3.The pace is normal , the scenes don't bore you or flash too quickly , and it should be considered as one of it's many good points that make it a brilliant movie .


                
Iranian writer/director Asghar Farhadi's A Separation is one of the best films, if not the best, of 2011. I totally loved it, and it moves to the top of my list of best films of the year. It's been nominated for two Oscars (best foreign film and best original screenplay), having already won a slew of other awards. A Separation is a small, carefully observed, exquisitely rendered motion picture about – well, it's about a lot of things.The title refers, most explicitly, to one of these: the depiction of an apparently irreconcilable disagreement between Nader, a thirty-ish bank officer, and his wife, Simin; their resulting separation; and the effect of all this on their family, including most particularly their daughter, Termeh, who's caught in the middle. The picture presents one of the most honest portrayals of a family's marital dissolution ever portrayed in a feature film. As a matrimonial lawyer, I know a little something about this.His wife gone, Nader hires a caretaker, Razieh, to take of his dad, while he is at work and Termeh is at school. Whereas Nader and Simin are educated, secular and solidly middle class (or perhaps upper middle class), Razieh is none of those things; her husband is an unemployed cobbler, she is devoutly religious, and she comes from a different cultural milieu entirely. Everyone speaks Farsi, but really, they do not speak the same language. Within a few days, Nader comes home early to find his father tied to his bed and Razieh absent. When she returns, an argument ensues, during which Razieh's reticence about the reason for her absence and Nader's angry refusal to allow her the opportunity to explain, culminates in her being fired. Nader has to literally throw her out of his flat. A lawsuit ensues.Communication and its limits are a major theme of the movie. Without honest, open communication, there can be no connection and no understanding, only misunderstanding. Misunderstanding breeds conflict, which impedes honesty and communication. Pretty soon there are multiple levels of separation: within the nuclear family, and by extension within the extended family of relatives, friends, and acquaintances (even Termeh's teacher gets drawn in); between the white collar and the blue-collar classes, between the secular and the devout and between people and their government (limited here to the judicial system – for political reasons).The film opens with Simin and Nader in domestic court, where each explains why his/her position is the most reasonable. Faryabi keeps the magistrate offscreen - the camera is where he would be - so the couple seem to be pleading directly to us. Later, there are several scenes at the courthouse, where we eavesdrop on the proceedings between Razieh and her husband on one hand versus Nader on the other. Accusations fly wantonly; Razieh's husband, a hothead, gets disturbingly yet credibly hotheaded; and the hearing officer, sweating, in shirtsleeves, tries to hold it together while seeking to winnow out the truth. But which truth, whose truth? From the start and throughout this perceptive and moving picture, our sympathies for the characters constantly shift, because we are getting acquainted with basically good people, acting badly at times, but trying to do the best they can under trying circumstances. There are no heroes, no villains. None of the characters are perfect, all are wholly believable. The actors dissolve into their roles in the most naturalistic way, so we forget they are actors.The themes of separation and impaired communication are augmented by the creative cinematography. Conversations occur through half-closed doors, characters are viewed through panes of glass, or in enclosed vehicles. We get extreme close ups of faces struggling with awful dilemmas: what do I say? Do I tell the truth? The whole truth? Then there is the haunting, heartbreaking final scene, back at the courthouse. - spoiler alert - Mom and Dad can't agree on custody. They both sorely love their daughter. The magistrate has asked Termeh if she has made a decision who she wants to live with. She has, but she doesn't want to say so in their presence. It's just too painful. Nader and Simin are asked to leave the room. They go out into the hall. They do not speak. Simin sits on one side of a glass partition, Nader is on the other. They wait. Eventually, the credits roll.Through the lives of these characters, through a relatively simple narrative, with the aid of an honest screenplay and great acting, photography and direction, Faryabi demonstrates a compassionate understanding of human behavior and the forces with which ordinary people sometimes must struggle, navigating between empathy and self-righteousness, principle and compromise, self-protection and honesty, anger and compassion, love and duty. He has given us a moving, thought provoking, intelligent masterpiece.For us in the US, there is another dimension of A Separation to savor. After months and years of political conversation about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and the extremism of the Islamic regime running that country, we tend to forget that this is a country of people. And these people, it turns out are remarkably like us, notwithstanding their government. Startling so, to my sensibility. They drive cars, they have jobs, they dress like us (notwithstanding the mandatory headscarves for the ladies and the occasional birqa), the furnishings in their flats and public buildings look pretty 'Western.' At several moments, we get glimpses of 'the people' of Iran as a community. When the caretaker, Razieh, almost faints on a bus, the reaction of the community is remarkably supportive, trying to help in an any way they can. Even the magistrate in the legal action between the families shows signs of compassion, constrained though he is by Shariah law. I do not know what I was expecting, but somehow this glimpse into urban Iranian life and of the Persian people was a fascinating and reassuring bonus.
Over the years, I have watched perhaps thousands of international films. And, I've come to be impressed by the films of three countries--France, Japan and, surprisingly, Iran. In fact, although I've seen far fewer Iranian films than either Japanese or French, the Iranian films have always been exceptional...always. Their track record with films you can see here in the States is amazing. Part of it is because the nation has produced Majid Majidi--a truly brilliant filmmaker who, oddly, has only received on Oscar nomination and no wins. Yet, easily, he could have won several times with such brilliant films as "Chidlren of Heaven", "The Color of Paradise", "The Willow Tree" and "Baran". I have also seen several other wonderful film by other Iranian directors. So, I was quite interested in seeing "A Separation" when it arrived at a local theater. And, I am glad I had a chance to see it.The film begins with a man and wife both seeing a judge (or more like a referee) to discuss a divorce. The wife wants to leave Iran (exactly why is never discussed, by the way--an interesting omission) but the husband is adamant--he won't leave his father, as the father has Alzheimer's. This is an odd reason to want a divorce and as the audience knew nothing about the family, it was easy to dislike the wife and side with the husband--especially since they have a daughter who is in the middle. But the wife insists--she WILL leave whether he divorces her or not.Most of the rest of the film centers on the husband. You have to feel for the guy--his wife insists on leaving, his father is in the mid-late stages of the disease and he is having a devil of a time finding someone to care for the man. His prayers seem to be answered when he finds a woman willing to watch him--and at the price he can afford. However, this is early in the film and there is LOTS to come. I'd say more about the plot, but there are so many surprises, I'd rather just leave it to you to see yourself.n The film is great to watch because there are so many surprises and so many situations where people are faced with very tough choices and yet they seem to make the wrong ones again and again--all due to stubbornness. Such simple things like apologizing or even talking out problems--all these seem beyond people. And, in the process, two children from two separate families are stuck in the middle--with HUGE pressures put on them by their parents. As a result of all this, I can guarantee that it's a film that will get you thinking and have a strong emotional impact. It's also a great film to see with friends because I could easily see the film stimulating a ton of discussion afterwords. Intelligent and very complex--the only reservation I have is that the film is unrelentingly sad and tough to watch. I could imagine some viewers just tiring of all this, as it's like an extended Bickerson's skit--without any jokes or levity--just anger, horrible decisions, selfishness and isolation. Sad but profound.


                
"A Separation" is a real life drama on the concept of the "family" , "responsibilities" and the "people". No matter where it took place, the movie touches everything in life that we even don't dare to talk about. The scenario is quite a gem that doesn't let you go anywhere, heart & soul.The story is about a man & a woman who're on the edge of separation, having only a girl aged 11 and the man's father with Alzheimer, a pregnant poor woman that tries to take care of him for money & her jobless husband.Things that are already on the edge of a breakdown gets worse with a few more unlucky issues and gets even worse for all.It is the people's behaviour on the consequences that makes you think all about it.Just watch it, no need for any other words....But be prepared on the decision of the 11 year old daughter...


                
What can i say this is absolutely a fantastic movie ....... all what i can say if you don't watch this one you will lose a fine piece of art . i gave it at first viewing 9 of 10 , i was hesitated about giving it 10, but on the second one i asked my self some questions : isn't it great ? , isn't directing is great ? , isn't acting great ? , does it have any goofs ?!!!!!!! and the answer to all of those questions was (no!) , this movie is flawless ..... it is very simple , very real even you wont be able to recognize that it is a movie if you don't see the title (A Separation) and the names of actors and the rest of stuff !!Hence , i have changed my vote to 10 (because it deserves it) i wont give it 9 for a reason that i couldn't find. Don't waste your time in reading reviews , do yourself a favor and watch this movie , for my humble opinion its highly recommended , it have only the chance to dislike those who don't appreciate fine art.


                
A Separation is a pretty decent movie, Very well made! The performances are brilliant by the entire cast. The story is not very focused on the TOPIC but its done on purpose, to get the attention of the audience. "ugly truth,sweet lies".....The story is pretty interesting and the script is also written wisely.The movie has a limited budget but it is exceptional business all over the world.... No doubt it will be getting attention in the award season and I hope it gets better recognition. The best part of the movie is its end. Its painful and heartbreaking ...... and that is where I got the idea of the movie when I thought of every thing as a child and I was glad they ended it this way...7.5 by me .... very good movie.


                
Farhadi is not only the best filmmaker in Iranian cinema of today, but he is also one of the most important currently active directors in the world. His last film before "A Separation", "About Eli" (original title: Darbareye Eli), was surely a very good film (perhaps even better than "A Separation"), but I had understood that I adore it much more than a very good film. After watching "A Separation" (Originally known as "Jodayiye Nader az Simin", literally means "The Separation of Nader and Simin"), I know why I respect these films so much.The reason is that Farhadi's movies are not the best of their genre; They seem the only films in their genre. Farhadi, An avant-garde director/auteur, both in content and style, is the inventor of situation dramas which are made in a way that you think you are watching a noir movie or a thriller. His instrument in shocking you is so simple; the reality. If Italian New-realists and Iranian great director, Abbas Kiarostami, used reality to gain the passions of the viewers, Farhadi used it to shock them. Unlike Michael Haneke, who uses the elements of horror and violence in his dramas, Farhadi uses simple daily behaviors of people to terrify the viewers from simple things which are really terrifying; things such as prejudice, anger, distances, egoism, misunderstanding, fear and perhaps the most important one, lie.Perhaps the most interesting thing, is that the reality which is shown by Farhadi, is in a very dramatic and cinematic form. Unlike most of the realist filmmakers, Farhadi is not careless to the power of classic storytelling and film making. Directors such as Kiarostami uses simple camera working and unprofessional actors which sometimes seems a little pretentious. They are genius by their own, but it is a fact that they cannot make realist film if they are forced to make a classic movie. Unlike them, Farhadi works with the usual elements of classic cinema but in a way that you get it so surprisingly real. His mastery in obtaining realistic performances from professional actors, his obsessive attention to the details and his strong attention to camera and editing, are unique.It is not important what is the name of the film, "A Separation" or "About Eli". Any film of Farhadi is a Unique valuable peace of art. It is the singer, not the song.


                
At First I Was a bit hesitent to watch this movie,as I've not seen many Foreign Language films in my life,But this movie convinced me to see Foreign Language films more. A Great And Intense Movie along with a great and realistic script and great direction by Writer-Director Asghar Farhadi, boosted by excellent performances from the whole cast to make this into one of the best movies of 2011.The Story is very good and realistic about a married couple who are faced with a difficult decision, with the Wife Simmin(Leila Hatami) wanting to take their child out of the country to improve their child's life, but the Husband Nadar(Peyman Maadi) wanting to stay and look after his father who has Alzheimers. But things go very bad suddenly, when the maid Razieh( Sareh Bayat)looking after Nadar's father accuses Nadar of being the cause of her miscarriage. The Acting from the whole cast is superb and everyone has portrayed their respective roles perfectly, but i thought Sareh Bayet, Peyman Maadi and Leila Hatami were the standout performers in the movie. The Other cast also did a great job,including Nadar's father and The daughter of Nadar and Simmin,and The Husband of Razieh.The Director has done a great job in directing this movie utilizing a great and realistic story written by himself also, helping the actors with their characters, and looking after the other aspects of the film perfectly to make this into one of the best films of 2011.Amazing Thing about this movie is that it practically does'nt have any background music in between the movie, it is probably what it is due to the great acting by the cast, an excellent story and great work from the director.Finally, i think this deserves the Oscar nods it has got and influenced me to see the foreign movies more in my future, and arguebly one of the best movies of 2011.My Rating: 8/10.


                
A seemingly prosaic, mundane drama, A Separation didn't hook many people at first impression, for we're world that goes to the movies for escapism and not to be buffeted under a snow-storm of a ubitquitous quotidian lifestyle, coming straight from the particularly delightful land of Iran. However, this contemporary Iranian drama, when given the chance to, impresses one by its sheer simplicity and strikes a chord of mutual association with the viewers, turning it from a film about family grievances into a microcosm on life itself. The conundrums faced by the characters are not unheard of, their reactions not unexpected and the sequence of events not unforeseen. A Separation is a slice from the pie called everyday-life.Nader (Peyman Moadi) and Simin (Leila Hatami) decide to call it quits after leading fourteen-years of a married life that has resulted in the birth of a female offspring, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi). The woman is clearly more intent on the split of the two. She wants to leave the country, but her husband insists on staying, for he has an Alzheimer's- inflicted father to look after. The court rejects their application, and the impasse provokes Simin to leave Nader and Termeh, to reside with her parents. Being a working man, Nader hires a pregnant, devoutly religious maid, Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to look after the household and his father. However, things soon go awry, resulting in harrowing consequences, as the lives of entirely good people are mercilessly tossed into the storm. The characters, all fabulously acted out, are made up of real flesh-and- blood, who touch a deeply resonating chord. Despite a conflict being the chief motivator for the film, you find it difficult to choose sides, which is a sign of having endearing and genuinely human characters. Unlike most movies, where the central struggle is stretched to unrealistic proportions and the winner can be picked as easily as picking fallen money off the street, A Separation really makes you think as to who deserves your shower of sympathy. And ones you reach that conclusion the movie questions it, repeatedly, till you aren't very certain anymore. The film presents interesting observations on some stark dichotomies - initially one between the poor who work for others and the well-off who pay them. In the highly conservative Iran, the poor lead a desolate life. They must ensure that cleaning a really old man after he has just helplessly wet his pants isn't a sin. She must ask for her husband's permission before she can work at another household. A woman of the middle-class, on the other hand, can abandon her family and live with her parents without a God being there to chastise her. The two lead females, Simin and Razieh, display this contrast with finesse, not merely through their independent lifestyles, but also through the subtleties, like their attire and speaking mannerisms. The other dichotomy is between the judgement of the world from the perspective of an adult and a child. The former knows the ways of the world, and he must act accordingly, regardless of whether it appeals to his conscience or haunts him with guilt. A child, with all his innocence, takes everything at face value, and holds veracity in the utmost importance. This difference is shared by Nader and his daughter, Termeh, and shows just how much things vary with age rather beautifully.The deafening silence in the film resonates of the emptiness prevalent in the lives of each of its characters - a man without his wife, a daughter without her mother, a woman who's lost her child, a jobless man; everyone has a vacuum in their life. What the film captures adroitly, is the functioning of these flawed human beings in the equally scarred world. How we must bend the truth for the greater good, how misunderstandings snowball into disasters, and how a person is often forced to balance too many things on his plate, adopting different roles at different times, because circumstances compel him to do so. Director Asghar Farhadi plants each element into the film with subtle, artistic perfection. There are observations that are passed onto the viewers, despite remaining unsaid. The higlight of the movie remains the fact that A Separation isn't afraid to ask questions. Does an innocuous accident which results in a heart-rendering loss for the poor need to be heavily compensated by the rich perpetrator? I don't even think that question has a right answer.


                
i was left speechless after watching this film..this movie puts the audience in the seat of a juror who has to pass a fair judgment for a complex case of human values, adherence to one's core principles, and setting basic priorities in life, which here becomes unusually tough...this is no thriller, but i was on the edge of my seat for two full hours...this is no horror movie, but it gave me goosebumps...this is no romantic movie, but i fell in love with the plot and all the characters involved..each character is thoughtfully well-defined, and everyone play their parts to perfection.. this is a classic example of intense film making...asghar farhadi & the entire crew, take a bow!!!


                
Well this got a lot of hype. Top 200 movie of all time. Glowing reviews. Something like 96 on Rotten Tomato.But a foreign film and the subject matter didn't' exactly look to be all that exciting. It looked like it had the potential of being a boring politically correct Hollywood foreign film Sundance snoozefest. Subtitles.For the first 35 minutes it sure looked that way. Then things started to get interesting and it was nonstop the rest of the way through.Boy what a great movie this was. Worth every inch the praise it got. Great, great movie.Great acting. Great plot. Seemed very real. Didn't even notice the subtitles.


                
This wonderful film is about a middle class family in Iran, of which the middle-aged parents living with a 11-year-old daughter and an elder who suffers Alzheimer's disease. The film starts with a scene of the parents filing for divorce before a judge and ends with the scene of the same setting, except the outcome is different. It's clear that both parents love their daughter, and that they love each other, too. Then why do they want a divorce? And what changed the judge's verdict? The answers to those two questions are simple enough: the mother wants a better life of the next generation; the father doesn't want to abandon the last generation. So that's a clear conflict. And that conflict led to another family in a lower class coming into their life, That's when the story gets truly fascinating. It pushes the two families to the edge. The crisis forces everyone to have a clarity in his or her moral and religious guidance, although the ending scene leaves one question unanswered.It's a brilliant film--simple, powerful, and authentic.


                
