The Sopranos must be the most overrated television show in history. I have never before witnessed a movie or show with so many undeveloped and unfinished story lines. Under developed characters and acting thats is B movie level. Stevie Van Zant!, give me a break.All the build up and let downs. Season 5 for instance is building the bad blood between Johnny Sack and Tony. There's going to be a war we all thought, it was going to be great. Then after all this rage and anger Johnny just changes his mind and it's all over. Nothing, no war no fight. Season 6 is the same. Tony vs. Phil, it's going to be carnage right? Naw.. after all the build up Tony hugs and kisses Phil on his near death bed. Go figure.When are we going to get some satisfaction? It seems like the writers just figure why bother developing a good story all these people are going to watch anyway!!! And they're right.No body needs a reminder about the famous (infamous) Pine Barrens episode. Where did that story go? The killing of the Russian gangster and all that was implied... never finished.What about Furio/Carmela.... unfinished, What about the rape of Melfi... unfinished.. it goes on and on Season 6 is absurd. It's all over the place. You're expecting a continuation of the Vito story and get a new story about Artie out of the blue. The writing is junior high level. The characters are totally inconstant. They change for no reason and often.It really is lousy... but we watch anyway.
I had never heard of this show until a couple of weeks ago when someone started raving about it at a party. Soon others joined him in the glorification of the, what soon got to be called, 'show of the century'. I must say, I was intrigued.I was even more intrigued by the big fat 9.2 this show gets here on IMDb. I mean, that was a first for me.I found the complete first season on Usenet and started to watch anxiously as soon as the first episodes hit my harddrive.I watched....and watched some more. Suddenly I woke up from the incredible loud hiss of my headphones which tend to make this sound after being inactive for too long to warn its owner its batteries are being sucked dry. I had fallen asleep like a baby. Talk about firsts.I must have been tired I thought to myself so the next day I watched another episode and another one the day after that, etc etc. I got to about 5 of them.Is it just me? (yes, apparently) or is there really nothing happening in this series which is even slightly compelling? It must be just me, all I see is just another episode of As the World Turns only this time using every goddamn mafia-cliché in the book.The characters are Só cliché that it's simply impossible to find any of them likable (or even slightly interesting) and because of the whole mob-setting, I'm expecting a suspenseful watch only to be disappointed by a soap-with-the-f-word which to my surprise is dragged out over 7 seasons???!!For a completely depleted theme, which to me the mafia had become after regretfully seeing 'Analyse This', to resurrect in a series where humor is lacking, originality is exiled and suspense has been replaced by Golden Girls caliber drama to be voted a 9.2 is truly beyond me.Was the voting only open to teenagers who never saw the classics?


                
Where do I begin? I would be forced to nominate "The Sopranos" as the worst television show of all-time, the worst THING of all-time. It is pretentious, derivative schlock masquerading- and passing- as high art.Martin Scorsese's "GoodFellas" is probably my favorite film of all-time, and it tells the TRUE story of a REAL gangster in his OWN words with wonderfully vivid characters, rich dialogue, scenes of shocking violence and outrageous humor with brilliant visuals and mood so strong you'll feel nostalgia for people you never knew. David Chase clearly loved this movie so much he decided to re-make it as a TV series. And take credit for it. And fail.The twist? Tony Soprano, our gangster protagonist, sees a psychiatrist because he feels bad about being a gangster protagonist. When he's not desperately endearing himself to the audience by confessing his secret love for animals in thrice-weekly sessions he's living the good gangsta life: smoking fat stogies (always a sign of success) and cruisin' round Jersey in his gas-guzzling Cadillac Hog.But wait? Is there ANY reality to be found here? Would any mafioso ever voluntarily visit a psychiatrist and confess his guilt over his crimes? Does this not kill the vicarious gangster-fantasy ostensibly promised by the premise? Who are we rooting for? Tony Soprano to be "cured" of his criminal lifestyle or Tony Soprano to earn dirty money and outrun the law? The shrink to successfully rehabilitate him? The FBI to bring him down? David Chase never figured it out... and you won't either. Movies have run-times and lead to specific endings; a TV series runs indefinitely and cannot maintain a morally, ethically, legally conflicted hero. Billy Crystal said it best as the shrink in "Analyze This," a film with the same premise but played for COMEDY, when he said, "So my goal is to make you a happy, well-adjusted gangster?"Fatally-flawed blueprint aside, the show MIGHT have been successful if characters faced authentic criminal scenarios and their consequences. Instead Chase & his writers take carte blanche in concocting kooky capers, money-making schemes, and meaningless violence that would make anyone who reads the paper burst out laughing. The gangsters own a strip-club so the viewers get to see some background ass, but they also own an Arthur Ave-style deli so we can see them eating wedges at sidewalk tables- convenient, no? Chase & Co. never figured out what it is that gangsters DO, and you can see them scramble each week to invent a new routine. They also tried to buy legitimacy by poaching EVERY actor who appeared in Goodfellas- over 20 of them appeared in The Sopranos. What does it tell you that DeNiro, Liotta & Pesci were also asked to appear?What does it tell you that DeNiro, Liotta & Pesci all turned him down?The show's story-arcs were so poorly-planned that characters would appear and do nothing for an entire season before the requisite whacking... (Buscemi anyone?) The killings became the worst crutch in dramatic history: characters and story lines were only and inevitably resolved by over-the-top murders, which dissolved almost immediately into self-parody.(Quentin wants his act back.) The only consistency in the show was story lines starting strong and fizzling almost instantly. The stop-and-start production of the series is painfully obvious- there is a disjointed, slapdash feel to characters and episodes that were rushed and neglected. Worse, every labored plot line in the show begs to be associated with the Shakespearian tragedy of "The Godfather" films or the black-comic seduction of "Goodfellas." By reaching for both, "The Sopranos" achieves neither.I wish I could find a single element that worked: even the portrayal of the East Coast Italian family is botched. They walk and talk like industry Angelenos- even flirting with a film-production storyline- until a plot twist demands they return to Roman-Catholic guilt and neighborhood respect. Who are these people? Now a word on Gandolfini: he's not Brando. Or DeNiro. Or Pacino. He's not Liotta, Pesci or Duvall. He's not even James Caan. He is a good actor, swept up in the hype of the most over-rated show in history. And a word on the press: the HBO hype machine was working overtime for 7 years to insist this series was one of the all-time greats... they bought themselves awards, they silenced those who dared question its quality, and they used an ironically Mafia-like approach to intimidate viewers into submission. A word on the 90's: you either loved "The Sopranos," or you never spoke about it. It was socially unacceptable to declare that the Emperor wore no clothes.Listen up, goombahs... the man is nude. Buck. Naked. The Sopranos blows. It offends me as an Italian, an American, and a film fan. Cranking up the Stones and hiring every actor from Goodfellas does not make you Scorsese, Mr. Chase. Fat men sipping cappuccino does not equate you with Coppola. Skunk-headed clowns and greasy wax museum escapees do not legitimize a series that shamelessly steals from some of the best movies ever made. David Chase is a fraud and The Sopranos is a joke. The one nice thing I can say about the show is that it had a wonderful theme song and title sequence.Everything afterward was trash.GRADE: F
I am so sorry to say but this disgusting piece of turds is the most overrated and hyped thing in the history of the American television. Come on, nine and one half out of ten? This is almost genial! Let Kurosava comes out of the other land to commit again harakiri looking at these series! Let me count out the low downs:First, the script. Almost all the episodes consist of violence which is put there just for the entertainment; the mob bosses are present as normal human being, there is absolutely no reality in none of the episodes with minor exceptions. All in all, this is inept remake of Good fellas + Scarface + The Godfather (may God forgive me for the blasphemy of putting this sh*t in line with these fine movies!)I don't know why the common intelligence in the American audience has fallen so low to accept this turd as an entertainment and to praise it as if it is the totem of film making, the only thing ever created since God created Earth.The sole idea of depicting criminals as good fellas and to glorify them as heroes is rotten from the bottom of it. Having wrong ideas of the whole cosa nostra is idiotic. Having them mystified and glorified is moronic.Don't say you haven't been warned.


                
Having seen The Sopranos Season 6 episode 17 (aired May 6, 2007) for the first time in a long time (in a hotel room) since watching Season 1 on rental DVD, I remember why I never cared about the so-called television phenomenon that is The Sopranos.It all comes down to utterly contemptible nature of the characters -- virtually comprised of principal and supporting -- that is reprehensible to tolerate, at least from my point of view as a humanitarian misanthrope. None of the characters portrayed is remotely sympathetic to me. Any attempt to depict these despicably remorseless characters through sympathy is emotional manipulation that exploit the viewers' naivete.After that recent (albeit offensive and dispiriting in unadulterated nastiness) episode I saw, I found it pointless and empty to keep watching the series episode after episode, season after season. Why be subject to the continuous stream of gratuitous nudity, revolting violence and endless vulgarity? I know, change the channel, but I take exception to the intentional obliteration of morals (if any) in this show which warrant this comment.I am amazed the TV critics lavish praise on this turkey as if it's the work of art, like USA Today, Entertainment Weekly and numerous publications did. The Sopranos is in fact a mind-numbingly pretentious dribble that go on and on with frequent intervals of violence and wall-to-wall swearing as prerequisite content to entertain the viewers like it's clever and ground-breaking. Please spare me this facetious absurdity.David Chase and his team of telewriters must be pretentious Hollywood (hello, Don Simpson) egotists if they think The Sopranos is meant to depict the facts of mob life in exacting accuracy like it's a geek show. And I get tired of looking at the pretentious advertisement of The Sopranos with the cast staring at the reader in an ad space featured in big name magazines and newspapers splashed with exuberant quotes of critical acclaim. And there are the books and interviews with the creator and the cast. I find the interviews with David Chase amusing owing to his penchant for narcassitic charade as a pompous individual in dead-serious tone and demeanor.The Sopranos represent David and his army of hack writers' sense of tvland fantasy as they pile meaningless after meaningless story arc and flat, emotionally manipulative character development punctuated with the roll of grisly violence and depravity passed off as "meaningful" entertainment that appear to justify glorification of Italian-American mob thuggery. I found Summer of Sam patently offensive for its nakedly stereotypical Italian portrayal, yet The Sopranos take the cake in unabashed Italian-American stereotype and for this I'm close to feeling animosity towards certain Italian-Americans for condoning thuggery, even after they announce -- albeit hypocritically since some complain loudly about negative stereotype -- that this particular show is their favorite. It serve nothing but Hollywood defecation on the supposedly noble & morally upholding Italian heritage. Thanks a lot Dave.It amazes me The Sopranos found wild success and carried with the wind (courtesy of the media critics brainwashing the public that The Sopranos is "WONDERFUL...MASTERPIECE...GROUNDBREAKING!") to continue its run for years. I'm glad The Sopranos is in its final season, so it won't be missed because it sets an example as a television series that pretends to be brilliant philosophy-wise but which don't really mean *beep* but bloodythirsty entertainment for the viewers to pass time every Sunday night reminiscent of the Roman Coliseum.I consider The Godfather one of the best movies ever made for its perfect structure and impeccable mood. Yet The Sopranos tries to out-do Martin Scorsese's mob movies by going over the top in terms of perverse content and shoots itself in the foot by referring to The Godfather like it aspires to rise above the standard through the run of several seasons dispensing philosophy of life & family while killing innocent people now and then with the methods of ripping bullets and torture for the most trivial reasons besides shock value.The Sopranos is truly the most mean-spirited television series in existence (reality shows not included) as evidenced by its disrespect for anything remotely noble in the code of conduct reflecting the reality. The creator and producers thrive on the mean-spiritedness of the story concept to appeal to the audience that evil equals good and so it must be entertaining, irrespective of the innate depraved nature in inhumane attitude and dispiriting animosity towards all that is decent.It's also the most overrated television series of all time. It's praised for all the wrong reasons -- virulent misanthropy probably massively appealing to the critics who secretly hate the audience for the sheeps they are as they get paid handsomely for writing flattering reviews and articles.David Chase, the producers & the telewriters -- shame on them for the garbage that's condescending and regressive that serve no point at all but make gold for HBO in promoting the profound contempt of civilized humankind and mold the public's attitude to favor the mean and nasty. No wonder America is one of the meanest and dumbest nations on Earth, especially on the East and West coast where there is considerable cult following of The Sopranos for another variety of Tony or one of the associate thugs biting off a live chicken's head every Sunday night each new season.Tony Soprano and his band of thugs being caught, indicted and imprisoned, with the majority of them sentenced to the death row would be a fitting end to this dismal, morally braindead series. There's nothing human about them -- they are monsters disguised as mere human beings deserving of heroic compassion as envisioned by David Chase and his cigarette-dangling, laffe-sipping hack writers wearing black turtleneck shirts & hip frame eyeglasses hammering out drafts packed with creative mob violence in the safety of their cozy Hollywood Hills homes.Zero star out of four


                
well, i hate talking bad about things. but even more i hate wasting time following hypes.giving it a second trial after years i must say, its no secret why this crap is successful in nominal ways. its flat, its average, it deals with crime in a way people would get who never touched beneath the skin of a crime. it comes like a cool thing, illegal, conspiracy, but somehow ideologic and stylish. maybe establishing ideas like the mafioso have at least the same moral stakes as politicians or most people. for those whose shorts get wet by that, there you go.anyone else, maybe people who have taken the possible quality of American entertainment, the possible depths of possible subversion and the precision of complex, but accessible composition, just get overebored by ANY dialogue or monologue, by any face, any camera setting whatsoever. its a failure from the top of it which takes it down to the bottom, you can feel the same lack in nearly every concern. the main protags look and act like the most boring sidekicks in good shows (breaking bad, mad men, true blood, x-files, etc.). its like that kings of queens bullshit compared to al bundy. its fake.therefore, 3 points. oh well, no. one point.


                
I must be some kind of Pollyanna or something because I couldn't discern one truly humorous moment in this show. What is disturbing is that so many people actually think this sort of thing is hilarious. I watched an episode (the one about the blow job and the car wreck) with a friend who I consider to be an intelligent, subtle person. She stared gaped mouthed at the television for an hour without chuckling once. At the end she turned to me and asked "Wasn't that great!?" No, it wasn't. We are indeed in a sad state of affairs when stuff like this is touted as the greatest television ever.If you like stupid, vulgar, dishonest, violent, murderous, vicious people then 'The Sopranos' is the comedy for you.
Already there are so many reviews applauding every aspect of the series. I would just like to include characters that broke the show. #1 : Meadow Soprano: THE MOST PAINFUL! I've now watched The Sopranos several times and from the beginning to the very end when meadow is attempting to park, the character, the actor, her storyline a, and anything and anyone associated with her is just excruciatingly horrible. Why would they dedicate entire episodes on her?#2 Dr. Melfi: with her it's two parts. I find myself skipping all of Tonys therapy sessions, which is sad because isn't that the whole point of the show. If they edited those out, would have been better. Then when she starts seeing a therapist and they start dedicating time on her and even him??? What were they thinking? YAWN...I could careless. #3 Jakie Aprillo Jr: when Vito shot him, I thought thank God--but then we had to go through Meadow's "I lost my boyfriend b.s. His story just dragged on. Scene after scene of I promised your father or Jackie trying to prove himself. ONE episode maybe two would have sufficed. #3 Adriana lacerva: I understand that aesthetically she was a welcome relief, but from "a hit is a hit" to her whole FBI thing, Adriana's stories were boring and vacant. #4 Carmella's Issues: her priest, AJs teacher, her jealousy towards Angie, her trip to Paris with Rosie (don't get me started on that), her b.s.with Fiori. She came off as a hypocrite and her self-righteousness made her seem duplicitous and untrustworthy #5 Ginny sack: I'm just confused by her character. What were they trying to do with this character. Bad acting is obvious, but???#6 AJ's stupidity #7 Paulies mother and her friends#8 Artie's Pathetic whining#9 GUMAS: Tracy, Gloria, the Russian, Valentina#10 Paulie refuses


                
"It's just TV; don't watch it" So that makes it OK then? The answer to that is No. No it's not.The same old same old. New Jersey Italian guys are not only mobbed up, but uneducated. They speak with NY street accents in sub-vocal grunts.They also love to portray NJ negatively - as if stupid NJ jokes told by generations of third rate comedians who should be playing Grossinger's were not enough. People who have never been here think that those "gritty" locations are representative of the state. Take a look at comments made on social media sites after hurricane Sandy.What are the chances that a show doing this to another ethnic group would ever get off the ground? Even worse is that young Italian Americans are aping these characters. That's how they're supposed to be, right?


                
I can't believe this rubbish has a 9.3 rating. Before reading it you should be warned that yes, I am a "hater", yes, I am frustrated, yes, I am not a movie connoisseur, and yes, this is a rant. After watching OZ and loving it (I think it's my favorite TV series; have seen it twice),people have recommended Sopranos. They said I would probably like it even better than OZ. THIS, better than OZ??!!?!Really? I've seen only around 6-10 episodes and shove it off because it was too boring. Yes, I really tried and I thought I would be enjoying it. I kept thinking "Just hold on, it's a bit boring now but soon it will be interesting". But nope. It just kept on being boring. I don't remember anything "gangstery" happening at all. Just Tony being lame at the psychologist, some boring stuff with Tony's daughter, more boring stuff with Tony's wife, Tony having a young mistress and some bar with naked chicks. I see that it's compared to Godfellas. What a joke. Goodfellas portrayed a little bit of family drama too but they did it very tastefully and still in a "gangstery" fashion, I find no remote connection between the two. Here's a bunch of real gangster movies I loved. Goodfellas, Once Upon a time in America (arguably my favorite), Casino, The Godfather, Scarface and many others. Yeah, I know you pretentious movie snobs just rolled your eyes at Scarface. Buzz off already. So yeah, the whole lot of them, my favorites. Seen all of them, (ridiculously) multiple times! But Sopranos? Give me a break. I won't make this longer than it is. 1.A real gangster would never be so lame to go to a psychologist to discuss his problems like a whiny b___h. This scenario is far- fetched, ridiculous and a lame attempt as portraying gangsters as "normal","average" humans. They're not, that's why they're gangsters, that's why people dig gangster movies, because they portray something different than boring average people's lives. Please, let gangster stuff be gangster stuff, not mix it with silly cheap soap opera scenarios. I would bet whatever you want that no real gangster ever in the existence of Mother Earth decided it's a good idea to go to a psychologist and be pathetic. 2.Carmela. Ugly and boring. She was perfectly suited to be a single mom, poor, prison guardian in OZ. Not a mobster's wife. Yes, gangsters and rich people often have average wives and hot mistresses, but Edie Falco is too ugly to be even the "plain" wife. They stretched it too much by putting her in this role. Lorraine Bracco would have been a way better fit. You can't just take an ugly, wrinkled, blonde with blue eyes woman and fill her with jewelry and call her "Carmela" and make her a mobster's wife. You know what woman I picture when imagining a Carmela? A hot, curvy, Puerto Rican or Spanish brunette vixen. I'm not saying they should have cast Megan Fox ( if she were of age at the time) as Carmela. I dislike the trend of putting dangerously thin, conventionally beautiful actresses in every role. But, for God's sake, cast an actress that looks like she might have been attractive once.Have you ever seen a real mobster's wife? They are not necessarily conventionally attractive, but they always have a "je ne sais quoi", something that makes them interesting, unconventional and mysterious.I think they made the character that way specifically to appeal bored ugly aging housewives. "Hey, she's ugly and boring too, I could be filled with jewelry and be a mobster's wife!!!11" Or maybe they wanted to appeal to the middle aged male crowd. "Oh, look, this guy is married to an ugly boring broad, just like me. Only he's a gangster and I'm not! And he sees a shrink, just like me!" Lame to the extreme. Sorry 'bout that, but it's just my 0.02 $ . At this point you may think I am trolling, but I assure you I'm not. 3. The actor playing Tony Soprano. I won't even bother to look up his name. He's a poser, a phony, a clown, a hillbilly, a redneck. That's a role that would suit him. I'm from Romania (bring on the hate, yyyyhaaa!), and this guy seems like THE fat neighbor living in an old communist apartment, making stinky fish barbecues in front of the block garage while wearing a sleeveless shirt with motor oil spots on it. No sane person could ever buy that guy being a gangster. One being fat and balding does not make one a credible gangster!3.It's boring. Nothing interesting happens at all. Did I say boring enough. This lame show is a complete joke. The whole show (as much as I tolerated to see) had an annoying, "self fart sniffing" vibe to it. I didn't fall for it. This pretentious nonsense was like watching "Married...with children" but with "gangsters" . Nope. Worse.At least married with children did not pretend to be a "good" show and it was funny in it's way. I kid you not, I enjoyed seeing random episodes of "the young and the restless" when I was 9 years old better than this Sopranos nonsense. At least it was a plain soap opera and didn't pretend it's "something interesting with gangsters". One star.
This show is nothing more than a perpetuation of the tired "Italian mobster" stereotype. It's an abomination. This sets the Italian-American community back another 30 years. But the producers don't care, because like most entertainment people, they saw a huge market they could exploit by producing this p.o.s.: the unintelligent and the ignorant.There is no excuse for producing a series like this. Racism aside, the gratuitous violence and the empathy shown for cold-blooded murderers is an equally distressing aspect of this show. To conclude: this show truly is the definition of "pure drivel".


                
For a series thats 9 years old, it had one of the worst endings in history. I was a fan from day one and followed the series threw the good and the bad. I just watched the final episode to be disasppointed horribaly! What type of ending includes the fear of your cable going out? If and when the movies comes out, I will not go see it, I will not buy the DVD, I wont even watch it on public cable! A series that builds up the hype and to end on such a poorly done note was one of the worst in history!!! It HBO thinks they will make a dime off a movie they are terribly wrong! I highly doubt any hardcore fans will waste a penny to follow such a horrible ending!


                
I remember, when I was a kid TV shows knew how to have one heck of a final episode. It was the swan song, the final bow, the curtain call. It was the way of the series creators, not the network's, way of saying thank you for tuning in each week to watch our show. This was something that Tom Bosley, better known as Mr. Cunningham on happy Days, did during the final episode of Happy Days. while making a toast at his daughters wedding, Bosley broke character, turned to the camera, looked at all of America and said "Thank you for being part of our family, to happy Days". It was a nice touch, and a great ending to a series I grew up loving as a kid. I actually shed a tear because I didn't want to say good bye to The Cunningham's, Richie, Ralph, Potsy, Joanie, Chachi, and of course Fonzie. Sadly there hasn't been to many good final episodes since.The Soprano's were one of those shows that had an "impact" on society. Millions of people would be sure to stop whatever they were doing on Sunday nights to tune in to see what Tony Soprano would say or do each week. It has been the number one show in it's time slot for the past 8 years. It joins the ranks of shows like Sienfeld (an extremely over rated show) and Friends (another extremely over rated show). While I was never a fan of Seinfeld, I have yet to hear anybody say anything good about their final episode. Friends final episode was so hyped, that sports bar's were having discounted hot wings and beer, and inviting fans into them to watch the final episode on a big screen TV, something usually reserved for football games. I have yet to hear anything good about that episode either.The Sopranos was the show that could have stepped up to the plate and hit one hell of a home run in their final episode. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SPOILER wARNING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The set up was great in the 2 episodes before the finale. Fan favorite Christopher was killed in a car accident, AJ, Tony's son tried to commit suicide, Sil (Bruce Springsteen's guitar player, Stevie Van Zant) was shot and remained in the hospital, and Tony had to send Carmilla, Meadow, and AJ away to hide, while he hid from his palace of a house, in his uncle's old home with a shotgun by his side in case anyone from Phil's New York crew tried to hit him.Then came the final episode and the little series (that in my opinion has gone south since season 2) could, failed miserably. The episode was extremely boring, and just way to much talking. Yes Tony got his revenge by having Phil (the always great Frank Vincent) whacked, but that was it.In the final scene when Tony was waiting for his family to arrive at a restaurant they entered one by one followed by several shady looking characters. Then we had to deal with Meadow trying to parallel park for about 5 minutes. As she was doing this a man with a gray jacket walked in and would not take his eyes off of Tony. Then just as his daughter entered.......the screen went black.At first I thought HBO had a dead feed. Then came the rolling credits. That was it. That was The Soprano's big curtain call. I have heard that the rumors are, that Tony was killed in the final scene, if that's the case, don't be so artsy about it, just show the hit. Was Scorsesse artsy about Goodfella's? No. It was a big disappointment to a show that has sailed south since season 2.Now the other rumor I heard was that there might be a movie in the future. If this is the case, then I will not throw down my hard earned cash to pay to see Tony and the other's on the big screen. Count me out. I for one am glad that it's over. HBO has been all over The Soprano's instead of better shows like Oz and Carnivalle. Shows that I will miss.On a scale of 10 I give the final episode of The Soprano's a 1. It would have been a 0, but IMDb at least makes you give your lowest rating a 1. The little show that was considered 'groundbreaking" just fizzled away like a show that suffered in ratings.
I have summers off from work and actually watched this whole show on HBOGo a couple years ago. This was a show I would watch off and on because it would come on after The Wire or a movie I watched back when it originally ran. I thought it was just terrible. James Gandolfini plays the most unconvincing mob boss of all-time. His character has no personality. He's just there. His crew are a bunch of unconvincing caricatures of Italians. They are 2D. There's no wow factor to the show, no one likable, no one worth caring about. I watched, what, seven seasons of the show and it still felt like the first season. Nothing really evolved or changed about the characters or their lives.I'm absolutely baffled as to how anyone thought this was great TV. It wasn't. It's actually one of the worst TV shows I've ever seen. Kudos to the great marketing. Shame on Edie Falco for leaving a great role on Oz to play a miserable housewife on this show with nothing to do.


                
