The Sopranos is arguably the greatest show in Dramatic Television history.Its hard to think of another series that boasts so much intelligence, sublime writing or first rate performances.Across its epic scope it produces fresh and iconic characters and a constant level of high quality. Centering around the life of one Tony Soprano, a man who lives in two families. One is the conventional wife and two kids nuclear family the other a huge New Jersey Mafia group, of which he is the boss of both. Played by James Gandolfini, of True Romance and The Mexican fame, Tony is a fascinating, scary but also likable guy. Full praise must be given to Gandolfini for making a womanising and horrifically aggressive brute a genuinely identifiable and perfect leading man. Contemporay American drama has never had such an arresting and iconic figure as Tony.The cast of hundreds never boasts a flat performance and such stand out characters like Paulie Walnuts and Ralph Cifaretto will stick in your memory for ever.The true genius of this tale however, is the creator and writers bravery and revolutionary take on a conventional drama series. Twenty minute long dream sequences, powerful and original use of symbolism and metaphorical imagery and truly shocking scenes of violence. Yet all this style is met by truly touching themes of love, honour and respect for family. The series never becomes cold hearted or gratuitous.With TV now competitive and often poor The Sopranos stands tall above the rest as America's most original and compelling drama. Forget Family Redifined. This is Television Redifined.


                
What can you possibly say about a show of this magnitude? "The Sopranos" has literally redefined television as we know it. It has broken all rules, and set new standards for television excellence. Everything is flawless, the writing, directing, and for me, most of all, the acting. Watching this show you'll find yourself realizing that these characters are NOT real. The acting tricks you into thinking there is a real Tony Soprano, or any character. This show is also very versatile. Some people don't watch the show because it's violent, it's not all about the violence, it's about business, family, and many deeper things that all depend on what you, as a fan see. For me, I don't like when people refer to the show, a show about the Mafia. For me, it's a show about family. A family who, through generations, happen to be apart of the mob. Overall this is a masterpiece of a show. This is what television should be. Right here. Complex characters from stunning acting, magnificent story lines from brilliant writing, and what do you get when you mix these ingredients together? A show that defines excellence, and dares to be different.


                
THE SOPRANOS (1999-2007)Number 1 - Television Show of all Time Everyone thought this would be a stupid thing that wouldn't go past a pilot episode. The Sopranos has become a cultural phenomenon and universally agreed as one of the greatest television shows of all time. James Gandolfini plays the enigmatic New Jersey crime boss, Tony Soprano, accompanied by a stellar cast. Edie Falco is superb as the worrying, loving upper-middle class mother; Tony Sirico is tremendous as a superstitious, greying consiglieri who is often very funny. While the show has often been criticised for the negative stereotype of Italian-Americans as mafiosi, and to an extent this is undeniable, I can see so many positives from the show. The portrayal of strong family values, friendships, love and compassion; could this be present in a coarse television show about gangsters? Yes. Furthermore, other burning issues are discussed such as terrorism, social inequality and injustice, homosexuality, drugs etc. This is no shallow, dull show about tough guys and violence. It has so much more. Many of the issues we see on the show are very real. The writing which has been pretty much great has infused so successfully current issues and managed to imbred them within the characters' lives, which makes the whole thing more interesting.Credit must go to David Chase who has created an excellent television treasure and to James Gandolfini, for envisioning, television's most complex and enigmatic character. Simply exceptional.10/10


                
I ve just finished watching "The Sopranos" for the 4th time. I think its flawless. I wouldnt change anything about it. Cant wait to watch it for the 5th time.


                
To the people complaining about the finale, seriously? You're going to give a show that you supposedly loved 1 star just because you didn't like the last 4 minutes? God forbid a show actually make you use your brain to get answer instead of spoon-feeding it to everyone. Please do yourself a favor and google "sopranos ending explained" and read the first article, it's long but you'll appreciate the show much more. Showing Tony actually getting whacked would have been tasteless, boring, and wouldn't have left us with anything to talk about. If you really pay attention and look at the fine details everything is there. Plus we had already seen Tony get shot on several occasions, and the fact that people spent 6 seasons cheering the guy on and then want to see the series end with him bleeding out on the table in front of his whole family. Some things are better left to the imagination, and when you put all the pieces together it's really pretty amazing what David Chase pulled off.For anyone that thinks Tony's fate is up for debate, it's not. Some people say that it just meant that he was going to be looking over his shoulder for the rest of his life (wrong). For starters, the finale opens with a shot of Tony asleep in bed and is supposed to resemble him dead in a coffin (and there is churchy sounding organ music playing). Then one of the few flashbacks in the episode is Bobby telling Tony "you probably don't even hear it when it happens." Those are just a few hints out of many.More importantly, the entire final scene was set up from Tony's point of view. It opens with him walking into the diner, they show him, they show the table where he will be sitting, then they cut back to Tony, and then there is a jump cut back to him sitting at the table. It's a strange looking cut, but it makes it appear that Tony is looking at himself (like an out of body experience).During the final scene, you hear the bell ring 4 or 5 times, each time it cuts to Tony's face, then shows the doorway to the restaurant, and then cuts back for Tony's reaction. They use the bell to create a Pavlov's dog type effect, it makes you expect to see certain things each time the bell rings (shot of tony looking up, followed by a shot of what he sees from his POV). So the last time you hear the bell ring, you see Tony's face, and based on the established pattern the next thing should be what Tony is seeing (Meadow walking into the restaurant). But instead there is a smash cut to black, why? Because Tony is dead and you are seeing his point of view, he is no longer seeing or hearing anything. Chase wanted to do 30 seconds of black originally, and if it had just been the end they would have faded out the music instead of stopping it immediately. So You know that he got shot in front of his entire family, Meadow walked in at the last minute and witnessed it too. Carmella and AJ were looking at their menus and wouldn't have had a chance to warn Tony. And if Meadow hadn't been late then the shooter wouldn't have had a clean shot. To me that has much more of an impact than seeing him bleeding all over the table. The guy in the Members Only jacket going to the bathroom to get the gun was a throwback to the Godfather when Michael Corleone went to get the gun from the restaurant bathroom. They show each of them eating one of the onion rings that Tony ordered, which is supposed to symbolize taking communion. Tony had done too much messed up stuff to get off scott-free, and everyone knows that in the mob you either die or go to jail. Whether you understood the ending or not, The Sopranos is one of the best TV series of all-time. It's a show with so much depth and complexity that you can watch it over and over and still find new stuff every time. If you only watch a few episodes here and there and then just watch the finale, you'll probably be disappointed like all the other idiots that did that were. I mean would you read the first couple chapters of a book and then read the last page and decide that it sucks?
The Sopranos is a terrific show.  It may be violent, racist, sexist, and bad to the bone, it is also funny, melodramatic and cool.  The characters are very well done and the acting is some of the best I've seen in years.  It is also pretty keen for creator David Chase to pick Northern New Jersey as the set piece for his opus of crime life.  I have liked this show alot since it aired on HBO in January of last year and I will keep on watching it because of the intrigue and drama.


                
Best TV show of all time. We just need a movie now.


                
It was an amazing series, one of the best there is. In the beginning it's hard to follow what's going on with all of these new faces and names but you pick it up pretty quickly and they stick. After you're used to the soprano life style, I couldn't stop watching. You know the characters on a personal level and care for every single one in a different way. It's thrilling because you never know what's coming next.


                
Name any other show you like, I've watched it. And the other great ones, all of them. Numerous times. Loved them, even. But this is the best thing ever made, bar none. This is not Goodfellas Godfather shlock. This is the finest character study ever filmed. And James Gandolfini is the most mesmerizing protagonist in television history. Come at me.


                
As the Godfather saga was the view of the mafia from the executive suite, this series is a complex tale of the mafia from the working man's point of view. If you've never watched this show, you're in for an extended treat. Yes, there is violence and nudity, but it is never gratuitous and is needed to contrast Tony Soprano, the thinking man's gangster, with the reality of the life he has been born to and, quite frankly, would not ever have left even knowing how so many of his associates have ended up. Tony Soprano can discuss Sun Tzu with his therapist, then beat a man to death with a frying pan in a fit of rage, and while dismembering and disposing of the body with his nephew, take a break, sit down and watch TV while eating peanut butter out of the jar, and give that nephew advice on his upcoming marriage like they had just finished a Sunday afternoon of viewing NFL football. Even Carmella, his wife, when given a chance for a way out, finds that she really prefers life with Tony and the perks that go with it and looking the other way at his indiscretions versus life on her own. If you followed the whole thing, you know how it ends. If you didn't, trust me you've never seen a TV show end like this.


                
As a guy who has seen all the seasons, I can say that James Gandolfini constantly surprises me. I mean, after you saw him shifting from laughter to paranoia instantly throughout the seasons and after every little gesture of his made you believe he is a gangster, you thought to yourself: OK he is a good actor and he can get into a gangster's skin. But after seeing him - in the beginning of season 6 - opening his eyes and struggling for his life, I mean I could almost feel the pain he "made" us believe he was going through. I was so touched by his performance that I immediately thought at Robert De Niro, Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. These guys were definitely the best of their generations and even more. But nowadays they are either old or dead (Brando) and it's OK that they make less movies and their performances are "lighter" than they used to be. I can't wait to see Gandolfini in other movies where he delivers a totally different role. LATER EDIT: RIP! Taken way too soon.
The Sopranos is about mobster Tony Soprano. The series shows Tony's personal life and his mob life. It's widely regarded one of the best TV series of all time and i agree, it's really amazing.Plot revolves around Tony's family problems and his mob life. But he also goes to psychiatrist called Dr Melfi. His meetings with Dr Melfi are really interesting and they have really interesting dialogue. Screenplay of The Sopranos is truly wonderful.Tony Soprano, who is played by James Gandolfini is such an interesting character. James Gandolfini's acting is superb. Tony struggles with his mental health and he has panic attacks every once in a while. He has problems with his children, because he has to hide his mob life and he fears that he is going to lose his children. Gandolfini portrays the two sides of character Tony Soprano greatly. Other side is the respected mobster and the other side is "loving" father. Tony Soprano is my one of the best TV characters in history, in fact he is my favorite!There are many more great performances. Michael Imperioli as Christopher Moltisanti is phenomenal. He is Tony's nephew. Also Tony's wife Carmela, his kids, Dr Melfi, Paulie and Silvio are great. I do not hate any characters of this series and that is rare that there are not any annoying characters.The series showcases two sides of a human being the bad side and the good side perfectly. It also shows human emotions with great style. It delves into human mind and human emotional problems in such a great way that it's truly remarkable.Every season of The Sopranos are great. The quality did not drop like in Dexter after season 4. Season 3 is the best season and after that season 6,2,5,1,4. The ending is perfect.Overall The Sopranos is great a series. My favorite things about the series is the character Tony and deep emotional side of it. Hidden themes and the fact that you can interpret the series in a dozens of ways makes this one of the best TV series of all time. It is definitely one of my favorite TV series of all time. If you have not seen The Sopranos, go see it!
When we started watching this series on cable, I had no idea how addictive it would be. Even when you hate a character, you hold back because they are so beautifully developed, you can almost understand why they react to frustration, fear, greed or temptation the way they do. It's almost as if the viewer is experiencing one of Christopher's learning curves.I can't understand why Adriana would put up with Christopher's abuse of her, verbally, physically and emotionally, but I just have to read the newspaper to see how many women can and do tolerate such behavior. Carmella has a dream house, endless supply of expensive things, but I'm sure she would give it up for a loving and faithful husband - or maybe not. That's why I watch.It doesn't matter how many times you watch an episode, you can find something you missed the first five times. We even watch episodes out of sequence (watch season 1 on late night with commercials but all the language, A&E with language censored, reruns on the Movie Network) - whenever they're on, we're there. We've been totally spoiled now.I also love the Malaprop's. "An albacore around my neck" is my favorite of Johnny Boy. When these jewels have entered our family vocabulary, it is a sign that I should get a life. I will when the series ends, and I have collected all the DVD's, and put the collection in my will.


                
I started watching The Sopranos in June 2013 and it took me around 2 months to finish, and I know I could have watched it a lot quicker than that if possible.After the first few episodes I was just completely hooked. The characters were so real and the acting was just brilliant. The set looked amazing. All the story lines were interesting and there was so much going on, lots of different story lines for different people. They all kept you interested no matter what was going on, that's a sign of a brilliant drama.James Gandolfini is unbelievable as the main character Tony Soprano and the supporting cast is great too. What I really liked was how multi dimensional this show is, we don't just see Tony as some thug, we see how he copes with his family life/problems and of course his sessions with Dr Jennifer Melfi, who is portrayed extremely well by Lorraine Bracco (a much different role to how she was in Goodfellas). The one on one sessions those two have really link the story together well.The story develops at a nice pace and there is always something new happening. All the characters can be related to and are likable and unique in their own way. My personal favourite was Paulie 'Walnuts' Gualtieri who was played by Tony Sirico, he was just hilarious and an extremely likable character. The on screen chemistry between all the characters is just so believable; it's as if you are watching a real life drama. I also loved the dialogue used in the show.The drama is great and very gripping, the violence is incredibly brutal and graphic at times. There's also some humour inevery episode, this really is one of the best written TV shows ever. The show overall is just so powerful that you would even find a storyline involving Tony's wife, Carmela, and her friends quite interesting! Also the soundtrack throughout the series is very good and relevant, it just goes well together. The theme tune is perfect, when I hear that it always gets me pumped up to watch an episode, a truly brilliant song.Overall, this is one of the best drama series I have ever seen and I would recommend it to anyone. Give it a chance and you will get hooked to it, it is amazing. A big well done to everyone involved in making The Sopranos so great, will always be remembered as a classic. Well deserving of its rating on IMDb.R.I.P James, you are a true great.10/10


                
The Sopranos is the best TV series that has ever been across all genres. James Gandolfini is truly phenomenal as mafia boss Tony Soprano, he makes you believe that he really is Tony Soprano, his acting is absolutely fantastic. But Sopranos is not just about the mafia, it is about life and family and everything inbetween. It shows the different side of the story where the criminals also have a normal life outside of the criminal activities. Being a good caring parent for a mafia boss has the same challenges and frustrations as for all other people. The cast is absolutely phenomenal. Edie Falco, as Tony's wife Carmela a very religious woman standing behind her husband despite all of his sins. And Lorraine Bracco as Tony's psychiatrist, a woman who fears him when she is giving him therapy and at the same time secretly is attracted to him when they are apart. And not the least Tony Sirico as Paulie, the guy that always at any price works in his short sighted self interest. I could go on an on.. All actors and characters are fantastic. This IS the show that revolutionized TV and set a new standard.This is a true masterpiece. This is what great television should be - complex characters from excellent acting, magnificent story lines from flawless writing. I watched Sopranos entire series in 2017 and it still definitely stands the test of time. I was blown away.


                
Wow. I LOVED the whole series, and am shocked at comments by people who thought it ended badly. Perhaps it waffled a bit in seasons 4 & 5, while remaining better than anything else on television. But 6 and particularly 6b were beautiful permutations on the themes developed in the more muscular first three seasons. 6B started with such a sombre mood and Janice's always keen insight into the family angst - that doom-filled line about knowing Tony's penchant for sitting and staring. Anyone who missed the implications of that for the rest of the series does not know Tony. Melfi's discomfort over the psychiatric study and its references to the sociopath's self-deluding sentimentality for pets and animals goes back to the first episodes of the series, say, with Tony's panic attack over the ducks leaving his pool and resonates with Phil's "wave bye-bye" line to his grandchildren before the coup de grace of the final episode (not to get into Chase's dark humour).I could go on and on, but I'll just add that I thought the final show - starting with the opening strains of Vanilla Fudge to supply the ironic foreshadow ("You Keep Me Hangin' On") to the terminal moments where Tony fades back into complacency with his family in tow or blasts apart like AJ's SUV or Phil's head were, utterly, utterly PERFECT. The best TV ever. Pretty good in a dying medium pathologically supplying the "jack-off fantasies" AJ derides (and then into which he promptly subsides). A tip of the pork pie to Mr. Chase.
The "gangster" genre is now a worn subject one that is too often subjected to parody. In retrospect the series is a culmination of previous clichés that have been utilized in it's genre, thankfully the writers have advanced upon this flaw by creating a realism which has been applied to it. The Sopranos is an epic crime saga that illustrates it's content with psychological depth that is characterized with subtle nuance, humor and unvarnished violence. The key protagonist Tony Soprano is perceived as a perilous general bereft of fear and moral values by his crew ,however, Tony is of two persona's one which is bestial while the other is conflicted with guilt and resent. With out any inhibitions or contradictions I still adamantly believe that The Sopranos has the finest ensemble cast of recent memory. All things considered I could make an elaborate statement on the series, but I won't. If ever there is a visual dictionary in global consumerism search for these definitions vital, ambiguous, unrelenting, epic, uncompromising and the sopranos shattered visage will be smiling right back at you.


                
The Soprano's, the 8 + years this show has been on TV have been the best 8 years of television this generation has seen. I can remember when HBO churned out two of the best shows on TV, this and OZ, but The Sopranos have carved a niche for themselves in American pop culture, a mark that will last for generations.If you haven't watched this series you really need to start catching up because with only 2 episodes left once it is gone its gone. I have read James Ganddolfini is a pacifist and that he is really nothing like Tony Soprano, well you could of fooled me. There really isn't enough space or time for me to sing the praises of this show and what I consider to be my second family. You just have to trust me on this and get yourself out there and give it a try. Once you rent the 1st season and give it a watch I guarantee you will be hooked and for me OZ was a huge addiction, now with The Soprano's going off the air as well I am going to have find solace in something else.


                
Of course i enjoyed the Godfather and all the wiseguys movies of the past but , i have to admit that the Sopranos series are the best.I watched them on TV when they were originally aired and than i purchased the DVDs and saw it 2 times already.Season 6 was a bit of a disappointment, but i still enjoyed it, I was hoping that they won t stop this year, but it seems they will :((((Anybody knows if they are taking even in consideration the making of season 7? I always wondered why are they stopping such a successful production, but after season 6 I understood that any high end movie has it s moment of decline.I LOVE THE SOPRANOS!!!!!!!!!


                
The sopranos is and will always be the best mod show that ever aired.


                
Half way through the entire series for the 10th time now. I've watched so many great series since, such as GoT and Breaking bad which are amazing, but nothing will compare to this series for me. Flawless!


                
You can't debate it's influence on what followed in the television landscape. I grew up With a second generation Italian American father on the east coast not far from where this show takes place. The realism sends chills down my spine. It's like they put a tape recorder in my house when I was a kid and used the shit my pops would say to me as Tony's dialogue when he gets pissed at AJ as a young buck. That probably doesn't do anything for you but do u really need to read a review of this show? Everyone knows it's amazing from beginning to --(see what I did there? If you haven't seen the show you will at some point). The acting, the cinematography, the writing, it's all top notch. You can certainly put this up against anything anyone could bring up in a discussion about the best show of all time. I've watched it thru at least 3 times, and probably will 3 more before I leave this physical realm. If you haven't seen this yet, the best way for me to describe my feeling in regards to that is jealousy. I'm jealous that u have this To experience for the first time, to binge for countless hours on a snow day. Good For you! Enjoy it!


                
To jump right into this... I LOVE IT! The show is entertaining throughout all seasons, has very likable characters (Tony, Pauly, Carmella, Silvio) and few annoying ones (Meadow). It is funny, engaging, exciting and all in all one of the best TV Shows I've ever seen. Who hasn't seen it yet, should plan to do so. When I started watching the Sopranos, I wasn't really a fan of TV Shows in general. I knew the ones constantly running on TV and wasn't impressed really. But the sopranos are like a pretty good movie, every single (well 90%), episode. I had to stop myself in order not to watch too many episodes in one day. Verdict: Plain great, every criticism can be outshone be the many many awesome moments and the overall great entertainment. GO WATCH IT!


                
Every time i think about a great show i always think about The Sopranos. Every time i think about a great character i think about Tony.Every time i think about a great actor,i think about James Gandolfini .I don't want to talk much about perfection so i just want to write 10 lines and be sure 10 points will be more than deserved by this amazing TV show . Now i will write the same, i always write, about why is important to give your vote, because in this case this will make the difference between a good show and a great show with more and more positive reviews(from people that actually watch the show, not just ears about it)Every time I do the shows review is because I do believe some shows are more than just good or great, they are imperative to watch, because we cannot pass through life without paying attention to some things that are really worth to be noticed, a lot of rubbish is dumped on TV, but a lot of art is also available, you just have to make a choice, and i really want you to chose this one here ;)


                
There will never be another show like The Sopranos. The Sopranos is hands down the best show ever made. I have watched all of the great television shows and The Sopranos is by far my favorite! I have seen every season twice and Im going to watch it for a third time soon with my girlfriend because she has never seen it and I keep telling her how great it is. The acting in this show is the best acting I have ever seen! HBO has incredible shows and The Sopranos is easily number 1. If you love mafia stories, The Sopranos is a must see. Tony Soprano is my favorite mafia boss of all time. James Gandolfini puts on a legendary performance!! All of the actors are sensational. The writers do an amazing job with the story line and characters. You will wish you were apart of The Sopranos family. Every season gets better than the last. You will be blown away by this show. If you have HBO and have not watch The Sopranos you are missing out! If you have an x box 360 download the HBO Go app and enter your account information and you will have access to every show HBO has ever made. You will be able to binge watch every episode. If you do not have HBO I definitely recommend getting it or going out and buying the entire Sopranos season collection! I give The Sopranos a 10 out of 10 and if I could rate this show higher than a 10 I would. Acting: A++ Story/Writing: A++ Characters: A++


                
