...because I downloaded it as a torrent (which is legal where I now live).So the only thing I wasted watching it is the time I spent.It started off fairly well I thought. Bad guys get bumped off at regular intervals and that's good. Surely, I thought, somebody is going to whack that obnoxious Christopher character one day? But then it all degenerates into a soap opera based on Tony's dysfunctional family. I mean the close relations, not the other guys in the crew. That frightful spoilt wife of his (with a ghastly voice like Hillary Clinton's) is bad enough, but their revolting spoilt children? Like who gives a damn what happens to them (unless they get the good smack they each deserve?) And what was that Paris trip all about? An excuse for the production team to take a European vacation? And all those disgusting scenes with Vito, a bit more left to the imagination would have been more becoming. Still I did laugh out loud when Phil (another bad-ass with no redeeming features) got whacked. The sound effects guys did a good job there.Overall, it's a waste of time. Too much boredom, I found myself fast-forwarding a lot through the domestic scenes. The occasional bits of humour and violence do not outweigh the overall sense of tedium.
***Spoiler coming at the end of this review***
At the start I liked to watch this mafia story.
From season three on the main themes got more an more predictably.
From season five on all the forgotten buildups and filler episodes started to wear on my intrest until the point I only finished because I wasn't watching alone.
The Sixth season was the weakest of all. In the end the finale of Tonys death gets built up nicely, But this buildup just went past me because the finale should have happened two episodes - yet better two seasons ago and so I only found out about Tonys death with googles help.
You watch approximately 86 episode and the show ends in the most crap way possible making one think I just wasted my time.The show itself is not bad and you get hooked on it but the end is just so not thought through.Also I would not consider this as a Mafia film, no one acts like one. They don't even carry guns when they are a target.it doesn't cut the cake like godfather or any other Mafia films I watched in the past.If you still want t go waste your time or if you have a lot of time in your hands then go ahead and watch it by all means but for me I would have not wasted my time and money if I knew about it


                
