At one point or another, it was inevitable to watch The Sopranos. It was hailed as a show with a Mafia legacy, sort of The Godfather altered to fit the contemporary TV format. Well, i've seen the first season on DVD within a relatively short time range and wasn't convinced.Now, i have no problem with crime or violence on screen, because life writes stories that might sound like trashy horror thrillers. But i didn't like the the portrayal of a gangster whose only difference from a regular business man is his line of work, cryptically mentioned as waste disposal. Actually, he's even more similar to your average Joe than you might think, since the pressure of daily work lead him to a therapist.Overall, i wasn't sure why should i watch a guy who breaks the law under a pretense of taking care for his family while using his spare time to cheat on his wife.


                
This is my first review but the reason to review this show is I just don't understand why this show is 9.2 rated ? An average crime soap show which deserves just 5.The writing and acting of the show cast is really amazing but this show comes no where near Breaking Bad or Movies like The Godfather which left me stunned for days when they ended . It's just a mafia soap opera show.The points I hate:a) Dr. Melfie - The most annoying character in the show and the show could have saved a lot of time without her trash talk. A counselor who herself needs a counselor.b) The characters from Bada Bing go on killing sprees and characters disappear and killed and no one gives a f... about that whereas characters like Uncle Junior and Johnny Sack are surrounded by police for conspiring murders. The one part where Tony Soprano is at Johnny Sack's place and FBI comes and arrest Johnny Sack but Tony Soprano just goes back home and continues life. Were the writers drunk writing such a lame trash script ? Why no one from the bada bing is arrested and put on trails for so many murders. I know it's a story but it's just lame.c) There is nothing special about the story family and gang members killing each other. For god sake tony killed Christopher? He could have at-least tried to save him despite Chris saying he won't make out of the drug test after-all he was Tony's nephew. Pure WTF !
Why give 3 ? I don't know because I felt Tony Soprano was 10 and remaining thing about the show was just 3.There are far better shows than this trash. I watched it as a kid and I hated it and I watched it now still hate it because you derive zero common sense watching this gutter trash.
Did i spent 3.5 days of my life to watch?Sorry, i don't want to be heard as a Taliban or a fanatic Evangelist but i feel anger,disappointment for this (technically excellent) work. Is this the kind of crap that they serve the last decade the American society? Are the America's youth being fed this kind of values?Is this the aftermath of 9/11?So sad! And since Greek society slowly but steadily is being transformed to an American one i feel terrified about the future of my son in this world!I don't know the actual motive of the producers/directors for this.Did they want:1. to pass some messages to me as a viewer or2. they wanted to make a documentary, a"reality" series for the mob-society which in a great percentage is the society we live in(mobsters,politicians,businessmen etc)?If number 2 great work but why on earth did they tortured me for 86 episodes when they could made a 3hour film to deconstruct the myth of the "Goodfellas" for cute bad boys who may kill people but they are human and not worst than the rest of us.I agree with that effort even if i don't think that all the rest of us "regulars" are "innocent" but there is a clear margin to that argument.But if it is number 1 i have serious objections.First of all some people referred to Greek Tragedy!!! WHERE IS CATHARSIS???Where the protagonist becomes a better human being? When he denounces his mistakes,his crimes,the pain he gave and he finds salvation?Did the viewer feels better when this ugly product-series ends(?)? Tony Soprano after what he has done he is in a restaurant with his family arriving in a "christmas atmosphere" without any guilts so the message is " Do/kill whatever you want as long as you win???"I am not saying that this is not possible to happen (it happens and is the majority of the cases)but WE are watching a film/series.The artwork of a man (producer/director), his OPINION his PROPOSAL his CONTRIBUTION for EDUCATION.Is this the message???Why do i have to watch a psychopath killing his beloved persons (even if it happens in reality)?Just to become familiar with this violence and when i see it in the newspapers to justify it as natural?Why Tony Soprano is presented as a good father?He is not.Dr Goebbels also?If you think he is then Tony Soprano's mother was also a good figure.And beyond that... the scenario lies a little bit!Carmella Soprano and his children know from the beginning that their father is a Mafia boss but they don't realize that he KILLS people and that all the sudden disappearances of their beloved persons and relatives (Andrianna,Ritchie,Ralf,Tony B,Christofer etc) have nothing to do with their father? The murderous psychology of their father doesn't affect them at all?His son,who has a suicidal psychology, never screams about the murders of his dad???I "understand" the murders in front of the FBI threat of arrest and imprisonment and the fear that stops anyone to discuss them but how this "silence" does not push them in a no-way out sentimental situation? Carmella soprano has a Kalashnikov and a hand grenade in a closet but when Andrianna's mother tell her that they killed her daughter does not believe it? Vito's son only in the knowledge of his homo father he reacts worse.I don't want to expand.A few more things about the title i gave "America is a twisted society" People there... We love you Americans and even if we Greeks are famous anti-Americans (of your government)we are same us you part of the Western World.You have a serious problem.For many years your society has become a society of Orwell.You are not a free society.At your TVs you don't listen the truth but propaganda of your multi-national companies that rule the rest of the world and they try (and have succeeded ) to pass a new Lifestyle,a new American Dream that seek to make you a better Consumer!Why i say that? first of all the whole series is a hymn of Psychiatry and Prozac.Give me a break here.It is not bad to talk to someone expert if you have a problem but it is not possible to expect results without fight the causes.What can Prozac and anti-depressants can do to Tony S?Tony Soprano can stop killing and live a normal life if he wants to feel betterCarmella Soprano must decide to loose big house, fancy clothes etc and denounce her husband's ways if she wants she and her son grow up "normally".If you exchange ignorance-silence with a wealthy life this is the price.A.J. instead of taking anti-depressants he could try to work at social aid like his sister or better move politically in an opposite direction from his father and government.Anti-depressants is a huge growing industry as a new way of the Capital to steal once more money from the citizens.It is unacceptable for a movie/series to contribute to that fraud!The whole references to Terrorism etc ... come on... Even the worst mobsters can be true patriots and if you are a good patriot/mobster even the CounterTerrorist service will help you with the bad Phil Leotardo who calls from gas stations...please!A.J. is sensitive about the destruction of forests for paper use but he drives an SUV of 3.5lts and his reaction to all these is that he wants to go to Afganistan and CIA ...Eco-terroristic messages :-)Mercy! We all know that for a 100 years the whole Western world bombs and kills Iraq and Afganistan and more,just for the petrol.Thats why there is terrorism and immigration from these countries.We kill them and they want to kill us.It is natural.They killed 3.200 civilians in WTC and WE killed already 120.000 civilians (source: WikiLeaks) from 2003 in response.


                
It's enjoyable for water-cooler discussion the day after an episode, but after that... meh.


                
