...despite what flaws it may have. And flaws there are, but more on that later, perhaps. I'll not bore anyone reading this with a recap of who's who and what's what, other than to concur that the acting is top notch, along with the camera-work, the art design, the music, the costuming, and so on and so forth. There's hardly a false note to be found in the entire production, and that's part of what makes "The Sopranos" sing like a full choir.I "discovered" the show via DVD, since I'm too cheap to pay for cable, and I found a copy of Season One at a very good price. Hooked, I purchased each volume as it was issued, and am getting set to indulge myself with Season Six, Part One after submitting this comment. I have every expectation of enjoying it just as much as the others.The "hook" of the show is basically a Mafioso boss who is seeing a shrink to work out his conflicts of conscience. Over the course of years, we come to know his entire family, both literal and figurative, in all its tawdry glory. It's "high concept" that's so low it works.The language is rough, as one would expect from wiseguys, along with the violence, but it's all part and parcel of great scripting that keeps things in motion while drawing the audience deeper and deeper into the lives of people they'd most likely rather not know in person, no matter the appeal of their "human" side, too. It's akin to watching multiple car crashes, I suppose, while thinking, "There but for the grace of God go I." There are lessons to be learned from observing the lives of folks like the Sopranos.I'm a little surprised to see that so few people have rated "The Sopranos" here on the IMDb, given the popularity of the show and its longevity, though it's much less of a surprise that younger females seem to have avoided it and/or admire it less than the men. Perhaps it's only the devoted fans who are voting, given the inordinately high 77.2% "10" rating it currently boasts. I'm given to wonder about the possibility that IMDb mavens tend to watch less broadcast/cable TV than the general populace, preferring movies instead (I know that's my pattern).Anyway, if films like "Goodfellas," "True Romance," "Reservoir Dogs," "Bound," "The Godfather," and the like are what float your boat, then you owe it to yourself to check out "The Sopranos." You'll already be familiar with its acting crew.
So far, I've watched 3 seasons of The Sopranos now.I liked the first season of The Sopranos (9/10). In the second season, things were pretty predictable leading up to and in the season finale (7/10). The third season wasn't as predictable and was much more entertaining, but not as a good as the first season (8/10).Reasons I liked the first season of The Sopranos:1) It was funny. It seemed more like a comedy rather than a drama. 2) The main conflict was pretty good and interesting. 3) The "College" episode was awesome. 4) The character Tony Soprano's crisis of conscience.Reasons I don't really like the second season of The Sopranos:1) The comedy has gotten stale. I've laughed a few times here and there. 2) The season feels lost with no real conflicts. 3) No standout episodes. 4) Tony still has the same problems.--------------------------------------------------------------------Compared to TV series such as The Wire, Breaking Bad, Lost, The Shield, Damages, and Dexter, I just haven't seen the spark that those shows had. Their first seasons were all much better. Their second and third seasons were too.


                
There's many episodes, particularly in the early Series, that score a '10' - riveting even with sometimes ropey and inconsistent writing surrounding them. These were enough to keep me hooked and watching the show right through to the end hoping it would get better again as it seemed after Series 3 to progressively go off the rails. However, it got worse - many of the later episodes are at best a '4' - inconsistent, self-indulgent (for the writer/directer), badly written, left me yawning. Series 6, as a whole, was a huge disappointment. The Series Finale, in particular, is cheesily awful, one I wish I hadn't bothered with. It felt like the writers just didn't care anymore.There's no doubt it's James Gandolfini who makes this show what it is, aided by Edie Falco who plays her role as mobster's wife to perfection. I have all the episodes on DVD and will at some point go through the whole series again. But I also know there's a fair few episodes I will skip as they bored me enough the first time around.


                
Mrs. Shullivan and I decided to invest the time required (it took us about one full week) and so we hunkered down to watch the entire popular crime/dramedy television series "The Sopranos" from the pilot episode through to the finale 21st episode of season six (6), which comprised a total of 86 episodes. Several years ago we had caught some odd episodes of various seasons from time to time but we had yet to invest the time required to watch this highly rated crime/dramedy series from beginning to end.So now after just completing re-watching the final episode of The Sopranos we turned to each other and asked that common question "so what did you think?" Mrs. Shullivan reflected with a semi-grunt "uhhh, it was all right but the ending was a real letdown". My own immediate reaction was that I was glad the series was cancelled as each season seemed to become more of a soap opera in which this series concentrated far too much air time on the interaction with mob boss Tony Soprano (James Gandolfini) and his psychiatrist Dr. Melfi (Lorraine Bracco). When Tony was sitting in Dr. Melfi's office being analyzed I came to the personal conclusion that series creator David Chase must have run into another writers' mental block or that he just became lazy so he depended upon filling the required 45 minute episode time slot with so much wasted air time and far too often Dr. Melfi/Tony Soprano conversational drab sessions. It was easy for me to stop listening to the episode and to start daydreaming about personal matters when Tony was interacting with Dr. Melfi.What I really liked about this series was James Gandolfini's performance as mob boss Tony Soprano. In reality the late James Gandolfini was considered a soft spoken and overly generous man who cared greatly for his family and friends. His death in 2013 was premature and we lost a great human being and a first class actor whose body of work is extensive. Gandolfini, a young 51, was discovered by his then 13 year old son Michael in distress in a bathroom of their hotel room in Rome around 10 p.m. on Wednesday June 19th, 2013. Michael, who is James Gandolfini's son called hotel staff and they in turn called an ambulance. Doctors from the Umberto 1 hospital worked on the actor for 40 minutes but could not resuscitate him.James Ganodolfini had been on a vacation with his son Michael before he was slated to attend the closing ceremonies of the Taormina Film Festival on Saturday in Sicily. Before he suddenly died, Gandolfini had "a wonderful day. He visited The Vatican and had dinner at the hotel with his son awaiting the arrival of his sister." I honestly believe that if David Chase knew that James Gandolfini's life was in reality, to be cut short in Italy, just a few years after the conclusion of the overwhelming multi Emmy and Golden Globe award series The Sopranos he and his writing staff may have provided the television audience with a more appropriate final season story line. As it now stands we are left with a glorified soap opera (thus the summary title "The SOAPranos") about a mob boss who reflects on his troubled childhood and his mommy issues, and as a young boy he witnesses his violent criminal father chopping off a thumb of one his debtors, which is diagnosed by his psychiatrist Dr. Melfi as the root cause for Tony Soprano's panic attacks. Through the six seasons we observe a dysfunctional but yet privileged Soprano family who are more than happy in reaping the benefits of their father/husband Tony Soprano's life of crime and murder.There is a fine cast of supporting characters including the likes of Edie Falco (Carmela Soprano, Tony's wife), Michael Imperioli (Christopher Moltisanti) who is Tony's quasi adopted like son/nephew. Tony's two reliable henchmen Tony Sirico (Paulie Gualtieri) and rocker Steven Van Zandt (Silvio Dante) as well as an abundance of supporting actors and actresses. To name just a few great supporting actors/actresses such as Aida Turturro, Dominic Chianese, Nancy Marchand (cause of Tony's mommy issues as well as his attempted executioner and momma Don) , Drea De Matteo, Vincent Pastore, Robert Iler, Jamie-Lynn Sigler, Vincent Curatola, and Steve Buscemi.Mrs. Shullivan and I did enjoy the series, especially the periodic attempts at dramedy such as when Tony gets his revenge on another mob boss Phil Leotardo (Frank Vincent) and after Phil is shot his wife's vehicle tire accidentally rolls over her dead husbands head and crushes it. Another funny scene sequence is when Christopher and Paulie are attempting to dump the body of a Russian mobster into the winter snow covered woods but the guy is still alive and he escapes leaving Christopher and Paulie lost in the woods freezing to near death and fighting like little children trying to blame each other for their near death circumstances with no other option but to call their boss and come and get them because they are lost in the wintery snow covered woods.If The Sopranos series is ever resurrected (and I hope it is soon) I recommend that writer/director Quentin Tarantino be brought in to re-create the series with a whole new cast of characters that he could draw from all the fabulous performers he has brought to the big screen over the past few decades. Oh "What a night of TV Viewing" that would be if Quentin Tarantino was in charge. Hey Quentinare you interested in shooting some new scenes in the Bada Bing club?I give the series an overall decent 8-10 rating. My favorite crime series still remains The Wire (read my other reviews).


                
It was a great series and paved the way for future similar series to come. My only gripe is the lack of redeemable qualities we see in the protagonists.


                
I remember this first time around and I just couldn't get into it. Due to glowing reviews (including here) I thought I would try it again.It is good but there is one HUGE problem with the show.I can't understand what they are talking about. Now, I have seen Goodfellas, The Godfather etc and followed the dialogue easily but this is crazy! The 'jokes' are almost impossible (for me) to get as my first name isn't Carmine.This was a much bigger hit in The Us than the UK and I think that was the problem for some of us Brits.I gave the show an eight as I still think it is pretty damn good. The acting IS excellent and when they speak a little slower, I love it.However some scenes to me sound like this: ' So, waddabout da corcus in da bing, make me look like some kinda squigy'. 'Yeh, take it from me. It's a hit. No way Carmine gonna bad da bing for da limey'.?????????????????????????????????? Still it is pretty good on the whole!


                
It is an interesting series and a slightly different tone on the mafia but it is the mafia all right and I wonder if we can still say anything that is bigger than a detail, an entertaining detail eventually, but nothing but a detail on it. Their job is extortion and extortion it is. They try to keep their nose clean and not do too many nose jobs but they hardly can really resist their deep nature. So they over-eat, they are fat slobs, they use guns like others use toothbrushes, they kill anyone who is in their way and they solve their succession problems and their heritage and inheritance with bullets or at times, when they want to be clean, with the police that gets rid of the older generation to let the younger one take over. Is that moral? Of course not but you can't let such a business be managed by people who do not know how to use an iPad or a cell phone, really, not to speak of a computer and the Internet. The police is not cleaning up society, it is cleaning up the mafia itself of the old stooges who could become dangerous by being out-fashioned by younger black non-mafia real criminals who would do it for the pleasure of killing and not the pleasure of a stable environment. Then the series is real entertainment because it is swift, brisk, fast, light, rapid, very active, but yet these perambulating fat whales are definitely non-kosher to my serious mind and the pig over some dining hall of some kind is non halal at all and that bothers me. Too much booze and too much pork. But well you will not get a brain stroke on that series, and a giggle from time to time on a priest who is sublimating his sex desire for women in good food and light slightly titillating innuendo. Young priests today do not look at little boys any more. They look at pretty women, married if possible. Husbands can accept anything from a priest provided there is a holy communion somewhere.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
The Sopranos is great television. I haven't had cable until recently so I didn't see it until recently when a friend let me borrow her DVD box sets, so now I have seen seasons one through season four.This show has some great performances by great actors, they really fit their parts perfectly (for the most part) and whoever did the casting for this show sure did an incredible job, if they have casting awards I hope they won a few of them!!! Obviously this show is not for kids, it has a lot of swearing and some real in your face violence and gore as you would expect any R-rated gangster show to have, and also there is a lot of nudity in the show because the gangster's main hang out is a strip bar.


                
From what I have seen of this TV drama, it is a very good alternative of The Godfather, with a very good mafia involved family. It basically revolves around big man (literally and metaphorically) Tony Soprano (5 Emmy nominated (3 wins) and 4 Golden Globe nominated (1 win) James Gandolfini) and his family, wife Carmela (5 Emmy nominated (3 wins) and 6 Golden Globe nominated (2 wins) Edie Falco), son Anthony 'A.J.' Soprano, Jr. (Robert Iler), father Corrado 'Junior' Soprano (twice Emmy nominated Dominic Chianese), daughter Meadow (Jamie-Lynn DiScala) and sister Janice (Emmy nominated Aida Turturro). But also his family and gangster friends are focused, including Christopher Moltisanti (Michael Imperioli), Dr. Jennifer Melfi (Lorraine Bracco), Silvio Dante (Steve Van Zandt), Paulie 'Walnuts' Gualtieri (Tony Sirico), Adriana La Cerva (Drea De Matteo), Artie Bucco (John Ventimiglia), Vito Spatafore (Joseph R. Gannascoli) and Bobby 'Bacala' Baccalieri (Steve Schirripa). The programme involves the usual kind of mob crime and entertainment you see in the movies, and the dialogue is just a great as the violence. Many episodes with special guests Joe Pantoliano as Ralph Cifaretto, Steve Buscemi as Tony Blundetto and Robert Loggia as Feech La Manna. It was nominated for 96 Emmys, winning 18, and it was nominated for 22 Golden Globes, winning 5. It was number 1 on The 50 Greatest TV Dramas. Very good!
