Everyone who likes this series is from India. If you are not from India, you most likely will think this sucks, which it does.After 4 minutes I was ready to drop. I tried to motivate myself on continuing by spamming links to my interweb friends and challenging them to watch the first episode. It was officially available on YouTube with the best possible quality after all. None of us made it till the end. I got to around 20 minutes mark, but after witnessing a super lame joke, I just couldn't do it anymore.The story and characters can be summed up pretty well with this short sentence by Francine "omg, who the h*ll cares?" The "comedic" side of this series it not only unfunny and predictable, but also cringe-worthy. I also noticed that the scenes were getting brighter and brighter. After 20 minutes it seems overexposed and so weird that I had to check if my monitor's bluelightfiltering stopped working. It didn't.Well, I guess this might seem pretty good and "new" to people who watch bad Bollywood movies all day long, but I wouldn't recommend anyone else to even try this out.
Seriously, don't waste your time with this. I was really driven by other users comment and it's high rate, so I gave it a try. I couldn't watch the first episode till the end, as it's just too bad to be seen. The actors are amateurs, the humor is so bad it makes anyone sad and the overall quality of everything is below standards. You have all the typical characters from humor directed to the elderly, trying to make you laugh with isolated nonsense situations, without any success. The all concept reminds me of an Indie movie, but with no interest at all (and I do love some alternative movies and TV series). About the story, it's a good idea for a TV series, and it could have been a success, with the right production and actors that is.Well, consider yourself warned!


                
Do not know how they have so much good reviews on IMDb. This show will only be liked by people who have no practical experience of how a business works. Was expecting a lot after many of my acquaintances and friends forced me to watch this. I have been running a company for the past 3 years and I have never encountered a single thing that is shown in this show. Script: A 10 year old boy can write a more realistic script than this. Dialogues: Dialogues are so awful that they are not even worth 1 star. I think some school boy writes their dialogues as they are full of abuses and without any emotional grip. Actors : You do not need to act when all you have to do is abuse and they couldn't even do that properly. Music : Not even a pinch of attention has been given to create a background music, which is essential to grip people to the show.


                
This show is made of engineers by engineers for engineers. Its a mammoth fest of technocratic dudes who try to imagine away their stale dull lives spent typing coma inducing code into a paradise where they are still coding coma inducing programs but now, they are their own prison-masters. The creators of the show, like all engineers have a thumb-rule algorithmic approach to "storytelling"" as they call it, since on closer inspection, it resembles more like hallucinated tumbling forth of incidents which somehow all come together in the end, albeit through some "cute" sentimentality like the speech of a management executive at the end of Episode 5. Sentimental coddling of the generation is the new fashion and TVF is milking this.Of course all this is not deliberate as the people in real lives probably live such trivialized lives themselves. Its a testament to how much Pitchers appeals to our melodramatic and over sentimentalized, puppy love generation that there is not one bad rating in IMDb for this. The only other time such unanimous applause was seen in the annals of an Indian work of "ärt", it was Gunda, a timeless favorite of all engineers. TVF has got together a singular bunch of urban bards spinning yarns of meticulous nonsense quite in tune with the culture around. So no blame to them. But to applaud a miserable bunch of peter pans with their "unique" problems of work life and bubbling with easy platitudes at every step is an insult to the whole paradigm of praise itself. Dudes, you can get all your funding and set up your companies but life is infinitely tougher and the real problems of your code-driven existence are still a deteriorating marital and sex life, a loss of morals and the emptiness of modern distractions, one of which is shows like yours. If you really want to be the voice of the generation as you never shy of boasting, read some literature (assuming you have patience), try getting inside the hearts of men and women and figure out whats ails your generation so much.The engineer is a symbol of the vacuity of modern life and exalting him to the status of a modern mythical figure as you're trying is not just stupid, its saddening.


                
This show does not deserve to be in the top 250, I couldn't bear watching an entire episode.The production quality is something you would expect from an amateur group, not something worthy of going on TV, the writing, acting and sound is all sub-par for a show with this kind of rating. I only gave it a try because of IMDB's high rating but it appears the reviews are mostly obviously payed for.


                
Because they promised season 2. Released the trailer and then forgot about it completely.


                
