Its one of the coolest TV series ever produced. Just love watching it. Keep it up guys..!! Its something i look forward to watch after my tiring day. It provides you with great fun and entertainment along with a crisp of events. A must watch for today's tech generation. It looks to be promising with excellent performances by its actors Very good directing skills to make it look authenticating and compare with day to day life. Naveen, Jitu, Yogi and Mandal ensure they don't make it look an over the top series. Hats off to TVF for coming up with such an interesting topic and projecting this concept as many people, especially Indian individual , are opting for this future and making it big. Well Done..Keep it up..


                
I think to cut a long story short, India has the capability of making this kind of Serial, Fantastic Story line, Naveen Bansal Speech in 4th episode truly breath taking, Jitu and his dad add spark and at the same time that how much a child still cares of his father, yogi brilliant Comic timing!! A Must watch for all professionals.And not to forget the IIM guy Mandal, who looks so innocent and at the same time acting a backbone of for the whole team. One things that this serial has set apart that it has covered every genre that IT professional goes through from his college days to Career, they give themselves motivation to strive for the . Hats off to the Screenplay, each character has been portrait to absolute certainty. Way to go TVF, you guys are doing a magnificent job :)


                
Excellent attempt by TVF to capture the real life of IT professionals in India who are aspiring for startups. Direction is awesome and performances by all the actors do not make it boring experience.Frustration of IT employee is captured well and TVF team has made considerable efforts in making this a very authentic experience. Its treat for eyes and ears.I would love to watch this series and I am eagerly waiting for next episode. I would love to have such new plots coming even on television in India on youth channels like Bindaas or MTV etc.Thank you TVF for wonderful experience.


                
I will try to keep it short:1. Excellent dialogues- Well written and dialogues that are relevant to the audience go a long way in making this an excellent show. 2. Acting- Everyone excels in their roles. TVF has come a long way and this is a sleek product with top-notch performance (hat tip to Jeetu for his scenes with his father). 3. TVF- The hype surrounding TVF and their TV shows (a highly recommended "Permanent Roommates" included) is completely justified. Just like the character "Naveen Bansal" says about being fearless as a kid, TVF is just that even now and we as audiences benefit from that. 4. Entertainment- It is very easy to get preachy while dealing with subjects such as entrepreneurship (and end up being documentary like in tone) but TVF is true to its promise of delivering quality entertainment that is laced with acidic yet witty commentary about the malaise and issues surrounding entrepreneurship. 5. Production Value- The show looks very polished and the hard work TVF has put into making the show look absolutely realistic shows.


                
This is one of those rare things which relaxes a part of you by its entertainment (rather sensible, no nonsense entertainment) and awakens one part of you to think about what you are actually doing with your own life. Its funny, its serious, its inspiring, its REAL, its a 100 more things I can't describe. Personally, what I like most is the respect with which TVF Pitchers treats its audience. When I watch this series I feel good when they present such intelligent comedy and so REAL story line. Thank you TVF for NOT insulting your audience like Mainstream serials in India do and for NOT treating them as idiots who can not understand anything as Mainstream movies in India do. Keep it Up!!! And yes, please bring the finale episode soon man!:)


                
I have been a follower of TVF since their "Permanent roommates" series. You guys are nailing it down one by one...!!!. The best thing, majority of the Indian population is able to relate themselves to your series :). Many guys do wanna take the leap of faith with startups but they are afraid. Hope your series inspires us so that this fear of failure can be crushed.Acting: 10/10 Casting: 10/10 Editing: 10/10 Background score: 10/10 Dialogues: 7/10 (You could have kept it little less abusive :(, I wanted to show this series to older generations in my family who still think jobs in MNC and govt. jobs is what the Indian dream is. They are still not aware of the startup culture)Do share the background music/songs please. Please keep this series alive for a long time like the 2-3 seasons.


                
Comic, Its so casual and real. Brilliant actors. The entire is so very Inspiring. I must have watched it what some 25 times each episode. Brilliant Job TVF, "Yogi" u are a comic master man, hast off. Naveens jury room explanation and the speech, was awesome. But the thing that makes me love it are the detailing. like brining the real startup founders to act in it, the bechdel test. The Box8 thing, u know when i opened Box8 site for curosity it was crawling for 5 minutes. Gary in his short stint was brilliant too. Mandal and Jitu are also amazing. And cherry on the cap was the entry of Biswapati Sarkar. I am a die hard fan of his comic timing, i love the chai-sutta cronicles. Waiting for the next episodes to come.


                
i've been following TVF since quite long...they have always managed to come up with unique concepts and sketches, unlike qtiyapa, tech convo wid dad, permanent roommates, this is more intense and quite evolving one...each character is so well developed that it has that 'factor' that makes u think about the possibilities and again make u, as a viewer, relate with one's life...I wish u guys all the very best n yes, to the '#qutiyaguy...aka arunabh...i too wish to see this series on par or better than entourage...kudos guys!!!...n bisso..aka...biswapati sarkar...some one will definitely mention u as his/her inspiration for their start up!!! :)


                
"Pitchers"- An inventive script, impeccable screenplay, true-to-life characters, splendid acting and humor at its best.Arnuabh Kumar started "The Viral Fever" on YouTube when he got rejected from MTV because their show was too intellectual. Now here he is, with "Pitchers", which is intellectual.Some IIT guys with a penchant for filmmaking started making small videos, and now they have reached a level where we can proudly say that they are encouraging everyone. Their satires on the social issues, politics, and everything bad in our country is commendable."Pitchers" have taken the creativity to a whole new level, lovable characters and immaculate writing are the souls of it.Gives the feel of "Entourage".Kudos people, Keep it up.


                
TVF Pitchers is an audacious attempt by TVF to make a sensible TV show in India. The theme of the story is one which majority of the IT and young people will relate to. The main difference about this show is its improved direction, better storyline, original music(No constant irritating background music) and decent dialogs. Also the actors fit the role and their acting is satisfactory. The storyline is interesting, comical and also realistic which is a rare find in the Indian television industry. The show however sometimes losses its focus and tries to overdo a little. Despite its little imperfections the series has begun well and is something I would definitely continue watching. Kudos to the makers for a daring attempt.


                
Everyone told me to watch this series. Being a 17 year old boy in a world of innovations and start ups, for a few weeks, this was the talk of the town. This is the first time i watched an Indian TV series, and it is brilliant. The dialogues and jokes are simply perfect. Naveen and his friends represent the entire youth of India and we can connect to them perfectly. The storyline and jokes seemed to get better and better as the series progressed. Rocksolid critics might point out mistakes in the directing and acting, but the jovial mood created by the actors just steals the show. It's not only amusing, but also very inspiring. What is entrepreneurship? This question is answered in a very different way through this show.Keep it up!Can't wait for season 2 to come out


                
we love anything from TVF. we have been following from the very beginning . The actors ,the reality connection to every youth in India. The IT life, frustrated young generation to find their passion but yet connected to the roots of Indian cutler the father son relation, arranged marriage working out are shown well. The general Indian men thinking of wife not getting the job my husband has been showing the TVF videos to all the guest. Even friends as if we are the brand ambassador's of the show. good direction. good story and characterization. The final episode was too good. The college students acting was little unnatural though.
The exponential rise of the online content in India owes it to TVF in delivering impeccable quality in material, production value and performance. Complimenting the rise of The Viral Fever Media Labs, TVF Pitchers starts with a good note and ends on a summit. Personally, I felt the pilot fair enough, not exceptional, to represent the changing dimensions of content coming from frustrated(at the banality that is passed off as prime time entertainment) intelligentsia, but as the series unfolded they rose above my expectations and delivered a spectacle of pristine content backed by wonderful performances. There are a few technical jargon that the rising crop of Engineers can relate to, clearly depicting a huge chunk of the TVF fan-base. The series portrays the dilemma of an IT professional trying to build a company in an atmosphere of adversities, unlike Silicon Valley(both the show and the region), in a place where stability is valued higher than taking a risk. Humor is ingrained in the plot and situation, extremely well written, which portrays a paradigm shift in the thinking of modern professionals still preserving the values of their homeland that is dear to them. The paradox of a cosmopolitan yet traditional values trying to amalgamate is portrayed brilliantly. Performances are honest and natural which seem effortless in execution, a remarkable feat.As one can see its entire viewership comes from the people hailing from the Indian subcontinent, who shared similar cultural understanding. I'm not sure about the international community that is unaware of the colloquial slang would find the same punch in the series as Indians do, moreover, the cultural differences and restraints in Indian middle class are different than the first world, but they sure can appreciate a good content when they see one.I agree on the point that since it is the best that came out of this subcontinent doesn't mean it's not overrated by enthusiastic fans(including myself) and the sheer population of Indian users on IMDb. I admire the series, as I was able to relate to it and found it worthy. Objectively, I'd say there is more to be expected of Arunabh and in time, I'm sure TVF will deliver content that will be on par with HBO, hopefully better, as TVF wishes, but for now, the Top 250 rank is overrated. My dilemma is, I liked it very much but am I being objective in negating the series or is it that the general notion of average grade content from India makes people feel that Pitchers can't be "that" good.


                
Well, if you ask someone what is the most happening series nowadays, TVF Pitchers would be the answer!First came TV series which revolutionized the watching behavior of people and now it is web series. TVF Pitchers appeals to the present generation. You relate to the day to day life of the characters. It reminds you of someone you know- in your office, colony, college. There is no over doing, it is realistic and the characters- I must say have been superbly portrayed!!Naveen, Yogi, Jitu, Mandal.... They give inspirations at times!!A superb series. Well written and perfectly executed... Will be waiting eagerly for the next season!


                
I was impressed. I don't normally rate and review but I think it really deserved it. of the best ever mini series made. Brilliant direction. No nonsense. Simple story. Amazing screenplay and awesome acting lifts it to perfection. We fall in love with characters and get inspired by them too. Everyone gotta watch it, especially Indians, because when we hear "series" then we only think about long high drama nonsense ones. Those directors must learn from these people. It says many things without doing so. Too bad it will never air in India on televisions because of the brainless censor board.Ps: I watched all the episodes at once. It makes it much better.


                
I had only just heard of TVF. I knew they were into making spoof videos. I wasn't aware of what Pitchers is. Or the fact that there was a Permanent Roommates before it.And then, one morning, I woke up to a post on Facebook. I do not remember whether it was a news article or a post share. All I remember is the content: TVF Pitchers had secured a spot on IMDb's Top 250 TV Shows.At first I was surprised. When did IMDb start a Top 250 for TV Shows. Even more surprising was the thought that if Pitchers had a place here, then it wasn't a spoof video. It was much more. What was it ? I searched, read and quickly realized what it was; a dream of millions of youngsters waiting to be realized that had come into fruition. And suddenly I saw the possibilities; no longer would we have to wait eagerly for the next season of The Big Bang Theory to begin or no longer would we have to wait for Season 3 of Silicon Valley to start. We could have our own. Indian shows, at par with their American counterparts, using Indian history, culture, memes, jokes and situations Indians could identify with.I set myself up to watch this. But then I thought, following chronology would be better. And so I started, not with Pitchers but with Permanent Roommates. Saw all 5 episodes and quickly realized, yes, the doors have opened. Of course, the Indian version of 24 had proved it. But this solidified it. The possibilities were now endless.Then I started watching Pitchers. I started with the first episode. In the first 10 minutes ending with the show's opening (the gang of four walking into a bar), it was already a winner. The production values, cinematography, the catchy opening intro, writing, the analogy with beer (brilliant piece of writing), flawlessly smooth editing, it was all there. Right there. And all in the first 10 minutes.I thought maybe it'll lose its first episode charm. I was wrong. With each passing episode came sequences and situations that were not only believable and highly identifiable but situations that you actually felt with, connected with and reacted with. From Naveen's speech, to the frustrated software engineer Jeetu's outburst, you not only feel every moment but feel like applauding and clapping with them.There will be a Permanent Roommates Season 2. There will be a Pitchers, Season 2. There will be more shows. But there can be much more. There can be short films. There can be full fledged 2 hour internet movies (at Hollywood Standards so that we can bid Bollywood goodbye). There can even be a TVF's dedicated channel (if the government allows it that is).But most importantly, this is the beer for all content that will follow. This is it; this is the spark we all needed to realize that yes, its possible. We don't need TV channels, huge production budgets, lots and lots of crew members to make it happen. We need dedication. And with Pitchers, we've seen that dedication. We've seen that quality. More inspiring than its story-line of four friends creating is a startup, is the fact that TVF created Pitchers.Hopefully, Pitchers inspires people to create. If not a startup, then perhaps several shows that will take Indian entertainment several steps forward. Of course we have Permanent Roommates. And we have Office Office. And the Indian version of 24 (if at all there are more seasons). And we will always have several other shows. But then, maybe in the distant future, Pitchers will be remembered as the show that started it all. Or the one that changed it all for India.And this, I feel, is why Pitchers deserves a watch. At least once !!!


                
TVF Pitchers over FRIENDS ? Seriously ? I love this series. But seriously, don't overrate it. Series is good. Loved the dialogs. Awesome script. Overrating this series is simply not fair is what I feel. Waiting for season 2. Great work TVF. Keep it up. Writing the lines ahead just because minimum length for reviews is 10 lines of text. A story of the trials and tribulations of four young entrepreneurs who quit their day jobs in order to pursue their start up venture.Writer: Arunabh Kumar. Stars: Naveen Kasturia, Arunabh Kumar, Jitendra Kumar.Inspiring and entertaining at the same time!Brilliant show, excellent performances


                
Really hats off to the TVF Team nice story, very funny and all the cast crew is awesome. The overall concept of the show is new and the acting crew adapt it well, very hot story for now a days. Really puts you in there place make you realize how vast the world is and you should not give up. Best use of abusive language that we commonly do, Arunabh didn't hold it back as always. I've become a fan of this show, eagerly waiting for the next season hope it will come with many more amazing episodes, keep up TVF Pitcher's Team. This show keeps you bolted on to your seats. Really appreciate your efforts, Arunabh Kumar THANK YOU for giving this series to Indian Film Industry.


                
One of the best series I ever seen, at par with other English series in terms of content, dialogs and dialogs.Its for every Indian who wants to break away from daily routine world and do something which makes a difference.The full team makes a combined effort and I feel sorry for those many Indians who don't have any internet access and cant watch this awesome show..Please guys bring this on national television. whole India is waiting for u.


                
Everything is this series is so well thought out. Whether its the romance between the couples, the humour or even the camaraderie between the guys. All are set in perfect tone, without overdoing anything.The acting is great and the characters are likable. Even the characters with smaller roles like Shreya or Saumya are very lovable. Won't go into story and script but it is amazing. Many scenes just stand out showing the thought behind them. Even the first episode where Jeetu is smoking a cigarette for every mundane work day is highly impressive. This series isn't like the "Silicon Valley" even with similar subject. It is kinda more realistic and more serious.Highly recommend this series to anyone.


                
TVF always brings out the best series. This was no exception. Even though it's a fictional series, this is pretty much the story of every entrepreneur out there. You can relate to every moment and every scene from your real life. The "natural acting" was one of the key reasons why this series became so popular. The 5th episode was the best. It brought out all the emotions from happiness, sadness, betrayal, love and friendship. And not only it is a good show, it inspires people a lot. It even helps people understand the importance and dedication that is required for a startup. Waiting for season 2 of TVF Pitchers. Till then enjoy watching TVF Permanent Roommates Season 2.


                
Just completed watching the 5th episode on TVFPlay, wanted to sum up my overwhelmed response only after watching the last one. OK, So the reason for every individual including me going nuts over this show might be due to the characters, the story, the motivation and of course might be all of these. But, After some contemplation, I realized that this has been A HIT because this series is SO Direct! (its not like related to our lives but it is the actual portrait of our lives). Have watched mighty number of movies and Hollywood series, but they were all manipulated in some or the other way, unable to express it further. Three scenes/events touched me: The speeches given by Naveen and Mandal, and the Eye-watering scenes at the supermarket, between Naveen and Shreya. Those moments were Emotional and Inspirational at the same time. Thanks TVF and crew. Looking forward to the next series. Let the beer flow ;)


                
The best Indian TV series so far. The acting is dead on target and so does the script....it never looked boring or fake! 'Tu Beer hai' has become a new hit dialogue among the youth. TVF has starting bringing back to back hit shows and the Pitchers is one of the best that they have produced so far (I am a big fan of Permanent Roommates as well). The finale took a longer than expected time...but it was worth to wait. This series will give you a real insight of Indian entrepreneurship journey. You will finish watching the episodes but the dialogues and the story will stay with you for a long time. Watch this TV series, it will make you a little wiser.


                
This series is many things. Inspiration, relate-able story line for ambitious young people, warm friendships, tribulations of youth in India, so very well captured. Naveen and Maanvi stole it in the finale with their awe inspiring relationship. Please come back with something more. Mainstream TV specially in India serves no good in comparison. TVF has struck a chord in such ways that Indians are now familiar with a liberal train of thought. Great writing by Biswadeep Amazing Production with such scarce resources, I'm sure If you are a TV production house reading this, pick up that phone and get them to your office.


                
Pitchers- "The future of Indian TV Series" We really need some fresh series like Pitchers and Permanent roommates because what now days we are watching on television are scripts which come directly from the writer's loo. Pitchers- 1)Creativity to a whole new level. 2)Excellent Dialogues. 3)No nonsense drama. 4)An attempt by TVF team which is worth watching 10 times.I have been a follower of TVF channel since the time they launched Rowdies.Kudos to the whole team for bringing us such series and awesome videos on Youtube.Keep up the good work and please continue to deliver us such awesome stuff.


                
