The exponential rise of the online content in India owes it to TVF in delivering impeccable quality in material, production value and performance. Complimenting the rise of The Viral Fever Media Labs, TVF Pitchers starts with a good note and ends on a summit. Personally, I felt the pilot fair enough, not exceptional, to represent the changing dimensions of content coming from frustrated(at the banality that is passed off as prime time entertainment) intelligentsia, but as the series unfolded they rose above my expectations and delivered a spectacle of pristine content backed by wonderful performances. There are a few technical jargon that the rising crop of Engineers can relate to, clearly depicting a huge chunk of the TVF fan-base. The series portrays the dilemma of an IT professional trying to build a company in an atmosphere of adversities, unlike Silicon Valley(both the show and the region), in a place where stability is valued higher than taking a risk. Humor is ingrained in the plot and situation, extremely well written, which portrays a paradigm shift in the thinking of modern professionals still preserving the values of their homeland that is dear to them. The paradox of a cosmopolitan yet traditional values trying to amalgamate is portrayed brilliantly. Performances are honest and natural which seem effortless in execution, a remarkable feat.As one can see its entire viewership comes from the people hailing from the Indian subcontinent, who shared similar cultural understanding. I'm not sure about the international community that is unaware of the colloquial slang would find the same punch in the series as Indians do, moreover, the cultural differences and restraints in Indian middle class are different than the first world, but they sure can appreciate a good content when they see one.I agree on the point that since it is the best that came out of this subcontinent doesn't mean it's not overrated by enthusiastic fans(including myself) and the sheer population of Indian users on IMDb. I admire the series, as I was able to relate to it and found it worthy. Objectively, I'd say there is more to be expected of Arunabh and in time, I'm sure TVF will deliver content that will be on par with HBO, hopefully better, as TVF wishes, but for now, the Top 250 rank is overrated. My dilemma is, I liked it very much but am I being objective in negating the series or is it that the general notion of average grade content from India makes people feel that Pitchers can't be "that" good.


                
TVF Pitchers over FRIENDS ? Seriously ? I love this series. But seriously, don't overrate it. Series is good. Loved the dialogs. Awesome script. Overrating this series is simply not fair is what I feel. Waiting for season 2. Great work TVF. Keep it up. Writing the lines ahead just because minimum length for reviews is 10 lines of text. A story of the trials and tribulations of four young entrepreneurs who quit their day jobs in order to pursue their start up venture.Writer: Arunabh Kumar. Stars: Naveen Kasturia, Arunabh Kumar, Jitendra Kumar.Inspiring and entertaining at the same time!Brilliant show, excellent performances


                
Pitchers shows the reality of start-ups in India. It portrays the start-up culture in India. It gives us an insight into the life of the people involved in a start-up. The best things in he series. Chemistry of Naveen and Shreya is too good. The writer Biswapati Sarkar deserves a mention here for his fabulous writing. Jitu who has always been my favorite again proves his mettle here. He delivered spectacular performance as a husband, as a son and the final episode clash with hostelers was really spectacular. After that scene I saw a smile on his face and I didn't think that was a part of the scene. Never mind. Yogi as a bully delivered good but his character was under-written. Mandal supposed to be a bother so that he could introduce comedy did not work for me. It was not subtle and I felt it was specifically introduced to bring some humor in the series. I had stopped watching TVF videos for quite some time, even I have not watched Permanent Roommates. I watched its first episode for some 10 minutes and it felt the same old jokes of TVF. The same occasional pauses, similar kind of puns. Actually the puns are the things which made me dislike TVF(the puns were the thing which hooked me to TVF). TVF repeated similar kind of puns in each of their content. Suddenly it became predictable. They converted facebook,whatsapp jokes to scenes. It was quite depressing but with TVF Pitchers they have showed they can perform better. Looking ahead to some better projects form TVF. If possible try inviting the AIB guys as well. I am really a big fan of AIB.


                
The good thing about this show is it captured the scenario of Indian market perfectly. Everyone is thinking about startup and how to leave the job, also how to make pact with family members. Pitching investors ideas. How to keep high spirit? The thing is you can enjoy the humor and emotions of the show and some moments can give you goosebumps.


                
''If you want to recognize yourself special among many do something different or do things in different way'', this line perfectly suits those dedicated team who are working to give something interesting contents to Indian audience and this phrase can also relate to the plot of the story that this team made, it's all about 2015's viral Web series ''TVF Pitcher'', these group of people completely changed the perspective of Indian TV Drama Series, totally elevated, relevant and intellectual content presented in very sensible and perfect way.All credits to Arunabh Kumar 'CEO' of TVF Lab who developed such a beautiful content and being responsible in gathering the best team to create best series, the response that these 5 Episode series received is of tremendous, ranking #21 in IMDb's best 250 TV Series to being hard favorite of Indian youths, the characters in this series are so well sculpted and casting are made so wonderfully that never miss to create an impression on viewers.Speaking about technical part, the camera work showcased throughout entire series uphold the excellence of the team, Biswapathi Sarkar a man behind giving an exact shape to this work is a person to be admired, this series made way to the new possibilities of reaching people and proved that all such inspirational and innovative series always has the support of Indian audience irrespective of the medium it is being telecasted <U+F04A> .


                
First of all, such shows coming out of India, the detailing and freshness in writing is inspiring. Secondly, though Silicon Valley rocks but I'm rating Pitchers more than what I rated Silicon Valley because of the following reasons:1. The life of entrepreneurs before getting into Startups is very important as compared to after they're into it full time. More focus on the challenges in starting up and the indianization of course, scores more points.2. Not revealing the IDEA is actually ingenious.The problem within Indian Startup scene is people focussing too much on Funding and giving out equities without thinking about building real businesses. We'd want to see more kick-ass attitude from Naveen and especially YOGI about not giving a damm about investors rather than begging for money. Its the first time they're starting up. They've got the money, now time to see some attitude :)


                
great but should have some different unique story or should have introduced this season before the launch of silicon valley. the story is the same In the high-tech gold rush of modern Silicon Valley, the people most qualified to succeed are the least capable of handling success, but the characters aspects are same except their faces. difference about this show is its improved direction, better storyline, original music and decent dialogs. Also the actors fit the role and their acting is satisfactory. The storyline is interesting, comical and also realistic which is a rare find in the Indian television industry. good luck guys you know how to execute an idea but you do not have any original idea.


                
I was quite disappointed when I started to watch "TVF Pitchers" on youtube, as lots of dialogs are in Hindi. My Safari browser only gives me the transcript option, which doesn't make up for lacking subtitles. So I converted the transcript via BBEdit (with GREP) to an SRT file and watched the first 3 episodes with VLC player. Unluckily episodes 4 and 5 are only placed on the TVF site, but without transcripts ...Okay, now about contents: This series would get a 9 or 10 from me, if it was easier for a Non-Indian (German) to watch. The plot reminds me extremely of "Silicon Valley" though on some "different levels":It is NOT a sit-up-comedy but still quite humorous; it is not (yet?) placed in a Silicon Valley ambiance but delivers fascinating insights into Indian everyday circumstances; actually up to now it does NOT treat any actual software/hardware product but focuses on the process of selling a hypothetical & undefined idea; characters are less "shiny" than in SV but it's easier to identify with their "nerdness"...All in all, it's fun to watch but hard to get at for a Non-Hindi speaker.How shall I ever understand dialogs in episodes 4 and 5 ?!?


                
Absolutely fantastic series. I can't remember when was the last when an Indian / Hindi series that made me eagerly wait for the next episode. Every actor did a super job and did a fair justice to their roles. The way it touched the right notes in lives of the youth and all the nuances of every character were nicely depicted. Every episode did live up to its expectation and was worth its wait..The direction, screenplay and script was exciting, thrilling and funny. The only thing which TVF needs to improve on is punctuality. I hope it does stick to its schedule and release the episodes timely. Its unfortunate that such amazing work doesn't get the telecast space. I hope this series inspires others and we get to see such wonderful content and stories come live on screen. Keep the wonderful work.


                
Superb storyline, direction and acting - that's what the 8 / 10 is for. However, there is no mention of the product that the startup is building - not even once throughout the season, unlike it's Hollywood counterpart Silicon Valley, in which there has been considerable emphasis on the product and 'building' the startup from the first episode along with other aspects. On the other hand, in this series, there seems to be too much emphasis on family, relationships and other things peripheral to the operations of a startup. Hopefully the viewers will get to know more about what these guys are building and got funded for, in the next season..


                
This series was introduced to me by a friend of mine. With the first episode i was hooked to the characters and storyline because they all were so real and relatable. I think this is one of the best webseries not only in India but all over the world. It inspires you to follow your dreams. It teaches you that sometimes you have to get out of your comfort zone, make sacrifices, convince yourself, appreciate people around you and always listen to the heart. As an inspiring film maker i am so attached to this show because it teaches me so much. Believe me their cinematography, shot construction with scene, lighting, background music is so nicely done that you get inspired if you're a cinema lover. Watch this series its one of the best thing Indian cinema has produced.


                
