This is truly one of the greatest science fiction films ever made, one that requires a thinking viewer in order to understand and appreciate it.  The director's cut is the recommended one to see as it omits a somewhat distracting narration and avoids an unnecessary Hollywood-style ending that is at odds with the rest of the film's tone.A true science fiction story or film is about ideas, not spaceship battles, futuristic gadgets, or weird creatures.  "Blade Runner" fully qualifies as this in its examination of the impact of technology on human society, existence, and the very nature of humanity itself.  These themes are set in a fairly basic detective story that moves slowly but gradually builds power as the viewer is immersed in a dystopian futuristic Los Angeles.Harrison Ford fans accustomed to the normally dynamic roles that he plays may be dissatisfied with the seemingly lifeless lead character that he portrays here as the replicant-hunting detective known as a "blade runner". They should be, for this dissatisfaction is part of the film experience, part of the dehumanized existence in the story's setting.  However, as the story unfolds, we see Ford's character, Rick Deckard, slowly come alive again and recover some humanity while pursing four escaped replicants.The replicants, genetically-engineered human cyborgs, that Deckard must hunt down and kill are in many ways more alive than Deckard himself initially. Their escape from an off-world colony has an explicit self-directed purpose, whereas Deckard's life appears to have none other than his job, one that he has tried to give up.  By some standards, Deckard and the replicants have thin character development.  However, this is a deeply thematic and philosophical film, and as such the characters are the tools of the story's themes.  Each character reflects some aspect of humanity or human existence, but they lack others, for each is broken in ways that reflect the broken society in which they live and were conceived/created.There are several dramatic moments involving life-and-death struggles, but most of these are more subdued than in a normal detective story plot.  The film's power is chiefly derived through its stunning visual imagery of a dark futuristic cityscape and its philosophical themes.Among the themes explored are the following: - The dehumanization of people through a society shaped by technological and capitalistic excess. - The roles of creator and creation, their mutual enslavement, and their role reversal, i.e., the creation's triumph over its creator. - The nature of humanity itself: emotions, memory, purpose, desire, cruelty, technological mastery of environment and universe, mortality, death, and more. - Personal identity and self-awareness. - The meaning of existence.If you are not someone who naturally enjoys contemplating such themes, the film's brilliance may be lost on you.  The climax involves a soliloquy that brings many of the themes together in a simple yet wonderfully poetic way. Anyone who "gets" the film should be moved by this; others will sadly miss the point and may prefer watching some mindless action flick instead."Blade Runner" is a masterpiece that deserves recognition and long remembrance in film history.


                
Dark, deep, uncertain, unsettling <U+0096> imagine the most beautiful nightmare you've ever had <U+0096> this is Blade Runner (1982).Ridley Scott's Blade Runner is a brilliantly crafted science fiction film that not only touches upon, but bravely plunges into deep philosophical questions, making it simply ten times more important than any film of its genre. I love it not only for the initial feeling it gives, but because of its perseverance <U+0096> none of the visuals, themes or technology feel dated but as deep, gripping and current as ever. It is timeless beauty with huge doses of emotion.Set in 2019 Los Angeles, Blade Runner zooms in on the eerily-lit, urban streets of the city and follows Richard Deckard <U+0096> superbly played by Harrison Ford who brings an exquisite moral ambiguity to his character <U+0096> a special policeman who tracks down and terminates artificially-created humans called replicants, who have escaped from an Off-World colony and made their way to earth and need to be stopped. The things Deckard encounters on his detective journey raise many philosophical questions like: Who is really a replicant? Are replicants really bad? If replicants are bad, when why did we go to such lengths with our technology to create them? Are replicants really humans? Is Deckard a hero? This truly is a film that demands subsequent discussion and its ambiguous ending leave a haunting and eerie feeling.In spite of a rich glaze of science fiction and futurism coating this adventure, there are distinct film noir elements present <U+0096> primarily in the bluish haze that the film is seen through and its gritty urban atmosphere. Whoever thought of this combination is a genius. Since it is all about technology, it fits then that Blade Runner features a ridiculous amount of product placement, especially from Atari. In any other film, this would have felt out-of-place but here it is simply perfect. The score by Vangelis is strangely gripping when combined with the striking cinematography of the film.Blade Runner deserves credit, celebration and remembrance for it is simply an excellent film. 10 out of 10 (and I don't just throw this grade out like SOME people)


                
Blade Runner is perhaps the best sci-fi film and undoubtedly one of the best films of all time. Along with 2001: A Space Odyssey, it is one of the most philosophical and influential movies ever created, as it conveys a plethora of fundamental questions, which are woven in the very fabric of the human essence and existence. It seems near impossible to imagine a more suitable fusion of two of the most successful genres of all time, Science Fiction and Film Noir. By merging together the moral conflict and the emphatic character arc of the private detective, a trait that is exclusive to and definitive of the Film Noir genre, with a futuristic dystopian environment, Blade Runner creates the ultimate Neo-Noir setting, the only one capable of supporting such strong ideas and posing such significant questions to the viewer, without compromising on an interesting plot development and an appealing pace, things that are masterfully achieved via a tight script and persuasive performances.In a dark, future dystopian portrait of a 2019 Los Angeles, where humans have alienated themselves with their true nature and claimed the title of god/creator of life, effectively manufacturing artificial intelligence and bioengineering androids, called "Replicants", a retired "Blade Runner" named Rick Deckard is assigned with the undertaking of terminating four rogue such replicants that have illegally returned to Earth in a quest to force their maker, Tyrel, into postponing their grim destiny, basically prolonging their already predetermined four-year lifespan. Their greatest sin, however, is having the audacity of desiring one of the most sought-after values in the history of the human species, the freedom to live as they please. In this uneasy and twisted world, the lines between humanness and machinery are blurred and Deckard is faced with the consequences of the realization that not all is as it seems and there is more to "being-alive" than most believe. Blade Runner's unique depiction of the future has been imitated numerous times quite unsuccessfully, mostly due to the fact that no other film to this date has managed to create such an engaging atmosphere so beautifully connected to every part of it, effectively enhancing every scene and allowing for a strong conveyance of all the moral and existential questions that are posed during the whole duration. The audience is instantaneously absorbed by the vivid and compelling world depicted in the film, and that's where Ridley Scott succeeds the most, offering a glance into an original and somewhat disturbing reality that might very well be humanity's near future. The cinematography is impeccable, the art direction is gorgeous and along with some of the best visual effects that have ever been used in film-making, creates one of the most realistic and visually stunning environments that have ever graced a motion picture to this day. Vangelis has also composed one of the best and most awe-inspiring scores of all time, effectively managing to capture the very essence of each scene, thus making all sound a significant and inseparable part of the whole cinematic experience that Blade Runner has to offer. This thorough examination of what it means to be human isn't, thankfully, to no avail, as a careful observant, is forced to question their beliefs and attempt to choose a side on dilemmas that are still discussed by philosophers to this day, such as the traits that define humanity, the relativity that characterizes concepts like right or wrong, good or evil, as well as the meaning of life itself. The moral and existential complexity of this reality that Blade Runner has offered to the world reaches depths unparalleled by the majority of the films available, therefore greatly distinguishing it from all others and thus emphasizing its uniqueness through the most complete portrayal of science fiction to date.


                
This is a film that is so deep, rich, and multi-layered, it may require more than one viewing to fully absorb the brilliance of what you've just seen. At first glance, it can be a bit slow. It's told in a classic film noir fashion, so this is to be expected. Director Ridley Scott seems to want to savor every shot, and an astute audience will be able to sense this.Now, I say the film is told in a classic Noir style, but this can be misleading. There is no Humphrey Bogart in Blade Runner, snapping off brilliant one-liners once a second. Only hopeless people, in many ways victims of the merciless world of which they are all a part. Deckard is a typically downbeat protagonist, a hard-boiled cynical leading man with a weakness for heavy drinking. The plot is a mystery in name only, as the audience is allowed to know what Roy Batty, Pris and Leon are all up to before Deckard ever finds out. This only lends to the dread and inevitability of the film, lending further to its pervasive gloom. There is no final scene at the end where the bold detective puts all the pieces together and says "Ah-Ha!". Instead, we find Rick Deckard questioning his own existence and drinking away his constant doubts, all the while embroiled in a romantic relationship with someone he's sworn to kill.Blade Runner requires audience participation, particularly in the Director's Cut, which is entirely devoid of some rather necessary exposition provided by the Original Cut's much-maligned voice-over. Certain facts will not be clear even at the end of the film, requiring personal interpretation in order to be appreciated fully. Other facts will be given away in much more subtle ways than in most modern cinema, such as through visual cues and tenuous dialogue.Finally, visually, this movie is quite simply a science fiction triumph. It looks better than modern computer effects in every way that counts. Superimposed special effect objects don't give off that unnatural, clearly computer-generated "Lord of the Rings" sheen common in today's effects-driven blockbusters. This, of course, is because Blade Runner - while a gorgeous movie - is not effects driven in the least. Rather, it is a visually driven story that doesn't rely on special effects. This is an important distinction to make in today's Hollywood."Touch of Evil" really wasn't the last of the Great Film Noirs!


                
I have an interest in science fiction films and TV programmes. I like shows like (the original) Star Wars trilogy, (most of) the Star Trek films, as well as Star Trek TV series (Voyager for modern times,preferably, as it had the least number of useless episodes), etc. In my experience, most SF material turns out to be distilled garbage. Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey' was a masterpiece. I am not hesitant to say that I blatantly dislike Spielberg's definition of SF- ET, Close Encounters, & (worst of all) War Of The Worlds. Neither do I appreciate any 'Alien' film apart from R Scott's 1979 original (although Alien2 was OK)-Alien vs Pred is a disgrace not only to all genres, but to the film industry itself. So when I heard of Blade Runner on the net, I wondered; what could be so good about this film? I have HBO,Cinemax, Star Movies- yet this film has never been shown. So, I got myself the Director's Cut at the local video store. I watched it once. Then I re-watched it two days later. My verdict: This film is fantastic.It is one of the greatest films ever made, on par with 2001: A Space Odyssey. Upon 1st viewing, new audiences may be bewildered. One anticipates a futuristic run-of-the-mill 80's shoot-em-up (in the like of Outland,say). What you get is a film so deep that it is difficult to grasp the 1st time. There is so much symbolism, introverts and questions that I was left stunned. The film is hauntingly beautiful, and I doubt that these screen landscapes could be reproduced today as well as they were here. The plot centres around the question of humanity- something we take for granted. It is not an auctioneer, which was probably what audiences expected when they walked into theatres in the 80s, causing the film to fail commercially. Blade Runner is not for the adrenaline junkie, nor for those who like flashy gadgets and bright explosions, with a healthy Hollywood-made dose of convincing storyline spoon-fed for their satisfaction.The film is set in the apocalyptic, suggestively post-war future Earth, where there seems to be a lag in technology. Perhaps there was a war which ravaged the world, forcing humans to migrate (the cramped cultural richness of LA), and rebuild, explaining the retro technology. 6 'Criminal' Nexus 6 replicates (genetically engineered humanoids), hijack a ship and come to Earth seeking their maker. These slaves(machines/automatons// regard them as anything which has been created by Man to lessen his burden) have developed emotions, and they fear death for they cherish their memories (Think robots weeping over photographs). Their cause: They want a longer life, they want to experience more, they want to be... human.Enter Rick Deckard, Blade Runner. His job: kill trespassing replicates; Kill living, breathing humanoids composed of flesh and blood who only have 4 years to live out their miserable lives, seeking haven on Earth rather than serving as slaves in mining outposts on Mars. Kill? Murder seems more appropriate. But that's his job. replicates which trespass are a hazard. These 6 replicates have killed 23 people and hijacked a ship. They have to be killed, right? If you're planning to take sides in this film, you will be pleasantly if not unnervingly surprised. There are no sides. There is no good and evil. Harrison Ford plays the reluctant, burned out Blade Runner very well. His character is drab and dull, as it was meant to be; look at him in the Spinner on the way to Tyrell corporation- pure boredom. He hates his job. If there were any narration, it Should sound dull and uninteresting, reflecting his character. Rutger Hauer gives the greatest performance of his career (so far) in this film, playing Roy Batty, Replicant 'project manager'. He dominates the later part of the film. He is cold, stiff and evil, but in the end speech, one of the Greatest endings I have ever seen, his performance alone makes this film a Classic. The ending is beautiful, and the score by Vangelis is perfect.All in all, the film is excellent. Well directed by Ridley Scott, innovative and stunning imagery underlined by Vangelis' superb score, and plenty to think about (on your own- no spoon feeding). Check out the trivia for this film; scientists voted it better than 2001:A Space Odyssey. Is the quest for humanity a crime? Find out for yourself. Blade Runner is a Must-Watch, and a Must-Have film.My rating: 8.9 / 10 Thank you for your time. Kris


                
First time I saw this I wasn't impressed. Maybe because I expected more action from a Sci-Fi movie. Then I rented it on VHS, and upon re-watching I figured something out: This is one of the very few movies that gets better the more often you see it. It is a subtle movie. Slowly but surely this one has made it into the top 5 of my 'best movies of all time' list.I don't particularly care for the director's cut version, though. The inner monologue is missing - which gives you some of the most thought inspiring moments, and some of the added scenes downright make no sense at all. if I'd seen that one first I might never have given it a second chance.The cast is exceptional. Every one of them does a really fine job. Especially Rutger Hauer who otherwise has very few good movies to his name (maybe 'Day of the Falcon') delivers a stunning performance. Most of the cast who were unknown before this movie have moved on to fame (and some to fortune) - and rightfully so.From a technical point of view there is not much to criticize. More than 20 years later this movie still doesn't look dated (apart from 'Atari'-neon signs). The atmosphere is created with a lot of attention to detail, and the models of buildings are some of the most beautiful and believable ones I have ever seen.Now I recently read the book on which it is based ('Do androids dream of electric sheep' by Philip K. Dick). It's a quirky read and, frankly, not a very good book. It has too many plot holes, deus-ex-machina devices and logical inconsistencies, plus a total letdown of an ending. What it does add to the movie is the setup of why the atmosphere is like it is (polluted, dark, many 'freaks' around), and the nice question whether the Hero might be a replicant himself.
Blade Runner is considered one of the greatest science fiction films ever made and it is easy to see why. Deeply thematic, rich characters, a fantastic script and nuanced performances toppled with some of the greatest cinematography ever put on film this is a film version of the mona lisa- every frame can be hung on a wall. Ridley Scott, fresh off the success of Alien is in top form and Blade Runner will be the film he will always be remembered for. Harrison Ford is competent as Deckard and anyone expecting him to be the usual dashing hero will be disappointed. Rutger Hauer steals the show as head replicant Roy Batty. The noir look of the film has inspired so many movies and video games since there isn't really a point talking about it- you have to see it to believe it. One of the greatest films ever made. Period.


                
It is ironic how Sci-fi genre is the most dependent on the technical side of the filmmaking compared to other genres and yet with all the technological improvements we will probably never see a better sci-fi film than most of the older ones. And even more ironically, the technical side of the filmmaking was the very quality that created the unique styles of the old sci-fi films. So, what makes these old films, Blade Runner in particular, so good looking compared to modern films, despite the fact that they had little technology back then? Speaking of visual style alone, what makes it so memorable compared to new films that are made with all the technological possibilities at filmmakers' disposal? There are three main answers to these questions:1. singular artistic vision as opposed to an army of graphic designers,2. director's own decisions as opposed to a director who does whatever he's told to,3. and lastly care and love in craftsmanship for the film by those who involved in making of it.Did you know that one of the buildings in Blade Runner was actually a kitchen sink? With all its miniatures and matte paintings the city looks gorgeous. Because people took their time to create it and they cared. It looks more real too than those created with CGI. And I know that uncanny valley effect is a term used for humans but I think it applies to objects as well. You can tell, most of the time, whether an object is physically there or it is a computer effect. CGI looks cheap. Blade Runner is like a hand-made classic European sports car whereas most modern films are like a Toyota Corolla, supposed to be better than the old ones but they are not, made out of plastic in an assembly line, and they look cheap.Another thing, other than the visuals, that makes this film so good is the soundtrack. Vangelis is one my favorite composers of all time. His style is unique and his music is so emotional. The soundtrack for Blade Runner perfectly fits and even helps create the ambiance of its universe. There are some films, like Jaws (1975) for example, that owe most of their success to their composers. I am not saying Blade Runner is one those films. Because it's visually and story-wise so good, It would still be a great film with different soundtrack, but at the same time, the soundtrack of Blade Runner is probably the best soundtrack for a movie ever, even though it didn't depend solely on its soundtrack for the mood.The story and acting are also very good. Though I must note that when I say acting, I mean Rutger Hauer's performance specifically. What a great performance from him. In fact, I wouldn't even bring up the acting in this film if it wasn't for Rutger Hauer. He totally steals this film. Harrison Ford is so mediocre most of the time and at times his acting gets even weird and bad. But in my opinion, this contrast of acting performances somewhat serves the film in a serendipitous way. We see how much there is to Roy, how a great character he is compared to Deckard, who looks like a mere policeman following orders with no depth to his personality. This brings me to the story of the film which is very simple in itself but brings up so many questions to the mind. Roy, an artificial human -a replicant as named in the film- seeking more life. As an agnostic person who suffers from death anxiety, I couldn't relate more to any movie character in my life than I relate to Roy. Don't we all suffer from fear of death, like Roy? I don't even know if I was created or not, as an agnostic. So I don't get to go after my creator, if there is such a thing, and ask for more life. But Roy has this chance and this is the plot of the film. But it is only incidental. For me, the film is all about the tragedy of being mortal. And by giving replicants a life span of only 4 years, we are reminded how short our own lives are. It is hard for us to realize somethings in life before an artist magnifies or reduces something so we can see it better. 4 years, 40 years, 80 years... In eternity, all those numbers lose their significance, as Roy put it more poetically ''...all those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain...''And then there is this fact about Roy that he is an artificial human, but his passion for life makes you think about what makes us alive and sentient. I remember this line from another film ''I, Robot (2004)'' it goes like this ''...When does a perceptual schematic become consciousness?...'' this is a very good question indeed. In fact, even for (organic) organisms, you can question the extent of their consciousness or for more simple life forms you can even think whether they are conscious at all. Or you can ask what makes us special and unique. Is it because we have souls? Or perhaps soul is something we made up and it is all about the chemicals that effect our decisions and the complexity comes from merely endless combinations and permutations of these chemicals. That idea makes you question your very own existence. The very fact that we have medication for depression tells us something about human mind. But we can speculate about these facts. I choose to accept that Roy is nothing less than a human in that matter. I've heard people complaining how they cannot relate to a ''robot'' regarding this film, but in my opinion that just shows lack of imagination.


                
I can't count the number of times I have watched this movie! This neo-noir sci-fi epic puts you in the mindset of a not too far fetched dark future. Amazing film score and one hell of a plot!!


                
I was 18 years old boy when BR was made, in 1982.
The first projection was in 1984 (Belgrade, Yugoslavia). Everything, from music to films were coming down to YU after while, at list with a year of postponing.
I met with my matees in city center and by simple luck we decided to went to Odeon theatre to wotch this film.
I went in, took my seat, and went out, stoned, two hours later.
Everything after was history. Very recomended for youngest generations to put BR in watch list.


                
Yeah... weirdest freaking movie. Awesome though. Acting, music, cinematography, it is all great. Yes it is a strange movie, but the best ones often are. 10/10 recommend! It's pretty sci-fi, a little suspenseful at some points, and definitely NOT a movie to watch with your children. Haha. Has some fantastic action scenes, yet also stunning visuals that blow the audience away. Effects are great considering the year Blade Runner was produced. If given the chance, definitely watch this movie.


                
Very good adaptation of "Do androids dream about electric sheep?" by Philip K Dick.
What makes us human?
When a robot is human?
Is it moral to "retire" a robot who feels like a human?
What a robot who doesn't know he/she is a robot?
A very good book and a very good movie should make ask yourself questions. This movie does exactly that.


                
Blade Runner is a prime example of how visionary and brilliant Ridley Scott can be when he tries. The film mixes extraordinary (well, for 1982) visual effects, great acting and a genuinely original and deep plot about what it means to be human.The plot, on a base level, concerns the exploits of "Blade Runner" Deckard as he hunts down rogue Reploids; advanced human-like androids that have a four-year lifespan to compensate for their other advantages. The rogue group, lead by Roy Batty, is looking to extend their aforementioned lifespans. This is really only a simple interpretation. The film is really about what it means to be a human being, especially when the reploids seem to demonstrate more humanity than the humans.Visually, the film looked in incredible in 1982, and still looks pretty good today. It's not just the backgrounds, but the incredible sets and mise en scene that truly bring the film to life in a way that makes it feel real. And as we approach 2019 (this review was written in Oct. 2018), the world of Blade Runner looks more and more eerily similar to our own.The performances in the film are just incredible. Harrison Ford as a depressing, inhumane drunk may not exactly sell itself, especially considering the types of roles he was known for playing at that point in time (i.e. charming rogue). However, Ford proves beyond all reasonable doubt that he can play his part, giving a stellar performance that allowed him to break free of the Han Solo typecast. But the real star of the show is Rutger Hauer, who gives a Shakespearean performance as Roy Batty. The soundtrack also deserves special mention for being varied and bizarre, and yet always managing to fit the scene perfectly. A deep, melancholy magnum opus, Blade Runner will surely be remembered as one of the greatest films ever made.


                
Blade Runner (1982)Details:
Genre: Sci-fi. Run time: 117 min's. BBFC certificate: 15.Synopsis:
Deckard, a cop specially selected for terminating replicants (a blade runner), is pulled out of a Chinese takeaway bar to investigate his toughest case yet.Intro:
Well, this film flopped (financially speaking) during its initial release. A tragic shame, because it's since become one of the most well-liked sci-fis of all time.The experience:
The film opens boldly, giving us a short, sweet, to-the-point opening title sequence with an effectively subtle underlying score. This then transitions to an introduction to the replicants and the blade runners. The replicants are robots virtually identical to humans; the blade runners are specialised cops trained for killing replicants. After this is tactically placed that the killing of a replicant isn't regarded as "execution", but rather, "retirement". There's something there of a hint of the acknowledgement of prejudice, hence setting the tone for the film's themes.We're then blasted abruptly into a grandiose panorama of the futuristic landscape we'll be exploring for the next hour and fifty minutes. Accompanying that is the close-up of what appears to be an overwhelmed eye. What kind of effect that was meant to achieve is open for debate, not least because it isn't even revealed whose eye it is. We're not introduced to our main character Deckard until later, so there's no way of knowing for sure that it's his. Maybe, then, Scott was going for some kind of holistic approach there, perhaps using the eye as a metaphor for the future being a wondrous scene. This is followed by a replicant interview which features several memorable lines.Only after all that are we introduced to Deckard (played solidly by Harrison Ford), once our minds are racing with questions, and he manages to cool everything off with his charismatic voiceover and antics at the takeaway bar; "Tell 'im I'm eating." He's sent on a stake-out to track down and terminate four replicants.Deckard's execution of said task isn't especially forensic; there are convenient clues gift-wrapped everywhere for him. But as a viewer, you're not bothered by this unduly, because this is a sci-fi after all. Films of this genre have meaningful themes galore to concentrate on, so seeing huge chunks of the movie turn Sherlock on us would have been a major distraction, and would have just padded the run time.The whole tone of the film is very well polished, with the atmosphere of the piece being wholeheartedly absorbing all on its own. It carries this sleepy, subtly downbeat undertone, which intrinsically draws you in; worth the price of purchase in its own right. Alongside is enough gritty action and intelligent drama to make everything very solid indeed.Post-viewing analysis:
This is without doubt one of the most essential sci-fi films of all time. The atmosphere of the piece, combined with the solid drama, deep themes and gritty action, all make for a very good time. That said, delving into everything, it just misses out on perfection. There's one moment of bad dubbing, and there's a scene where the makeup effect for an injury is clearly consisting of scarcely anything more complex than papier mache. But on the whole, this is a conspicuously first-class ride. One element that really sticks out is the themes that are brought to the table here. I mentioned at the start of this review the theme of prejudice which is brought up, and that's sustained throughout the whole thing. Especially during the final scenes, the divide line between human and replicant is deliberately blurred, raising the question of what the costs of creating AI could be.And there are many memorable lines too. So many, in fact, that forty film dissertations could be conjured from this one movie alone. My personal favourite, which is also my current favourite film quote outright: "It's too bad she won't live; but then again, who does?" Heavily symbolic of the ambiguity of life itself.There are visual messages also. For instance, there's a scene with a dove flying over a depressing-looking factory, symbolising in a beautifully implicit way the complexities of journeying to the afterlife.Verdict: 5/5
Thoroughly deserving of its reputation as a classic. Getting past the miniscule impurities, all in all, this is a massively poetic experience in humanity and artificial humanity both.


                
Blade Runner is considered one of the greatest science fiction films ever made and it is easy to see why. Deeply thematic, rich characters, a fantastic script and nuanced performances toppled with some of the greatest cinematography ever put on film this is a film version of the mona lisa- every frame can be hung on a wall. Ridley Scott, fresh off the success of Alien is in top form and Blade Runner will be the film he will always be remembered for. Harrison Ford is competent as Deckard and anyone expecting him to be the usual dashing hero will be disappointed. Rutger Hauer steals the show as head replicant Roy Batty. The noir look of the film has inspired so many movies and video games since there isn't really a point talking about it- you have to see it to believe it. One of the greatest films ever made. Period.


                
I had seen the Director's Cut (a misleading title) of Blade Runner and was slightly underwhelmed. I mean, sure it looked great, but the supposedly deep story just didn't grab me. Then I got the five disc briefcase for Christmas and immediately put in the Final Cut. Wow. It's all clear now.Blade Runner is one of a precious few pantheon of science fiction film that has become even more prescient as time passes (the other that comes to mind is 2001: A Space Odyssey). Look at the L.A. in this film, then look at present-day Los Angeles. Subtract the flying cars and robots and you've got the same city (horribly polluted and overpopulated with many ethnicities mixing language and cultures). We follow Deckard, a specialized cop known as a Blade Runner who hunts down androids known as replicants. These machines look like humans and, if given time to mature, emote like humans. They are used as labor and sex slaves, but die out after a 4 year period so their emotions do not develop (this too has ties to the modern world. Planned obsolescence is the reason your electronics never last more than a year or two). When a replicant starts to piece things together before it dies, Deckard must take it out before it harms humans.As the film progresses, we can see that Deckard doesn't particularly like his job despite the fact that he is the best Blade Runner in town. The replicant Rachael (played by Sean Young) seems to trigger a re-evaluation of his life, and he takes no pleasure in hunting the group of dangerous androids he's been hired to "retire".This film is Sir Ridley Scott's masterpiece, and the one that best shows his talents. Like his idol Kubrick, Scott knows how to light a scene just the right way, and his use of smoke and blinds and fans and anything else that distorts light is what gives the film its noir feel. He drops clues all along the way to that paramount of questions: Is Deckard a replicant? Every clue can be construed to fit either side of the debate, and it proves that there is no wrong answer to the question.The Final Cut essentially omits and touches up more than it adds. Most "director's cuts" are excuses to throw in material that was cut for a reason (and a good deal of them are done without the director's consent). Here, Scott digitally touches up a few technical flaws, but he doesn't go crazy like Lucas. Also, we get the complete unicorn scene, which is crucial to the film's big question, as well as sticking with the DC's omitted voice-over narration (which is such a blessing, by the way).In the end Blade Runner is a masterful look at that which makes us human. Roy Batty's final act gives us all the insight into replicants we need and his final speech is perhaps the single most moving moment in science fiction. It serves to underscore the whole film, and it sends chills down my spine every time I see it. Blade Runner is one of those precious sci-fi films that actually challenges you to think, and it almost single-handedly founded the film genre of cyberpunk, which had been present in literature but hadn't crossed over. Cyberpunk is unquestionably the most thought-provoking sub-genre of science fiction, and this film is its masterpiece. Many people award a film they like a perfect 10, but this is truly a cornerstone that has influenced directors, actors, and entire genres of film.


                
I first saw this movie on a rented Betamax video when I was about 8 or 9. It came across as a really sinister and bleak sci-fi movie at the time.  I enjoyed it as a young kid, but guess I didn't really understand fully the themes behind the movie. I saw the vastly superior and definitive Directors Cut many years later and I instantly rated it as one of the best movies ever.  And this is why:To fully understand how good this movie is, you have to put it into the context of it's era.  When it was released it broke new ground and became what is still up to this day an unrivaled benchmark in sci-fi cinema.It was the first film to depict with such lavish splendor the nightmarish vision of future Earth.  Set in post apocalyptic Los Angeles, the film tells the tale of Deckard (Harrison Ford), a semi retired cop who is persuaded back into his role of a Blade Runner (special units trained to identify and kill outlawed androids, or "replicants", who illegally return to Earth). His task is to hunt and destroy a band of off-world androids, led by Rutger Hauer, who fight their way back to Earth to confront their maker, the ingenious Tyrell, head of the monstrous Tyrell Corporation.The film is dark and broody. The photography is exquisite throughout and Vangelis' musical score is a now a classic masterpiece in itself.  Director Ridley Scott's melancholy vision is so stylish and smooth that the film is able to emerse you into its chilling future world from the very first shot. Visually, this is one of the most gorgeous films I've seen.Deckard's character is similar to that of a film noir private detective. He comes across as a somewhat washed up and helpless soul lost in the polluted rat race.  This film provides Rutger Hauer with his defining moment on film, a role I think he has failed to live up to since.  With his fellow replicants, he seeks answers that only his creator can provide - all replicants all built with a lifespan of only four years and they are determined that their fate can be altered.The reason the film is so popular is that it asks so many probing questions which, in 20 years of movies since the film came out, have rarely been asked since.The themes look at humanity and the meaning and life.  Should we really create "people" and choose their fate and mortality?  If we choose to play god then we must be answerable to those who we create.  Is there any real difference between life created naturally and that in a laboratory?  And so do we really now what we are?  Or why we are?  Or who created us?The film is inspired by the Philip K Dick novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"  Although this movie introduced me to reading countless Dick novels, I've deliberately resisted reading this one.  Consequently, I can't comment on how it compares although I know the book is substantially different in places.The movie is quite slow paced, although "smooth" is a better word.  Die hard action fanatics might not like this film although sci-fi lovers will embrace it instantly.  In the current age of computer generated effects this film is looking only very slightly dated, but that shouldn't put people off.  Even now, the ambience of Blade Runner is still unsurpassed.


                
There are several extraordinary things about Blade Runner.1) It does not state who's good and who's bad. 2) It throws you into a scenario that you'll probably not enjoy. 3) It doesn't bother to explain why things are the way they are. 4) It shows us something that, although it doesn't exist anywhere, still has an existential meaning to us.Apart from that Blade Runner has the best score ever. Vangelis created a style that in its simplicity strikes you far more as being of the future than any more sophisticated electronic music could ever do.The thing I was referring to in 4. is a grown up without experiences of his own. That is a logical impossibility, a paradox. But paradoxically it's one of the most powerful stimuli of existential reflection that were ever shown in cinema. The point being that it lets you ask yourself what all your experiences were good for.Not quite so subtle, yet still of interest, is the idea that you could be born into life knowing full well what your purpose is and how long you'll live. What does that do to you? The film answers that though, it's unacceptable, you'll deny it, seek something else, something more. It just cannot be that everything will be lost like tears in rain.But human ambition is a much broader theme of this film. The world itself, in which Blade Runner takes place, is a statement about the human longing for progress and power, his forwardness and his backwardness. Some concepts seem ridiculous from nowadays perspective, but the overall atmosphere is right on the spot. And in this respect I have to say that the original cut has the better ending, because of the contrast, because of all the emotions that are awakened by that contrast, which does not appear cheesy, but rather estranged, a release into the completely unknown.


                
How much has the world changed since 1982? The computer wars were beginning and arcade games were the craze, yet our lives were at a height of sociability. Things were simple for the sake of simplicity. Life seemed to make more sense. But our minds were unconsciously drifting away from reality, whilst reality slowly made its way towards the visions of this powerful film. 'Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep?', written by famous American Science Fiction author Phillip K Dick, was adapted to the screen by Sir Ridley Scott into 'Blade Runner'. Ridley's masterful transformation of Dick's nocturnal vision to celluloid, confused audiences who misunderstood a world which would seem more like reality only ten years later in the technology boom of the 90s. The film gained 'turkey' status upon its release and was quickly abandoned as a mess, soon doomed to gain dust in relentless video libraries.Ten years later the world only further resembled Blade Runner's scary vision. Upon its 1992 re-release, tickets sold out before they even hit the box-office. Even critic Roger Ebert rephrased his 1982 statement claiming it a masterpiece. And here began the Legacy of the most acclaimed Cult Film. Film critics around the world named it the most important science-fiction of all time with Kubrick's 2001 - and the most visually mesmerizing.The film follows the enlightenment of a Blade Runner (a cop) Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) in Los Angeles 2019, a dystopia falling apart from permanent drizzling twilight, rare natural life and where technology dictates existence. Following early retirement from his police unit, Deckard is forced into a desperate assignment by his ex-boss 'Bryant'. Four Replicants (humanoids) have escaped from an 'off-world colony', taking a shuttle back to Earth for unknown reasons. His mission: To kill all Replicants declared illegal on Earth. Deckard's unconscious approach to his job in a world deteriorating from lack of nature,sociability and eternal darkness slowly deteriorates when his eyes open to the most important questions in life. Beginning his investigations in the Pyramids of the Tyrell Corporation, responsible for manufacturing the Replicants, he meets his turning point, Rachel, who due to Deckard's Void Kompff machine (an empathy tester) is found a Replicant. Following a cold, immoral revelation to her about her origins, he is inevitably drawn to her emotionally, soon leading to his first sign of awakening, LOVE.From a cold beginning, without any sign of 'empathy' towards those around him, what Deckard finds out about Rachel, Elden Tyrell, and the so called "EVIL" Replicants he intercepts, enable him for the first time to feel and understand Love, Hate and the preciousness of Life respectively. Roy Batty, the leader of the Replicant mutineers, played convincingly by Dutch actor Rutger Hauer, is the most important symbol in the film, and is the ultimate enlightenment in Deckard's quest for humanity in learning that no matter if you're human or not, love, compassion and empathy are the most important human characteristics, and some Replicants are "more human than human". Contrary to initial perception, Batty shows these characteristics and we sympathize with him, something we wouldn't usually do with an 'artificial' human, with theoretically no emotions. Tyrell becomes the focal point of human degradation, in that in his vision of technological advance, he brings humanity, morality and nature closer to extinction as he sits atop his corporation like a 'Pharoah'.Finally, there are many evidences to suggest 'Deckard' is a Replicant, and this has been immortal debate since release. Either way, the film's message remains as strong. It's filled with overwhelming symbolism and meaning, that one viewing of this art-work will be exhausting.The film's intentions are not only to question what makes us human, but it also makes strong focus on reflecting our current issues of world Conservation, technological advance and the degradation of humanity from the media, exploitation, capitalism, and the complacency and destructive nature of humanity. In Ridley Scott's vision, the Sun that gives life has been blocked out by pollution due to the dominance of technology, and dreams of Unicorns suggests we long for the past, for rarity in Nature. What one must notice is that 'Eyes' play a key symbol throughout the film in explaining this, for it appears that most are 'artificial' than not.'Blade Runner' is Ridley Scott's masterpiece and perhaps one of the most poignant films of all time. Countless copycats including 'The Fifth Element', and 'Akira' have tried to imitate his legendary vision of a dark world gone wrong, which only seems more possible as the years fly by. I am happy to see that Blade Runner is so respected and that people understand its vision. It has embedded itself into my movie collection and along with 'The Mosquito Coast', another similar film with Harrison Ford regarding humanity, is my favorite film of all time.The music composed by 'Vangelis' is God-sent, sounding so mythical and dream-like. Set designs and cinematography have rarely been equaled <U+0096> marvelously detailed. The whole cast were superb in bringing their characters to life. Especially Joe Turkel (Tyrell) and Rutger Hauer who played opposites of one another beautifully. Harrison Ford was irreplaceable as the lead, showing his transformation from a cold being into an human being expertly - it just seems so natural with him. However I believe Rutger Hauer should have received the Oscar for his performance as the human like Replicant. He has a commanding presence. Sean Young, playing Rachel, was a great choice. She's stunning and projects innocence well in showing Deckard's shortcomings. This film will be in the hearts of more 'as time goes by' and will never again end up accumulating dust in forgotten sections of video libraries. It's more than a 'classic'. I recommend everybody who loves film or philosophy to watch and explore its masterful telling. I have never seen a film as movingly deep. It's a poem from beginning to end and "more human than human".
In the beginning of the Twentieth-First Century, the Tyrell Corporation releases the evolution of robots in the Nexus phase with Replicants that are identical to humans, but with superior strength and agility and the intelligence of the genetic engineers who created them. They are used off-world as slave labor in the colonization of other planets. After a bloody mutiny in a colony, the Replicants are declared illegal on Earth and hunted down by the Blade Runner units, special police squads that shoot them to kill. The execution of a Replicant is called retirement.In November 2019, in Los Angeles, the retired Blade Runner Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) is summoned by his former chief Bryant (M. Emmet Walsh) that assigns him to hunt down four Replicants that are hidden in Los Angeles. Deckard studies the profiles of Roy (Rutger Hauer), Pris (Daryl Hannah), Leon Kowalski (Brion James) and Zhora (Joanna Cassidy) and finds that they had been designed with four years lifespan maximum and they tried to infiltrate themselves in the Tyrell Corporation. Deckard visits their creator, Dr. Eldon Tyrell (Joe Turkel), in his corporation. Sr. Tyrell asks Deckard to demonstrate his Voigt Kampff method to discover the Replicants in his assistant Rachael (Sean Young) and Deckard concludes that she is a sophisticated Replicant but she does not know. When Deckard "retires" Zhora and Leon, he feels affected by their deaths and by the question of Rachel whether he has tested himself to know whether he is a Replicant. But he needs to end his mission and find Roy and Pris. "Blade Runner" is a melancholic work of art that raises existential questions about fear, life, death, emotions, mortality, humanity, dehumanization and love among other philosophical questions in an environment totally destroyed by excessive pollution, technology, marketing and consumption. The wrecked Earth is left to police and little people only, the others inhabitants have moved to the colonies in the off-world. The conflict appears when the retired Blade Runner Deckard is forced to hunt down Replicants again but now with different feelings, after falling in love for the Replicant Rachel and in doubt whether he is also a Replicant. Sean Young certainly has the best role of her career. The bleak cinematography and special effects are awesome and the soundtrack of Vangelis is among the most beautiful of the cinema history. I can not precisely say how many times I have watched the different versions of this film that is among my five favorite movies in the movie-theater, on VHS, on DVD and now on Blu-Ray, but my guess is at least twelve times. The last times I had seen this film were on 06 May 2000 and 31 May 2003. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Blade Runner"


                
Blade Runner show the audience back in 1982 that Sci-fi doesn't always need to be in space, it can be apocalypse city Noir story and Also philosophy matter. And the directors cut in 1990 is the best version.Rick Deckard is reinstated as a Blade Runner detective after he quit because he had enough of being a killer. His job is to kill replicants just because they are illegal on earth. He interview an employee of tyrell corporation Rachel, who turns out to be a replicant with memory implants. The other four replicants he is chasing are the nexus 6 model, a strong new advance replicants used for military which makes Deckards chase more dangerous, but their crime is they want more life.The movie has a very strong philosophy in the story, what is real and what is not, is Deckard human or not, and do replicants have feelings or are they implants. This kind of philosophy movie was unusual at that time and revolutionized the way we make movies today. It's a strong 10/10 and forever and ever more.


                
***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Perfect music by Vangelis, perfect acting by Harrison Ford and Sean Young, haunting performance by Rutger Hauer, Ridley Scott at his best, SFX almost up-to-date, what can I say?Well, I could say only one thing: this movie, a masterpiece of its own, is again a proof that Philip K. Dick's work is very hard to translate into a mainstream movie.SPOILER AHEAD!!!In the book, Rachel has sex with Deckard in order to prevent him from killing the other replicants. She does it as a job for Tyrell Corporation, in a sense. And Deckard ends up thinking that only child born humans are humans, man built androids are not. Dick answers one of his main question in this book: What is humanity? The movie gives the opposite answer. Rachel is human for Deckard, maybe more human than Bryant or Tyrell. This is Scott's sacrifice to the happy ending. Director's cut end is less happy (how ridiculous was this extended lifespan story?). My end to the movie would s ee Deckard kill Rachel while she's asleep. Some would say the actual end gives the movie more power by leading the audience to think Deckard is a replicant. How about a man who protects himself from mere sexual desire by killing a machine? Not a happy end, I know...
Spoilers herein.In the mid-seventies, I exchanged a few letters with Phil Dick, who had then dropped his obsession with parallel, valid visions and had developed a similar obsession with created realities. This concern maps well to the wave of film theory that was sweeping the film world, post-Kubrick. Its a sweet justice that this film from his book was sort of a milestone of that philosophy.It concerns a narrator whose recollection of the events may be colored. Some may have happened, some may have been manufactured memories. Within the remembered story are people who fold memories, from the fellow who manufactures replicants, to he who makes `toys,' to the fellow who literally folds. This first use of noir in scifi underscores the matter: noir denotes a coloring of the world, an implied narrator (usually but not necessarily paranoid).What makes this a watershed is that the studio bosses washed all that out of the theatrical release, making the narrator a trusted one by literally narrating. The film was a flop. With the director's reinstatement of the ambiguous truth, it has become a success. And who says the viewing public is too stupid to appreciate multilevel truths? Even people who think it is a simple story sense something deeper.Harrison Ford as a person is completely clueless about the forces that created, surround and buffet him, so he is a natural for this role, probably his best. Joanna Cassidy (Zhora) is a redhead. Great films seem to have more than their share.This camera is highly architectural. The state of the art with effects did not allow much camera movement, so all the perspectives are borrowed from Welles. So it doesn't innovate there, but the emulation is quite masterful. Where it does innovate is in the vision of an alternative (not future) world, but of course you knew that. However, it is worth noting how rare this is.The combination of knotted truths, architectural camera, effective reinstatement of alternative worlds, and the confused projection of self are completely in line with what Dick intended (if not quite what he wrote). And it is enough to place this in the top three of my best science fiction films, and on my list of must viewing for students of visual thinking.Ted's Evaluation: 4 of 4 -- Every visually literate person should experience this.
Many have praised this one before me, so I will try to keep my comment brief. One of the few movies which still towers majestically over the majority of SF-movies produced before or since. I rate this, along with 2001 and Solaris, as masterpieces of cinema which take the medium to another level. Funny that there are three SF-movies on my top ten movies of all time. In this age of CGI, the environment created for this film has still never been equalled. It is not just the intense layering and detail, it is also the pace which we move through the environment that is just as important. Allowing us time to rest and contemplate the surroundings, along with the magnificent music, brings out so much more atmosphere and sense of place. The acting is interesting, mixing low-key realism with the highly theatrical style of Hauer and Turkel. Yet that mixing never feels out of place. Also, the important ingredient Ridley has in BR that has been lacking in some of his subsequent efforts, is a rich, multi-levelled story. The existential aspects, what is human, real versus artificial memories, the unanswered questions. Almost all movies I consider to be masterpieces have an unanswered question at the end and which brings me back for subsequent watchings. This is one of them. May it soon appear on a Special Ed. DVD with tons of extras.


                
Director's cut rules! It's been 20 years since this movie was made, and by far, it is still one of the best films ever. Wisely, no cheesy special effects were used, which could have dated the film. The wardrobe and architecture are a combination of the 1930's, 40's, 50's and beyond, which give it the timeless look that enables us to see the future. There is not one weak performance, and the casting was impeccable. The direction, the vision, the script, the soundtrack, art direction, and casting - all exemplary. Other films have come after it, but this one set the bar so high it has yet to be surpassed.A great short story, (Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep, Phillip K. Dick), and a great film.


                
