Worst and most boring movie I have ever seen. Even the first hour of titanic is more entertaining than whatever blade runners best scene is. Watching this lame movie is a waste of time but a good time to take a nap because you wouldn't have missed anything. This movies rating of 8.3 should be reversed to 3.8 because every movie ranked lower than 8.3 in the top 250 is twice as good as blade runner. Its literally impossible to watch this movie than believe its ranked higher than avengers, star trek and gravity. If you want to fall asleep, then watch this awful movie.Overall, the critics and people that think of blade runner as a masterpiece are all idiots who have probably only seen movies made in the 1950s.


                
Some things just don't age well: computer graphics, self-consciously hip visions of the future, and Vangelis.  (Whatever happened to him?)  "Blade Runner" has them all - indeed, it consists of scarcely anything else.  -It's not just that it's dated.  Even in 1982, it had portentous narration, moved at a snail's pace, and featured characters too world-weary to care about themselves, much less allow us to care about them.  In 1982 we could be forgiven for thinking that it was pretty but empty.  Now we know it's just empty.


                
I can completely understand how this film has influenced the science fiction genre as it is visually appealing and the score is outright fantastic.Unfortunately that's where any good qualities for Blade Runner end. The plot is a Xerox copy of any noir detective novel, the characters are impossible to emotionally invest in the acting, for the most part, is bland to outright silly (seriously, Harrison Ford was NOT good in this movie), and the pacing was S-L-O-W.Yeah there was that one speech at the end that was moving, but it really doesn't make up for the previous 2 hours of the movie that really tried to put me to sleep.You can call me an idiot if you want, but there was a reason why this thing bombed in the theaters and there is a reason why it has been cut and re-cut half a dozen times.


                
I sat down to watch Blade Runner, expecting to see a movie that lived up to its iconic status. I had seen bits and pieces of it and I just wanted to see it in its entirety. It started off OK. But after about a half an hour I LITERALLY fell asleep, and it was no where near bedtime.I think a my lack of interest was that there was almost no character development. My favorite character was Rachael and I wanted to know more about her before and after the story. But she and the rest of the cast just kinda came into scenes when they were needed and then disappeared like a flash in the pan. Other characters barely get their time in. More than once I asked myself, "Ok, what happened to that guy?" The movie just did a bad job of relaying the story.On the plus side, it had an interesting visual stylization that was probably more impressive when it came out, but now having seen it in 2009, I can compare it to almost any other movie with a vision of a big city in the future. It was also one of those futuristic films where the hair and clothing styles are remarkably similar to the era when the movie was made. IE, in ten years, airbrush body paint and feathered hair flips are coming back! On top of that, a plethora of continuity mistakes made me question how seriously the director and editors were when they made this.All in all, I felt letdown by the final product. There really wasn't any acting that was worth noting and Harison Ford was the only thing keeping this ship from completely sinking. I can only assume that the waaaay overrated votes for so many 10s were made by the original fans that loved it so much when it came out 26 years ago.


                
Hoping to be intellectually, philosophically and otherwisely thrilled to bits after having read these glowing, overflowing with praise-reviews, I watched BR the director's cut yesterday. I cannot for the life of me even begin to see what made these reviewers write what they did. The film has fantastic and potent music, an efficiently grimy atmosphere and decent acting, but that's it! Nothing remotely special here. The thing that made me cringe the most, was the almost stupefying awe so many of the reviewers had for the so-called deep philosophical thematics of the film. Let's get things in perspective: the human-robot theme, its implications on the human condition and one freaky looking professor genius 'playing God' having created it all is NOT what I call an intriguingly abstruse view on man and his role in life. I call it very, very cliché and done about a thousand times before, during and after. And all the while I was reading about Scott's stupendous vision and take on man's complexity and how he forced the viewer to see things his way. Let's get things in perspective once again: Scott is a (good) director, but as with any director, his main task consists of telling actors where to go and stand and how to deliver their lines, only occasionally conferring with the writer as to how this or that scene might be interpreted and filmed. In this particular film, it seems to me that Scott's main contribution was him incessantly coaxing one or other stage hand to set the smoke/water-machine to full blast! There wasn't one scene without smoke or water: it's not difficult then to create 'an awesome atmosphere, presaging the dark reality of what human life is surely to become'. The film for me is a simplistic, superficial little story told in a pretentious and portentous manner, apparently convincingly enough to fool so many into thinking that here is a true cinematographic masterpiece that will stand the test of time. It didn't stand the test of its runtime, I'm afraid.


                
Like I said, visually impressive, but lacks focus on the main character. Most of the film is spent watching the antagonist(s) story, while slightly interesting it is not very compelling or attention grabbing. It's simply there in front of your face. When we cut back to Deckard's story it is more interesting but lacks material to generate a good engaging story that we desire. Hence at the end, the film feels half-baked. If another writer, or even the same writer, did another couple of drafts on the screenplay it probably would have made a world of difference. Sadly Blade Runner wasn't given those extra drafts.


                
A number of years ago (when I was probably too young to be watching it in the first place), I watched "Blade Runner" and was utterly confused and disappointed by the whole thing. Cut to the present and now perhaps my favorite film director, Denis Villeneuve, is making "Blade Runner 2049" for release this fall. As such, I gave the original "Blade Runner" another chance to see if I was perhaps "missing something" (it seems to be widely considered one of the best sci-fi flicks ever). While I now understand what the movie is "supposed to be", so to speak, I can also better articulate why it won't appeal to a certain viewing audience.For a basic plot summary, "Blade Runner" is set in 2019 Los Angeles, where the Tyrell (Joe Turkel) Corporation has begun making human replicant (or "skin jobs") cybernetic beings for slave labor in the "Off-World" colonies. Predictably, a group of these beings, led by Roy Batty (Rutger Hauer), rebel and commandeer a vessel back to Earth, where they will wreak havoc if not dealt with. This is where Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) comes in, as he is the best in the business at dealing with these replicants. Along the way, Deckard comes across a new type of replicant, Rachael (Sean Young), that challenges him in ways not previously seen.There is no doubt that "Blade Runner" is based on a very interesting, pure science fiction concept: human consciousness in a machine body. There are thousands of stories that could be told on this topic, and many already have been across cinema. The trouble with "Blade Runner", though, is that it doesn't care all that much in digging into the meat-and-potatoes of those stories.Instead, this is a film primarily concocted out of love of noir and setting. Director Ridley Scott (much like he did in his earlier "Alien" effort) is vastly more interested in exploring the dark underbelly of a future LA than he is in crafting a really tight story. As such, much of "Blade Runner" showcases the aesthetics of the landscape. If you are really into that sort of thing, this movie will rocket up your list.For those more pulled in by story and character development, however, "Blade Runner" only gives out as many nuggets as it needs to in his department. In fact, most of the context of the entire picture is given in an opening text crawl. There are a few "story moments" scattered throughout the movie, but they are truly few and far between and too short to satisfy those looking for them.So, I think the litmus test of whether a viewer will enjoy "Blade Runner" comes down to how much you enjoy the noir/aesthetic of a film, as that is the film's primary purpose. Does it touch on some interesting ideas/characters? Yes. Does it explore them in any deeper fashion? Absolutely not.


                
Blade Runner is a film I had grown up hearing so much about, but one that I had never actually watched. It is a film that is often called the most inspirational and I hear it changed sci-fi movies for the better. Due to this I thought it was about time to sit down and watch it.Harrison Ford plays Deckard, a cop in Los Angeles in 2019. LA is now entirely futuristic, which back in 1982 you may have presumed it would be but today you will see how away from the mark it is. It is home to giant billboards advertising anything and everything. A dark, gloomy, and wet atmosphere heavily influenced by the Japanese, and above all flying cars. To be fair some of it was right on the money. Deckard is a cop known as a blade runner. A blade runner is a certain unit that hunts down replicants (artificial humans) that were created for off-world work. Every now and again replicants go missing and blade runners must stop them and retire them. Deckard is brought out of his own retirement to hunt down six replicants who have escaped and are on Earth searching for their maker in order to prolong their life. Due to replicants growing emotion over time, each has a life span of four years, however when these replicants realise this they head to meet their creator and keep themselves alive. Deckard must stop them before they get too far, unfortunately for him he meets one of these replicants and falls in love with her. Does he retire her?All of that is generally the back story and what you need to know to understand the basis of the film. Really the film is about Deckard hunting the replicants and falling in love. For those of you that have seen it you will understand what I am about to say, it isn't really about any of that. It is full of philosophical issues that will have you thinking after the film has finished. When this film was first released it wasn't well received and people have taken to it after numerous viewings and discussion. Believe me you must have to watch it more than once because I've seen it once and it is really dull. That may cause unrest with people but I have to say I didn't think much to it. I understand the philosophical views hidden deep but I don't see how that makes it a good movie. There is no real story. The themes could have still been explored with more going on but it was just a lot of sitting around and not doing much. It really wasn't what I was expecting. For starters the villain doesn't really show up till over an hour in, so far into it that I forgot there was even a bad guy. The love scenes didn't work as the characters weren't believable, I understand after reading discussions why that might be, but that isn't good for the average movie goer that wants to leave the cinema happy and finished with it. Not everyone likes to research into the movie. I can really see why it has taken time to be a cult film as it has given people time to put forward their theories which people will then relate to it on another viewing. I'm sorry but I don't get it.I can however understand why it has influenced so much. The visuals alone are stunning, and the fact it was made twenty years ago is not noticeable. If it was released in cinemas tomorrow you would not have known it was made two decades ago. The production design completely outshines any story within this film. I can also see the influence within the philosophical themes and how they have opened up many questions. Are replicants human if they believe they are? In the film they are implanted with memories to make them believe they are real, but are they real if their memories aren't actually theirs? I get that these questions are well explored, and I do like to see this in a film, but I was not hooked on the story. It never really drew me in and I was waiting for the action to kick off and it never did. It was so disappointing. It does have brilliant things about it but the entire outcome of the film is completely dull. Hopefully over time I may come to like it and understand it more. Maybe I don't like it because I don't get it and maybe that is the problem. I'm sure people will completely disagree with this but something more had to grab my attention and it didn't.The look of the film is the top draw of this movie. It looks absolutely fascinating, and I would say to watch it just to see how good it is. The acting is generally OK but nothing great. To be fair the characters were so dull that they had little to work with, although some are replicants so that could make sense. The love story is really forced and I never believed it. However there can be an explanation for all of this..... This could be a spoiler, but then again after watching it you'll realise it is not. Six replicants escape, we only ever meet five! Have a watch and you might understand why the movie is why it is.2 / 5For more reviews: www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com


                
OK this movie has a cult following etc. but it is boring and produces limited action. Thumbs up to the special effects which are terrific and nothing short of spectacular. But otherwise it is a lifeless movie with Harrison Ford giving a droning Phillip Marlow type narrative. The characters are of little interest. There is an acute absence of humor which could have given the film some life. The plot is also muddled. I read the novel the film is based upon "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" after seeing the movie. The book is fairly interesting while dealing with a strange subject matter. The movie could have expanded on the novel by making the androids more dynamic and having some sequences dealing with what was happening on the planets they were leaving. But it chose to keep the action in a boring inexplicably rainy, oriental populated LA. Honestly movie fans, take away the special visual effects and you have a yawner movie.


                
Blade Runner is nothing more than a visual spectacle, and its special effects are quickly failing the test of time, which means it's swiftly losing the only feature that could be considered somewhat redeeming. The film is remarkably flat, in terms of both its characters and narrative; it is completely unengaging in its entirety. Deckard (Harrison Ford) is assigned to find and kill 'replicants', which are 'biorobots' that have been declared illegal on Earth. The replicants effortlessly blend into society as they look and behave exactly like humans, their cover is blown only through detecting their lack of empathy. Many people revel in the many different cuts and theories of 'Blade Runner', it's got a prominent cult following. That's fair enough, but on initial viewing I was left bored stiff – when it comes to sinister cybernetic organisms, it doesn't get better than 'The Terminator' (1984)This clinical, emotionally detached approach is common in many of Ridley Scott's earlier work; the whole crew of 'Alien' were forgettable, much like the cast of 'Blade Runner'. I didn't sympathise with or fear any character, leading to its conventional, tired plot lacking any device to thrill, entertain or ultimately keep me watching. It took an act of will and devotion towards my friend (who is a fan of BR) to endure the whole thing.I have been aware of the film and its reputation for years, but I had never been that interested in seeing it, despite the looks and utterances of mock outrage I'd always get when I said I hadn't seen it. Well, now I have, and next time I can reply with 'Yes, I have seen it, and it's one of the most overrated films I have ever seen.'www.hawkensian.com


                
I've never quite got this movie. I have watched it several times and although so many people think it is a classic it just doesn't quite do it for me. Anyway I know so many people love this movie I can't argue it's status as a cult film and it does make the IMDB top 100 films of all time. I don't dislike the film, but I just don't love it. Is Deckard a replicant ? it depends which cut you watch and I don't really care.


                
Question - Does this movie truly deserve all the accolades it has received? Breaking with obvious tradition, I would say NOT, and go as far as to suggest that many reviewers are TOO eager with their praise due to the film's solid cult status which was delivered through ground breaking visual effects.Some may even feel they HAVE to applaud Blade Runner, because to do anything else might cause frenzied bleating within the flock. Lets be clear about this, the gap between cult status and classical status should, and is, as wide as the gaps in this film.Yes, for 1982 the film had superb, even pioneering photography and visual effects. But so did The Matrix. A truly excellent film has to deliver much more than that. For me anyway. I'm talking about taking the audience on a journey, a common experience that relates a well told story to the viewer. Blade Runner's story telling is confusing at best and at worst, borders on pure laziness.While the external photography is way ahead of its time, the internal sets are in the main, a blur of darkness where the director takes little time to define any detail whatsoever. The storyline/plot is left SO open to interpretation, that any significant meaning remains undelivered.Perhaps Scott's numerous arguments with his studio-masters were the root cause of this. His vision of the story clashed with the studio's and many compromises ensued, probably damaging the story and maybe even stalling production time so much that this mess of a film was released prematurely.Yes, the Director's cut (1991) is marginally better, but that was 9 years later, and re-shoots were not an option. He had little to work with to improve the mess.


                
There's a place in Milton Keynes called 'Blade Runners' and it's an ice skating rink. I really like going there because the changing rooms don't have doors on them and I sometimes wander in and pretend to be from the Ukraine. Of course I'd only wander into the ladies changing room and stay there pretending to be confused until some of the staff came and led me out. Well, I used to do that. Last time I tried it there actually was a girl from the Ukraine, who I think used to be army special forces or something.Anyway, when I get discharged from hospital the doctors tell me to take it easy for a few days, until the swelling has gone down so I ask my mum to hire out a DVD from the shop for me. But rather than hiring out the film I told her to she decides to ask advice from the old guy Henry who works there. He's had something against me ever since Rufus got stuck down the back of the freezer and destroyed all that ice cream. So Henry being the 'expert' on films that he is tells mum to hire out 'Blade Runner' by Ridley Scott telling her that it's a 'classic'.Thanks mum! That's not insensitive after what I've been put through! All the horrible memories of the unprovoked attack and the police caution came flooding back when I saw the title of the film. Besides, how many times have I told her to not believe anything Henry says? Especially when he starts by saying "The police came to the shop last night asking about your son<U+0085>" In 'Blade Runner' Harrison Ford plays Rick Deckard, a man who hunts down robots for a job. That sounds easy doesn't it? Well it's not because these 'replicants' look like people, and he has to use an old projector or something to read their minds, somehow. It seems to take AGES so why not do this instead: Rick Deckard: "Hi. How are you? Would you like a drink of water?" Replicant: "No thanks, I'm not thirsty." Rick Deckard: "That's right! Only humans can get thirsty! Die robot!!" BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! That's much easier than some stupid test and he could kill far more robots that way. His boss would be really pleased I'm sure. I mean, if Rick Deckard sold cars and in one day he sold seven, but there were only four in the shop his boss would be really pleased, just like if there were only four replicants on the loose and Deckard managed to kill eleven.And whilst we're on the subject of robots looking like people, wouldn't it be easier to make them look a little different? Couldn't they, I dunno, look like George Hamilton or something? That way there'd be no need for the test I just made up and anyone who looked like George Hamilton would be shot. Obviously George Hamilton would have to have plastic surgery to look like someone else, maybe George Lucas. That way when people shouted "Hey George!" he'd know that they were talking to him and look round. If he looked like Bob Hoskins and people shouted "Hey Bob!" he might get confused.Also, if I brought a robot and it only worked for four years I'd be pretty annoyed. I'll bet they have a program in the future like "Watchdog" over here in the UK. They'd soon have Tyrell on there going on and on about how he was selling robots that only worked for 4 years. If they had him on 'Watchdog' I bet Nicky Campbell would make insulting comments about Tyrell's glasses because they are kind of stupid looking. Surely though another company would make robots that worked for 10 years or something, or until their hair went out of fashion, and then beat the Tyrell Corporation at their own game. And what's with the whole "more human than human" thing anyway? That's a moronic motto. How about "sexy robots that put out"? That'd be a better motto, or maybe "Tyrell don't smell, are bots are hot and we make 'em like George whether you like it or not!" That's decent marketing and in the form of a rap as well to appeal to kids and gangsta's.After watching this film I can't wait for the future, but I don't think it's a classic, not like the excellent 'Battlefield Earth' or a film I wrote last night. There should have been more emphasis on what pleasure robots like Daryl Hannah get up to and maybe some steamy scenes in a women's changing room. Of course if Henry hadn't offered his 'expert' opinion then those are some of the scenes I could have expected in 'The Erotic Witch Project'.Neonsamurai Film Score: AAB


                
OK, so this is supposedly this great sci-fi noir classic of our time. Ridley Scott did do well with the visuals for the time, but most of the "deep" stuff of Dick's story is gone as well as even the simple slang and feeling that gets you there. So much of the original story is discarded or else traded for cheap skin shots that it really should be remade with some integrity to the great story is supposedly derives from. This is about as close to "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" as the horrible Starship Troopers film is like the book. The whole concept of the pet animals is missing and the reason for the Andys to come to earth is completely wrong. The androids or andys as Dick calls them are trying to find a spiritual experience the way humans flock to Mercerism. Even the excellent idea of the mood organ is gone. Lots of screen time is spent on stupid shots of the probably expensive to construct scenery that could have been used to actually insert more of the original story elements. I recently viewed this again after rereading the book and couldn't wait for this sci-fi shooter to be done. Read the book or listen to the unabridged audio-book and you'll agree.
Blade Runner is considered a masterpiece of science fiction cinema and I can see why visually anyone would be foolish to disagree-the noir look is gorgeous, almost like a beautiful, tragic painting of a dying civilization. But the film is a misery to sit through partly because the characters are unrelatable. Harrison Ford's Deckard is dull and looks bored throughout the film and his chemistry with Sean Young is nonexistent. The plot is too high brow and all but the most ardent followers of hard thinking man's science fiction would be impressed. This is a classic example of overpraised piece of work.


                
It's really annoying how someone can say that this movie is based on the exceptionally good book of Philip K. Dick, "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?", and yet include so few elements form it - so few i can enumerate them: the names (and only the names) of some characters, the androids, the environment, the Voigt-Kampff test.Before I continue, i need to say that i understand that a book is different from a movie, even if one is based on the other; but it has to retain the key elements, the plot. Some people complain that the Harry Potter books are better; yes, the books are better, but because of the details, because of the 'filler' you might say, but the key elements are still there.So, where is the background story? Why are the questions in the Voigt- Kampff test about hurting animals? Where did the androids come from, why were they created? Why are they only available on Mars? Why are androids on Earth, in general, hunted? Why did humans go to Mars, and yet why are there a lot of them still on Earth? These, and a lot, lot more are important parts of the story that aren't explained in depth enough (or aren't present at all) to make the movie interesting. All of those elements are connected, they don't float around in this futuristic world by their own, like the movie presents itself.And even if the movie wasn't based on a book, it is still pretty bad. There is no chemistry between the actors, the characters are boring. The plot, the storyline is also boring: some androids (creation) escape slavery to meet their maker, in order to live longer (to make their lives better)... really original, I couldn't think of another movie like that. The only good thing about this movie were the visuals.What a disappointment.
Writing a negative review for this movie seems like heresy, but I feel compelled to do it. Also, perhaps I'm not even entitled to write this review because I could only stand to watch the first hour of the movie before deciding to turn it off. Unbelievable? Let me explain why. This movie is perhaps one of the most touted films of all time and I had not seen it despite the movie having been around for over 20 years. So, one day, I finally decided to watch the thing and bore patiently through each boring scene after another. I'm a fan of science fiction but now I realize not in the sense of a connoisseur but just a guy who likes a good blend of action, drama, science, fiction and acting. This movie arguably has all of those things but is achingly slow in presenting them. It cannot escape looking every bit like a 1982 vision of what the future would be like and suffers too much from being implemented from an arty angle. The scenes are too dark for Harrison Ford's charms (he could easily have been replaced with someone else who didn't have Indiana Jones behind him) and the characters are much too deep to bother even trying to understand. The philosophical angle doesn't impress me either. There are many 'big questions' movies can deal with without making the audience itself lie on the couch. I suppose the last 40 minutes or so of the film might have been better and tied up some loose ends but I could not stand to waste any more time watching it. Looking at other movies from the same era which I still find very interesting - Conan The Barbarian, Indiana Jones and Alien - I'm disappointed to say that Blade Runner could have been better. Anyway, I will shoulder part of the blame because I didn't watch it to the end and perhaps because technology is moving at light speed these days, philosophical science fiction movies really look much, much older than they ought to. No offense to those who really loved this movie. To each his own.


                
I've just seen this movie and I just can't understand why it's in the Top250. The same reason as for the Rocky Horror picture show? Since all people around you find it good or superb is definitely not a reason (it shouldn't be the only reason anyway) to rate it up in your personal point of view.OK - it's possible that the special effects, the costumes and the music were good in 1982. But what's with the plot? In my point of view the plot is good enough for a short story, but definitely not for a two hour movie.If you want to do you a favor: don't watch this movie - at least don't buy it before you've seen it...


                
There isn't a zero? Well, Blade Runner can have the one star for the special effects. This movie stinks and then the director found a way to make it worse by releasing a director's cut. It is so difficult to watch. It pains me. It took ten tries before I could get through it.I would rather be chained to a chair and have a 500 lb. woman with halitosis breathing in my face while being forced to watch Armageddon, Titanic, Pearl Harbor, and Contact over and over again than watch 15 minutes of this colossal piece of garbage. And Harrison Ford is a great actor, which makes it even harder to imagine how bad this movie can possibly be.


                
Blade Runner is widely considered to be the best Science Fiction movie ever made. It is on almost every top 100 list, and that's why I am reviewing it. To tell you why it is one of the most overrated films of all time. Science Fiction is my favorite genre, and the author of Blade Runner, Philip K. Dick is one of my favorite authors, but Blade Runner is far from his best work. I would go as far as saying that Blade Runner isn't even in his top ten, and if it wasn't for Ridley Scott, it wouldn't have been the first film adaptation of Dick's work. At the time, the special effects were innovative and exciting, but they fail to live up to today's standards. With that being said, all that's left over is a simple story that follows a futuristic police chase and a very cheesy, awkward, love story. In a futuristic Los Angeles, android technology has been perfected. These replicants are used for labor an odd jobs, but occasionally, they become aware and try to run for their freedom. That is when the blade runners are called in to eliminate them. The best Blade Runner around is Deckard (Harrison Ford), a man who doesn't love his job, but always gives one hundred and ten percent. After three replicants escape from the moon, Deckard is called in to track them down and this is the whole premise of the movie. There isn't much of a side story and the rare breaks in the action, rarely prove to be substantive. The film is just you're typical chase with some very weird elements. For example, why does Rutger Hauer take off all his cloths before he fights Harrison Ford, and for that matter, what the hell is he talking about the whole time? How about the talking toys, can you tell me they weren't just a bit creepy and out of character for the rest of the film? Finally, we're in Los Angeles, why is everything Chinese? The story is just a very strange chase through a futuristic nightmare scenario for Los Angeles. Yes, Harrison Ford was terrific, and yes, it must of been the hardest thing Ridley Scott ever had to direct, but the film and story itself are very simplistic and certainly not worthy of legendary status. I love Philip K. Dick and I am obsessed with Science Fiction, but watching Blade Runner for the third time, I was still just as bored and confused as I was the other two times I saw it. How can anything that makes a person feel that way be considered legendary?


                
(spoilers)Ridley Scott is known for his dark films, and Blade Runner may be his darkest in terms of its cinematography. But I thought that the whole thing was an exersise in futility. The cop does his job, kills the replicants, and gets the girl. I must say that I really didn't feel any sympathy for the replicants, I felt the idea that Harrisson Ford's character might be a replicant was way underdeveloped, and the fact that they just let him keep the replicant in the end didn't make sense. I thought this film in general, and Harrison Ford's character in particular, as just not going anywhere. Some people say that it is a bleak insight to the future, but in that case, can't you give us a little insight into the characters of the replicants, instead of making them all typecast? And they all do so much despicable stuff, that you can't help but feel glad when they all die. I know that this film is considered a sci-fi classic, but I found Speilberg's Minority Report to be much more interesting. 4/10
I have to say that the plot is compelling and the thought processes placed in the story are deep, profound and thought-provoking. However... yes, my dear Readers, there is a however: Several intricate portions of the movie ruined it for me in a severe way. First off, I am not a fan of the make-up artistry of the time. They simply try too hard to make the movie 'look ' futuristic, and fail miserably. The effects were poor, obviously, as a person spoiled by the effects to be found in movies nowadays. The fights are poorly choreographed, with more emphasis on the witty quips and dialogue instead of the fight going on.The acting is also very poor. The dialogue is very unstable, the conversations between two characters feeling like both have a bad stuttering problem. I have seen Harrison Ford make good movies, and this is not one of them. Poorly made, even for the time.Like I said, the plot is good, with the thought processes behind the movie quite strong. But plot isn't the only thing in a movie, and when those are at fault, the whole film suffers. 3-5 out of 10.


                
First off, i am not a Ridley Scott fan. I feel as though Blade Runner lacked plot and interesting moments. Harrison Ford wasn't a good hero either, his weak performance of a ex detective had me rooting for the villain by the end. i must give credit to the music, cinematography and style of the film as just visuals of the blade runner world were more exiting and compelling than any other part of this film.


                
I am not a huge film critic but I just had to say few words on this. I watched it first time last night and my expectations in terms of special effects and acting were lower considering it's an old title. First things first - camera, cuts, angles, lighting etc. is just horrible. Looks like some amateur made the edit and published it. Story overall is just bad with scene selection making it even worse. Acting is on the same level. One shot characters chat, another one goes to sleep ignoring everything, then cuts to something else. Seriously? Also acting is just plain wrong, I don't know if they have seen themselves in it. It's like a bad rehearsal. I can only give it 4 out of 10, just because of the hype, actors (their caliper more than anything else), props and effects. I can see there was some effort put in but... I don't know what everyone else is raving about. It is mediocre in terms of cinematography, acting, plot, everything. If I was to criticize real world aspect in terms of feasibility of such thing happening it would be even worse - everyone seems to be able to access everything with little effort, they send their "best" to get things done when he is just some drunk weirdo who can't handle himself in a fight. Come on...


                
Well, I guess I must have totally missed the point again... I did not see a Sci-Fi masterpiece with astonishingly progressive visual effects and a flawlessly adapted screenplay, but an over-ambitious and difficult to digest drama epic with a lack of action. But hey, "Blade Runner" is ranked pretty high in the IMDb top 250 and all the professional reviews are singing praise, so my humble opinion is probably something you shouldn't bother to read. Although, for the record, the only version I've seen is the original theatrical version and <U+0096> supposedly <U+0096> only the 1992 director's cut version is a genuine masterpiece. Unquestionably terrific is Ridley Scott's portrayal of our world by the year 2019, when the cities look exactly like predicted in Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" with immense 300-storey skyscrapers and pure decay down below on the streets. The future is ugly and petrifying and it looks like nobody can smile anymore. In this sad and unappealing universe, Rick Deckard is an early retired "Blade Runner" whose duty was to eliminate android fugitives, called Replicants, that escaped from extraterrestrial colonies. Deckard is called back because four of the most dangerous Replicants are on an earthly mission to increase their miserable life-span of only four years. The film's biggest disappointment <U+0096> other than the tiresome voice over by Ford and the dreadful jazzy soundtrack <U+0096> are the characterizations of these android Replicants. Supposedly they're relentless villains that already made over 30 casualties on their way over to earth, yet when they're face to face with their enemies <U+0096> humans <U+0096> they don't look the least bit menacing or dangerous at all! Neither do they evoke feeling of understanding or sympathy, they just behave like philosophical talkers; especially the "leader" Roy Batty. The love-story sequences between Ford and robotic beauty Sean Young feel like pure melodramatic padding whereas sublime actors in intriguing supportive roles (M. Emmet Walsh, Edward James Olmos) are criminally underused. The film may be rich on themes and symbolism, but the lack of excitement is saddening and the ending is unforgivably weak.


                
