I was 15 when the film was released in 1982. I remember Gary Franklin (A Movie Critic on Television) gave this film a "10" on a scale of 1 to 10 "10" being best. When a friend of mine saw this he hated it and so I never saw until 1992. That is when the "Director's Cut" was released theatrically. I was now 25 years. I wanted to see this because I saw a clip on television and someone saying this film was meant to be seen on the "Big Screen" and so off I went. This cut of the film is most well known for being the version that "Took Away" the Harrison Ford Voice Overs. It also included a shot of a unicorn that implied that "Harrison Ford" is a Replicant. I was not blown away by this film. I thought it was "good" not "great"The story does take its time but the rewards are huge if you pay close attention. . Its haunting images are so memorable that it influenced future filmmakers. In more ways than one it became the "Metropolis" of a new era. From the future setting to having different versions released. "Blade Runner" and "Metropolis" are 2 films one should watch back to back. Now my problem with "Blade Runner" is that each version is SLOW! The action could of moved faster. The story is very thin. Ridley Scott film is like an old man trophy wife. Pretty to look at but has almost nothing to offer!
Blade Runner has become a cult hit in the 19 years since its release.  It is understandable why.  The film has a disjointed, postmodern narrative surrounded by superb photography and set design.  The hero is not even a hero and the conclusion of the film, at least the director's cut, isn't all that happy.  Most of all, Blade Runner eerily shadows the near future for our own world, the future of cloning and unnaturally created humans. Science fiction has always been able to show us images of ourselves or our world in a future or alien world, things we would prefer not to see.Blade Runner's premise is simple.  Deckard (Harrison Ford) has to hunt down four <U+0091>Replicants': artificial humans who have great intelligence but superior physical attributes.  These replicants have run amock in space colonies and now human authorities on Earth are worried that the replicants will do the same here.All of this is really nothing more than a faint attempt at a story.  Blade Runner's success lies not with its story element, but with the amazing vision of fantasy and fear of its director, Ridley Scott.  Scott had previously made "Alien", another postmodern vision of man's possible future. In that film he questioned colonisation, globalization (but on a intergalactic scale), our fascination with destriction and the corruption of modern business.  In "Blade Runner", Scott explores corruption, man's destructive nature, but he also delves into emotion and the possibility of someone ELSE creating those emotions for us, as is the case for the replicants.The plot plays second fiddle to the set design and costumes.  The choice of Los Angeles being the setting for the film is brilliant: at present L.A. is a city blanketed in sunshine, with an image of blonde babes and surfers all too obvious.  In "Blade Runner" the city is nothing like it is today.  It has become a blend of Tokyo, New York and some Eastern European wasteland of pollution.The vehicle, weapons and costumes all have a distinctive 1980's - apocalyptic - retro feel to them, the flying cars are almost too cheesy to be taken seriously, but combined with Vangelis' synthesizer score and the noir-ish feel of the narrative they fit just perfectly.
"Blade Runner"'s narrative is just that: film noir.  Deckard is akin to Sam Spade, he's seen it all, been there and back, and is a tortured soul.  It's got the femme fatale, the more evil than evil villan and the corporation that is somehow responsible for all this mess.  At the same time the film is a thriller, a western and a science fiction yarn.Harrison Ford is suited as Deckard.  He is the anti-Han Solo or Indiana Jones.  Rutger Hauer is superbly evil too, it is a shame he hasn't been able to follow this up with anything as good.Many films since this have tried to show a world void of any semblances of what we take for granted today, but none have compared to "Blade Runner". The film that came closest to it would be the Japanese animation "Akira" which also deals with similar themes.Science fiction always succeeds when the viewer is planted in the story one step beyond what might have actually happened.  See Planet of the Apes, Alien, Star Wars, et al.  In "Blade Runner" we get a vision of the world as it may actually be one day.  Maybe not 2019, but somewhere down the track the science fiction of films such as these may become science fact."Blade Runner" is one of THE definitive sci-fi movies ever made.


                
I spent a weekend with the new DVD set of Blade Runner. Watched all four versions pretty much back to back (minus the work print version) starting with the US theatrical and finishing with the Final Cut. And across those eight hours I spent with the film, I did not get tired of watching – just watching – that futuristic film-noir vibe: deep dark shadows and majestic use of light and color used to make a run-down polluted cityscape look so beautiful. In fact, when I got to the Final Cut, which had been cleaned up, restored, and remixed, the picture and sound quite literally took my breath away.Blade Runner is easily one of the best looking films ever made.In some ways, many ways, Blade Runner strikes me as silly. Particularly in its more climactic moments where the protagonist faces off against a replicant. Pris's acrobatic means of attacking Deckard? When Roy Batty chases Deckard in his shorts (when a few moments before he was fully clothed?) The film goes over-the-top to the point where I find myself asking, "why in the world would the characters do that?!" But here's what's interesting: as silly as Blade Runner may get it never betrays its own world. Everything that happens, in some queer way, feels natural to this strange futuristic world.I like the movie in its action scenes, but I simply adore it during the quieter moments – the parts where not a whole hell of a lot is happening, and you can simply watch and absorb Jordan Cronenweth's marvelous cinematography. My favorite scene comes when Rachel has saved Deckard's life. An emotional wreck of killing another replicant on top of the revelation that she, herself, is a replicant – she stands by a window where light floods in, so much light that the whole screen goes white, and then it recedes again and we see the characters again. Later in that same scene, she sits at the piano, plays for a bit, and then lets her hair down. Hearing Deckard stumbling in the other room, she looks out of the corner of her eye <U+0085> and shot after shot after shot through this entire sequence demonstrates absolute mastery over the frame.Plus some of the other quiet moments resonate with a truer low-key science-fiction feel such as the scene in Tyrell corporation where Deckard applies the Voight-Kampff test to Rachel. More or less a mundane questionaire/interview with a typical sci-fi gadget sitting on the table, but Ridley Scott and Terry Rawlings compacts the lengthy endeavor into a few short moments using a stunningly simple montage.Later on, Deckard sits in front of a voice-activated screen analyzing a photograph. The task is presented as a dull monotonous job (made especially evident in Harrison Ford's delivery), yet the scene, itself, never bores. The voice-activation not only serves as a staple sci-fi device, but cleverly allows Deckard to take the audience's hand and guide them through this investigative process. And perhaps what I like most about the scene: the audience, and even Deckard himself, doesn't even really know what he's found. Things don't magically fall into place with a Scooby-Doo moment of revelation. He finds another clue that might lead somewhere (albeit, since it's a movie it's a good guess the clue does lead somewhere.) In my mind at least moments such as the Voight-Kampff scenes, Deckard's briefing, the photograph analysis, both of Rachel's scenes in Deckard's apartment gives the world of Blade Runner a solid grounding so later on it can get away with the absurd.Which brings me to the replicants. Roy Batty (Rutger Hauer) in particular, whose strangely sympathetic in that his murderous tendencies spawn directly from his fear of dying. This is a man who possesses a strong conviction that he deserves life perhaps because he looks around on earth and sees people squandering their existence while he knows he only has a few short moments. Why should a shmuck like Deckard live for 50+ years when Roy in his 4 short years has seen attack ships burning off the shoulder of Orion and seen C-beams glitter in the dark <U+0085> "If only you could see what I've seen with your eyes," he proudly and warmly tells one of the scientists who helped create him.As for which cut of the film, I don't think any single one is perfect (and I'd honestly watch any of them in a heartbeat.) I prefer the "Final Cut" over the others and admire Ridley Scott's restraint in his definitive DVD release. Most of the modifications are fine-tuning tweaks the casual viewer won't even notice unless watching two version back to back, and most of said fine-tuning improve the film (although, admittingly, Roy's beckoning of Sebastian could've been left out.) But hell, all versions of Blade Runner are included, so people don't have much room to complain about the changes. And no matter what version you go with, it's still a beautiful film to just <U+0085> watch.


                
The movie setting reminds me of a crossover between a monster flick and a futuristic film noir. The world of Blade Runner looks incredibly atmospheric and it's totally convincing: Dark, lived in, gritty, dirty, mysterious, hostile. I wish modern movies would be more like this - not CGI built worlds that feel sterile and are forgettable! The two weaknesses of this movie are the slow pacing and Ford's performance. I'll elaborate in a second. Even if you consider it to be a thriller, the few action scenes only drive the movie slowly and tension is not built up as focused as in Scott's Alien. The movie takes almost 2 hours but we learn almost nothing about the characters. Some might argue this is OK since the replicants don't have the past like humans and also miserable Deckard (even if you don't subscribe to Scott's claim that he was intended to be a replicant) lacks a bit of humanity.It is worth noting that your viewing experience might suffer from picking a "bad" version of the movie. There seems to be a consensus that the Final Cut is probably the best choice. On paper the voice-over of Harrison Ford might have been a good idea as it could clear some confusions of viewers and also it gives the movie another film noir touch. But allegedly Ford disagreed and tried to intentionally sabotage the decision with a horrible voice-over performance. Apart from that Harrison Ford is not bad in this movie but not great either. The smirky Han Solo face he sometimes puts on is a bit misplaced for Deckard's character. And of course, Rutger Hauer steals the show!


                
As technology itself advances, movies based on technology become outdated. This movie is not SO outdated as to warrant a bad review at this late date, but it is beginning to show signs of wear about the edges, and fails to give you the science of the sci-fi genre. This endeavor attempts to show the prejudices of our society, and features a just-coming-out-of-retirement Blade Runner played by post Star Wars but pre-Indiana Jones's Harrison Ford; a hunter of humanoid AI, with Daryl Hannah and Rutger Hauer as the principle "bad guys," and Sean Young (Lois Einhorn of Ace Ventura: Pet Detective fame) as the hapless love interest. Not a bad mix for a film on "social responsibility."The score has a definite "Fifth Element" feel to it, meaning Luc Beson's endeavor looked to Blade Runner for some of its inspiration. It sounded techno with a middle eastern influence and greatly helped move the story along when it hits a weak or slow spot. Some of the bar scenes held the flavor of Star Wars's Cantina on Moss Eisley, and some of the dialog was reminiscent of Fletch Lives. Now, this may sound like an uneven mess, but somehow, it works.This work has become a landmark "cult classic" in the genre of sci-fi/action, and is a must have for any sci-fi fan or collector.This production earns a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend :.
I've seen Blade Runner many, many times. It may hold the record for Most Times I Have Seen a Movie I Don't Actually Like. Like most people, I admire the look of the film. I don't know that I appreciate the look as much as others; while I admit it was very influential on the look of subsequent movies, its style-over-substance nature has also been influential, and I don't think that's a good thing. And, again like most people, I am intrigued by the subject matter (what is human?).That's about it for the things I like. As for what I don't like, well, first off, I'm one of those Philip K. Dick fans. There is a lot more going on in the book Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? than shows up in the movie (and yes, I know that's the standard complaint of book lovers, but it's true here). The most important missing element in the movie is "Mercerism," a semi-religion that is v.important in the book's philosophy. In any event, I don't think Blade Runner does a good job of getting at much essential Dickworld. For me, the best example of that world on film remains the scene in Total Recall when the bad guys try to convince Arnold in the hotel room that he is actually sitting back home in a chair enjoying a virtual, rather than real, experience.As for the non-Dickian aspects of the movie, well, if you've heard from the legions of Blade Runner fans what a classic it is, you'll likely be surprised on first viewing to find out that it's kinda boring. Apparently to help make the point that the emotional lives of humans and replicants are too similar to tell apart, director Ridley Scott instructs the actors playing humans (or supposed humans) to underplay, to make them seem more mechanical, then lets King of the Replicants Rutger Hauer overact oddly, as if he was a leftover from Kubrick's Clockwork Orange (another so-called classic with crappy acting from everyone not named Malcolm McDowell). I guess Hauer's bogus emoting is supposed to make him seem more human than the humans, but this is only true if humans are scenery-chewers.Ultimately, it's hard to care about any of the characters in the film. I suppose that could be one of the "points" it's trying to make; I suspect it's more what happens when you cast dull-as-nails Sean Young in a leading role. Again, I'm aware that this distancing-from-humanity feel could be on purpose. That doesn't make it any more enjoyable. The movie gets everything right except the people. As usual, Pauline Kael hit it on the head: "It hasn't been thought out in human terms. If anybody comes around with a test to detect humanoids, maybe Ridley Scott and his associates should hide."


                
When I saw this movie the first time, I found it boring, meandering, pointless and utterly lifeless.  This time around I paid closer attention to the film and it grew on me.  I was intrigued by the original--though somewhat slow-moving--storyline.  The sets are elaborate and beautifully constructed.  Yet the lighting is low-key and the atmosphere is filled with smoke, giving it that neo-noir touch.  So this is not your conventional science-fiction movie.  There are no spaceship battles or goofy robots. Harrison Ford is not playing Han Solo from the "Star Wars" movies; this is totally different.  The performances are good all-around.  But I will still say that the film does drag.  I would edit a portion out of almost every scene.  It's obvious that Ridley Scott didn't have the pacing in mind.  And what was with that friggin' soundtrack??  Did Kenny G do the score?  I know Scott was attempting to give it a noirish feel, but the score needed to be a tad more upbeat--I mean we're not sitting in a dentist's chair for God's sake!  "Blade Runner" is not a great film, in my opinion, but a good one and pretty well-done.  I liked the ending; it wasn't predictable.  I'm surprised at how high it ranked on the IMDB:  It's Number 74!  I know the film bombed at the box office and received unanimously bad reviews, so it must've received a major cult following.  I don't have enough enthusiasm to vote this as one of the best underrated films ever made, but it's worth a look.  And you didn't like it the first time around, it's worth another look. 
My score:  7 (out of 10)


                
The one line summary says it all . Ridley Scott with the aid of a brilliant crew (director of photography , SFX team and a decent music score) managed to shoot one of the most astonishingly impressive films ever but with a thin paper plot and an unnecessarily slow pace . It could as well be a short film. As it is it's just a 40 minutes story stretched to a 2 hours time slot .First the positive points : Blade Runner gives an original and splendid mix of stylistic themes . It combines the film noir atmosphere of the 1940 's (the detective who "falls for the wrong woman" , the clouded alley streets etc) with futuristic sets (flying cars , colourful lights , advanced computer technology) and strangely it maintains the present day reality of a detective thriller of the 80 's or even the 90 's . The result is a wonderful surrealistic background , timeless and not at all dated . This diachronic atmosphere is a very successful depiction of the vision of many famous sci-fi writers , and I am not referring necessarily to Philip Dick . Sci - fi writers usually describe futuristic societies with an amalgam of elements from different historic periods and this is exactly the case with this film . I will have to shake hands with the SFX crew because the overhead take in the beginning of the movie where we get a panoramic view of the colourful-lighted scyscrapers is unbelievably good . Even now , 20 years later , when technology has evolved so much , I still haven 't seen such a convincing simulated image in a movie . For example Judge Dredd (1995) and Fifth Element (1997) tried to walk on the same path but with limited success . But the real kudos must go to the cinematographer because his work is in one word excellent . The cinematography is simply excellent and I doubt if it will be ever topped . It is the soul of the movie and the most representative sample of the spirit the film-makers tried to capture . Unfortunately due to a lame script they failed . Which leads us to the negative points : slight spoilers coming .This film tries to be philosophical and mind intriguing but it simply doesn 't work . The silence and the slow pace add nothing to the film . No , the film doesn 't pose metaphysic questions about the essence of life and the borders between artificial intelligence and real existence , as the fans and the snobbish critics insist (keep in mind that back in the 1982 they panned it) . The only controversial scene is when Dechard(Harrison Ford) shoots down the dancer Zhora played by Joanna Cassidy. This is a violent bloody murder and one of them most depressing killing scenes in cinematic history . It is obvious that the "termination" of a replicant is still homicide of an intelligent entity . If the rest of the film managed to retain the same climate it would indeed be "philosophic" . Unfortunately we have a letdown to scattered scenes of erotic hypnotized innuendo between Dechard and Rachael and inane sleepy dialogue between Roy (Rutger Hauer) and Pris(the unrecognizable Daryl Hannah). All this leads to a disappointing anti-climactic finale . No , it is not at all poetic and if the idea was good *******spoiler**** Roy ultimately saving Decard******* the execution was horrible . I believe the main problem of the film was the acting . Although the casting was successful none of the actors gave a memorable performance . They all sleep-walked through their roles except from the a** kicking Cassidy . Now I reckon they were supposed to be deadpan to fit in the film noir climate but  it didn 't take . Although Ford was likeable in his short haircut and had a weird chemistry with Sean Young they didn 't capture the viewer 's heart to the point they should . The ONLY character you root for is actually Sebastian (William Sanderson) who suffers from untimely anility at the age of 25 and hosts the replicants in his house. He is terrified of what is happening but can 't do anything to prevent it. I haven 't read the novel but I have downloaded the original screenplay and there are differences which would have made a slightly better film *********SPOILERS read at your own risk*****************1) The truth test to certify if Rachael was a replicant was quite longer e.g. it contained the lines "What would you do if a wasp landed on your hand"  "I would slap it and kill it"2) There was another replicant called Mary who lived with Roy and Pris in Sebastian 's house . She was dispatced easily before Pris jumps -literally- on Dechard . She had about 5 lines throughout the whole film so she was easily omitted .3) The scene in the bar where Decart meets the replicant was also longer. The replicant had cockroaches for pets and he urged Ford to kiss one of them ! Ultimately Deckard was the one who shot the replicant and not Rachael.4) Roy didn 't only kill his creator scientist but also all his assistants and his family including his cute little 8 year old son . Sebastian actually was not murdered by him in that incident but unfortunately he inevitably bited the dust in the finale by the stray bullets from Dechart who gatecrashed Sebastian 's home .5) The final duel between Roy - Dechart was actually a more successful shoot 'em up scene than those dreadfully sophomoric lines by Rutger Hauer who broke two fingers of Ford and suddenly he stopped for no apparent reason wanting pretentiously to show the supremacy of the replicants to the humble human kind . ****************************************************************** I cannot understand why everyone bashed the film 's happy ending and said it left unanswered questions . If you want to know the original script had the two leads go to a snowy forest . Dechart leaves and Rachael commits suicide with a gun since this was their common decision as the best solution !!!! The movie would end with a voice-over narration from Ford " I was glad because now they wouldn 't be able to set their hands upon her "  (and harm her) . Would you prefer THAT ??? As i said impressive eye candy is not enough for a good film . BR is a landmark but just like the case with the horrible dull "Alien" (at least BR is watchable) a groundbreaking "classic" is not always a good movie . All in all a rather disappointing7.5 / 10Don 't expect much of a story and you will like it . Oh , I almost forgot *****spoiler****** Dechart IS a replicant . In the middle of the film in his house when he talks with Rachael ,  Rachael 's red-shine in the eyes is shown and then Dechard 's eyes come to screen and indisputably the same red shine is CLEARLY VISIBLE**************
I gotta make sure I throw this disclaimer in near the beginning: Blade Runner is not an action sci-fi flick. Yes, it's from Alien director Ridley Scott who would later give us movies such as Gladiator and The Martian. But Blade Runner is much different. It certainly has sci-fi appeal and influence-- video games such as Final Fantasy VII and Mass Effect clearly took notes from the film, and directors such as Christopher Nolan have cited this film as inspiration, but it also doesn't fall into the trippier territory of films such as 2001: A Space Odyssey. Based on the cleverly titled book Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep by Philip K. Dick (he died before the release of the film, but praised what he saw which was about the first 20 minutes), this movie is much more philosophical. Perhaps Blade Jogger would be a more fitting title-the pacing is very deliberate and not at all what I was expecting. The movie stars Harrison Ford who was determined to not wear a hat because he was just coming from Raiders of the Lost Ark. The year is 2019 and genetic engineering has advanced so far as to create androids, or replicants, that are superior in intelligence and physicality. Their telltale sign is their responses to questions that are supposed to evoke human emotions. Created to work as slaves, replicants have rebelled in off-world colonies (remember this is 3 years from now) and are declared illegal on Earth and are to be terminated (they use the word retired) if found. This is where Ford comes in when it's discovered that 6 replicants have returned to Earth. Obviously, this has all the ingredients to be a thrilling action flick. But it takes a much different direction. Replicants are designed with a failsafe that automatically retires them after 4 years. It produces cool, thinking quotes like, "It's too bad she won't live. But then again, who does?" Ridley Scott liked the idea of Ford being a replicant, but Ford has stated that he despised that idea and said that before filming Scott agreed with him that his character is definitely human. Now I won't spoil anything, but I will say that it's a question toiled with during the film. Also, if you watch the movie, watch the director's cut version (which technically isn't fully Scott's cut) because the ending is much much better than the theatrical cut of the film. Really, above sci-fi or philosophical or whatever, I'd describe this film as weird. I'm not sure what you're expecting from the film going in, but it's not what you're going to get. There isn't ever a clear tone established, and this just adds to the difficulty of describing just what the film is. Even the highly-regarded score switches from slow, dark melodies to jazzier moments. I will say, however, probably the most consistent element of the film is the lighting. It's certainly always on the darker side, but all the ways the light comes through in every scene is skillfully crafted. In all honesty I can't even say I'm much of a fan of this film. I didn't care for how it was edited, and some of the sub-plots really were weird. The movie succeeds in getting you to think, but it also makes you wonder what you just watched. I'm not sure how many times or how precisely I can say it, but it's a strange film. Not strange like drug-fueled Trainspotting, and not confusing like Stanley Kubrick, but more cerebral like the very ends of the films 28 Days Later and Sunshine. I can't say you will enjoy this film (possibly because I can't say I enjoyed it), but I'm extremely curious about the sequel, and for that alone it might be worth checking this film out. And in case of rain, make sure to grab yourself a light-up umbrella. Those things are so cool.
You can find this review and dozens of others at gillipediamoviereviews.blogspot.com


                
The fictional universe of the movie is great, and there are some parts that were unforgettable. but the story in this universe was not that interesting and fluent, especially when you think about its ending.


                
Los Angeles 2019; a group of replicants have escaped from their own planet and are illegally residing on planet Earth. Their reasons for escape soon become clear as they are searching for the man that created them in order to extend their lifespan. It's up to former Blade Runner Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) to find the replicants and eliminate them as soon as possible...Blade Runner is a film that had been in my watchlist for a number of years, but I finally managed to sit down and watch it today. Although it's dubbed as a 'classic' and a 'science fiction masterpiece' I tried to blank these thoughts out and try to take it for what it is and on that basis I found it quite enjoyable...Granted the film is a little slow-paced and Harrison Ford's narration seems a little bit cheesy, but the fundamental aspects of the story are quite intriguing - fair enough there have been some copycat films that have followed Blade Runner (the recent Alex Garland film Ex Machina clearly owes some debt of gratitude to Blade Runner). I think the interesting thing about this film is that the replicants are painted in quite a negative light, but to be honest I did find myself having some empathy with their cause - they seemed to just want answers and weren't happy that they were only programmed to live for a total of 4 years. Yes the way they go about their business is questionable, but their cause is somewhat understandable.A couple of failings with this film lie not with the story, but more with how it is developed; the replicants are represented as being self-aware, but emotionless yet other than this we are given little insight into them as characters. A lot of what I've said in the last paragraph are based on my own suppositions and whilst I don't mind figuring out some things for myself in a film I do feel as though I should be given something to work with in the first place. The same can be said for Deckard and his relationship with Rachael - she's an experimental replicant who is capable of emotion through brain implants (presumably in an attempt to fool the Blade Runners), but again this relationship is glossed over and isn't really given the attention that it perhaps deserves - which in some ways taints the warm and fuzzy way that the film ends.Where the film does excel is in its visuals - it's a striking and beautiful looking film (it's actually scary watching this film now realising that it's only 1 year before it was set). Rutger Hauer is chilling as the leader of the replicants and his final showdown at the end with Harrison Ford was fantastic. A notable mention also should go to Darryl Hannah whose crazy assed antics made her fun to watch.Blade Runner's thinly developed story and characters are the only really glaring flaws and are the main reasons why I can't bring myself to love it as much as many other people do. That being said though, it still has a lot going for it and is a film that I would still recommend.


                
You either like "Blade Runner" or do not. If you are a film noire Sci-Fi fan, then this is for you. On the other hand, if you don't like dark, dreary and a rain soaked scenario, I suggest that you move on.The scene is 2019 in a futuristic Los Angeles (as seen from 1982) where there is little or no sunlight, rain soaked streets, flying cars, urban trash and people coming and going in every direction.A group of life like androids known as replicants have taken over a ship at an off-world colony and murdered the crew. The replicants who have a limited life span and were being used as slave labor, have returned to earth seeking their "creator" to attempt to have him prolong their lives.Enter Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) a retired Blade Runner (a cop who terminates replicants) who is called out of retirement by sleazy police official Bryant (M. Emmett Walsh) and his creepy assistant Gaff (Edward James Olmos) to terminate the four replicants who are at large. The first, Leon Kowalski (Brion James) we meet in the opening sequence where he kills the research doctor who was testing him.Deckard begins the hunt by first meeting with "creator" Dr. Eldon Tyrell (Joe Turkel) the genius who devised the replicant program. He also meets his assistant Rachael (Sean Young) who turns out to be a more advanced replicant with more human like feelings. Deckard at first denies his true feeling but eventually an attraction builds between them.Deckard is attacked by Kowalski who as he is about to kill Deckard is himself killed in an unexpected way. Deckard tracks down Zhora (Joanna Cassidy) another replicant and brutally shoots her down if full view of the public. That leaves Roy Batty (Rutger Hauer) and Pris (Daryl Hannah) as the two remaining replicants at large.Batty has Pris seduce the mild mannered genius J.F. Sebastian (William Sanderson) in order to have him arrange a meeting with Dr. Tyrell. The meeting takes place and............................................................This film has had a number of different versions over the years. The original release ran 128 minutes and the "final version" released in 2007 runs 117 minutes. There were I think, a couple of other versions around as well until Director Ridley Scott supervised the full restoration of the film to the "final version".Harrison Ford's performance in the leading role is well, Harrison Ford. Rutger Hauer makes a scary villain but elicits sympathy in the end. Daryl Hannah with those long legs, makes a sexy alternative to Hauer.Followed by a sequel set thirty years after "Blade Runner" called "Blade Runner 2049" released in 2017.
So based on this movie in one year we would have flying cars!?But first, I don't get why the replicants are considered as bad guys? Why does everyone wants to kill them, while they're just looking to live and they didn't ask to be alive at first place? Still, they ended up showing that they are as human if not more then the 'real humans' themselves especially at the finally. should Definitely give it a rewatch, even if it's a classic am going to be objective, I love the visual concept and its Neo-black aesthetics plus the references to the cyberpunk movement, the director's cut sheds more light on Rick Deckard nature and reinforces the movie's theme and its questioning of human nature although it was slow and full of talking with almost zero action, but its bigger flow is that it lacked a danger factor making some parts boring and hard to follow. even so, it's full of positive points too the main one is the use of music I love and appreciate Vangelis compositions and his use of Arabic music, a sound that added depth something this movie lacked especially in the characters and contrasted the anxious future Rick Deckard lived in, plus giving to this movie its iconic identity and sound.


                
This film imposes a difficult exercise for the critic. On one hand, it depicts powerful concepts, but on the other hand as a film lacks quite a bit in terms of pace and content. So basically put, its narrative is greater than its own self. The film is a much, much lesser effort than the themes it depicts.Young Harrison Ford does alright, while Hauer (the villain) is decent as well but so much of this film is in the things it hints at rather than the things it actually actively does. Just Hauer himself is more a compelling character on an aesthetic level really.The scenery is superb in places, really very impressive stuff visually for a 1982 production. But as so often with Ridley Scott sci-fi's, we're given a lot of arty stuff, of the rarest more sophisticated kind, along with very deep philosophical themes... but his films seem to always have that discrepancy in pacing and in actually developing those themes. This film borders on the genius in what it scratches on, but never achieves that genius because of how linear the scenes are, how excessively paced down the development occurs, and simply, how much the film focuses on all other things but those philosophical themes.If you'd catch that film at any random point and watch on, you'd never think it was anything more than one of those hot crime type scifi's from the 80's. It's only towards the end we're revealed all the depth that was supposedly hiding in this work. But it's too late by then. A film with such conceptual density needs to, while still maintaining subtlety in execution, make it clear what it's about. Instead, we're really given a succession of scenes with little actual value in themselves: a common, linear body of sequences with ordinary, underwhelming events happening. The fight scenes are long and often in bad taste, most scenes are in themselves totally forgettable, and what really is praised in this one is the narrative and philosophical implications from the very end, so not the film itself but what it talks about.So that's watching a full two hours of very ordinary, highly paced sci-fi, for just the one powerful scene at the end with the big quotes and all the poetry. It's totally underwhelming in light of what's put in the works. An artisan/craftsman needs to make his works shine and highlight its most precious qualities, not conceal or smother them while other aspects completely dominate the equation.As trivia, this is a film that's influenced the band Fear Factory enormously, the band quoting many moments like: "I want more life - it's too bad she won't live... but then again who does - that's what it is to be slaved"... and one must pay tribute to the use of the then very modern synth-based atmospheric soundtrack and how it mixes so well with the blueish/metallic overtone on the visuals, with the rain at the end and that poetic, genuinely deep moment. "Our memories, like tears in the rain".As an ultimate philosophical ideal, this film is profoundly nihilistic. It's clearly saying man and machine are virtually the same thing so long as they are merely as intelligent, so long as they are sentient beings with memories. So no place for the soul, or a god. Organic=artificial, and there's no profound meaning to life.The other thing is this film has an interesting twist, but again, does little in the way of clarity there.A sympathy 7/10.


                
Not necessarily being a sci-fi geek yet not necessarily disliking the genre sometimes has its advantages. To be quite honest I am still not able to determine what makes me like one science- fiction movie and hate the other but with Blade Runner I can finally put into words why I was very impressed. It's amazing to watch a movie from the 80s and be so pleasantly surprised by the quality of the decor and special effects, it looks better than some movies from the 2000s! So Blade Runner takes place in 2020 which is now just 3 years away, but I can imagine at that time it must have felt like the very distant, scary future that was yet to come. We see a very cold looking and industrialized Los Angeles where it always seems to be misty and dark. What's left of the towns population has moved into huge skyscrapers. We get introduced to the "replicants" which are just basically extremely real looking, perfect versions of humans who are able to develop both feelings and a consciousness which is ironically the reason they are doomed to only have a 4-year lifespan. It's so interesting and frightening at the same time to imagine that we could make artificial life, only for it to develop into something stronger and more capable than ourselves and ending up with catastrophic consequences. Also the idea that these replicants value life much more than actual humans holds a very important message. Would we, if ever confronted with the problem of robots taking over, even deserve to outlive them? The philosophy behind the movie is something that especially in this day in age is a frequently discussed topic. Where on the one hand we feel excited that technology is making spectacular progress in increasingly shorter periods of time we on the other hand feel very frightened we may not be able to keep up with our creations. I love how to writers leave this topic abstract to a certain degree, which allows the viewer to interpret it in its own way without undermining the quality of the story.It's very interesting how Blade Runner presented the future in a way that now turns out to be both way off and realistic at the same time, before watching the new installment I would highly recommend checking this classic out first and forming your own opinion on it.


                
Blade Runner is aesthetically impeccable. The ominously simple music, the dark designs, and some of the best uses and excuses for product placement ever. Thematically, though, it's more than a bit mixed. Pretentiously cold and, at times, frankly boring, it's a fairly rudimentary and somewhat confused study of "where's the line between robot and human?" that I merely like<U+0085>which, to many people, seems to mean I hate it.


                
I can understand why this movie is considered a masterpiece, unfortunately i haven't really enjoyed the movie, the action scenes where so messy,like some part of the plot. but i really enjoyed how the future is rapresented in blade runner, expeccialy the ambient, the neon light, the dark. i gave 7 because i think that the film is really good, but have scenes taht i haven't enjoyed.maybe i haven't understand completely the movie, and i should watch it again


                
There are no words to describe what i feel about this film, so i will describe in sentences.When i first watched this movie i didn't even finish, this i don't blame on myself, i blame this on the *beep* PREVIEWS!!! The previews of this film make it seem that it is some hardcore, super-action, out-of-this-world, sci-fi adventure. No. Every theory, every scene, every action, every affect is completely plausible. This film is pure Triple Gold, Double Hit, Multi-Platinum...everything. The special effects were unbelievable, in the sense that they were unbelievably believable to what it would really be like in the future.This story also includes many warnings, such as "stop smoking", "stop littering" and "stop polluting". It sends a warning and shows an example of what we could look forward to if we do keep doing these things.This movie hides many different messages, stories and moral teachings on many different levels. It contains a love story and a story of trying to answer those unanswered questions -- why am i here? how long have i got? What Philip K. Dick has created, and what Ridley Scott has recreated, is absolutely beautiful. I am glad Ridley Scott went ahead to make a Final Cut of the film. We needed re-mastered visual footage to go along with the strength of the story, we also needed to never hear that annoying Harrison Ford voice-over ever again! For me, personally, it ruined the entire film for me. Wherever there was a scene containing the film's signature dramatic tension, supported by Vangelis, there popped in the crappy macho-voiced voice-over. Note: I watched the theatrical (voice-over version) after watching the final cut for the second time, which i though was the greatest film of all time. I turned off the movie and had to watch the final cut again to redeem myself of the voice-over garbage at the end of the film when Roy Batty's life-span is up and he lets go of the dove in rain which flew over in clear weather (which i actually thought was a beautiful feature) after his famous quote: "All Those Moments Will Be Lost In Time...Like Tears In Rain", and then dies. This was ruined by the macho voice-over crap that popped in from Harrison Ford to tell us the obvious of how come Batty let him live.Anyway, please, if you have watched in once and didn't care for it, watch it again (Final Cut version) and even more times if you have to. And once you have absorbed as much as you can from WATCHING it, then play the movie again and observe its methods and small elements of complex information. Do it, i guarantee you will enjoy this piece of film-making.
(ATTENTION: SPOILERS) Blade Runner is a good film; I gave it 7/10. If I was around in 1982, I probably would have been blown away and thought it was the best thing I'd ever seen. But since I'm pretty young, I've been jaded by many other sci-fi masterpieces. I saw Blade Runner for the first time only a few years ago.Here are the positives: Brilliant cinematography, thought-provoking subject matter, great special effects (for 1982), a haunting score (the scene where Deckard shoots the chick replicant in the clear raincoat is seared in my memory), rich set design, and adequate acting.Here are some negatives: Very slow pace (yes, I have been too affected today's films), completely unbelievable scientific advancements (especially for 2019), and bad sound effects. I had a hard time buying into the whole interrogation of replicants. If they're man-made "organisms," there has to be an easier way to distinguish them (maybe a DNA test or something). I also had a hard time believing that Deckard and Rachel were in love. That part of the story was lacking.Other films since Blade Runner (like Bicentennial Man and A.I.) have dealt with the same philosophical questions about the meaning of life and at what point does a "robot" become a person. I'm not saying that the two films I mentioned were better (cuz I'd get torn a new one) but I saw them before I saw Blade Runner and thus had already been exposed to the "cyberpunk" world and its philosophical questions.Anyway, that's my abridged opinion.


                
For Deckard (Harrison Ford), going after rogue robots is just part of an ordinary day. Robots have been created that simulate humans (replicants) and are used as slave labor. A new class of replicants, the Omega 6, has been created and replicate humans more than anyone can every imagine. When four of them hijack a ship and head for earth to try and extend their ephemeral lives, Deckard is commissioned to "retire" the rogues.The last time I saw this film was probably twelve years ago or better, so it was pretty hazy. Having watched it just now, it was totally different from what I expected. Ridley Scott (director), rather than create the action flick I expected this to be, instead favored lengthy character development. He did this to show the similarities and marriage between man and the product of his godly labors, the robot. At times this makes the movie seem long and drawn out, but is otherwise necessary to the plot and point of the film. The evolution of the robot mentally to the state of man is excellently depicted in Rutger Hauer's character, Roy, and in Sean Young's character Rachael. They express sadness, anger, love, insanity, kindness, and the innate human quality of self-preservation.I was confused however in the odd relationship between Deckard and Rachael. It was almost as if he were dictating or instructing, like that of a programmer, a piece of equipment to respond to his amorous advances. This didn't feel quite right in the film even though I am aware Rachael's conscious mind was new to feelings of love or affection.Also Rutger Hauer's Roy was just a little too outlandish despite being motivated by his desperate attempts at survival. (SPOILER)He is brutally violent and repulsive in killing two humans and then ironically shows Deckard mercy and kindness. I guess this just epitomizes being irrational with no logical thought progression.All in all, this was a good sci-fi movie from another one of Philip K. Dick's novels. If you want to see a "today's version" of this film you should watch "Screamers", also written by Philip K. Dick. It details the evolution of the battle of man versus machine, but like this movie, has a surprising twist at the end. 7/10
Intelligent sci-fi.  Harrison Ford plays Deckard, a replicant exterminator (or is he?); the replicants are Daryl Hannah, Sean Young, Brion James, and best of all, Rutger Hauer - who gets the best closing speech, all that guff about lights and stars.  The other replicants are ok, particularly Hannah with her wild hair and her acrobatic attacks.Blade Runner looks great in its futuristic, claustrophobic bubble, and even Ford's cardboard acting can't spoil the mix.  The director's cut removes his dull narration and is the better for it.  This movie is reasonably intelligent science fiction, involving and interesting.  It has images which linger long in the memory years after seeing it.


                
Fantastic sci-fi thriller about a mission to eliminate genetically engineered humans of superior strength and intelligence. Hauer is brilliant as one of these engineered humans whom "blade runner," Ford is trying to put a stop to. Touches of great film noir, coupled with dazzling effects, cinematography and an effective musical score by Vangelis.


                
I thought Blade Runner was a good movie but up until seeing it I had heard unearthly amounts of good things about the movie. I think the script lacked a little bit of depth. Who are these charecters, why do they do what they do? What is Harrison Ford's character? What makes him such a good Blade Runner? I do however like some things. The set design, costumes, and a super sexy Sean Young are all definite pluses. Maybe I'm not seeing something


                
Yes, it's a good film and I enjoy watching it.  Yes, I have watched it many times and have never gone out of my way to avoid it.  But it only has half the plot of DADOES and misses out an awful lot of Rick Deckard's motivation because of this. One point in its favour is that the title was changed for the film because it really isn't a film of the book.


                
Not that I try to draw comparison with the two films, mind.OK. Fact is, when you watch the film later in life its really not as good as you remember. Sure it looks spectacular, even by todays standards and production value shows in every shot. But the actual plot, portrayal of emotions and script do leave certain aspects to be desired.Lets take for example, how does a man who is so obviously sensitive to the world get a job essentially killing ('artificial') people. It seems to so contrast with his character. In an early scene he voices (albiet in the over dubbed version) criticism of a police man being racist (the 'skin jobs' comment). Yet we are talking about a man who executes them. Surely I'm the only person to find this rather odd.But am I nitpicking? Its more of a visual film than truly philosophical and the added 'noir talk over' does nothing but simplify the action for the easy viewing audience.At least the 'directors' cut went someway to rectify the faults. No happy ending shot (to open car on a strangely clean and pollution free country road....). Plus the re-introduction of the idea that Rick Dekkard is a replicant himself, via the vehicle of the unicorn as dream content, metaphor, and finally, modeled in silver paper.Having said that, the book wasn't terrific either. So what can you say?Over rated? Yes.But still not a bad film in any sense of the word.The problem is that Science Fiction as a genre has been so badly served by its movie incarnations that people clutch at the better ones and escalate their worth. In my mind, that one truly superb Science fiction film has yet to be made.Somebody add some thought provoking script to the visuals of Blade Runner and run the film at the speed of "The Matrix" and then we'll be talking.One last rant. In the voice over version he say "Sushi, that's why my wife calls me. Cold fish".Only problem is that Sushi means 'seasoned rice dish' or just 'rise dish'. It's Sashimi that's actually cold fish. You'd have thought he knew this.... woundn't you.


                
