Once again, Director Ridley Scott proves to be as professional as one can be. The recreation of ancient Rome is splendid, with all its magnificent buildings and atmosphere and he is able to show with all brightness the greatness of the Roman Empire, with its political problems and military discipline, and love and treason, of hate and jealousy, that still have a place in our world today. But the story has a glow of its own, to which all the beautiful scenery (believe me, it's awesome!!!) and great cinematography are just balancing factors. The plot is a rich one, that is as dynamic as it is present. He once again, after Blade Runner, 1492, and others helps us visit the depths of the human soul, which remains the same over all our historical and social experience. Even the fights, are displayed in such a way that all the blood is quite discrete, but still, making us feel like screaming and jumping out of our seats. I would also like to point out the performances of the cast, that is surprisingly good. We have some actors and actresses, who are not Hollywood icons, but are are greatly able to move the audience among screams and tears. All in all, we have guys like Russel Crowe, who are coming out to be part of a new and extremely promising harvest of people who are making each time more fans around the world. Well, you should see for yourself!


                
Most films require that the viewer identifies with the character to truly be engrossed with the film. If you can't feel something for the character, than the audience is lost.Luckily, in Ridley Scott's case, Russel Crowe is so captivating and convincing as a general loved by his troops and as a slave loved by the people that the movie really works. Possibly one of the greatest actors today, Crowe carries this epic film on his very capable shoulders.Not to say that he is the only reason this works. The supporting cast, most notably Connie Neilsen, buoy the film to new perspectives.Jacquin Phoenix definitely captures the egotisitcal persona he should display, stealing every scene he's in. Phoenix will surely be put on the map with Gladiator.But the real shining star in this film are the incredible action sequences which jolt the viewer right in with the opening sequences, as Maximus' true worth to the Roman Empire is displayed. Scott's camera work within these completed sequences takes a modern twist that really works for the gruesome scenes.Crowe will now get the respect he deserves for this collosal performance. Gladiator makes the most of its 2 and a half hours, marking a triumphant comeback for the long forgotten epics of the classic days of film. ALL HAIL MAXIMUS!


                
Great Story!  Great Writing!  Great Acting!  Great Directing!  Great Score! This movie has it all.  I especially enjoyed the mood of the film.  Even though it has a lot of action, there is a subtle elegance throughout the picture that gives it great style.  The movie flows effortlessly from scene to scene, while at the same time creating wonderful intensity and nail-biting excitement.The acting in the movie more than lives up to expectations.  Russell Crowe is brilliant in his role as Maximus, the "general who became a slave, who became a gladiator, who defied an emperor."  Crowe's intense style is perfect for the relentless determination and confidence of Maximus.  Joaquin Phoenix is equally wonderful in his role as Commodus, the corrupt emperor. He plays a great villain because he is able to give Commodus depth by showing certain vulnerable or fragile sides, while at the same time instantly transforming to let the ruthless nature of his volatile character shine.  It also helps that Joaquin has the classic Caesar look that works perfectly with his role.Connie Nielsen is also very good as Lucilla.  However, perhaps the two finest performances in the movie were given by a couple of acting veterans in supporting roles.  Richard Harris and Oliver Reed were exceptional in what will be remembered as crowning achievements at the end of their careers.  Harris was perfect as Marcus Aurelius, the aging Caesar who reflects upon his life and contemplates how the world will remember him. And Reed, especially, gave my personal favorite performance in the movie as Proximo, the trainer for the gladiators.  The way he spoke about the life of a gladiator, the splendor of Rome, and the "thrill of the Coliseum" really added excitement and anticipation during the viewing of the movie.Gladiator is filled with many memorable moments that one would need to see more than once to fully appreciate.  The excitement felt for me when Rome is first shown in all its wonder and marvel is my favorite scene.  But the whole movie is a rush!  Hans Zimmer provides the absolute perfect score to capture the different moods in the movie.  Ridley Scott sets the perfect tone with his artistic and creative directing.  I would recommend it to anyone who can stomach intensity and enjoy an epic story for the ages.  Next to Braveheart, this movie is the greatest of all-time!


                
"Gladiator" definitely is a classic film as it combines a simple, but moving, story with beautiful scenery, filming, direction and score <U+0096> it is truly a "complete" movie.I am mostly compelled with the beautiful script which in a way reminds me of poetry, though it is still everyday language. I love the acting portrayed by the late Oliver Reed and also Richard Harris. Russell Crowe, Djimon Housou and Joaquin Phoenix are also superb and the parts suit them perfectly. There are also a number of less "popular" artists who also deserve a big "bravo". Amongst them I have to mention ex-Mr Universe Ralph Moeller who is mostly used as the comic relief of the movie. In Gladiator we can also the beautiful and popular Maltese TV Star and actress Ruth Frendo, who although has a small part, she is totally brilliant and outstanding.Actually I got to IMDb while I was looking for her name on the internet, in fact on IMDb she has some very stunning photos. I was lucky to meet Ruth Frendo whilst she was filming in another Maltese production. Ruth Frendo is not only a gorgeous and talented actress but she is also amazingly intelligent and very down-to-earth. We will definitely be seeing more of her work in the future... The scenery used for "Gladiator" is brilliant <U+0096> and the opening battle scene is definitely one of my top favorite scenes. The modern camera technique contrasts sharply to the brutality of the gladiators actions and blood shed during the movie; and I love the light contrasts thanks to the lenses which most definitely have been used to create a surreal feel to the entire movie."Gladiator" deserves all the awards and great reviews it has received, and for those of you who still haven't gone and watched it <U+0096> I can assure you that it will be well worth your time and money. So go on and rent it now!


                
Ridley Scott's Gladiator is not a perfect film, I would think that the hardiest of fans, of which I'm firmly one, know this deep down. Yet just like Commodus in the film is keen to point out that he himself has other virtues that are worthy, so does Gladiator the film. Enough in fact to make it an everlasting favourite of genre fans and worthy of the Academy Award acknowledgements it received.In narrative terms the plot and story arc is simplicity supreme, something Scott and Russell Crowe have never shied away from. There has to my knowledge as well, never been a denial of the debt Gladiator owes to Anthony Mann's 1964 Epic, The Fall of the Roman Empire. Some folk seem very irritated by this, which is strange because the makers of Gladiator were not standing up bold as brass to proclaim they were unique with their movie, what they did do was reinvigorate a stagnant genre of film for a new generational audience. And it bloody worked, the influence and interest in all things Roman or historically swashbuckling of film that followed post Gladiator's success is there for all to see.What we do in life echoes in eternity.So no originality in story, then. While some of the CGI is hardly "Grade A" stuff, and there's a little over - mugging acting in support ranks as some of the cast struggle to grasp the period setting required, yet the way Gladiator can make the emotionally committed feel - overrides film making irks. Crowe's Maximus is the man men want to be and the man women want to be with. As he runs through the gamut of life's pains and emotionally fortified trials and tribulations, we are with him every step of the way, urging him towards his day of revenge splattered destiny; with Crowe superb in every pained frame, winning the Academy Award for Best Actor that he should have won for The Insider the previous year.Backing Crowe up is Joaquin Phoenix giving Commodus preening villainy and Connie Nielsen graceful as Lucilla (pitch Nielsen's turn here against that of Diane Kruger's in Troy to see the class difference for historical period playing). Oliver Reed, leaving the mortal coil but leaving behind a spicy two fold performance as Proximo the Gladiator task master. Olly superb in both body and CGI soul. Richard Harris tugging the heart strings, Derek Jacobi classy, David Hemmings also, while Djimon Hounso gives Juba - Maximus right hand man and confidante - a level of character gravitas that's inspiring.I didn't know man could build such things.Dialogue is literate and poetic, resplendent with iconic speeches. Action is never far away, but never at the expense of wrought human characterisations. The flaming arrows and blood letting of the Germania conflict kicks things off with pulse raising clarity, and Scott and his team never sag from this standard. The gladiator arena fights are edge of the seat inducing, the recreation for the Battle of Carthage a stunning piece of action sequence construction. And then the finale, the culmination of two men's destinies, no soft soaping from Scott and Crowe, it lands in the heart with a resounding thunderclap. A great swords and sandals movie that tipped its helmet to past masters whilst simultaneously bringing the genre alive again. Bravo Maximus Decimus Meridius. 10/10


                
The movie is the story of Maximus (Crowe), a general who leads the Roman army to victory over Germania in the beginning of the movie. The dying emperor of Rome, Marcus Aurelius, is watching this battle.The emperor's son, Commodus, then arrives with his sister Lucilla, and it is discovered that Commodus fully expects to be announced the new emperor of Rome in a few days. Aurelius, however, has other plans--he wants to make Maximus emperor, and requests that of the general, who wants nothing more than to go home to his family.I went into this movie having just watched Ben-Hur in my film studies class and having watched an episode of Xena only a couple of weeks earlier that featured the story of Marc Anthony and Cleopatra. So you could say I was in the perfect mindset to watch a "sword-and-sandal" movie. I wasn't sure what to expect, having somehow avoided all the hype that accompanied this movie. But I was not disappointed.Gladiator features some wonderful cinematography by John Mathieson. The battle scenes are very graphic. (This movie is not for the squeamish, that's for sure.) There were some scenes in particular that really struck me, such as when Crowe appears to be floating over the ground very fast.  The use of color and color tones added a great deal to the mood of the movie. Excellent.The script was being written and re-written as the filming was going on, yet it doesn't show that the actors had no idea how the movie was going to end when they began filming.  The acting is terrific. Russell Crowe is wonderfully cast as Maximus. Many reviewers agree that he is now officially a star. Joaquin Phoenix also proves his mettle as the emotionally troubled Commodus, whose behavior and emotion toward his sister could give anyone the creeps. Connie Nielsen makes you believe that, as Lucilla, she really is torn between natural loyalty to her brother and doing what she knows is right. Oliver Reed, in his last performance, is memorable in his role of Proximo, the former gladiator who is the owner of Maximus and brings him to Rome.  In short, the actors were brilliant in their roles, not over-acting, but giving subtle, strong performances.The script itself is very good.  Although some elements are a little hard to believe--the fact that no one recognizes Maximus when he's a slave?--this film calls for a willing suspension of disbelief, which one would happily comply with.  (It's really no fun to nitpick such a movie.)It's true that this movie does pretty much follow the Braveheart formula. However, this movie includes some elements, such as the cinematography and the incredibly graphic battle scenes (one reviewer likened it to Saving Private Ryan, "only better"), that are spectacular in itself. Overall, a great movie that I highly recommend.


                
This is wonderful storytelling.  The opening Battle Scene simply mesmerizes, showing the brutal nature of combat for Roman conquests.  I went back to see the film again.  The first time I didn't hear anything Crowe said before the battle.  I was just too visually caught-up.  The second time I listened very closely and caught the wise yet succinct line from Maximus "what we do in life... echoes in eternity."  Awesome.A simple man v. an emperor.  I just loved the resilience Maximus showed throughout the movie.  I find in most movies, there is an irritatingly slow process where the character has to "find himself," not so with Gladiator. Maximus does what is needed.I liked how there were only two or three issues within this film.  One was the afterlife.  Aspects of the afterlife are opened, but not overdone.  Love of family is given sizable focus. I liked the theme of love of country that we see as well, although it may not be justly deserved, it is never questioned.The visual effects were amazing.  It actually had me wanting to believe that's the way Rome actually looked in all it's glory.  The battle of Carthage reenactment was really great.The ending is just hypnotic. Intentionally or unintentionally it was simply emotional.  The music is wonderfully beautiful as if Maximus' family are telling him...you have arrived.Bottom line: magnificent.  Visually and emotionally satisfying.
Gladiator! A thrilling tale of a Roman general who must battle against all thinkable odds to avenge the death of his family and restore justice to the empire. The plot is simple, legendary general Maximus Decimus Meridius, after many victorious campaigns and battles wants to return to his peaceful home in Spain, However the kind, fair and dying Emperor Marcus Aurelius wishes to bestow his title on him over his cruel son, Commodus. Commodus is understandably annoyed and kills his father calming the title of Emperor. Maximus is sentenced to death along with the rest of his family back at his home in Spain. Maximus escapes but is unable to save his wife and son. His loss of will to live makes him an east target for slavers and he is soon sold as a gladiator. He fights his way into the coliseum in Rome were he wins over the crowd and uses his celebrity status to defy the Emperor, to whom he swears his vengeance for the death of his family, after many battles and political backstabbing he gets his chance to fight the Emperor in the Arena.This is just such an amazing film, it captures every emotion possible in only the way an expert director can achieve, we can go on for whole scenes without the need for speaking, everything is told through the genuine body language and expressions. And when there is conversing we get such emotion and wonderfully powerful quotes <U+0096> "What we do in life, echoes in eternity" Wow.The opening scene is spellbinding, showing the true gore of battle, the fight scenes are marvellously realistic, discarding the popular "pretty" sword fighting for brutal aggressive force. The audience in the arena express every emotion, surprise, anger, and enjoyment. The cast is brilliantly chosen; we can really see Russell Crowe as a gladiator, in Commodus, Joaquin Phoenix gives us a man we can really hate, Connie Nielson shows real emotion and passion in the role of Lucilla. So apart from the spellbinding acting, scarily realistic fight scenes and the amazing script, what else can we look for? The music is just stunning, its exactly what we need brought in at exactly the right time, truly wonderful directing. And then we have the stunning special effects, we can really visualise the greatness that is Rome, the fight scenes really make you believe. Some critics have condemned the lack of historical fact, for instance an emperor would never fight a gladiator, and these comments cannot be denied, its true.But I think we can forgive them that one fault for such an amazing movie. Without hesitation I give this movie a truly deserved 10/10!
This movie is awesome! I think it's great to be in one of IMDb's top 250 best movies, because it deserves it. Every time I watch 'Gladiator'I stay touched by the story and I never get bored of it.It's one of the most excellent movies already made in the movie's history! Russel Crowe is terrific in the role of Maximus and so is Joaquim phoenix great as commodus. For people who enjoys history,specially ancient history,is a chance to see how was Rome many centuries ago, and also know better about the gladiators, the Colosseum and how some things worked in that time.I will not write about the plot here, because many people already did this; I will only say for people that never watched this movie, that it deserves to be watched and, if you have some money, buy the DVD!
If only Peter Jackson hadn't come along and done a rather good trilogy of films, we might possibly be talking about the greatest film of the 21st Century so far. Its sweeping but simplistic heroic tale, crunching fight scenes, award-winning special effects, towering acting and soaring score set this film apart from all the pretenders that followed it. Ridley Scott single-handedly re-invented the epic genre with this story of a Roman solider who is betrayed, loses everything and is sold into slavery, only to fight his way back as a gladiator, all the while driven by vengeance for his murdered family.Russell Crowe gives quite simply the performance of a lifetime as the Gladiator Maximus, one that deservedly won him Best Actor at the 2000 Academy Awards (although his performance in the following year's Beautiful Mind was arguably even better, even if it didn't win him his second consecutive Oscar), and provided a thinking woman's alternative to the likes of Pitt, Cruise and Clooney to swoon over. His gravely voice and impressive physique combine to give him a huge presence, which literally fills the screen. His dialogue is sparing, but his actions speak far louder, adding a stoic sadness to his vengeance-driven heroic character. Before Gladiator, Crowe was a good secondary actor; after Gladiator he was catapulted to the top of Hollywood's A-list, and remains there, thanks to this career-making performance <U+0096>proving him to be one of the finest actors of his generation.Joaquin Phoenix is fantastic as the scheming and corrupt Emperor Commodus who betrays Maximus and has his family killed. He manages to be delightfully and totally evil without ever descending into the realms of pantomime villain, which is a tricky line to walk, and manages to avoid being overshadowed by Crowe's monumental performance.The fight scenes are rousing and superbly choreographed, in particular a scene where Maximus marshals his fellow slaves into an army against marauding chariot archers in the Colosseum. The dialogue is kept simple and never overbearing (no need to worry why all of Europe speaks the same language) and culminates in one of the most memorable pieces of script that is destined to join the ranks of 'Play it Sam' and 'Are you talking' to me' as one of the most quoted (and misquoted) lines in movie history <U+0096> although it is rather wordy. But here it is, in full; 'My name is Maximus Decimus Meridius. Commander of the Armies of the North, General of the Felix Legions, loyal servant to the true Emperor Marcus Aurelius; Father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife, and I will have my vengeance, in this life or the next.' As Crowe turns to the Emperor in the arena and delivers this line, it proves to be one of the most electrifying moments in cinema history <U+0096> hairs will stand up, spines will tingle, guaranteed.The action is set to some truly beautiful music, and it is shameful Hans Zimmer missed out on the Oscar for Best Score. Ridley Scott was similarly unlucky in the Director category.The film is however tinged with sadness, as it proved to be the final (but triumphant) swansong for the careers of Oliver Reed and Richard Harris, both of whom died shortly after making this film. Neither could have delivered much finer performances, and if any performance had to be a final one, both delivered one worthy of such a status here. Reed in particular is a revelation, reminding older generations and showing a new generation of his considerable talent.An inspiring film, rousing, exhilarating, exciting and moving. Superbly acted, directed, scored and visualised. A tribute to how great films could be once, and could be again.
Can you still make a great period movie, which is commercially viable too in these days? Apparently you can, as Ridley Scott and Russell Crowe prove with this magnum opus.What strikes you most about "Gladiator" are not the dazzling sets and costumes - though they contribute to the effect too. Where "Gladiator" delivers is in the area of raw human emotions we are so familiar with.As somebody said, switching to the other mind-set is half the fun, and Gladiator takes you right to the midst of Romans' politics, their passions, their dreams and their weaknesses.After Ben-Hur, I feel this is the best period movie to have ever emerged from Hollywood.-Murali Chari


                
Great action, story and acting. Full marks for being one of the best films ever made.It is not historically accurate with the plot but that's not the point (it seems a mash of different events and people who existed at one time or another in during the Roman Empire. From what I know of ancient Rome the story is within the realms of possibility.) The characters are all great. Pheonix is annoying but intentionally so - he acts his character perfectly. The script is kind of poetic at times - it seems it underwent at least three full scale revisions by different masters of script writing.There are a number of different accents in the film but then Rome was probably a pretty multicultural place and we're hardly going to wish they had made it in Latin.


                
There's all you might imagine, a real life situation for an epic. Remember that such battles where very common, not to mention the thousands of lives lost. Ridley Scott put the viewer into suspense and tension during the very first battle we had, not to mention the grandiose strategy Maximus had.Shot in Malta: Ricasli and other locations, the arena built had over 5000 extras. All awaiting for the signal...Roar did the crowd when Maximus entered. They loved him, a man of honour, a normal being, a prisoner, a warrior. Their HERO!Ridley Scott direction excelled at its best in Gladiator conveying the authenticity of life, our ancestors have lived!


                
Even before seeing this movie in the theater I fell in love with the score. Once I saw the movie I knew I had to add it to my collection. This was the only movie I had to see in the theater more than once. As soon as it came out on DVD I bought it and watched it over and over again. The plot is awesome, the effects are absolutely amazing and the score pulls it all together magnificently. The added documentaries and features on the DVD set are well worth watching again also. I highly recommend this movie for anyone's collection and also recommend checking out Hans Zimmer's other works.


                
Writing this review in 2018. After 18 years still haven't find anything better than this and i never will... Forever the best


                
This movie is brilliant, one of the all time-greats. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time and I would recommend it to anyone. Specifically, Russel Crowe did an incredible job and was believable in his performance. He took me right back to the time of Ancient Rome. This movie is bound to have a visceral effect on anyone who watches it, this much I can guarantee.


                
Take one part awesome, one part incredible, and one part inspiring and you have one of the greatest movies of all time. Easily on my top ten list this movie "defines" good movie making. With incredible cinematic deftness Mr. Scott has outdone himself, I doubt he will ever be able to top this masterpiece he has created with no little help from incredible actors, Crowe, Phoenix, and the rest of the spectacular cast helped to bring life to this film in ways I have never seen before. The talent brought on by all creative teams involved is amazing and I can only hope that more films will follow in the footsteps of excellence that this fine production has laid out. A true 10 without question.


                
Gladiator is terrific.  It is definitely one of my top 5 films of all time. I'm sure everyone knows the plot by now. Russell Crowe is one bad a**  MF that kicks major b*tt.  Not to mention he looks so hot as he is decapitating and slashing the competition.  But what makes this movie great is the story line is heart felt and you feel for Maximus after his family is murdered. It is the ultimate tale of revenge.
Russell Crowe is a great actor. I never heard of him before Gladiator but since seeing this I have watched a bunch of other films he is in. He's pretty good in them all. He should have won the oscar for The Insider and for A Beautiful Mind rather than Gladiator though, but just because those two movies were more "oscar-like".
FINAL VERDICT:  A definite must see. I have this one on tape to watch it over and over again.


                
The acting, action sequences and everything make this a great film. Gladtior was one of the best DVD's of the year 2000. The amazing transfer is one of the best on the market. The sound quailty and picture make you feel as if you're in the theater again. The first disc is the feature and the detailed commentary by Ridley Scott. While the second disc is tv spots, trailers , documentary's and my personla favorite delted scenes. The dvd has over thirty mintues of delted scenes. This DVD's gives good character devloepment and has veyr cool montage.


                
Gladiator was an excellent example of what action films can be, when the writer and director truly care about the total presentation.  The film is mostly accurate with it's portrayal of the time period, and the writing gives the viewer a sense of connection with these men.  The violence was shown in a manner that did not detract from the story.  Before I saw the film I had trepidations due to the subject matter, but all the graphic shots were quick and to the point, showing the nature of the combat, but not "gore for gore's sake".Overall, one of the finest films I have seen.


                
When I first saw this movie it reminded me of Braveheart.  Then I thought to myself that this movie posses a quality that Braveheart does not.  It possesses the quality that you get satisfaction at the end of the movie.  In Braveheart you do not get satisfaction at the end and it is difficult to watch many times.  I believe that that is the reason why Braveheart didn't do as well as Gladiator did in the box office but did win 5 Oscars.  This movie is a work of art.  The score complements the movie so well. Lisa Gerrard and Hans Zimmer deliver the movie in music notes rather than words. Russell Crowe is great in the movie and reminds me alot of Richard Burton. He is an up and coming star who is destined 2 win an Oscar.  Joaquin Phoenix also delivers a great performance worthy of an Oscar.  The late Oliver Reed is outstanding.  Reed seems to steal the scene that he is in from all the other actors because of his acting power.  Ridley Scott delivers a classic film that will remain in our memory and our hearts.  If you haven't seen this movie, please do, you will not regret it.


                
All I can say about this movie is that it is absolutely brilliant. The story is strong, the acting (especially Russell Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix) is exceptional, the fight scenes are thrilling, and the computer generated Rome is great. This is hands down my favorite movie of the year, when I first saw the previews I immediately was interested, there hasn't been a Roman epic in Hollywood for years, my expectations were high and it delivered! Everything from the incredible cinematography to the powerful score fit the movie perfectly, this is a great movie, I give a 10 out of 10.


                
I think this a Great movie with a great story.  The actors did a superb performance. There is rarely a movie that I can watch over and over but this is truly one I can because every time you watch it there is always something else to see.  The scenery is great and the music is wonderful. I think this is a must see movie.


                
I saw this movie first when it came out on the big screen, but unfortunately was not able to fully appreciate it because of the people in the movie theater. Fortunately this Christmas I received the DVD as a gift and was delighted when I watched it. It is just one of those movies that when it ended I wanted to know more. I HIGHLY recommend this movie to EVERYONE! So if you have not seen it yet, please do!


                
My daughter bought me the video for Christmas, and we watched it on Christmas Day.We all flinched, gasped, sighed and cried right to the very end. I fell in love, and my daughter, who is nine and a half and has almost 300 videos, said it was the best film she had ever seen.I am one of those people who watches movies to be entertained, and this did it for me.10/10


                
