An intense Roman epic, a la "Ben-Hur" or "Spartacus," it was nice to see something like this made again. It had been since the 1960s that we had seen a 3-hour extravaganza like this.Like Ben-Hur, this is a story of a successful man who loses everything thanks to an evil man, and then has to fight his way back up to seek revenge on that man and to obtain his freedom back. It's a tried-and-true formula. This movie doesn't go to excess on the violence as some of the other more recent epic films did, such as "Braveheart" or "The Patriot."The acting is excellent, beginning with Russell Crowe, who has established himself as one of the best actors of today. Joaquin Phoenix also put himself "on the map" as an actor with his portrayal of the evil "Commodus." He's so annoying you want to slap that sucker, which means he's doing a good job acting. Kudos to the rest of the cast, too.Too bad they don't make more of these type of films, as they did in the 1950s and 1960s.


                
Breathtaking Sword and Sandals plenty of swordplay , perfect cast ,lively pacing , massed action ,dastardly plots and many other things . The late second century : the Roman army is fighting Germania where takes place a bloody carnage . Troops are commanded by general Maximus (Russell Crowe). Ailing Marcus Aurelius ( Richard Harris) would like his confident and favorite to take over empire , but the events go wrong . Mean heir Comodus's (Joaquin Phoenix) vices arise from poor parental care as he takes power. When the Roman general is betrayed and his family murdered by an emperor's corrupt son , the insecure Commodus feels powerful . Having ensured father dies in his arms , the new emperor exerts his killer fury . Maximus , then comes to Rome as a gladiator to seek revenge .He won't swear loyalty and gets a chance to redeem himself .Father of a murdered son , husband to a murdered wife and I shall have my revenge in this life or the next .This bloody good movie has great action sequences well staged with stylish and vitality , thrills ,fundamental emotions , fortright spectacle ,fierce combats including scud catapults , and is pretty entertaining . The film results to be a special remake to ¨Fall of Roman Empire¨ directed by Antony Mann with Stephen Boyd , Sofia Loren and Christopher Plummer as Commodus , though is a little revisionist about characters , history and time when is developed the action . Before directing ¨Robin Hood , Kingdom of heaven¨ films , director Ridley Scott and Russell Crowe teamed but with much bigger budget . The final product looked as although the actors learn the screenplay and decided the best issue was to take a good time and amuse themselves and both managed to stage some excellent action scenes . Great performances abound , as stalwart Russell Crowe playing an enslaved ex-general who bent on vengeance , he is very fine ; in addition , vacilating empress Connie Nielsen is memorable and attractive , she comes up the film as a valiant and obstinate woman . Special mention to gladiator owner magnetically performed by Oliver Reed and Joaquin Phoenix as evil and crazed emperor in a sensationalistic interpretation . Marvelous relationship between Maximus-Russel Crowe and an African slave-Dijimon Honsou , the deep bond lends a P.C. historicity. Ample support cast formed by notorious British secondaries as David Hemmings David Schofield , John Schrapnel and endearing Derek Jacobi . There are great action sequences including the battle against Barbarians and the final confrontation in arena at the climax of the film. Impeccable but sometimes dark cinematography by John Mathieson . Movie is shot on natural sets and interior scenarios with impressive production design by Arthur Max , but also excessive use of computer generator images . Magnificent and sensible musical score by Hans Zimmer and Lisa Gerrard , including wonderful songs .I found it fun , well-acted , in Peplum tradition and fast-paced.The motion picture packed with pomp and pageantry is lavishly produced by the prestigious Douglas Wick and David Franzoni , also screenwriter ; being glamorously directed by Ridley Scott , at his best and as stylish as ever , similarly his previous film ¨Someone to watch over me¨ and others as ¨Blade runner¨, ¨Black rain¨ , ¨Legend¨ in which his visual style is impressive . The picture belongs to his speciality ,the historical genre , as ¨Robin Hood¨ , ¨Kingdom of heaven¨ , ¨Duelists¨ and ¨Black Hawk down¨ . Rating : Above average . Essential and indispensable watching for Ridley Scott followers


                
Gladiator is one of those movies where you just know what's going to happen next.  After returning from war, Maximus (Russell Crowe) is to be given the crown as emperor of Rome, but instead is sent to be executed once the Emperor's son (Joaquin Phoenix) kills the emperor and takes it for himself. After escaping execution and winding up a slave and a gladiator, you just know how the movie is going to go.  While the scenery and battle sequences are great, the predictability and general lack of caring about most of the characters makes this a rather unspectacular movie.  Crowe does a decent, but not Oscar-worthy job of portraying Maximus while Phoenix does an equally decent job as portraying the evil, self-centered emperor Commodus.  No one else in the cast is really given all that much for character depth and thus I never really cared about most of them. I give the movie 9/10 stars for the special effects and 7/10 for everything else, averaging an 8/10 for the movie.


                
A rousing story of one man surviving adversity and destroying a corrupt man in the process, Gladiator is a very entertaining 2 1/2 hour ride. The best part of the movie is the backdrop itself, for which Ridley Scott aggressively takes the moviegoer on a trip throughout all corners of the Roman Empire, and even to their concept of heaven in the process. Definitely worth the money, and I'm sorry that I didn't get to see it on the big screen.I was disturbed, however, by the historical liberties taken with the script. For those of you who don't care about this sort of thing, please stop reading now.OK, first of all, Marcus Aurelius died of the plague, which would have been pretty hard for Commodious to fake if he had killed his father. 2nd, Commodius lived for 12 years (180-192 A.D.) so his quick rise and fall doesn't really jibe historically either (he died in a wrestling match). Also, he was known for his physical strength, so his wimpiness in the movie really didn't make sense.These items, taken alone, bother me a little, but then there are more disturbing factors to take into account. For one, soldiers weren't allowed BY LAW to get married, so all of Maximus' talk of "going home to see his wife" really doesn't make sense. Soldiers did keep women on nearby plots of land, but they probably wouldn't talk openly about it. Also, Rome was in a defensive posture; most of the lands they had acquired they acquired BEFORE Marcus Aurelius came to power.I think what bothers me the most is the fact that Marcus Aurelius was no hero. He was renowned for persecuting Christians; he stepped up efforts during his regime, believing that Christianity would be the death of the empire. While he did do some very good things for the empire, he wasn't the benevolent patriarch that the movie made him out to be. He also tried to marry his nephew to his daughter so they would produce a "super emperor"; my guess is that he probably didn't want Rome to be a Republic again.Revisionist history is troublesome. Although this did happen nearly 2 millennia ago, we still can't forget that the emperors of the day were not heroes by today's standards. I'm not one of those politically correct people who thinks that movies about despots shouldn't be made. I simply believe that historical figures should be presented honestly for what they did (and didn't do), and not sugarcoated for a mass audience.Having said all that, I really did like the movie. I give it an 8/10, with the disclaimer that it's no Braveheart, but it is visually stunning and hard to look away from while you're watching it, but not a movie that really will affect me for months after seeing it.


                
Gladiator is a truly great depiction of an important part of early Roman Empire. Yes, Gladiator will probably win the Oscar of Best Picture of 2000, but should it?  While I agree that watching it was a great pleasure, I am not convinced that it was the best movie made last year.  In any other year, not containing a film named <U+0091>Cast Away', Gladiator would get my absolute vote, however in the interest of keeping this review to the movie at hand, I will not name which one I feel should win.Viewing Gladiator was definitely a spectacle everyone should endure. It has everything any good movie should; an original story, great acting, and truly awe-inspiring direction.  To be transported to a world that existed over 1800 years ago, and experience the very same excitement the Romans were able to enjoy is just incredible.  Ridley Scott struck did very well with his direction of Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Neilsen, and Oliver Reed (who unfortunately suffered a fatal heart attack during filming).  Scotts' ability to `see' the action in his head, and create the effect for the cameras is wonderful.  This is a far different epic than <U+0091>Alien', and far better than <U+0091>Hannibal'. 
Russell Crowe is fabulous as Maximus Meridius, the great soldier planning to return to his home after fighting his last battle only to find himself thrust between the dead kings will for him to become the new king, and Commudus, the son of the former king wanting him to stay and fight for him. Crowe is perfect in this role, he is strong, rugged looking, and has become quite a good actor since his days in <U+0091>The Quick and the Dead' and the awful <U+0091>Virtuosity'.Joaquin Phoenix is magnificent in his role as Commudus.   Only recently have I noticed what great acting skills Phoenix possesses, and how well he transforms into such diverse characters, such the same can be said of Ewan McGregor and his diverse roles in <U+0091>Trainspotting', <U+0091>Little Voice' and <U+0091>Star Wars: Episode I'.  Phoenix's ability to present himself in such a devious and hateful aspect is awe-inspiring.  As the sister of Commudus, Lucilla (Connie Neilsen) has to play both devoted to her brother, and sympathetic to Maximus.  Neilsen pulls this off beautifully and she is very convincing in her role.The story is beautifully written, and there is never a dull moment.  After I viewed the film for the first time I felt that the gladiator fight scenes were too far apart, and not enough of them were in the movie.  However, a very good friend of mine, we shall call him Michael DeZubiria (check out his reviews), felt it necessary to explain to me that Gladiator is not just a story about fighting, but a story about the life struggles of one man and his quest to avenge the brutal killing of his family. 
Now, while I admit that I liked this film, I am not ready, nor will I ever be ready, to call it the best movie of 2000 (see my Cast Away review).  I do not want to take anything away from Gladiator, it's just that there was a more original, creative film in 2000.


                
There's no such thing as a perfect movie and i don't think that Gladiator is even near that. But this movie takes a could be basic 80's style action film (like mad max or any steven segal movie)and turns it into a cinematic masterpiece. Ridley Scott is known to make C class concepts into A style movies (Blade Runner) and knows what he's doing and how. the Cinematography is perfect and this is a film for almost everyone to enjoy. If you like rich dialog and cinematography, then this is your film. If you like action and intense war scene, then this is your film. Joaquin Phoenix steals ever scene he is in as he plays the Empire son, who becomes Empire himself. Russell Crowe as much as everyone hate always gives his greatest performance ever (even though he is very good in L.A. confidential). Oliver Reed (Goodfellas) also gives a humorous but heartfelt performance as Maximus' owner who was once a Gladiator himself, this would also mark the last Oliver Reed film unfortunately as he died after filming. Dijmon Hounsou (Amastad, In America) also did a good job as well, surprised me for the most as he was only a model prior to this. But this movie overall isn't the best i have seen, but it should be recognized as one of the best. If you haven't seen this movie go and rent it, you won't be disappointed. 8 out 10


                
Visually, "Gladiator" is a masterpiece. I saw a documentary about how they made this film long before I saw the actual movie and it's amazing to see how they used CGI to construct an enormous FULL stadium even though most of it wasn't real! The costumes, props, chariots and trappings were also gorgeous--as good as anything you'll ever see in a film about ancient Rome. And, with some spectacular stunts and TONS of blood, it is brutal--but spectacularly brutal. You really have to see this film and it will knock your socks off.If you look at my summary, however, I say that the film is a bit disappointing as well. As a retired history teacher, I know that much of the history shown in this film is wildly inaccurate. It bears only a very superficial semblance to the facts and it's a shame, as the true story of Emperor Commodus would make for an exciting film. In addition, at times I felt as if the dialog was just awful. Too often, folks talks as if they were making speeches or delivering lines in a high school play. And, it turns out I am not alone. After the film, I read through the IMDb trivia and noticed that the actors ALSO hated the dialog and much of it was changed....though in my opinion, not enough of it was changed. There was often no emotion other than rage or boredom from Maximus, for example. His grief at the crucifixion of his family sounded LESS emotional than it should have--like he was upset that the commissary forgot to but cheese on his burger--not like a man grief-stricken with loss. Simply put, the human side to the film is stilted.So what you are left with is a WILDLY exciting film--a true spectacle. But it lacks the humanity and truth that would have made it even better. Still, it's well worth seeing.


                
Gladiator (2000)Number 3 - 2000Not only is it filled with bloody and visually stunning battle sequences, but it has an emotional backing behind it. That is what makes Gladiator the film that it is. That is why it won Best Picture. It isn't just a meaningless 3 hour bloodbath, it is a breathtaking, epic film that has Russell Crowe avenging the Roman Empire for slaying his family.Russell Crowe is on top form, in an engaging, Oscar grabbing performance that echoed across the film industry.Ridley Scott's epic is a classic story of 'good versus evil', about justice and vengeance packaged in the form of magnificent entertainment.9/10


                
This is a movie that can be enjoyed in a variety of ways. It can be appreciated for its story, lived intensely through its action scenes, emotionally experienced through the deeply established main characters, or soaked in. It is not a movie that leaves you smiling, but the action scenes can make it kind of fun if you don't care for any kind of stories. The story is very solid with good characters, but you don't need to follow the story to enjoy the fight scenes. The inverse can also be said in that the story can still be enjoyed by those who don't like the action. All three of the main elements of the movie, the execution, action, and story, are spiced up with diversity. The story has politics, emotional conflicts, character personalities, and practical issues introduced to it. This is exemplified by the political issues that arise from Commodus taking the place of his father instead of Maximus: Lucilla being torn between her husband/brother, Maximus, and her son: Maximus keeping his dignity when becoming a slave; and his simple wish to return to his family and farm. The action visits multiple regions with epic battles, guerrilla style raids, one on one combat, and of course gladiator fighting. It is intense, but the shots are fairly quick so the gore does not have an overly painful effect on the audience (think high-speed sword fights over extended torture scenes). The execution has classic feels to it, but is rather ahead of its time for the most part. The cinematography is very good when it displays the battles, Maximus' fantasies of home, and the snake-like workings of Commodus. Plus, the visual quality and lighting is sharp throughout. The delivery of speech has a dramatic tone to it, but is also realistic at most points. The film score is kind of caught in the transition period from Hans Zimmer's current style and the John Williams style that it has in Crimson Tide. As to the characters, the main roles are well played and well developed. Maximus is not what you would call a round character. His main quality is that he is able to gain people's respect in his various roles. Whether he is leading a trained army or the scum of the kingdom, he is able to get people to obey, respect, and treat him with an almost child-like love, looking up to him as a role model. Russel Crowe's acting is good enough to not be criticized, but not good enough to be remarkable (though his delivery of the "My name is Gladiator . . . and I will have my vengeance . . ." quote is very striking). Commodus makes an excellent villain because at heart he is just a whiny little kid that has to have his way. His "am I not merciful" rant is a great summary of his personality. By the time he reaches his demise, he has acted so villainously that it is an indisputable fact that he had it coming to him. Joaquin Phoenix embodies his character quite convincingly, especially in the scene where he is forced to spare Maximus' life despite his own desires. Lucilla plays a strong female character who advocates justice despite its consequences. She kind of gets caught in the middle of everything that happens without a political escape route, but manages to sort of come out on top at the end. The other supporting roles like Juba and Marcus Aurelius add to the story without adding to the confusion of who is who and why did he or she do that. I think Juba's last line of "Now we are free," is a great way to end the movie, because it kind of gives a tangible positive outcome of Maximus' death. The song by Lisa Gerrard that goes with the quote is an excellent piece of music to close out the movie. On a slight side note, I feel that the death of the main character at the end is sort of a sign that a movie is striving to become a classic. The same scenario comes up in Dead Poet's Society, and neither death is implausible or poorly portrayed, but it kind of forces you to take the movie up to that point more seriously. I'm not saying it is bad to include that element, but there are other ways to make a movie a classic and this movie will be one and would be even if Maximus' death had not been included. If you are considering whether Gladiator is worth a watch, I would say that is should satisfy as long as you're a fan of general action. There is more to the movie than the fight scenes, but there are enough of them that anyone who doesn't like action won't enjoy it. As for humorous elements, you'll get more laughs out of a blank sheet of paper (though if you've seen Nacho Libre, there are several moments where you can't resist pulling out a few quotes from the Jack Black wrestling comedy). As stated before the execution and story should satisfy most and is subject to very little criticism. So if you like action and a high-quality watch, set aside an evening or two for this movie. Overall Rating: 8.6/10
Who said that epic movies were out of vogue in 2000? Whoever had that thought was proved wrong by the modern reincarnation of a stereotypical sword-and-sandal motion picture called Gladiator. Gladiator has all the right elements of a big-screen epic, which certainly made the movie worthy of mass appeal around the world when it was released in the summer of 2000.The storyline is filled with well interwoven subtle eternal themes that make the movie a compelling classic for generations to come. Even though some may perceive some of the scenes as grotesque and barbaric, the movie presents a well-balanced view of life in Roman times. It is certainly entertaining, artistic and thoughtful in its own way.With an outstanding cast of actors, Gladiator has shown to the world that great movies can still be made when enough attention is given to every single detail of production. Certainly the movie was a success because of its script and seasoned and measured acting performances. It was also Oliver Reed's farewell performance, which fully encompassed his abilities as an actor. Perhaps it was pure fate that the casting director and production team chose him for the role. Nevertheless, it is hard to imagine someone else playing his role.This is certainly a movie that must be seen on the big screen uninterruptedly. And once you have seen it, please grab a history book and learn few more things about the ancestral heritage of the Roman empire.


                
I will admit that "Gladiator" is a very good movie, but I'm amazed at how many people gave it ten out of ten stars. I know standards fall as time goes on, but that's a rating that should be reserved for a movie that will stay with you for years to come. All About Eve is such a movie; so is the Godfather. This isn't going to be one.Don't get me wrong, it's great to see old pros (Reed and Harris) and relatively new pros (Crowe, Phoenix, Nielsen, and Hounsou) go through their paces; Crowe in particular is better than I've ever seen him before. However, the plot is well worn, the dialogue occasionally lapses into silliness, and the CGIs bother me. I can remember a time (was it really only two decades ago?) when filmmakers who wanted a mindbogglingly spectacular set built one--they did the work, they spent the bucks, they expended the sweat. The CGI Colosseum seems like cheating, somehow, and several other shots are so obviously faked, they detract from the action.Speaking of the action, it is quite good. Scott has definitely lost none of his knack for tense pacing; I was surprised to see that two hours had gone by and I hadn't even felt them. The fight scenes are not only believable, which isn't even remotely a given in action movies, they're so entertaining they inspire not only excitement but a vague sense of guilt. And after being weaned on the mega-buff steroid stallions of the 80s and early 90s, it's very nice to see the athletic but not Conanesque Maximus in action.All in all, a good flick, but I'm pulling for Traffic or Crouching Tiger to take home the gold statues. This just isn't the kind of movie that deserves them.
Ridley Scott's "Gladiator" tells the story of a betrayed Roman general (Russell Crowe) who is thrust into the life of a gladiator. He lives for the day that he can exact revenge on the man responsible for the murder of his wife and child, the emperor himself (Joaquin Phoenix).The film harks back to the sort of big-budget historical epics that died out in the mid-sixties. Therefore, it isn't surprising that the script's strength isn't originality. The plot borrows elements of "Ben-Hur" & "Spartacus" and supposedly also draws heavily from "The Fall of the Roman Empire", which I haven't seen.Regardless of this lack of originality, the film does manage to present us with a compelling story of a type that had been absent from movie screens for too long. Also, with the advances in CGI, the filmmakers were able to fully realize the epic scope that such a story deserves. While the script may misstep a few times it nevertheless presents an intelligent story effectively balancing action and political intrigue.The cast is solid. Russell Crowe won an Oscar for his work here, which is a bit surprising to me. It's a good performance as far as action-oriented drama goes, but I don't think that it's outstanding by any means. I think that Joaquin Phoenix fared better as the conniving emperor but he only managed an Oscar nomination among some tough competition. The rest of the cast is generally above-average, featuring a number of talented individuals like Djimon Hounsou & Richard Harris.Ridley Scott's direction is skillfully handled and resulted in a well-deserved Oscar nomination. The attractive cinematography & crisp editing were also recognized with Oscar nominations. The visual effects deservedly won an Oscar, as did the costume design, while the art direction scored another Oscar nomination. These plaudits should make it clear that this is a film showing considerable care in all areas of visual presentation.A further Oscar nomination resulted from Hans Zimmer's score while the sound design scored another Oscar win. Very rarely do I notice sound design in a film but in this case I did.I'd say that, more than anything, the high quality of every technical aspect of the film went a long way in securing the film's Best Picture Oscar win. As for my own opinion, I think that the film represents a rare commodity: A crowd-pleasing film that also shows considerable technical prowess.


                
Truly GLADIATOR is the stuff of great fiction; a story so well-orchestrated and superbly told, there might well have been in Roman history a general who became a slave, a slave who became a gladiator, a gladiator who defied an emperor.But - as they used to say in ancient Rome - "only in Hollywood..."Russell Crowe is Ancient Roman General Maximus Decimus Meridius, commander of a fierce and loyal army that has conquered the known world under Emperor Marcus Aurelius (regal, world-weary Richard Harris). Maximus plans to retire to his olive gardens with wife and son, but the sickly Emperor has other ideas, bequeathing Maximus the stewardship of Rome over that of his natural-born son and rightful heir, the fey Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix). When Commodus discovers this slight, he cries a little, promptly kills his father, arrests Maximus, and gets progressively feyer.Commodus then invents the James-Bond-Batman-Death, that is, don't kill your nemesis quickly and efficiently in full view, order your incompetent men to take him somewhere and probably kill him if he doesn't use his dangerous ingenuity and superior combat skills to escape. This also guarantees you are completely in the dark as to whether your enemy is dead, until he appears unexpectedly somewhere and vexes you.This Maximus does, defying Commodus and leaving him terribly vexed.Thereby arriving at Part Three of the slogan. In the interim, Maximus discovered his family was crucified by Commodus, which caused Maximus untold Academy Award-Winning Acting, subsequently collapsing in the desert and taken into slavery. The Gladiator merchant, Proximo (Oliver Reed, gravel-throated, rheumy-eyed - his last performance before going to that great arena in the sky) handpicks the indifferent yet lethal Maximus to join his stable of gladiators (which includes neighborly Numidian, Djimon Hounsou and man-mountain Ralf Moeller). Proximo scores a gig at The Coliseum, for the pleasure of now-Emperor Commodus.As Darth Vader thoomed, "The circle is now complete." There were arena skirmishes before this one, but the Coliseum "Carthage reenactment" is the grandest rock star battle for Proximo's now-renowned gladiator troop, inspired and led by Maximus, as stirring and blood-pounding as BEN-HUR's chariot race. GLADIATOR's raucous, blood-glutted battle scenes are fitting successors to the "realistic" warfare of BRAVEHEART and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN."Are you not entertained?" His helmet disguising his identity, Maximus rallies "his" gladiators to defeat the lethal Imperial chariot-riders in the arena, to the surprise of Commodus, who wishes to meet the upstart who would not even salute the throne, let alone die conveniently for the public's pleasure. Maximus reveals himself to Commodus, who is driven to remarkable heights of feyness.Discovering Maximus is alive makes not only Commodus weak in the knees - so too his sister, Lucilla (Connie Nielsen), who pined for him back when her father the Emperor owned Maximus's taut butt. Her betrayal of Commodus sets in motion the third act, steeped in politics of reclaiming Rome as a republic, and therefore losing some of its verve.Beautifully filmed, in ocher tones and burnt umber (by director Ridley Scott and cinematographer John Mathieson), GLADIATOR nabbed Russell Crowe a Best Actor Oscar - even though Joaquin Phoenix did all the actual acting! Crowe pulls the Bruce Willis for most of the film, while Phoenix's sway-tilt emotions are a disturbing rainbow of subtlety.Phoenix's performance is absolutely stunning - that of a weak man, filled with disillusionment, contempt, envy, indecision; conflicting emotions constantly dancing across his face, flickers of smiles when we know he wants to cry humiliation, edging tears when we know he would rather lash out like the simple animal he is. It is Acting of a caliber few writers or directors could even describe, let alone trust an actor to convey."What we do in life echoes in eternity." Well. maybe, depending on what eternity you're talking about. For all its awe-inspiring action and chest-beating man-sweatiness, GLADIATOR has its faults: writers David Franzoni, John Logan and William Nicholson can't figure what ancient civilization they're writing for. These are ROMANS, boys. So when Maximus pep talks his men at the very first battle "...if you find yourself alone, riding in green fields with the sun on your face, do not be troubled, for you are in Elysium - and you are already dead!," his troops should have replied, "Excuse sir, but isn't that where GREEKS go?" In his prayers, Maximus appeals to a "Blessed Father" - Jupiter? Janus? GLADIATOR pulls no punches when depicting the slaughter of countless of god's creations, yet is too gutless to depict polytheism. Especially in the Lead Actor with the Oscar push.When Maximus prays to the effigies of his wife and son and the Numidian asks, "What do you say to them?" he answers, "To my son - I tell him I will see him again soon. To keep his heels down while riding his horse. To my wife... that is not your business." Big bonding laugh. Let me get this straight: he's joking about sticking it to his raped and crucified wife in the afterlife? Is that not inappropriate? Are you not entertained? "It vexes me. I'm terribly vexed." Phoenix all in white, Gladiator stumbling from a stab wound and seeing his predestination Christian homecoming, Jumilla giving a eulogy that makes our flesh crawl, the Numidian (who had his own religious beliefs) succumbing to the Christian myths (after all, they are the right ones, of course! Not like those other stupid religions, which Christians are still trying to wipe off the face of the Earth) and sotto voce, "We will see each other again - but not yet!"...Apparently, Gladiator is "going home." Believe in a myth hard enough and it will come true.Hail Caesar and all that. Romani Ite Domum.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).
When I saw Gladiator, I was reminded of Braveheart.  But you know what? That's actually a really good thing, seeming as I loved Braveheart. Gladiator is good on all scales.  Visually, it is probably the best film of the year.  Story, one of the top five.  Acting, one of the top five. Gladiator leaves on the edge of your seat the whole time.  What's amazing about this is you don't see many action movies that debate between systems of government, and this movie handles it so well.  This is brilliant film making, it just might be better than Braveheart.  So if you liked Braveheart, you'll LOVE this.


                
Gradiater was so cool. He fighted many times with the revenge against a ling of Rome under his mind. The scene he got to ses the king was so exciting.


                
This movie is one of my absolute favorites. I loved Maximus, Commodus, and Lucilla. The plot was perfect, the violence appropriate for those times. I think that the character, "Commodus" was one we absolutely loved to hate. But, he was weak, and really only wanted to love, and be loved. I loved the fighting scenes, so realistic. Cicero was another one of my favorite characters. Always faithful to Maximus to the very end. He set things in motion for Maximus, when he contacted Lucilla. She paid him and thanked him. I think she loved Maximus, but it was not clear that they could actually be together, if he lived. Which brings me to the only part of the movie i would've changed. Maximus, father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife;who will have his vengeance in this world or the next, should have lived.I rated it 8 out of 10.


                
Summer blockbusters are creatures of their own, aiming to cater to and exploit our lowest desires. Ridley perfectly understands this and consciously tries to redefine them when he gets a chance. Unlike many others, he knows what he is doing and approaches the matter with care instead of force. This works only because of him.We have a movie about a spectacle, in which we and the mob are one and the same. It's cynical as it bashes the industry and us, yet hopeful with its vision for the future. The visual style is novel and somewhat counterintuitive. Typically, one would expect huge cinematic battles, filled with bloodshed, as well as a very architecturally dimensional Rome, filled with pride of its history. Here, these are handed very differently, casually placed in the background. We imagine and deduce them from the eyes of the characters - very subtle, especially for a summer blockbuster. Instead, the focus here is on emotion and tension. Tension between a "cheap entertainment thrill" and "strength and honor". Judging by how successful this was, new endeavors should learn from it, as it shows that the audience expects something more. Crowe is utilized well here. Some of his scenes with Joaquin carry and project that tension for us to feed on.4/5 - Worth a watch. We've started to demand much more after this.


                
I don't like the trend modern movies are taking.  Simply put, they kill everyone the main character knows, and that forces him into action that will force him to action that involves killing all the bad guys.  Normal antagonists aren't enough anymore, the bad guys must be literal psychos. It's depressing. This movie handles things a bit differently.  The main character actually remembers his wife and kid throughout the entire movie.  Sorry, no more spoilers.  In any case, I like the camera movement during the large action scenes as it helps to simulate the chaotic action experienced during action scenes.
...the standard Sword 'n Sandal epic. Russell Crowe propels this film in a tour de force of a performance, ably supported by a solid supporting cast. Even the often appalling Oliver Reed does good work in his last film. Ridley Scott directs this film with a deft touch, heavy where he needs to be, violent and brutal, but not gratuitous, and with a good eye for the spectacular.The plot stretches credibility in the latter half and I for one feel that Maximus' identity was exposed to the evil Commodus just a bit too early on. Commodus - what a villain, played with just a touch of camp by Joaquin Phoenix. Swarthy, oily, murderous, cowardly, lusting disgustingly after his own sister, what other name could one give such a character than a Latinised word for "toilet". One of the most repulsive creations ever put on celluloid by an actor. Can't blame him though, there had to be something substantial to match Crowe's massive screen presence. Bloody good.


                
I must admit, when I saw the trailer, I thought it was another crap period movie; I didn't like period dramas a lot back then. But after I became a fan of Joaquin Phoenix's, I watched it on a VCD, 5 months after it was released in the theatre. And I truly could not understand why the trailer turned me off so much. Besides Joaquin's brilliant and Oscar-robbed performance as Commodus, Gladiator has all the right ingredients of a spectacular epic, beginning with the opening battle scene. I firmly believe that it is filmed "shaky" to convey the confusion and madness in a battle, and not because the guy behind the camera didn't know how to use one. Yes, it contains blood and gore and all that jazz, but do not forget it's a movie about gladiators. Gladiators back then did not sit around, drinking tea and eating sandwiches; they did almost exactly what was depicted in the fights scenes in the film. How else were the film-makers to portray the violence of gladiator fights than to include it in the movie?Another good thing about "Gladiator" is that its villain is very much 3-dimensional. I am a big fan of Joaquin Phoenix, and I strongly believe he deserved that Best Supporting Actor Oscar no matter what people say. How often do you get a villain in an action movie who isn't portrayed as entirely bad? Phoenix played Commodus not as a mere villain, but as a spoiled child whose intense search for love drove him to commit deeds he'd later regret (as seen in one of the deleted scenes in the DVD). He gave Commodus a depth that isn't found in most action-movie villain (for example the bad guy in "Kiss of the Dragon"), and drove the audience into grudging sympathy mixed with loathe. For that alone, he deserves the Oscar.Connie Nielson also deserved some sort of recognition for her underrated performance as Lucilla. She handled her role with great dignity and care; her confliction between her love for her brother that's slowly fading and her duty towards her country is very clearly put across, giving Lucilla the conviction that is certainly needed.Gladiator also has a magnificent score that is, again, Oscar-worthy. The music gives the picture the extra push that sends emotions into overdrive, particularly the **spoiler** Patricide scene, the opening battle scene and the very last scene. The special effects were ASTOUNDING! Just take a look at the Colosseum! Perhaps I'm over-sensitive, but I felt like I was being transported right back to that period."Gladiator" is certainly meant to be seen on the big screen. Due to its second release, I had a chance to do just that. And what an experience. Contrary to what some has said, "Gladiator" WILL be remembered some ten years from now, simply because it's an epic film about the Roman empire. And a spectacular one at that.
Russell Crowe does a phenomenal job in this movie directed by Ridley Scott. This is a nearly three hour long movie doesn't feel long at all, when its over you just wish it would keep going. The action sequences are incredibly well made and put together. However, it doesn't just feel like an action film. Scott does a great job developing each of the characters through their dialogue and their responses to situations. Crowe does a good job at showing his distress and anger after the murder of his family, and Phoenix does a great job as being a heartless jerk. All in all a great movie that one can watch over and over again. Great for a family that has teenagers.
A nice movie indeed, however what is interesting in my opinion and partially sad is that even though the movie takes place in Italy, and the concept is completely Roman, the movie itself is completely American. Values and plot wise. Quite disappointing yet proof how Hollywood dictates our perception on other cultures as well. I really enjoyed the movie at the beginning when i first saw it, however it took a couple of years and an interesting lecture on movies and society, to finally realise that this movie that i liked so much since i was little wasn't so roman at all. It is obvious but you never truly come to think about it. The man, war hero, victim and warrior falling in love with the woman who is spoken for. And the woman obviously falls in love with the hero. Such a Hollywood style. Not that its a bad thing its just that the movie pretends to be foreign, pretends to reflect European history and values but all it does, is that it promotes the idea of Hollywood and its ideology.


                
The film that invigorated the swords and sandals genre once more. To not threaten the brevity of the review by repeating what everybody else already knows, i will sum up Gladitor by writing these words: An epic revenge film set in Roman days.If it's facts your looking for ( and god bless you if so) then don't get upset when history has blatantly been rewritten in order to escalate the viewers enjoyment of the excellent story.This film could easily of ended up being cheesy but thankfully everyone pulls of their roles. R.Scott couldn't of shot it any better. Plenty of action for the bloody-thirsty folks and the main character probably has the coolest name in movie history.


                
i don't understand how a movie so crappy like this one ever got this high rating. first i must say that ridley scott is considered by me an awfull director. alien was the only good movie he ever directed. blade runner is totally overrated, black rain shouldn't be considered a movie, 1492 is completely ridiculous, black hawk down is one of the worse war movies i have ever seen and hannibal is only an ok film.the plot is ludicrous. a gladiator, former army man, that begins a personal vendetta against the emperor and finally gets away with it? i don't think so. there is also this kind of love story between him and lucilla that is totally out of place.cast is awful. russel crowe is dull as maximus and he certainly doesn't look as a gladiator. he had better performances in "a beautiful mind" and in "l. a confidential". joaquin pheonix is absurd as usual, let's face it, this man can't act, a few tears doesn't prove him a good actor, pitty river phoenix is dead (that was trully a good actor). richard harris is poor as marcus aurelius and oliver reed is surprisingly bad as some sort of gladiator manager.still, the movie has some good points: drek jacobi is very good as a senator and the first battle scene is a real joy. but this two things doesn't save the rest of the movie.i almost forgot: it's very overlong, seems like it will never finish. 2/10.


                
Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice.


                
