When you go to the ruins of Rome now, you get really no sense of the scale and the grandeur of what that forum would have been<U+0085> It's hard to get it anywhere except from some of the great epic films of the past like "Quo Vadis," "Ben-Hur," "Demetrius and the Gladiators," "Barabbas," and "The Fall of the Roman Empire." Scott's "Gladiator" is build around a mythic character, a man trying to find his way home... It is around someone finding inner strength in a tough time<U+0085> Maximus is somebody who doesn't want to be a soldier<U+0085> We realize this is a man who is pursuing the ultimate which is transcending death and finding love after death which completely transforms your reaction to the man, a man who is very, very strong but very, very loving<U+0085> The plot, familiar from Anthony Mann's " Fall of the Roman Empire," had Crowe as Maximus, the proud well-loved Roman general in the army of Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris). Maximus whose motto is 'Strength and Honor' is like a son to Aurelius, a statement that left Aurelius' own son, Commodus perturbed...Disappointed by the news that his father privately decides to name Maximus his successor, and being a young ambitious son lusting for power, he murders his father, and orders a strike against the general... One of the best scenes of the motion picture is where Commodus is told by his father that he is not going to be the emperor<U+0085> Joaquin Phoenix is easy to hate in a frightening and vile character...Ridley Scott creates a lot of beautiful scenes between the characters<U+0085> He did some fantastic work in all of those wonderful scenes in the film<U+0085> But there's another moment between the emperor and his daughter Lucilla (the Danish beauty Connie Nielsen) that I loved very much<U+0085> Harris says, "Let's not speak of politics. Let us pretend that you are a loving daughter and I'm a good father. " They walk for a few seconds and Lucilla says, "This is a pleasant fiction." I felt this short scene so sophisticated<U+0085> It seemed to me wonderfully insightful, simple in terms of amount of words, but complex in terms of understanding this strange relationship<U+0085> One of the most successful bits of casting was Oliver Reed<U+0085> He's a harsh and rough businessman who makes his living off the death machine and yet, inside, there was some kind of ethical person that would come out at the right moment<U+0085>Ridley Scott's epic film does not romanticize a democratic Golden Age of Rome but a decaying, blood thirsty empire on the edge of its fall... Through its beautiful music, through Russell's performance and through Ridley's soulfulness, "Gladiator" brought a poetic vision in a new and very cinematically richly way that really gave the audience something different, so emotional and so intimate<U+0085>
Gladiator, 2000's Best Picture winner, was undoubtedly one of the biggest successes of the decade. It made tons of box-office cash, nearly swept the Oscars, and revitalized the sword-and-sandals genre for years to come. Does the movie warrant the massive success it received? For the most part, yes. Ridley Scott's Roman blockbuster doesn't have quite the overwhelming emotion of another Oscar-winning epic, Braveheart, but as a brawny action spectacle, Gladiator soars. With a strong story, a profound sense of character, and action and special effects that are suitably exciting, Gladiator is a special kind of sword-and-sandals picture; One with a true dramatic core.Like the great epics of Hollywood's past, Gladiator is simple in its story. Russell Crowe stars as the Roman General, Maximus, whose life is thrown into chaos after the jealous Emperor Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) arranges for his execution. Maximus is sold into slavery where he meets Proximo, a former gladiator played by Oliver Reed who shepherds him through life as a gladiator as Commodus scrambles to stop Maximus' influence among the people. The story of Gladiator is a rock-solid tale of revenge, bolstered by well written characters, some sly political subtext, and a couple of stellar performances from Crowe and Phoenix. The two principle characters, Maximus and Commodus, are what separates Gladiator from the slew of sword-and-sandals epics that came after it. They are simply but elegantly written as characters; Maximus, a man singularly driven by a need to return to his family, Commodus, a confused young man singularly driven by a need to be loved. However, it is the performances from Russell Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix that really elevate this material. Phoenix gives a brilliant portrait of an emotionally frustrated young man. He is completely unpredictable, but he never becomes campy. He is a real person with real problems, and there is an underlying sadness to his character that makes him so much more interesting than your typical stock villain. As for Crowe, his performance is all about physical presence. Apart from a few big emotional scenes, Crowe's performance is one of quiet masculine stoicism. He adds a remarkable gravitas to this character that all but makes the movie. You feel for him, you relate to him, you root for him, and you become inspired by him. It is a perfect heroic performance. The character stuff in Gladiator really works. Coming from a genre that made do with archetypal characters doing obligatory British accents for years, it is nothing short of a revelation that Gladiator is such a fulfilling dramatic experience. Here are characters you actually care about and not simply placeholders to string up the plot in between action scenes.When it comes to general filmmaking, Gladiator is rarely pedestrian and often astounding. Apart from some strange quirks in the filmmaking like the seemingly digitized zooms or the moments when the frame rate seems to cause a weird flicker effect, Gladiator is a deep, rich, and meticulously detailed visual experience. Hollywood production values don't get much higher than this. The technical departments are tops in terms of production design and costuming. The movie looks expensive, but there is something else in Gladiator's visual style that keeps your eyes glued to the screen. The look of the film, with its mix of traditional, large- scale sets and CG enhancements, is almost dreamlike. The environments of Ridley Scott's version of ancient Rome, including a painstakingly crafted digital recreation of the famous Colosseum, seem untethered to any kind of physical reality. It's as if what Scott has created is an environment that reflects the feeling of Ancient Rome rather than the reality of it. Just as with the deep characters and eloquent script, there's a modern feeling to Ridley Scott's filmmaking in Gladiator. The reliance on CGI is sometimes overdone, but in conjunction with the costumes, sets, and impressively grandiose score from Hans Zimmer, it adds to the intoxicating atmosphere of Ridley Scott's world.The main attraction of Gladiator is its scenes of gladiatorial combat, and on that front, Ridley Scott aptly gets the job done. There are a few moments when Scott falls back on to standard sword clashing and disorientating shaky cam, but for the most part, the action scenes are exciting, bloody, and imaginatively staged. The best action scenes are the opening Barbarian battle and a fantastic fight scene between Maximus, a veteran gladiator, and a Colosseum full of bloodthirsty tigers. In those scenes, Scott's emphasis on close-up, sweaty, brutal action is totally effective. I felt the cold of the forest mud, the heat of the flaming trees, the sharpness of the swords, and the dusty claustrophobia of the Arena. The action of Gladiator is visceral and bloody, and there is plenty of it. Those hungry for bloodsport will find more than enough manly derring-do to satiate their red-blooded desire.For all its dramatic depth, I can't say I came out of Gladiator heavily affected by feeling. This is still, at its core, a visceral experience, but the small character moments and the textured performances are miraculously riveting. I was intrigued by every second of Gladiator. The action scenes are thrilling, the dramatic scenes are mesmerizing, and the $103 million budget is all up there on the screen in every frame. Ridley Scott's direction is superlative, especially in the third act, as the story, action, and emotions reach a fever pitch. The last few scenes, including the climactic final showdown and the closing 'Elysium' scene, exhibit a crescendo of the kind of daring artistry that permeates the film's best sections. Gladiator is a meaty Hollywood epic of the best kind. It's visually sumptuous and supremely thrilling, but there is a beating heart within this beast. Sure there are a couple of bumps along the way, but with Crowe as the sturdy hero and a simple story of returning home, Gladiator stays with you long after the credits roll.92/100
There is so little to find wanting in this film and not wanting to merely repeat its many deserved praises, all I can do is question a couple of historical points.It is unlikely that a Roman general would be sold into slavery and forced to fight in the arena. Exiled, yes. Killed maybe. Asked to commit suicide to retain his property, most likely. It is unlikely that he would return to find his family crucified, of all things. Romans were very specific about who got crucified and why. Romans usually avoided it, no matter how cruel the tyrant(?) was.Roman legionnaires would NEVER have a tattoo unless they were barbarians who got one BEFORE joining a legion. Marking or mutilating the human body was expressedly anti- Roman. No statue or depiction exists of a main-period Roman showing a body-marking. The bonding feature the writer was attempting was an inappropriate borrowing from the 20th century German SS.Great entertaining movie nonetheless.


                
Gladiator is the best epic war film. Gladiator has the best war scenes I've ever scene. Better than Troy and much better than Alexander. I liked the digital effects in Gladiator. Troy and Alexander are pretty fun to watch, but in Alexander, i really want to forward it to exciting scenes, like war sequences. Gladiator, I can just sit there and watch it, because if you miss a part, you won't get it. The end was great, i really liked it. It was the best fight scene at the end. Every part kept me interested and there wasn't one part that bored me. It had one of the best endings ever. So if your tired of crappy, imitating war movies go to this one it's the best there is.10/10


                
I too was very sceptical of this film. It looked like Braveheartwhich I hated. A Big macho fest that pumped up the killingaspect but I was Pleasantly surprised. An interesting character piece and I am glad I was proven wrong. I like tobe proven wrong if it's a good film. Russel Crowe shinesand Joaquin Pheonix, well what can I say except Wow. Heis living up to his Brothers name. Ridley Scott proves once again that he is one of the bestdirectors around and one of the most visual. So for all you sceptics, check it out; you might  be surprised.


                
The old Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius wanted to give the power to his favorite general Maximus. Due to envy, Commodus killed his father Marcus and claimed him as the lawful successor. The misfortune fell on Maximus. After he lost his family, he did not want to live anymore. However life did not go on as he wanted. He was trained as a gladiator. It mattered life and death. If you wanted to survive, you had to kill the opponent.The final duel between Maximus and Commodus was the most soul-stirring duel I ever watched. Although Maximus was a powerful general, he was a kind and generous person. It was his kindness that made him become the victim of insidious Commodus. Maybe he was just fit for leading an army.Russell Crowe convincingly played the brave general Maximus. He was deserved to win the best actor (the academy award). It was a pity that Ridley Scott did not win the best director.A movie that can push you forward. 9/10
In the event of his death, ageing Emperor Marcus Aurelius (Richard Harris) intends to leave his trusted Hispano-Roman general Maximus Decimus Meridius (Russell Crowe) in charge of Rome, instead of allowing his son Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) to become his successor. Commodus has other ideas: he murders his father and orders Maximus to be executed. Maximus, not one to give up quietly, makes a daring escape, and, badly wounded, heads for home, where he discovers that his wife and son have been crucified on Commodus' orders. Passing out from the pain of his injury, Maximus is captured by slavers, nursed back to health and forced to fight as a gladiator. This new life eventually leads him to the Colosseum of Rome, where he finally comes face to face with the man who betrayed him.From director Ridley Scott, Gladiator is a historical epic to rival the classics from the 'golden age' of Hollywood. Opening in 180 A.D., with a brilliantly orchestrated battle between the Roman armies and the tribes of Germania, Scott's film grabs the viewer's full attention from the outset and doesn't let go until the end, having delivered an Oscar-winning central performance from Crowe, a memorable score by Hans Zimmer, excellent supporting roles from the likes of Harris, Phoenix, Connie Nielsen and Oliver Reed, and some of the most impressively bloody scenes of hand to hand combat ever filmed.If I were to choose my favourite scene, it would be the 're-enactment' of the battle of Carthage, a savage piece of action cinema in which Maximus and his fellow gladiators are ushered into the arena like cattle to the slaughter, only to turn the tables on their attackers, winning the hearts of the Roman masses in the process. A rousing, blood drenched spectacle, it's a fine example of Scott's expert direction, a masterclass in camera placement and movement, editing (the violence is extreme, but the film doesn't wallow in the gore), sound design and special effects, which still thrills even after all of these years.


                
Watched one of All time Favorite Ridley Scott Films thats Gladiator one of my favorite Revenge/Sword & Sandals flick Films Featured an Amazing Performance from a Stellar Lead By Russell Crowe(L.A. Confidential ) as Maximus a former General Betrayed then turned Gladiator. Also Featuring the Late Richard Harris(Harry Potter and The Sorcerers Stone)as Emperor Marcus Aurelius ,Connie Nielson(Mission To Mars) as Lucilla, Derek Jacobi(Doctor Who) as Senator Gracchus, Djimon Hounsou (Amistad) as Juba Maximus close friend and confidant , Joaquin Phoenix(Walk The Line) as Commodus The films Main Villain. Scott does a brilliant job with STORY you feel the same rage as Maximus when you understand what he does after having his own friends turn on him simple because he wants to be with his family . Arguably crowes best film the story is filled with epic period spectacle when we go from the smaller arenas to the The roman the story also moves forward in a grand way amazing performance from Crowe as the Anger filled Maximus. Great Production design from Arthur Max(G.I. Jane) Period films aren't easy to do also fantastic costume design from Janty Yates(Welcome to Sarajevo) and Amazing Direction from Ridley Scott(Blade Runner). Gladiator is truly the best out of the Sword & Sandals Genre and a well deserved best picture. 9/10


                
If one is ever asked to select a film which truly measures up to action, drama and historically accuracy, " Gladiator " is the first on that list. Movie audiences have long awaited a film which mixes history and action in such a way that it becomes memorable. Ridley Scott has become a true artist in his conception of action films. To date, few films have become so notable as this rendition of the last years of the Emperorer Marcus Aurelius( Richard Harris) on the Rhine. In this story we have a veteran Roman General (Russell Crowe) Maximus Meridius who having won yet another victory over the Germanic tribes, wishes nothing more than to go home and tend his crops. he asks his emperor for permission to go home, but before the wish is granted, he dies and his son Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix) becomes the new ruler. Fearing the popular general is a threat to him, he orders him killed. Oliver Reed (In his last film) plays Proximo, an owner of slaves and gladiators saves him and offers him a chance for revenge. Derek Jacobi plays Gracchus who lends a splendid dignity to the film. Spencer Treat Clark is Lucius who finds the Spanish Gladiator admirable, courageous and interesting. Throughout the movies, one cannot but enjoy the settings, the costumes and the various sub-topics which make for drama at it's best. Highly recommended, this film is sure to become a Classic. ****


                
"They tell me your son squealed like a girl when they nailed him to the cross. And your wife moaned like a whore when they ravaged her again and again... and again."Gladiator is an amazing story of revenge. It is a story of one man's struggle to challenge the emperor of Rome, wearing nothing but slaves' attire, being sold as a gladiator for the people's morbid amusement, and seeking vengeance for having his family murdered through these 'games'. It is also a political story about justice in the midst of corruption, interwoven with swords, sandals and battlefields á la epic war saga. This, my friends, is a true underdog story with a hero so poignant that it is impossible not to be engrossed in his struggle.Whatever _I_ will say about this film will simply be semi-coherent, rambling praise as I like the works of Ridley Scott so much. However, far from everyone liked Gladiator (2000). Roger Ebert disliked it. Moviegoers criticized it for being unoriginal <U+0096> a mild rip-off of Spartacus (1960) and the likes. It may have been warmly received by the Academy, but audiences were very divided when it was released. I'd like to think that I am usually able to see things from other people's perspective, but just this once, how could you not be entertained?So although I usually trust Roger Ebert a great deal, I have absolutely no idea what he was on about in panning the film for its gloomy tone and "muddy, fuzzy and indistinct" skies. Maybe he simply forgot to clean his widescreen TV, because the Gladiator I know sees hugely epic games under a brilliant blue sky in the coliseum, a glorious tournament that is so entertaining because of its flair. The final battle has ROSES RAINING FROM THE SKY! It does not get more vivid or colourful than that.These battle-scenes of Gladiator are, of course, extremely well tended to by Ridley Scott who is the master at crafting epic war scenarios (see, I told you fanboy-praise would sneak its way in!). The patient, slow pacing of the film seems to take a sudden halt here, and then fast-forward in an amazingly rapid-fire pace with quick shots, swinging swords, vivid skies and a great score by Hans Zimmer to further emphasize the dramatic mood. The very culmination of this is not at the end, but rather early. It is the moment that Maximus (a superb Russell Crowe) removes his helmet, reveals his identity and faces the emperor, after a long and ferocious battle. It is a scene so poignant that I always wish it would have been saved until later on in the film, thereby giving it even more weight. But no matter, because rest assured that it is goosebumps-inducing enough.A gloriously entertaining, heartfelt and carefully crafted war adventure by Ridley Scott in which little feels missing or incomplete. What more could you ask for? Great acting from the cast, I suppose <U+0096> well, this is also present in Gladiator. Best of all, the actors have good dialogue to work with so they don't choke on the dated lines. Russell Crowe propels this film with his heroic personality, Connie Nielsen adds introspective depth, and Joaquin Phoenix is excellent as the twisted but idealist emperor Commodurus. 9/10


                
GLADIATOR is a fantastic achievement in modern filmmaking. I never expected to ever see another Roman epic, but Ridley Scott has proved it is possible. What's so great about this movie is that it has a really entertaining and enthralling storyline, not just special effects and action (although it has a lot of that): it knows how to make us care about the people in it and how to develop a sense of style and elegance (thanks to director Ridley Scott). The movie is fueled by a number of powerhouse performances: Russell Crowe is perfect as the title character, I loved Oliver Reed as Proximo, and Joaquin Phoenix made a perfectly hissable villain. I was amazed at how exciting this movie was. Although the opening battle sequence is not very promising, with its confusing, chaotic editing, after that it's just uphill: the film will send you on roller-coaster ride of nonstop thrills. The effects are very well done: there is a scene where we see Commodus arrive at Rome as the new emperor that's absolutely breathtaking. I also loved the way they recreated the Colosseum. Parts of this movie are truly awe-ispiring. The fights in the arenas are spectacularly sensational. I must also mention John Mathieson's absolutely beautiful cinematography and Hans Zimmer's perfect music score. Some scenes where Mathieson's visuals and Zimmer's music mix are undescribably beautiful and breathtaking. The entire film is beautiful: just about any frame of it would make a really good poster to stick on the wall. I recommend this film to those who appreciate to finest things in life.


                
Let this amazing quote tell you how good it is.Commodus: What is your name? Gladiator: My name is GladiatorGladiator turns his back to CommodusCommodus: How dare you turn your back to me. Slave. You will remove your helmet and tell me your name.Gladiator turns and removes his helmetGladiator: My name is Maximus Decimus Meridius. Leader of the Felix legion and commander to the armies of the north. Loyal servant to the true emperor, Marcus Aurelius. Father to a murdered son. Husband to a murdered wife, and I shall have my vengeance in this l life or the next.The quote goes something like that, but when Russell Crowe let's rip with it, it doesn't half sound impressive.Along with tigers, big fat Gaullish warriors and a wonderfully created Rome, this film goes down in history like nothing else.
Ridley Scott rarely disappoints with his films. All of them, including the unjustly-maligned Legend, are visually stunning and just show the director's artistic genius. Gladiator should be up there as one of the best films he's done, if not the best. Almost everything on screen is very graphic, making some scenes upsetting to watch, but the visuals are just outstanding. The music score by Hans Zimmer just adds to the drama that is already there in the script. which is well written and rather Shakespearean. The performances were brilliant, especially Joaquin Pheonix and Oliver Reed. Russell Crowe is wholly convincing in the title role, and Richard Harris and Connie Nielson are also excellent. The costumes are brilliant, as well as the sets. In conclusion, Gladiator is a near masterpiece, only marred by some upsetting scenes. 9/10 Bethany Cox.


                
"Gladiator" is, to me, one of the best films ever made, probably even in my personal Top 10 Movies of All Time -list. It's a massive epic motion picture that pleases your eyes and ears with effective visuality, drama, romance and more. The story tells about a Roman general Maximus who gets betrayed by an evil prince. By the acts of the prince, Maximus's family gets murdered and he wanders into sorrow where tears won't be spared. He then finds himself captured to become a gladiator among other slaves, but he still seeks for revenge. Maximus tries to keep himself alive in battles which he is forced into, only that he might someday take his revenge against the evil prince. The story has so much more in it, but I'll just leave the rest of it for the viewers, as I certainly do not want to give away any spoilers.Like I already said, the story is simply fantastic. It's so deep and touching, being very original at the same time. Despite of the movie being a massive epic one it still isn't cliché at all, it just maintains the level of drama in a level that doesn't go over the top. It has a nice flow too and there is no boring scene in any part of the movie, every scene matters and every scene is significant in its own way, that's just how incredible the storytelling is. The building of the main character, the whole theme from victorious to sad, from sad to anger and from anger to a satisfying ending, everything goes like it's supposed to. The creation of the world has been achieved terrificly well; The sets, the dressing, all the details, basically everything. Although there was a lot of CGI used in the creation of the world, the CGI department deserves a big plus on making everything so believable and realistic. Everything looks smooth and soothing, just the way you want it to look like. You can't complain, really.What comes to role performances, well, in my opinion Russell Crowe does an absolutely phenomenal role performance as Maximus. The anger, the sorrow, all the expressions and body language, just great. I don't care if Crowe is an asshole in real life, because whatever they say in the press he still is an amazing actor. He has actually become one of my favourite actors because of his past role performances, he is just everything a director wants from an actor, performing every role flawlessly. He does have that sort of a rough appearance, but he can play a nice guy too. What comes to other role performances there is one more to mention; Joaquin Phoenix. To be honest, I've never liked Phoenix that much, don't know why, but I have to admit that he is too an amazing actor. As the evil prince Commodus he is that brilliant fierce himself again, a perfect actor for an evil role.This is by far Ridley Scott's best film yet to date and when Hans Zimmer's music is put on top of the cake you just can't go wrong with that. The directing is superb and the music is magnificent. Like mentioned above the directing consists of mixtures of genres; Drama, romance, adventure and action. Every department is handled in superior way, in a way that leaves your notebook blank on the side of the faults the movie would suffer from. The music has this main theme in it, which is beautifully composed, including that beauty and also thrill and intensity. "Gladiator" is all in all a tremendous motion picture which everyone should see, a born legend some could say. Fantastic story, phenomenal role performance by the lead actor, superb directing and beautiful music; All this compile a film that I can't imagine to be a disappointment to anyone, a definite 9 out of 10.


                
When looking for a movie a person looks for something that will entrain oneself. Gladiator brings in the factor of being entrain with also giving the audience a stunning look at ancient Rome, as they follow Roman general Maximus played by Russell Crowe, as he gets beaten down and made into a gladiator, then rises up and takes his revenge. Whether it's the moment Maximus dies or when he is talking to Marcus Aurelius each scene brings in an aspect of suspense or grittiness. As each scene unfolds, Ridley Scott is able to capture the emotions of the characters and, the tension each of them are facing. Each fight Maximus has the audience knows it could be his last one and wanting him to fight on. Ridley Scott is able to craft a beautiful motion picture, using the actors' performance, and a stunning sound track to make the movie come alive. The moment Maximus arrives to his villa after almost being exuded, he knew there was something amiss, the music of this scene, brought in the heartbreak and hopelessness to this situation when Maximus discover his entire family was brutally murdered. Then the shear agony Russell Crowe showed really brought me in on how Maximus had lost everything and everyone who he ever loved. This scene shows how the movie is much more than a man fighting in the area as a gladiator but as a man fighting for revenge for his loved ones that can't call out to him anymore. Also Russell Crowe's performance gives the character Maximus a sense of justice with is body statue to compliment it. "Crowe's performance comes from an instinctive mastery of look and gesture and a powerful physical presence." (Desmond Ryan). His battle harden look and motion of how he will restore Rome to its former glory, makes the audience believe in the character as a whole.Alongside Russell Crow's performance, Joaquin Phoenix performance as Commodus, the son of Marcus Aurelius and Empire of Rome, gave a crazy, ruthless, power hungry dictator a new look. Straight from the start of the movie, the audience could see how foolish he was as a person, when he stepped on the battle field. But scene when Commodus kills his father to become empire, Phoenix molded the character as paranoid and driven man who would stop at nothing to achieve his goals. As the film went on Joaquin Phoenix fulfillment of the character, make onlookers how far he is willing to go to stay in power and not have Maximus over throw him. "As played by Mr. Phoenix, Commodus is like a serious version of Dr. Evil, coming on to his sister (Connie Nielsen) while she pines for Maximus in this brazen mix of blood sport." (Elvis Mitchell). The scene when he does not know what to about the senate not approving in the actions he put forth, Phoenix's body language, set of dialog shows the despite and paranoid out looked on this cruel world. The role of a supporting actor or actress is to help push the plot forward, and Joaquin Phoenix does it quite swimmingly.Being able to build a scene up is one of the most important thing a movie needs to do, along with great actors to drive the plot forward, part of building that scene up is the use of an original film score to create a tone. Each time Maximus steps in the coliseum to fight, the music brings in his hopes, desires, of how he is felling. Then when the fighting beginnings the music speeds up allowing the audience feel the same way as the character. "Music is a big factor in helping the illusion of the film come to life. The same way music brings back different periods of our lives." (Francis Ford Coppola) This quote from Coopola tells why music is so important in movies. At the end of the movie when Maximus kills Commodus but then dies from the wound Commodus inflicted him before fight, Maximus starts to lose consciousness he sees the gate to the other world, the world where his wife and child are waiting for him to return. The music sets in bring in the realization to Maximus that he is finally home with his family. The music of this scene drives the emotions of Maximus when finally arrives home to his family after helping to save Rome from a tyrant. Gladiator to me is one of this generations best movies, pulling off some amazing cinematography that can only be compared to some of the best movies. I believe Gladiator should be watch by all to see spectacular acting and subnational music. Though this movie came out 14 years ago it still a wonderful movie.
Wonderful and epic travel the life of Marcus Aurelius a general valiant fighting by the Roman Empire. After setbacks and macabre situations destination ends up being a slave to Rome becoming the best fighter with beasts and humans. You might end up fulfilling the task set by his belief in holy company and will field his son and his wife. The film was a landmark film and I saw it almost 15 years later. Despite the time the piece does not miss a minimum of intensity and quality. Both scenarios portraying ancient Rome as the main cast of the film (in which I highlight above all to Russel Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix) are splendid. Wonderful is the soundtrack to the film complete and that 'Now we are free' as a climax to the 155 minutes of footage, now we are free
Gladiator was a great historical film that took place in Italy, Rome from 161 A.D. to 181 A.D. Maximus, the over all hero, is forced to become a gladiator and compete in the games after being falsely accused of killing the emperor of Rome. As a general, he is very skilled with a sword, that helps his odds of surviving. Caesar is the over all bad guy trying to kill Maximus because his father wanted him to be emperor of Rome. The emperor tries everything to kill Maximus. He even tries to put a legendary fighter to kill him. This is somewhat historically correct due to Rome wanting to be a Republic again, the Coliseum, the gladiators, and the Caesar. I would highly suggest seeing this awe-inspiring, breath-taking, and phenomenal film about what Rome was like in the old times.


                
I recently watched Gladiator again.On my first watching I was pulled along by the exciting story, thrilling action sequences and fabulous visuals.This time I was able to appreciate the performances, particularly Joaquin Phoenix and Oliver Reed.Commodus is not a sympathetic character, but he is a complex one. Phoenix brings great depth to him. You never like him, but you understand him. Phoenix' work is remarkable.And Oliver Reed's performance reminds you of just how powerful he could be in the right part, how unfortunate it was that he was in so much rubbish, and what a loss his death was.
Has anyone reading this comment seen the movie "Epic Movie"? Do you think that "Epic Movie" is the best "epic" out there? No, it's not even an epic at all. Gladiator is a true definition of what an epic movie is about. There is action, romance, and surprises. They all add up to the word "epic." This film is about a general of the Roman Empire who was wrongfully arrested over the murder of the emperor, taken as a slave, and turned into on the best Roman gladiators ever. While he is out there in the Coliseum, he has to deal with the evil son of the murdered emperor. The acting is very good. Russell Crowe did a great job and I was impressed on Joaquin Phoenix's acting. Ridley Scott always had the ability, as a director, to make Oscar-worthy movies. I also give thumbs-ups to Hans Zimmer. He composed many great movies with Gladiator being amongst them. This movie was nominated for a grand total of a whopping 12 Oscars and won 5 of them including Best Picture. On a minus side, this movie has slow parts basically involving Commodus. Other than that, this movie is close to perfect. I rate this movie 9/10.


                
I can safely say this is one of the best films i have ever seen. i don't think i need to write much about this film as it has all probably been said before. But its directed brilliantly, fantastic but brutal fight sequences, and all of the acting is truly tremendous, especially from Russell Crowe and more importantly, Joaquin Phoenix is unbelievable as the villain. He plays such a creep that u really do hate, but thats a good sign of an actor. The supporting acting is brilliant from Derek Jacobi, Djimoun Honsou etc, supported by a brilliant soundtrack.U may need to have a handkerchief ready at the end though. Be warned!Brilliant!


                
This is a very good movie. Richard Harris and Russell Crowe are excellent in their performance. The sets, costume and locations are very good. I like the paradox of the story Commodus dies like a gladiator and Maximus dies like an emperor. Lucilla it is an interesting character and I like her personality.I missed to see more roman locations, and the daily roman life. Each still it's like a painting. Ridley is a great artist.For me the best scenes are when Commodus kills his father and the last fight Maximus against Commodus.The soundtrack is one of my favorites congratulations to Hans Zimmer, Lisa Gerrard has a special voice that you can imagine yourself in ancient roman age.
Ridley Scott brings his stylistic sense to the historical epic in this recreation of the Roman Empire at its zenith. This time frame is actually ahead of the usual one with Julius Caesar that we're mostly used to seeing and actually takes place, I believe, during the same time as the elder epic "The Fall of the Roman Empire"(64). By the title and the hearsay, you'd expect the story to revolve around gladiatorial combat in the arena, but though some of the significant scenes do take place there, the scope encompasses all of Rome and its surrounding provinces. The beginning is a lengthy sequence depicting a final battle in the war against Germania, a brutal & staggering depiction of two armies in combat. It's here that director Scott presents the flavor of what the viewer will become accustomed to as the picture progresses: important people, important events, important decisions - set to an epic scale, of course.But it's the people portion of the formula that dominates what could have been just another epic. Maximus (Crowe), a Roman general at the start of the pic, makes it clear very early where his priorities lie: with his wife & son, whom he hasn't seen in over two years. Yet, he's also intensely loyal to the empire and the emperor (Harris). We realize he's caught between the two responsibilities at this early stage of the film and it's not a simple dilemma; priorities must be weighed, possible impacts both personal & political. Although a decision is taken out of his hands, we see that it's not a simple solution of 'well, i'll go home' as he desired which would have dictated his actions. There's real intelligence to the script by this point. Crowe won the Oscar for his part and though he probably was more deserving for a couple of other films, it's easy to see how he carried the picture here.The supporting cast is first rate. Phoenix as Commodus, the new emperor who takes the decision out of Maximus' hands, does not come across as a standard villain, despite his actions (patricide, lusting for his sister, sadistic murder). You see him make revolting faces during the gladiatorial games, reveling in the blood spilled, and of course you think, what a grotesque villain. Yet, in other scenes he is quite pitiful - it's astonishing we can feel any sympathy for this wretch, but Phoenix plays the 'daddy should have loved me' angle to the hilt - and it works. The no.1 position in the empire dictates that the holder cannot trust anyone, it's so true; no one seems more alone than Phoenix throughout the film. Oliver Reed hams it up a bit as an arena entertainer, but it is Reed, a fitting final role. There's a lot a class spread out among the remainder of the cast - Harris, Jacobi, Hemmings all lend some gravitas, and Connie Nielsen is very good in a truly regal role.Since much of this film involves gladiatorial combat, I must at least mention the fighting scenes in the various arenas. They are very well done. But they're probably not the main reason to see the picture.


                
There isn't much I can add that hasn't already been said, but what made this movie so special for me was Russell Crowe's brilliant portrayal of Maximus as a genuine hero of Shakespearean proportions.  I don't mean to imply that there is any resemblance between Gladiator and one of Shakespeare's plays, or that the dialogue resembles one of them. But the creation of a truly heroic character in a pivotal role is a classical and, unfortunately, out of date device.  It requires an actor who can not only convince you that his character possesses a heroic and noble nature, but who can also make you care terribly about what happens to this hero.  Crowe does both.  The viewer loves and admires his Maximus, and agonizes with him in his travails.  In this, Crowe reminded me of Laurence Olivier at a comparable age, although I'd guess he would cringe at the comparison. As to the rest of the cast, I couldn't find a single weak link.  In fact, the only thing I didn't like about the movie was the extent of the gore in the battle and gladiator scenes.  I can't believe that so many prolonged grisly scenes were necessary to get the movie's point across.


                
I watched this movie like more than 30 times !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
Such an amazing accomplishment from one of the great directors.You just can't beat the very first colosseum fight and the reveal!


                
