Edit22/4/18 - its pure insanity that this series got the can. someone at stars needs to be fired. what other 'great' series do they have going for them. They hardly promote ash vs evil dead outside of america. but here in australia theres a big fan base. this is not groovy. not at all.
This series should be given how ever many seasons it wants to tell the story it wants to. No rushing. No messing with what Rami has in mind. No other series, EVER. Has continued a story so well from movies bring brought to tv and retaining the same feel. This show in some ways is historic for TV and should be setting presidents for all other rebooting/continuation whatever hollywood is doing right now. IT shows that new generation still likes real entertainment along with the old wanting more of the same great stuff they grew up with. Im in the middle ground at 28. And its just.. this show puts such a big smile on my face when i watch it. Its really rare for even straight up comedies to make me grin this hard


                
Well, we've had to be patient for nearly a quarter of a century to finally see Ash wield his chainsaw again, but trust me: it was well worth the wait. Ash vs. Evil Dead fires on all cylinders.After so many years had passed since Army of Darkness (aka Evil Dead III) came out in 1992, it looked like a direct sequel just wasn't going to happen anymore, yet apparently, the Raimi-Campbell gang had been working on one for some time. According to recent interviews with the show's creators Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell, what was first supposed to be a new feature film and the fourth entry in the franchise, over time turned into an idea for a TV-series, and I believe fans will be very happy with the result. Instead of a 2-hour film for a sequel, we now get 5 more hours with Ash and the Deadites (possibly more if the show's going to be a success) and judging from what I've seen so far, those 5 hours are going to be an absolute blast.(This paragraph contains some – very – mild spoilers; there won't be any in the rest of this review). At the beginning of the show we meet Ash leading a lazy, but apparently happy slacker life, residing in a run-down trailer and working as a stock boy at a Value Stop (for some obscure legal reasons, the writers couldn't use the name S-Mart from Army of Darkness' iconic last scene). In the show, 30 years have passed since Ash's last encounter with the Deadites, and while he might be well into middle age now, he hasn't matured one bit. Ash is still the exact same guy we last saw fighting walking skeletons and other ghastly undead things in Army of Darkness, cracking wise and appearing as cock-sure of himself as ever (despite still not being the "smartest cookie in the jar" - to put it mildly). These days, he likes to spend most of his spare time either getting wasted in his trailer or picking up random ladies - or both (mostly both). I won't go further into any of the story details (because that would only spoil the fun); suffice to say that his rather irresponsible lifestyle ultimately won't go too well with his duty as keeper of a certain (slightly) dangerous book, and (very!) bloody mayhem soon ensues.In my opinion, Ash vs. Evil Dead does everything right. Instead of going down the "gritty drama" route of shows like The Walking Dead or taking the "straight horror" approach of Fede Alvarez' Evil Dead remake, creators Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell fully embrace the over-the-top goofiness and playful tone of Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness, while still delivering the scares of the first film and plenty (and I mean: PLENTY) of gore. The Deadites are frightening, but they're also kind of comical in that they don't look too realistic (don't get me wrong, their make-up is gorgeous, but they don't look like the zombies from George A. Romero's films or The Walking Dead). The production values in general are absolutely great; the writing is in the vein of the first three films (no wonder, since the episodes were mostly written by Sam and Ivan Raimi); the music, the pacing and the direction: really everything just falls into place. It's clear that this wasn't some lazy attempt to cash in on the name of a beloved cult-franchise, but a labour of love for all involved.Another great plus of the series is the cast. Seeing Bruce Campbell step back into this iconic character is simply hilarious fun; it still fits him like a glove (or, perhaps more accurately in his case, a chainsaw). But there was never a doubt in my mind that he would deliver (it seems Ash is a character Campbell was born to play); what really surprised me was how well the rest of the cast fits into the show. Ray Santiago as Pablo and Dana DeLorenzo as Kelly (they're Ash's co-workers at the Value Stop) are completely able to hold their own; they are fully fleshed-out characters and just as fun to watch as Ash.So my verdict: Ash vs Evil dead brings back everything that I loved about the original Evil Dead films, but it also manages to introduce interesting new characters and story lines which help maintain the element of surprise for long-time fans. And the show works just as well as a stand-alone story, so people unfamiliar with the original trilogy need not worry either: they will find just as much to love here as those who know and cherish Sam Raimi's classics - as long as they have a certain affection for trashy, gory horror comedies and don't expect serious drama (Six Feet Under this is not). In my book, this show is already a winner: 8 stars out of 10.ASH IS BACK: HAIL TO THE KING, BABY, AND HAPPY HALLOWEEN!!!Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Absolutely love the series! It is a great revival of the original franchise, it combines the gore and horror aspects of Evil Dead and Evil Dead 2 with the campy and over the top humor of Army of Darkness. The story is great, it is easy to relate to the characters, and it is simply just a fun show to watch for any horror/comedy fan! Highly recommend the series for a fun watch, or for anyone who wants to see some outrageous kills and gallons and gallons of blood!


                
Let's see. What was the problem? 8.5 on IMDB? Lot of episodes above 9? Solid fanbase? Millions of viewers around the globe? This show was getting better and better... And Grey's Anatomy is continued for the 15th season. What is wrong with the world? How many demons GA has? Exactly zero? How many ripped off heads? Also zero? And how many chainsaws? Yep, 0. Ok, it has fake blood, but still Ash wins by miles there, too.
This show is great, it is a solid 9 and that is rare. Let's hope that a network, with white collars' IQ above 60, will buy the franchise and continue till the cows come home.


                
Season One Review.Reading from the Book of the Dead, whilst high and trying to impress a girl, Ash Williams reawakens the evil forces that have laid dormant for the last 30 years. Along with his colleagues Pablo and Kelly, Ash travels across country to try and find some way to stop the demonic forces once and for all.... Or at the very least make it someone else's problem. God I loved this! I am absolute target audience, I accept. I had the films on Video, then DVD and now on Blu Ray. . so the very idea of a series continuing Ash's story was always going to be an easy sell to me. Then we had the slight hiccup that I don't have the channel the show airs on in the UK, but I've now seen the first season on Blu Ray and here I am. It did not disappoint. Very much in keeping with the tone of Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness, the series uses largely practical special effects to tell a hyper violent funny story, that re-hits some of the best beats from the films; the cabin, the reanimated hand, Evil Ash, the book of the dead and most importantly, the chainsaw hand. Bruce Campbell returns to his signature role without missing a beat, keeping the arrogance that we saw in Army Of Darkness, but adding a smudging of regret and desperation for the life denied him since that fateful day at the Cabin.  Ash is joined by Pablo ( Ray Santiago ) and Kelly on his trip (Dana DeLorenzo) who provide a fresh audience's entry way into the story, should they not have been watching the movies for the past 30 years. Performances are broad, as the subject matter requires it to be, but both prove welcome additions as the season continues. Also new to the story is Ruby, played by Lucy Lawless, who believes that Ash is the cause of the death and destruction that he fights against. Other characters come and go across the season, and when they go... it's usually in some horrifically violent manner. But it's not all comedy, there are some genuine scares, with the possession demon around the series half way point, and the horrific Children in the finale. The story is interesting and manages to find a way to weave a lot of those film points back into the plot, without them seeming desperate or forced. The music choices are agreeable and New Zealand does a good job of doubling for the States. Occasionally, the visual affects betray the budget, though usually only when the have opted for a CGI rather than practical solution and I can imagine it's not as much fun for people who don't have pre-existing love for the franchise but generally it's a cavalcade of blood spraying, chainsaws slicing and heads exploding and I can't wait to get season two.


                
Totally America's old school bloody & gory and uncensored movie style, add lots of comedy and disgusting stuff and you got exactly Evil Dead movie series just separated to a bunch of chapters. 
I love that show!!!


                
I am at a loss for words... they should have sent a poet. I specifically just signed up so I can express my unequivocal support for this work of art. Bruce you a God. LONG LIVE ASH!!!!!! The dialogue was superb, the fx magnificent and it all adds up to the perfect continuation of a cult classic. I didn't even realize that I had a hole in my life until today... a hole ladies and gentlemen that only ash and the evil dead could fill. LoL. I look forward to this show going on for years until they have to drag Bruce's geriatric ass to the set and push cocaine down his throat to make one more episode. Again, hats off and congratulations on a masterpiece. ENCORE!! ENCORE!! ENCORE!!!!!!!


                
I have to admit, i had high hopes for this show, only because Bruce Campbell "my favorite evil dead hero" is back. Usually, the pilot of nowadays shows fail to impress, they either succeed later or keep falling to their doom. The case is different for this one. The first episode was absolutely a blast. there was no unnecessary dialog, no boring characters, no bullshit. There is one clear fact about it. Evil is back and is not messing around or waiting. its coming with full weight. the episode is packed with amazing action, cheesy conversations and a lot of humor which is exactly what made the original movie a success. it will keep you entertain from start to finish, and leaving you wanting more. I'am looking forward to see the rest of the show. and i would recommend it to everyone.


                
I love this show, it's funny. the effects are great and the cast works well together. I recently have seen that they are cancelling this show after 3 seasons. I personally think this is a huge mistake. While the ratings may not be what is expected (none are now that there are 200 channels to choose from) I always watched the show following this one. Well alas, no more. For those of you that are into the Walking dead, this is a show I personally think you would enjoy. The only difference is the comedic aspect and the shorter time allotment. Such a shame to see it go. It and the show following it were the only shows I watched on the Starz network. P.S. to all of the other networks, the rating system is now antiquated with so many channels. Your better off looking to places like IMDB and TV.com to find out how many people are actually watching.


                
I can't believe they actually cancelled this show, of course they cancel 99% of their series within 1 or a few seasons whether its good or not. BOO STARZ BOOOOO!


                
Was really hoping this was going to kick ass and it certainly does. It's Evil Dead-tastic. Fans of the films will certainly not be disappointed, cheesy jokes, gore and chainsaw/shotgun action against the Dead-ites abounds. It feels like a natural extension of Evil Dead 2, with Ash gone to seed and feeling the miles as he straps on the shotgun to do battle again. Brilliant. With a massive amount of practical FX on the go and a real lo-fi feel to the whole affair it's like a Saturday night VHS gore-fest all over again. The pacing, laughs and splatters come thick and fast, it just feels right and is pitched at just the right level for the nostalgia crowd and the horror fans alike. Winner!!


                
We all loved the original Evil Dead and we all wanted it to badly to return in the cinemas, but little did we expect that it was gonna become one of the best TV shows out here.The whole show follows a similar pattern to the movie. The good guy (Ash) accidentally summons demons by reading out of Necronomicon, demons start possessing people and coming after the book, while Ash works his way through them one by one. He has his friends; Kelly and Pablo to help him out. Not soon after, we're introduced to a new semi villain (or even anti villain later) called Ruby Knowby. Apparently, she's the 'Dark One' and she's after the book she wants to use in order to keep demons at bay. As usual, the evil is not so easily defeated and we get to see the story continue in new seasons.What makes this show so good is the combination of horror and comedy elements. The show is somewhat lighthearted and pretty welcoming to all audiences, but at the same time, it's a brutal gore fest action show that makes any gore look funny no matter how brutal. The overall performances are decent, the writing and the pacing are both remarkably well made. I myself burned through all 2 seasons in 1 day and I'm impatiently waiting for 3rd season. If you watched the original movie franchise, I can guarantee you will love this show, probably even more than the movies and even if you never watched the movies, you'll still love it.
For you huge fans out there, you will love reuniting with our Ash and all the ghoulish evils. Same demons, same feeling when you watch it. Thumbs up. And also, the actors, bravo great choice. Thank you for making it a loyal to a T. Can't wait to watch the rest. The plot is still like the original but in a modern concept, love all the original stuff. The ghouls are awesome and still scare you silly. About time you came back Mr. Campbell and what about Lucy Lawless, OMG Love this actress.I hope it will last long because there is no other shows like this out there.I do hope we do find out who the lady cop really is. So if you guys love your classic, take time to watch this, it will be worth your while.A loyal a huge fan of Evil Dead.Oh and Bruce Campbell, you still have it! Have fun watching! Hélène :)


                
Oh my god Ash vs Evil Dead is probably one of the best ideas to bring to TV Shows. We're huge Sam Raimi fans and of course we love Evil Dead, the fact that they made a TV Series based on the movie and used original Ash; woot!So we checked out Ash vs Evil Dead and were extremely happy with the outcome. It follows the Evil Dead movies as sort of an extension while at the same time the style kept in check, beautifully created. This is a TV Show that is for the true fans, and I think they nailed it Perfectly. I cannot wait to continue watching every episode and season that comes out, great stuff!. I laughed so hard I almost cried in many parts as the show progression kept rocking from the beginning till the end. Highly recommended.


                
Long time since I reviewed anything lately, but after watching up til season 3 episode 3, this show just screams for it.For me this show is the pinnacle of netflix entertainment -> core elements are humor, gore, anything ridiculous can happen at any time, brainless nonsense, etc.It's like the entire cast of Xena: Warrior princess are having a reunion and having a blast while at it (which shows). Casting is top notch and even while some scenes are obviously cringy, just objectively deconstruct the scene and see how fantastic they even pulled that off.Acting, directing, producing, cinematography, music; really everything is on point.Starz entertainment, thank you so much for taking this leap of Ash!


                
Fan of the Evil Dead series and you still haven't started this series yet? Then you're wasting your time reading IMDB - you'd better get Netflix if you haven't already, and start watching this hippodrome of gore and giggles, like right now.It's not a perfect show. But it's pretty darn close. Any splatter-film fan will love it merely for the effects and fun deaths, but anybody else should love it for the humor, the story, the entertainment, and the fact that while taking a modern spin, it's still so similar to the original series.So fans of the old stuff should be happy. Any horror fan should be happy. Anybody who doesn't mind over-the-top blood/guts should be happy. I don't even consider myself a huge fan of the original series, although I'd consider it all a horror staple, but this new series is off-the-charts hilarious and so much fun. Only advice is: DON'T TAKE IT SERIOUSLY. It's meant to be played for cheap laughs. It's meant purely to entertain. It's not meant to be deep, or thought-provoking, it's just meant to be a good, 'ol fashioned, 80's style, gore-fest, great-while-drunk-and-watching-with-your-roomates, extravaganza.I don't wanna oversell it, but I've laughed every episode so far and I'm in the middle of season 2 as of this moment. There are rarely any dull moments. I'm right now absolutely loving the Ash "muppet."Yes, like I said it has its flaws. But they are few and far in between. Honestly may come back later and give it a 10/10. (edit: I did!)EDIT: just found out they canceled it. It's a travesty unmatched since they cancelled Firefly. What the blankity-blank-blank were Starz THINKING?!?? This series was GOLD. Well, at least we got 4 seasons instead of one. Or even zero. Enjoy it, kiddos! And don't forget to boycott other Starz shows until they bring this one back!!


                
I'm going to keep this simple. This show is everything I could've hoped for as a fan. The writing is fresh, the jokes are on point, and somehow they always seem to one up themselves. I'm thrilled to see so many positive reviews. And since everyone is entitled to their opinion, my opinion is that the folks that have left poor reviews for this show are likely those that have lost the ability to feel. In closing, best friggin show ever! Just wish it was longer than 30min.


                
Ash vs Evil Dead is one in a million. A cult-classic television show born from one of the largest cult-classic film series of all time. Say what you will about the logic of the plot of the show, because at the end of the day the show plays by it's own rules, and it sticks to them through and through. It's corny, it's campy, it's awesome. Ash is the ultimate fuck-up, but still an amazing badass, a character that we can all see a bit of ourselves in, while simultaneously a bit embarrassed, much like your man-child dad. Every episode is like the best drug trip ever, and explosion of awesome action and amazing humor, with no time wasted before the end. The show holds no punches being outrageous, witty, and ultimately a fun time to be had. It's the kind of show I thought I would hate but found myself being unable to walk away from because of the sheer charm. I had never seen a single Evil Dead film prior, and I loved this show so much I had to get as much content as I could and watched every single film. I keep waiting for it to drop in quality but I just find myself having a thrilling time regardless of what happens, and it has yet to disappoint. I would HIGHLY recommend Ash vs Evil dead to horror, action, AND comedy fans alike. If you're not watching Ash vs Evil Dead yet then you are truly missing out on the experience of a lifetime.


                
Ash is back in action! It has been over 20 years since the last time Ash fought deadites and he has taken a long vacation until the evil has struck again and Ash is sprung back in action with his chainsaw and boomstick back in his possession. But this time, he is not fighting alone, he will bring friends with him to stop the evil once and for all (again). I don't have to wait for a whole season to pass the judgment on, because I have a high hope this series will be as good as the Evil Dead trilogy, or it can be even better. I cannot wait to watch the rest of the first season and the future seasons it may feature on TV. True, he may be an old man, but it does not mean he doesn't have the same strength as he had one nearly 30 years ago because he will kick deadite's butts!Welcome back, Ash!


                
Very few times a classic like the original Evil Dead can not only be duplicated but transformed into a series. They stayed old school and only made it better. The directing, the writing and especially the acting is some of the best ever for this genre . I will debate anybody otherwise .


                
I've already watched the 1st episode 4 times. I feel like I have to watch it again. I'm willing to bet Sam Raimi has a lot up his sleeve for the episodes to come. It's been a long wait and I wasn't expecting a good of start that it did. I was very excited to watch it and they pulled no stops. It has lived up to and went far beyond what I was hoping. The most epic part of this episode is, Ash flying, like Superman to catch the chainsaw. Sam had said he didn't think they could get nearly enough money to put together a new sequel. I'll bet the people who could have got the money to back it are crying right now. In fact, I believe this series type endeavor they have started could have been the better way to go. This way, there's always another episode coming and I wait on the edge of my seat for them. Acting, directing, screen writing...all across the board is superb. I don't recall any movie or series to start out with such high recommendations. I mean, 9.5 out of 10? That's unheard of on IMDb. Finally, there's something on TV that is worth watching, which isn't too likely these days. Yeah, it's going to be a GROOVEY ride !


                
I love that! All the old-style evil dead and Bruce. Good idea don't add "innovation" but stay on the style of the trilogy, new "fans" need to understand, "old" fans will love it. I think is a big lesson for who make remake of old series or movies. Simplicity win in this case and in future if something wrong will happen i'm sure fans will support, because Ash didn't betray himself. A big lesson learned too: where you hide your Necronomicon copy? Under the xxx mag and weed. This and many other gag are in line with the Ash character. The new fans don't expect big effects, Ash don't need that, especially in this series that finally Ash is more present in the scenes than before.


                
If you are a fan of the Evil Dead movies or Army of Darkness you will love this show!


                
I am a tad to cynical to laugh easily. I have seen many, many TV shows - and I laughed plenty watching the first episode. I have seen the Evil Dead movies as a younger person and I was concerned that this would not match my expectations. Wrong! Bruce is fantastic in the role of Ash (who else could play that role) and he has an excellent cast of colleagues. Such a good blend of humour and horror. Kudos to Sam Raimi, Bruce and all involved. Excellent entertainment. While being a horror buff in my younger days, I now prefer horror with a twist - and preferably humour as the twist. Hoping that the fun will continue for the rest of the season.


                
Ash is back! He's got his boomstick. He's got his chainsaw and he's ready to kick some Deadite ass. For the uninitiated this might seem like a bit of a silly story but you'd have to go back to Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness to really understand what's going on. Long story short? There's an evil book out there called the Necronomicon Ex Mortis or the "Book of the Dead". It contains strange incantations and funerary rites and when spoken aloud it brings back the Deadites. Those that were dead and those that can be possessed find themselves host to these evil spirits. Luckily one good shot from Ash's shotgun or a messy cut from his chainsaw hand can destroy them. Joining him are Pablo, his sidekick. Kelly, a girl that was dragged into their fight. And Ruby, a mysterious woman who seems to know a lot more about the Necronomicon than she's letting on.There's only one word that truly defines this continuation of a great series: Groovy.


                
