Edit22/4/18 - its pure insanity that this series got the can. someone at stars needs to be fired. what other 'great' series do they have going for them. They hardly promote ash vs evil dead outside of america. but here in australia theres a big fan base. this is not groovy. not at all.
This series should be given how ever many seasons it wants to tell the story it wants to. No rushing. No messing with what Rami has in mind. No other series, EVER. Has continued a story so well from movies bring brought to tv and retaining the same feel. This show in some ways is historic for TV and should be setting presidents for all other rebooting/continuation whatever hollywood is doing right now. IT shows that new generation still likes real entertainment along with the old wanting more of the same great stuff they grew up with. Im in the middle ground at 28. And its just.. this show puts such a big smile on my face when i watch it. Its really rare for even straight up comedies to make me grin this hard


                
Absolutely love the series! It is a great revival of the original franchise, it combines the gore and horror aspects of Evil Dead and Evil Dead 2 with the campy and over the top humor of Army of Darkness. The story is great, it is easy to relate to the characters, and it is simply just a fun show to watch for any horror/comedy fan! Highly recommend the series for a fun watch, or for anyone who wants to see some outrageous kills and gallons and gallons of blood!


                
Totally America's old school bloody & gory and uncensored movie style, add lots of comedy and disgusting stuff and you got exactly Evil Dead movie series just separated to a bunch of chapters. 
I love that show!!!


                
I am at a loss for words... they should have sent a poet. I specifically just signed up so I can express my unequivocal support for this work of art. Bruce you a God. LONG LIVE ASH!!!!!! The dialogue was superb, the fx magnificent and it all adds up to the perfect continuation of a cult classic. I didn't even realize that I had a hole in my life until today... a hole ladies and gentlemen that only ash and the evil dead could fill. LoL. I look forward to this show going on for years until they have to drag Bruce's geriatric ass to the set and push cocaine down his throat to make one more episode. Again, hats off and congratulations on a masterpiece. ENCORE!! ENCORE!! ENCORE!!!!!!!


                
I have to admit, i had high hopes for this show, only because Bruce Campbell "my favorite evil dead hero" is back. Usually, the pilot of nowadays shows fail to impress, they either succeed later or keep falling to their doom. The case is different for this one. The first episode was absolutely a blast. there was no unnecessary dialog, no boring characters, no bullshit. There is one clear fact about it. Evil is back and is not messing around or waiting. its coming with full weight. the episode is packed with amazing action, cheesy conversations and a lot of humor which is exactly what made the original movie a success. it will keep you entertain from start to finish, and leaving you wanting more. I'am looking forward to see the rest of the show. and i would recommend it to everyone.


                
Was really hoping this was going to kick ass and it certainly does. It's Evil Dead-tastic. Fans of the films will certainly not be disappointed, cheesy jokes, gore and chainsaw/shotgun action against the Dead-ites abounds. It feels like a natural extension of Evil Dead 2, with Ash gone to seed and feeling the miles as he straps on the shotgun to do battle again. Brilliant. With a massive amount of practical FX on the go and a real lo-fi feel to the whole affair it's like a Saturday night VHS gore-fest all over again. The pacing, laughs and splatters come thick and fast, it just feels right and is pitched at just the right level for the nostalgia crowd and the horror fans alike. Winner!!


                
We all loved the original Evil Dead and we all wanted it to badly to return in the cinemas, but little did we expect that it was gonna become one of the best TV shows out here.The whole show follows a similar pattern to the movie. The good guy (Ash) accidentally summons demons by reading out of Necronomicon, demons start possessing people and coming after the book, while Ash works his way through them one by one. He has his friends; Kelly and Pablo to help him out. Not soon after, we're introduced to a new semi villain (or even anti villain later) called Ruby Knowby. Apparently, she's the 'Dark One' and she's after the book she wants to use in order to keep demons at bay. As usual, the evil is not so easily defeated and we get to see the story continue in new seasons.What makes this show so good is the combination of horror and comedy elements. The show is somewhat lighthearted and pretty welcoming to all audiences, but at the same time, it's a brutal gore fest action show that makes any gore look funny no matter how brutal. The overall performances are decent, the writing and the pacing are both remarkably well made. I myself burned through all 2 seasons in 1 day and I'm impatiently waiting for 3rd season. If you watched the original movie franchise, I can guarantee you will love this show, probably even more than the movies and even if you never watched the movies, you'll still love it.
For you huge fans out there, you will love reuniting with our Ash and all the ghoulish evils. Same demons, same feeling when you watch it. Thumbs up. And also, the actors, bravo great choice. Thank you for making it a loyal to a T. Can't wait to watch the rest. The plot is still like the original but in a modern concept, love all the original stuff. The ghouls are awesome and still scare you silly. About time you came back Mr. Campbell and what about Lucy Lawless, OMG Love this actress.I hope it will last long because there is no other shows like this out there.I do hope we do find out who the lady cop really is. So if you guys love your classic, take time to watch this, it will be worth your while.A loyal a huge fan of Evil Dead.Oh and Bruce Campbell, you still have it! Have fun watching! Hélène :)


                
Oh my god Ash vs Evil Dead is probably one of the best ideas to bring to TV Shows. We're huge Sam Raimi fans and of course we love Evil Dead, the fact that they made a TV Series based on the movie and used original Ash; woot!So we checked out Ash vs Evil Dead and were extremely happy with the outcome. It follows the Evil Dead movies as sort of an extension while at the same time the style kept in check, beautifully created. This is a TV Show that is for the true fans, and I think they nailed it Perfectly. I cannot wait to continue watching every episode and season that comes out, great stuff!. I laughed so hard I almost cried in many parts as the show progression kept rocking from the beginning till the end. Highly recommended.


                
Fan of the Evil Dead series and you still haven't started this series yet? Then you're wasting your time reading IMDB - you'd better get Netflix if you haven't already, and start watching this hippodrome of gore and giggles, like right now.It's not a perfect show. But it's pretty darn close. Any splatter-film fan will love it merely for the effects and fun deaths, but anybody else should love it for the humor, the story, the entertainment, and the fact that while taking a modern spin, it's still so similar to the original series.So fans of the old stuff should be happy. Any horror fan should be happy. Anybody who doesn't mind over-the-top blood/guts should be happy. I don't even consider myself a huge fan of the original series, although I'd consider it all a horror staple, but this new series is off-the-charts hilarious and so much fun. Only advice is: DON'T TAKE IT SERIOUSLY. It's meant to be played for cheap laughs. It's meant purely to entertain. It's not meant to be deep, or thought-provoking, it's just meant to be a good, 'ol fashioned, 80's style, gore-fest, great-while-drunk-and-watching-with-your-roomates, extravaganza.I don't wanna oversell it, but I've laughed every episode so far and I'm in the middle of season 2 as of this moment. There are rarely any dull moments. I'm right now absolutely loving the Ash "muppet."Yes, like I said it has its flaws. But they are few and far in between. Honestly may come back later and give it a 10/10. (edit: I did!)EDIT: just found out they canceled it. It's a travesty unmatched since they cancelled Firefly. What the blankity-blank-blank were Starz THINKING?!?? This series was GOLD. Well, at least we got 4 seasons instead of one. Or even zero. Enjoy it, kiddos! And don't forget to boycott other Starz shows until they bring this one back!!


                
I'm going to keep this simple. This show is everything I could've hoped for as a fan. The writing is fresh, the jokes are on point, and somehow they always seem to one up themselves. I'm thrilled to see so many positive reviews. And since everyone is entitled to their opinion, my opinion is that the folks that have left poor reviews for this show are likely those that have lost the ability to feel. In closing, best friggin show ever! Just wish it was longer than 30min.


                
Ash vs Evil Dead is one in a million. A cult-classic television show born from one of the largest cult-classic film series of all time. Say what you will about the logic of the plot of the show, because at the end of the day the show plays by it's own rules, and it sticks to them through and through. It's corny, it's campy, it's awesome. Ash is the ultimate fuck-up, but still an amazing badass, a character that we can all see a bit of ourselves in, while simultaneously a bit embarrassed, much like your man-child dad. Every episode is like the best drug trip ever, and explosion of awesome action and amazing humor, with no time wasted before the end. The show holds no punches being outrageous, witty, and ultimately a fun time to be had. It's the kind of show I thought I would hate but found myself being unable to walk away from because of the sheer charm. I had never seen a single Evil Dead film prior, and I loved this show so much I had to get as much content as I could and watched every single film. I keep waiting for it to drop in quality but I just find myself having a thrilling time regardless of what happens, and it has yet to disappoint. I would HIGHLY recommend Ash vs Evil dead to horror, action, AND comedy fans alike. If you're not watching Ash vs Evil Dead yet then you are truly missing out on the experience of a lifetime.


                
Very few times a classic like the original Evil Dead can not only be duplicated but transformed into a series. They stayed old school and only made it better. The directing, the writing and especially the acting is some of the best ever for this genre . I will debate anybody otherwise .


                
I've already watched the 1st episode 4 times. I feel like I have to watch it again. I'm willing to bet Sam Raimi has a lot up his sleeve for the episodes to come. It's been a long wait and I wasn't expecting a good of start that it did. I was very excited to watch it and they pulled no stops. It has lived up to and went far beyond what I was hoping. The most epic part of this episode is, Ash flying, like Superman to catch the chainsaw. Sam had said he didn't think they could get nearly enough money to put together a new sequel. I'll bet the people who could have got the money to back it are crying right now. In fact, I believe this series type endeavor they have started could have been the better way to go. This way, there's always another episode coming and I wait on the edge of my seat for them. Acting, directing, screen writing...all across the board is superb. I don't recall any movie or series to start out with such high recommendations. I mean, 9.5 out of 10? That's unheard of on IMDb. Finally, there's something on TV that is worth watching, which isn't too likely these days. Yeah, it's going to be a GROOVEY ride !


                
I love that! All the old-style evil dead and Bruce. Good idea don't add "innovation" but stay on the style of the trilogy, new "fans" need to understand, "old" fans will love it. I think is a big lesson for who make remake of old series or movies. Simplicity win in this case and in future if something wrong will happen i'm sure fans will support, because Ash didn't betray himself. A big lesson learned too: where you hide your Necronomicon copy? Under the xxx mag and weed. This and many other gag are in line with the Ash character. The new fans don't expect big effects, Ash don't need that, especially in this series that finally Ash is more present in the scenes than before.


                
If you are a fan of the Evil Dead movies or Army of Darkness you will love this show!


                
I am a tad to cynical to laugh easily. I have seen many, many TV shows - and I laughed plenty watching the first episode. I have seen the Evil Dead movies as a younger person and I was concerned that this would not match my expectations. Wrong! Bruce is fantastic in the role of Ash (who else could play that role) and he has an excellent cast of colleagues. Such a good blend of humour and horror. Kudos to Sam Raimi, Bruce and all involved. Excellent entertainment. While being a horror buff in my younger days, I now prefer horror with a twist - and preferably humour as the twist. Hoping that the fun will continue for the rest of the season.


                
Ash is cancelled! This last bastion of comedy for adults has been abandoned, because it has bruised some snowflakes' delicate sensitivities. All the television shows that have been ruined by these same people - Arrow, Supergirl, Legends, et al, and squandered opportunities of the new Lost in Space *and even my beloved Walking Dead* - all with terrible ratings- that are so pc now they're unwatchable. RIP, Ash. You didn't fail us, you were sabotaged by the industry.


                
Being an Evil Dead fan, I was excited for this show before it aired...but now, 4 episodes in, it has been so much better than I ever expected and week after week, I find myself eagerly anticipating the next episode.And don't worry if you're not familiar with the Evil Dead movies, you definitely do not need to remember them vividly or even have seen them to enjoy this show. Conveniently, they brief the viewer on the Evil Dead story in episode 1 as Ash tells his co-worker, Pablo (AKA the kid DeNiro accused Focker of having with the family's housekeeper in Meet the Fockers), so you'll know everything you need to know before the show even takes off and can enjoy it no matter what your history with the Evil Dead franchise has been.It's perfectly executed as a "30 years later" story and I love the direction it is going. Also glad that it is a TV show and not a movie because that leaves room for so much more to happen. I watched several seasons of "Burn Notice" and was a big fan of Bruce Campbell's character, Sam, from that show. He was just such a likable guy, just like Bruce has always seemed. To me, Ash in this show has been a combination of the wit and charm of Sam from "Burn Notice" and of course the Ashley J Williams we have known from the Evil Dead movies...and it makes for the perfect lead. No spoilers here, just general plot points. As I already mentioned, the show takes place 30 years after the events of Evil Dead. Ash now seems to live a fairly normal/simple life, working at a hardware store, living in a trailer park and is friendly with everyone. He is single but seemingly leading a happy regular middle aged guy life...then, the "poop" hits the fan and the Necronomicon Ex-Mortis returns to "Finish What He Started". My only complaint is that the show is only a half hour long because every time an episode ends, I am thirsty for more!! Especially the way episode 4 ended. Can't wait until next week! But, that's how GOOD TV shows are supposed to make you feel. Thankfully I grew up needing to wait a week to see the continuance of a television program. Nowadays, this generation is more into binge watching entire seasons at once. I have some friends who won't even start watching a show until after it's over so they can watch them all in a row. I like having a few that I watch weekly/regularly and think about during the interim. It's more exciting having to be patient...I guess...Definitely looking forward to the rest of this season, and glad that there is already a season 2 happening! Yes, Starz renewed the show for a Season 2, three days before episode 1 even aired. You know when that type of thing happens, that you've got a good one (also happened with Better Call Saul). Enjoy!


                
Bruce Campbell can't end it like that we gotta have a season 4 and many more. Same with the movies. There ain't no killing deadites like ash does.


                
I'm enjoying this show! Music and all these trash make it looks really cool! Especially Ash!


                
That's what the high-end on-screen product is.Of course, the brand's slash-hardcore & humor doesn't dominate in every episode, but the job of every single member of the crew & cast (even in cases of an appearance for a few seconds) is always exellent.Warner Bros. & DC really should take a master-class from the Raimi Bros. & Co (Bruce Campbell, Lucy Lawless etc.).To get the full output from this masterpiece it's strictly recommended to watch before it these classical legends: 1) https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083907/ ; 2) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0092991/ ; 3) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0106308/


                
With limitless material and with an unlimited fan base this series should be popular as long as the actors and directors are enjoying their work.
Ash vs Evil Dead checks all the box's as far as whats wanted and adds in that little extra unexpected quirkiness to attract newer viewers at will.


                
First off, this show was cancelled too soon after one of its best seasons, and that will forever piss me off. Second, this is a great continuation of the Evil Dead franchise. It explores the Book of the Dead and all the different demons it can summon, and has some really badass gore scenes. Some are gross, most are hilarious, and all of them have this twisted creativity that make this show stand out. After following this show from the beginning, I'm really sad to see it go. But even though Bruce Campbell is retiring the role, I know the deadite-slaying Ash Williams will live on eternally.


                
A hell of a joyride - best show around for the real gorehound and lover of bad humor. Three seasons of finest entertainment. Hope, the show will get more seasons, maybe on another channel, as the last episode of season 3 got a nice cliffhanger.Anyway, this show is proof - the most inventive and strongest shows are many times just not made for the masses. Bruce Campbell and his fine crew beat easy everything that is contemporary aired under the label of horror and/or comedy.Of course, it is very sad to see what kind of mediocre and boring shows are renewed, and this excellent show gets cancelled. But anyway, thanks for the hellride - and hopefully the adventures of Ashy-Slashy will be someday continued. Bruce Campbell - easy one of the finest comedy actors around. Bravo!


                
