Is there even one fan out there who wasn't at least a little disappointed in season 8 of "The Walking Dead"? I mean, the ratings are pretty clear that a lot of people stopped watching in the wake of the grotesquely mishandled season 6 finale but millions of us stuck with it. I guess we all thought that if we could make it through season 2's neverending stay on Hershel's farm, we could sit through anything but who could have foreseen the non-stop dumpster fire of used diapers and Indian food that season 8.
I have unfortunately watched way too much television in my lifetime and I can state categorically that I have never seen a show as good as "The Walking Dead" get so bad so quickly. And yes, despite what all the haters out there want to pretend, "The Walking Dead" used to be a damn good show. It had its problems but they were mostly due to questionable creative decisions like "Hey, let's destroy Andrea's character by making her cuddle up to The Governor" or "Hey, you know what viewers want? An entire episode focused on Tara and Heath!"
Season 8 has featured some of the worst writing I've ever seen on a top rated TV show. And Negan and his men going from Seal Team Six to the Three Stooges and back to Seal Team Six for no reason wasn't even the worst of it. What exactly was Rick's plan when he went to talk to Jadis and the Garbage People? When they took him prisoner, I thought "Cool. This is some plan for Rick to get inside their junkyard and then Daryl and company show up next week to kick some Garbage-butt." But no, it turns out that Rick's entire plan was to show up and convince them to join the rebellion against the Saviors based on nothing but his irresistible charisma. AAAAARRRRGH!!!
Well, if you're starting to wonder if it's time to end your unhealthy relationship with "The Walking Dead," there IS an alternative. "Ash vs. Evil Dead" stars the incomparable Bruce Campbell in the TV continuation of the "Evil Dead/Evil Dead 2/Army of Darkness" horror trilogy. It picks up the adventures of the only hero with a chainsaw hand 30 years after the events of the films and it amazingly blends the gore and over-the-top theatrics of the first two "Evil Dead" movies with the absurd humor and attitude of "Army of Darkness."
I previously wrote about season one of "Ash vs. Evil Dead", so this time let's take a look at season two. It picks up with Ash (Bruce Campbell) having the time of his life in Jacksonville after making a deal with the mysterious immortal Ruby (Lucy Lawless) to free himself from the burden of the Necronomicon, the mystically powerful Book of the Dead. He's joined by his comrades from season one, the relentlessly supportive Pablo (Ray Santiago) and the more-cynical-but-has-nowhere-else-to-go Kelly (Dana DeLorenzo). But when Ruby's plans for the Book go awry, she's forced to call on Ash and his fellow "Ghost-Beaters" for help.
That leads to Ash's return to his old hometown of Elk Grove, Michigan and reunions with his estranged father (Lee Majors), his ex-girlfriend (Michelle Hurd), his old high school running buddy (Ted Raimi), and a town full of people who hate and fear "Ashy Slashy" as the guy who murdered his sister and friends at a cabin in the woods. It turns out the help Ruby needs is to prevent the resurrection of a demon named Baal (Joel Tobeck), who loves to psychologically manipulate we humans into tearing each other apart, and it eventually involves Ash and company time-traveling back to the early 1980s.
I don't want to give away any spoilers because season two is quite enjoyable and, at 10 half-hour episodes, you can binge-watch it in a single weekend. The "Evil Dead" films and Bruce Campbell's B-movie shtick are something of an acquired taste but it you've enjoyed them in the past, "Ash vs. Evil Dead" is definitely something you should check out. In all honesty, season two isn't quite as strong as season one, which had a basic quest plotline that carried through all the episodes. Season two essentially has a four episode prologue, followed by a four episode story with the main villain, and concludes with a two episode epilogue.
Those middle four episodes are really strong, with the show even managing to take one of the most hackneyed plots in drama and turn it into something pretty interesting, but those bookend episodes aren't quite to that level. The prologue is very focused on Ash's return to Elk Grove but it doesn't appear they completely thought through that premise. Not only are both Campbell and Ash a little long in the tooth for the "man returns home to confront the sins of his youth" storyline, the writers treated the premise like it was a punch line. If a bunch of young people got butchered in the woods and one survived, what actually happened next? Was Ash prosecuted for murder? Was he sent to an insane asylum for all his talk about Deadites? Has Ash been a wanted fugitive all this time? The show offers no explanation at all, which is kind of a problem when that's the main linchpin for the first four episodes.
And there was reportedly some behind-the-scenes conflict with the "Ash vs. Evil Dead" creators and I believe it after watching the last two episodes. They start out fairly strong, though hamstrung by echoing the ending of season one, but the final episode of season two ends with a scene that legitimately makes not a lick of sense and has three "Force-ghosts" show up like it's a Star Wars spin off.
Those issues, though, don't detract that much from the really fun and funny good time to be had watching season two. The prologue episodes have one of the craziest scenes I've ever watched in my entire life. Dana DeLorenzo is absolutely outstanding. Kelly is kind of third wheel when it comes to the plot but DeLorenzo is so good you can't imagine the show without her. There are some truly surprising twists and things are even flat out scary at times, which is damn hard to do with this kind of program. Most horror TV shows rapidly turn into action shows with monsters but there are moments when season two will creep you out. And Bruce Campbell, of course, is and remains THE MAN.
"Ash vs. Evil Dead" season two is extremely gory and has a buttload of profanity, so it's not something to view with the whole family unless it's The Addams Family or The Munsters. But if you want to watch a show that only wants to entertain you, rather than one that seems to be deliberately trying to frustrate and anger you...give it some sugar.
I had very ambivalent feelings towards a TV-series "sequel" to the original Evil Dead trilogy. I feared they couldn't get the same feeling or that it may become some kind of reboot (ie. disaster). It started a bit shaky, lacking the "feel" of Evil Dead but towards mid-season there was a noticeable shift in the scripting and acting and every episode became more Evil Dead than the one before. The last couple of episodes of season one were proper sequel-stuff, complete with Ash being Ash. If season two continues with the same (or better) quality and style as season one ended we're really getting something quite unique: a TV-series based on a comedy horror movie franchise with the same main actor reprising his role in the same quality and style of Evil Dead 2.


                
The first episode was... not bad. It had some great moments, but it felt somewhat artificial. The acting is a bit stiff, and timing in the dialogue is kinda limpy, you can tell that they're waiting their turn to say their lines, which are sometimes delivered very flatly (especially true for Ray Santiago, but no one is completely innocent here). You can also usually tell when a line is only written as an assist for another actor as it's being delivered, and that's awful. Another thing I noticed is that soundtrack and camera movement sometimes fail to emphasize the action, which is weird because Raimi had that s*** covered decades ago. Also the cable stunts are just downright clumsy (when aren't they?). There are also way too many characters for a 30 minutes episode, so you end up not really caring about most of them, and the story becomes fragmented. The good thing is, it's just the first episode. The actors will surely get more and more used to each other and develop a (much needed) chemistry. The rest is up to the writers and directors. The effects are cool and gory, the humor is there (mostly), there's lots of fanservice and Damien Garvey absolutely kills it as the "asshole" boss (he's right though). Can't think of anything else right now, I guess we'll see.


                
As a massive fan of the evil dead trilogy, I loved this series. It really did hit all the right notes for the those who adored the original movies, and with an even better production value, theres much entertainment to be found within all 3 seasons. Ash is back, and more badass and sarcastic than ever before. However, placing my inner fanboy aside now, there were some issues that became more and more apparent as the seasons progressed.My main gripe with the series is that it takes itself very seriously at times. When there are scary scenes the show plays them straight. What made the movies wonderful for me was how cartooney it all was. Even with the violence and gore, it was comical and played more for laughs. You were laughing because of the absurdity of it all. Rarely were you supposed to be actually frightened by the things happening on screen. The series has some dark moments that dont fit the tone that the films had, and they seem out of place and forced.Also there were too many side characters. It was painfully obvious who was to be cannon fodder for demons later on. Most of the time the side characters stay on the sidelines with not much to do while Ash reeks havoc. I always thought of Ash as the lone wolf with his burden to bear of killing demons, but I guess times change. A small complaint but something that became worse as the seasons progressed.All in all it's still a great series with scenes of laughs and violence alike, especially for fans of the movies. Its great to see Bruce back with the chainsaw, but in the end it will only leave you wanting to rewatch the old classics.


                
The show is fun and stupid in a good way, but I think it should have ended after the first season. I want to point out another thing. I know that this this show has nothing to do with reality, but no chainsaw on earth would survive only one episode.


                
Well, I am a fan of the original movie, duh. It's a classic and actually both funny and scary. I had heard of this series, but when it was introduced to Netflix Finland, I thought that now it's time to check it out. And the show is awesome. It moves constantly forward, there are no meaningless moments. The show is everything; raw, hilarious, gory and filled with likeable characters. (Bruce Campbell and Lucy freeeeaking Lawless are legends!) The best thing about it is that it's soooo faithful to the original story and atmosphere. It's like Evil dead the movie has been updated and given a longer story line. It still doesn't take itself too seriously and why should it?!
I am now on the last episode of season one and I'm so sad there's only 20 episodes left! Whenever you feel like the movies and series nowadays lack real comedy and great storytelling, always remember Ash vs. Evil Dead. This show is just amazing.
The only reason why I'm not giving it a 10, is some minor details, like how is it possible that the cabin is still intact and no officials ever investigated what happened there? Also some convenient stuff, like how can the trailer be so much bigger from the inside? But that's just me nit-picking.EDIT: I just watched the last episode of the whole series and I am changing my rating from 9 to 7. The first season was honestly great but the second and the third turned in to a mess and even though I don't expect a series about Evil Dead to be the most logical series, the shread of logic from the first season was completely thrown away. I'm no longer that upset that they cancelled the show, I would have probably stopped watching it after this season. Such a shame.


                
Ash Williams (Bruce Campbell) is an one-handed, trailer-living, dirty bar bathroom sex having slacker. It's been 30 years since his fight against evil and strange things start happening again. He accidentally drug-induced read from the Necronomicon Ex-Mortis which he keeps in a trunk. The Evil is coming back. He wants to run away but co-worker Pablo Simon Bolivar sees him as El Jefe. New co-worker Kelly Maxwell at ValueStop gets pulled into the madness. Police officer Amanda Fisher survives a Deadite attack and follows Ash in her investigation. Ruby (Lucy Lawless) claims to be Professor Raymond Knowby's daughter and is searching for the Necronomicon. In the third and final season, Ash is joined by newly discovered teenage daughter Brandy.This series is for anyone who enjoys blood-splattering fun. Bruce Campbell is full on Army of Darkness Ash. The first season is able to survive on the one joke where everybody else is surprised while Ash takes care of business. The second season gets re-energized by the addition of Lucy Lawless and the show stumbles onto the need of an actual antagonist. The third season is the best narratively and cohesively. There's a villain and an evil plan. It becomes a complete show just as Starz cancels it.


                
After picking up a woman at a bar and banging her from behind Ash gets a warning reminding him of an evil he encountered 30 years ago. With the book of dead in his possession he realises he may have to face up to a little mistake and save his town.In terms of cult horror nostalgia Ash versus the Evil Dead captures the tone of the films perfectly thanks to Sam Raimi's foundation setting direction of the debut episode El Jefe.Raimi offers floating P.O.V forest shots, blood, gore, twisted heads and demonic voices within the first 12 minutes. Later there's Vaule Stop stockroom action with a maniac toy doll and flashback exposition using the first two films. Raimi throws in more floating P.O.V shots this time in a car park, there's creepy demon faces in a diner, a Lucio Fulci eye tribute and Lucy Lawless for good measure. To top the episode off a cop investigates the odd occurrences and Ash teams up with two co- workers to take on a demon in an action packed caravan showdown.Bruce Campbell is outstanding and intriguingly expands the character of aged Ash Williams. Written by Raimi, Ivan Raimi and Tom Spezialy the first episode's production values are high, many of the effects are first rate, the horror delivers scares and the comedy is on sleazy point.As one of newest batch of film properties becoming TV shows this encapsulates the essence of the Evil Dead, basically it's a chainsaw-handed, reluctant demon hunter fan's dream.
The is a great show. It is a fellow up to the film The Army of Darkness. The Army of Darkness is scarier. The original version The Evil Dead from 1981 is also scarier. The Evil Dead 2 is also scarier. The 2013 remake of The Evil Dead is also scarier. But still this a very scary show. It has great acting. It also has great story lines. It also has great special effects. Bruce Campbell is a great actor. Ray Santiago is a great actor. Dana DeLorenzo is a great actress. 9.1 IS kind of over rating it. But still this is a great show. I mean it is close to being a 9.1 but not quite. Watch this show. It is a great show. It is 7 out 10. A great show. See it.


                
I must first of all mention that Campbell is and has since the 80's been one of my 'actually existing' gods and will forever remain to be. That said, hearing the word that day years ago, that the three guys who once created the perhaps best horror (comedy) trilogy ever, where at it again. Man I became mindblown and massively excited. And absolutely, the series started off well..In short - First season? Excellent entertainment, great salute to the old days and worth my personal time. Then from 2th or 3th season those annoying and stupid as posts' hipster sidekicks started to become with every episode a nuisance so tiresome, it affected the whole experience to watch further. Horrific acting, how the hell these two got the parts by Stars is beyond me, not even b-movie humour level of funny.I did however watch further to the last season, but it was simply because of Bruce. Well.. and Xena, sure.


                
Right let's start off with just saying this series is just so much fun Bruce Cambell is spot on, he is funny and can tell he absolutely loves being Ash.The films are paid homage and the campy horror aspects are well replicated, you are seeing a more tongue in cheek version of the gore and violence you may remember being frightened of as a kid. The violence is so visceral it makes you want to look away and the actors Cleary own being possessed.The blood is plentiful the banter is superb there is a scene in the second episode that had me cringing gasping and laughing in the space of a minute.I would defiantly recommend this series, in a world full of deep thought provoking hour long dramas a half hour show about reanimated corpses getting decapitated by a man with a chainsaw arm and a 'boomstick' whilst delivering one liners is very welcome in my viewing history.If you love shows that don't take them selves serious you will love this.


                
I had watched Evil Dead as a kid and I still remember the skeleton tossing its head around as a 'move' of some sort. Things like that have an impact and Evil Dead made a good one. I was as thrilled as everyone else at a return of the famous Bruce Campbell and the deadites, and season one did not disappoint. So, in typical Ash fashion he mucks it up again and lo and behold they're back! Cue the comic gore fest and quest to retrieve lost object and vanquish evil. All in a day's work. He's joined by two trusty sidekicks who keep him (or try to) on the straight and narrow. So far so good. However, the question really arises at the start of season 2. How far can you go with the same basic plot and same deadites and same gore? The answer, for me, is not very far at all. Despite Xena and her entourage (see what i did there :P), the show fails to keep my attention. After about 4 episodes of the second season, I just don't feel like watching anymore. I might end up reading a review of the finale and that is all I will need to know everything. Don't get me wrong, the actors are fine, the stories are fine and the gore is undoubtedly fun, but there is nothing new here. Maybe they should have created a limited series. Maybe it will get cancelled. I would not be surprised if it did.


                
