Let's see. What was the problem? 8.5 on IMDB? Lot of episodes above 9? Solid fanbase? Millions of viewers around the globe? This show was getting better and better... And Grey's Anatomy is continued for the 15th season. What is wrong with the world? How many demons GA has? Exactly zero? How many ripped off heads? Also zero? And how many chainsaws? Yep, 0. Ok, it has fake blood, but still Ash wins by miles there, too.
This show is great, it is a solid 9 and that is rare. Let's hope that a network, with white collars' IQ above 60, will buy the franchise and continue till the cows come home.


                
Season One Review.Reading from the Book of the Dead, whilst high and trying to impress a girl, Ash Williams reawakens the evil forces that have laid dormant for the last 30 years. Along with his colleagues Pablo and Kelly, Ash travels across country to try and find some way to stop the demonic forces once and for all.... Or at the very least make it someone else's problem. God I loved this! I am absolute target audience, I accept. I had the films on Video, then DVD and now on Blu Ray. . so the very idea of a series continuing Ash's story was always going to be an easy sell to me. Then we had the slight hiccup that I don't have the channel the show airs on in the UK, but I've now seen the first season on Blu Ray and here I am. It did not disappoint. Very much in keeping with the tone of Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness, the series uses largely practical special effects to tell a hyper violent funny story, that re-hits some of the best beats from the films; the cabin, the reanimated hand, Evil Ash, the book of the dead and most importantly, the chainsaw hand. Bruce Campbell returns to his signature role without missing a beat, keeping the arrogance that we saw in Army Of Darkness, but adding a smudging of regret and desperation for the life denied him since that fateful day at the Cabin.  Ash is joined by Pablo ( Ray Santiago ) and Kelly on his trip (Dana DeLorenzo) who provide a fresh audience's entry way into the story, should they not have been watching the movies for the past 30 years. Performances are broad, as the subject matter requires it to be, but both prove welcome additions as the season continues. Also new to the story is Ruby, played by Lucy Lawless, who believes that Ash is the cause of the death and destruction that he fights against. Other characters come and go across the season, and when they go... it's usually in some horrifically violent manner. But it's not all comedy, there are some genuine scares, with the possession demon around the series half way point, and the horrific Children in the finale. The story is interesting and manages to find a way to weave a lot of those film points back into the plot, without them seeming desperate or forced. The music choices are agreeable and New Zealand does a good job of doubling for the States. Occasionally, the visual affects betray the budget, though usually only when the have opted for a CGI rather than practical solution and I can imagine it's not as much fun for people who don't have pre-existing love for the franchise but generally it's a cavalcade of blood spraying, chainsaws slicing and heads exploding and I can't wait to get season two.


                
Long time since I reviewed anything lately, but after watching up til season 3 episode 3, this show just screams for it.For me this show is the pinnacle of netflix entertainment -> core elements are humor, gore, anything ridiculous can happen at any time, brainless nonsense, etc.It's like the entire cast of Xena: Warrior princess are having a reunion and having a blast while at it (which shows). Casting is top notch and even while some scenes are obviously cringy, just objectively deconstruct the scene and see how fantastic they even pulled that off.Acting, directing, producing, cinematography, music; really everything is on point.Starz entertainment, thank you so much for taking this leap of Ash!


                
Ash is back in action! It has been over 20 years since the last time Ash fought deadites and he has taken a long vacation until the evil has struck again and Ash is sprung back in action with his chainsaw and boomstick back in his possession. But this time, he is not fighting alone, he will bring friends with him to stop the evil once and for all (again). I don't have to wait for a whole season to pass the judgment on, because I have a high hope this series will be as good as the Evil Dead trilogy, or it can be even better. I cannot wait to watch the rest of the first season and the future seasons it may feature on TV. True, he may be an old man, but it does not mean he doesn't have the same strength as he had one nearly 30 years ago because he will kick deadite's butts!Welcome back, Ash!


                
In addition to the piles off grotesque and crazy violence, hardly anyone is able to start so well in media res as Raimi.


                
If you take this show seriously, you really need an attitude adjustment. This show is Evil Dead 2 on steroids it's gory, fun and full of puns (request: needs some demonic nuns). For fans of the movies everything's here deadites, chainsaws, the cabin, the trailer, the necronomicon, the Kandairan dagger and back story.As a fan of the original trilogy of movies, the Ash v Evil Dead TV series is an awesome addition to the evil dead franchise.


                
This was such a funny show with tons of action and gore. I seriously can't believe Starz is cancelling the show after 3 seasons. One of, if not the best, horror TV show available.


                
After a disappointing re . . . make/boot/dux/hash . . . whatever, the king is back! HAIL! HAIL! HAIL! You might be thinking this is just going to be another fanboy rant from some gushing deadite screeching something about swallowing your soul. Well swallow this . . . it is(gotcha didn't I ya little sucker, so drop a star or two if you're not). Now it's time for Raimi and Campbell to send us back, like in the deal. It wasn't just pillow talk baby, they meant what they said, this has been made for the fans.Ash has aged since we last saw him and along with some new teeth arrive some new side characters such as his co-workers Pablo(who believes Ash to be El Jefe, a prophesied savior) and Kelly(Ash knows she wants a little, she just hasn't realized it herself yet). Given his experiences in the past it's understandable that Ash doesn't want to deal with the situation he, once again, has unwittingly created but it isn't long before he realizes that the boomstick and chainsaw are a better idea than trying to run.Ahuh, that's right . . . who's laughing now . . . WHO'S LAUGHING NOW?!Here's your new home.
So first off, big fan of the movies! Tons of gore and buckets soon buckets of blood! They were very fun to watch and this show is no different! Ash is up to all his old tricks and acts just like how you remember! Double barrel in one hand, and chainsaw hand on the other side! He hacks and slashes, and let's not forget blasts his way through the dead! If u like the evil dead then you owe it to yourself to at least take a peak at this!As far as production and effects go, they must have a decent budget. The environment and surroundings are good stuff and the skull crushing and face blasting are great! Wait till u see the episode when he's in the morgue retrieving "the book" what happens in that fight seen will have u either puking or rolling in laughter or maybe a pinch of both! Season 1 was awesome and season 2 is just as good if not better so far! Watch it!


                
Evil Dead<U+0085>Ah yes, a very humble horror flick that went the way of Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre<U+0085>.a timeless genre classic in spite of it's very pedestrian production values and simple story. But, wait<U+0085>there's folks like me that never watched it. It wasn't that I was "above" doing so, it was I really hadn't caught up to the inherent "cool factor" of the larger idea of killer zombies. It took some time for me, hey I'm in my fifties and it finally came with Shawn Of The Dead, but I digress as that's not important now (insert Airplane reference).What's cool is Bruce Campbell who, because I originally missed Evil Dead, blipped on my screen in the Bubba Ho-Tep "what the hell is it" movie. Bruce then cemented his special way of stealing a scene (every week) with his excellent Sam Axe (I see a common thread here) character on the equally excellent TV series Burn Notice. It certainly didn't hurt that Evil Dead's director Sam Rami was also going from very good to great. So, with this setup I finally noticed Ash Vs. Evil Dead . I watched all episodes in the typical binge mode and then had to go back and discover the original movie (I may not watch the 2 sequels as it would probably not be necessary). Rami and Campbell have all the backing and cred now to do something even more "off-the- wall" and they push that envelope with some degree of abandon: creativity that never lets the viewer down. Just the opening segment with fantastic Deep Purple rock and roll gets this viewer hooked and nothing has even really happened in Ashley's re-conjuring the evil dead back yet! Ash is now a bit past his prime shelf life and that's addressed just as the dead gets it wake up call, of course by Ash's mis-step. What follows is like all the creativity of a Second City comedy troupe morphed with crazy overdone zombie mayhem. I just wish I had stock in whatever company supplies the fake blood because it flows and splats continuously with some real flair as to various zombie deconstructions. The Ash character actually works better with some age and swagger which Campbell pours on in seemingly endless quantity. The few recurrent characters are anchored by the excellent Pablo (a spot-on performance by Ray Santiago) as Ash's second banana. Add the flair of a femme fatale turned uber zombie killer team member named Kelly. Dana DeLorenzo's Kelly possesses the right mix of looks, physicality, and street smart "wise-ass" swagger. What we now have is a much grittier version of a Ghostbusters-ish squad bent on saving themselves and the world. This ride gets going in the first episode and just gets wilder and wilder - to great effect!The music is so important with this show: just like another character in the rowdy mix. The attitude of more is not just better, but a requisite, keeps the watcher fully engaged and entertained. Anything goes and boy does it go with each episode leaving the viewer wanting more. Of course, there will probably be a critical mass where all the creativity can't hide the sameness, but when it's this good I say "not yet, keep this stuff coming"!
If you're a evil dead fan then you should be watching. Aside for the lower budget settings this is everything from evil dead. Ash is still really awesome and it is both funny and sad to see him hiding from what had happened but this quickly changes and he's back to his old bad-ass self :) The pilot is really Rami's and it is a little shame that he won't be directing the rest. However that doesn't mean the second episode wasn't great either.You won't be disappointed with the show and setting, it's really good. I cna't wait for episode three already. I am not a fan of Lucy Lawless so I'm really not looking forward to her introduction. To be honest I don't know why she's even included. But we'll see.
(Pilot) 'Ash Vs The Evil Dead' gave me exactly what I was wanting. Ash is back and sleazier than ever. the show picks up 30 years after the previous movies where we find an even more pig headed and blow heart Bruce Campbell. The humour and horror are a nice mix between Evil Dead 2 & Army of Darkness (Which leads it to be either too funny or too serious to some 'fans'). For continuity that I hear so many complain about... what continuity? Each film partially retconned the previous and changed up the genre. The only consistent thing about Evil Dead is its inconsistency. On to episode 2 baby!


                
The show itself is definitely headed down the right path. Instead of the gritty drama shows that we're used to like The Walking Dead and Game Of Thrones, this show has a lighter mood to it. It's not that there isn't moments of danger and suspense, but the overall strength of this show is in its ability to play off itself and bring a playful tone to this genre of TV show.The show does a great job of filling you in on the events that happened in the movie. It takes place 30 years after what happened in The Evil Dead and it's definitely good enough to be a stand-alone show all by itself. It delivers plenty of gore, jump scares, and funny moments and it's quickly becoming one of my favorite shows to watch. The Deadites (monsters in the show) designs look really amazing. Only a few of them look silly at times, but most of the deadites look incredibly intimidating and nightmare inducing.For a show like this, I'm glad to say that the story is actually very entertaining. I definitely recommend you give this show a chance. It won't to appeal to everyone, but you won't know unless you watch it.


                
Ash vs Evil Dead sees a much welcome return to the small screen of something of a iconic horror brand, The Evil Dead. Its been long time coming too, the original big screen films date from 1981 and the follow up Army of Darkness 1991 respectively.The once young leading actor Bruce Campbell has predictably aged. This has proved no impediment to making a new series. This may be camp as "hell", pun intended but its done cleverly. Campbell is painted as an aging Lothario, hiding out to this day, from the evils which still lurk in the world of man. Its great fun and see's Campbell's loser character transformed into an amusingly odd hero, of a kind, when his oafish sexual antics allow the evil to find him and wreak havoc upon the world, once again. I can think of little that's not to like here. Its absurd but then its supposed to be. Everything is done in a light hearted, if bloody way, that works extremely well. Campbell's performance mixes comic and action scenes seamlessly. Its almost as if Bruce Campbell were destined to excel in this role. So any downside? Well that's somewhat subjective in this case. If you don't like bloody, somewhat gory, horror/comedy then this is not for you. That said, I'm loving Campbell's long overdue return to this over the top series. Nine out of ten from me.


                
I just saw the premiere episode of Ash vs Evil Dead and to sum it all up there's just one thing to say:<U+202C> Groovy .Without getting into spoiler territory you will be treated with a lot of handmade special effects, just a little CGI, the main character we're all used to, great camera work and an interesting plot. My thanks to Sam Raimi. Every minute of the first episode was a thrill, mixed with a lot of fan service and enough new material to be interested in more. And it just had the right amount of madness the movie trilogy had. Even with Raimi not returning for other episodes in this season I have high hopes for a fun series with a lot of action 80's style. Now I'm somehow not willing to return to The Walking Dead - no chainsaws.My recommendation: 9 out of 10. Time to dance.


                
This is just awesome, it is kind of like getting back to the good old days, really a blast seeing Campbell in his old role and it looks like he is having a lot of fun being back :)I usually watch some series for myself, because they are not something the wife want's to see, this is one of them and I am really excited about it, the wife sometimes listen or walks in when I watch it and she just comments "what is this, is that really good, something you like" and I can only respond "it is Groovy" with a big smile on my face.If you have seen the films, this is great to follow, it is really back in it's old shape with weird and b-movie like effects and it is awesome.


                
I'm not a big B(C)-movie fan, I just feel bad most of the time wasting my free time on a stupid plot, bad actors, cheesy CG, lousy editing, horrendous dubbing, you name it. But I think this show, especially the 2nd season is just hilarious. Lot of nerdy quotes from the original movies (that were never as much fun as the series), tongue-in-cheek references from other movies, really good special effects (the "anal" scene from the morgue will haunt me to my old days :) ), Bruce Campbell. Just great. Hopefully we get many more seasons (with episodes of more than 20 mins, please).


                
I really wish this show got to have the season 4 that it teased when it was already cancelled by Starz. I thought that setting would have been great, eliminating the negatives of dealing w/ police/real world things that took away from the story or enjoyment. In a way it would have been like starting where Army of Darkness left off when he went too far into the future before they changed the ending.I think season 1/Pilot is probably the best episode or Season 3's first for how Evil Dead movies theme and feeling. Maybe some would consider Season 2 to be more like Evil Dead in that it was more horror than three stooges or comedy. Yet I felt the person running show at that time didn't get Ash or the logic of Evil Dead having many ideas I don't agree with or that fit him and show. Like he wanted to make a main character to really be the daughter of ASH. When if anything her being his half sister would have fit better with who his father is in the series :). When he did get a daughter introduced I think her blond friend would have fit him better ;).I knew it was a bad sign when guy who was associated w/ B!tch Slap movie which I have on DVD... Not to mention ruining my favorite character from Teen Titans "Starfire"... Turning her into some black crack working girl stripper or whatever abomination? Instead of the sweet loving, innocent alien we all came to know and love etc :). To be fair I thought his first episode of Season 3 was really good... Though I think as a season it would have been better if he used that blond who worked in the hardware store much more than she was :).Negatives for me might be Lucy Lawless, police involvement, modern world, others all over involved over Ash... I could see at times they focused too much time on his sidekicks or others over him. I watched Xena, Callisto was my favorite on that, getting to see many actors from that was great... Though I didn't like Baal, that being a major story line was a big negative... Lawless I wasn't crazy about, she never seemed to get her own costume or look. Its like Xena isn't cool without that outfit or don't work right... You might remember she had a different costume before finally getting the really iconic look :). What looked like naked people painted black didn't quite work for me. Many things that moved away from Deadites or the classic logic. Parts involving mental asylum or much of season 2 just wasn't my thing even if others liked it. To me it just wasn't Evil Dead it was like when this movie The Nude Bomb came out from Get Smart. You could tell the guy didn't get it or even really like the show, even if they might have meant well...Positives include Ash coming back in his iconic role along with many from prior shows or movies he has been involved in. I wasn't big on the KOS or whatever theme, I liked the animation aspects they mixed in. That would make for a cool show if they were ever able to do some sorta rotoscoping or animated Evil Dead movie or series. I felt good about what could have been if they got season 4 from way it ends teasing it. Maybe they can make a movie based on that to appease us fans who don't have much else going for us :)? I broke down to get HDTVs just to watch this show :). I thought who they picked to play his dad was pretty good even if I thought it was James Caan at first ;). I wont ruin anything other then the time lost to any who read this ;).I'd say check out season 1, if don't enjoy season 2, skip ahead to season 3 before giving up on the show. I gave it a 9 overall as a fan of the original Evil Dead trilogy not so much the reboot or remake ;). I liked Bruce Campbell in many other things especially Bubba Ho-Tep even if he wont be in the sequel that will never be made ;). The writing wasn't quite right at times, some of the lines by other characters especially :). I feel a lot better it ended after season 3 instead of 2. Dead By Dawn...


                
The show is funny and entertaining I which that they could of finished the show completely with out a cliffhanger. The show is very gory and groovy as Ash would say. I loved the characters. They all are interesting and you will care about them. Just watch this groovy show.


                
This is plain and simple FUN. If you watched the original movies and liked them you will love this. It has all the fun of the original movies but with amped-up gore and way better special effect (be it just as campy).I have the Stars channel but kept skipping it. Caught in small doses, it did seem a little stupid. Then just yesterday I decided to give it a fair try by watching it on Demand. The first episode was good, be it a little slow, but it amped-up fast and was roaring along by the time they got back to the cabin. Creepy, creepy, creepy. . . still to this day and killer fun . . . still to this day. If you love gore, if you love SFX, if you love ridiculous one-liners that you can repeat to your friends and family ad nauseum this is the show for you. Been binge watching all day and love it. I think you will too.
Thank you Bruce for a bunch of great.... awesome moments. This show rocks.


                
Spectacular series from the cult movies of Bruce Campbell.
Funny, gorey and overtop but I expected nothing less from it.


                
I never watched the original Ash vs evil dead, but man am I stomped. This show makes you laugh while giving you the most brutal and nasty scenes you ever seen. Dark asf, and hillarious asf. Love the punchlines, lost count of em because there are so many. Highly recommended!


                
This show's release was a breath of fresh air to me. I am sure anyone who was also sick of the amount of annoying and lame horror series we have been getting of late also felt some sort of relief after hearing of this shows release.I for one am a great fan of the classic horror movies and evil dead was one of them; it had everything you would expect from a horror movie. It even added humor as a bonus, something that is rare in horror movies.This same classic gem has been resurrected, and it is still as colorful as ever. It has all the qualities from the original which makes t really memorable.In conclusion this resurrection of ash vs evil dead is worth a watch. Whether you have already seen the original or not is of no consequence because this show delivers all kind of tastes in different flavors to keep you glued.I would advise you to see the first two original movies before you start with this series, that way it would be more rewarding.


                
Just found one of my new favorite shows with a Starz subscription. If only I had this channel last year, I would have put this show in the top ten easily. The violence is completely messed up, and I loved it! The gore has no limits in this show, from impalement to decapitations to brutal destruction of deadites and victims. Bruce Campbell reprises his role as Ash, the man who once survived a terrible incident at a cabin, now is much older, a drunk, and has a ton of funny one-liners to throw out.Ash is accompanied by some great new characters. Pablo played by Ray Santiago works at the same store where Ash works in housewares. Pablo is a hilarious character as well and his chemistry with Kelly played by Dana DeLorenzo is undeniable. Both of these characters serve as funny and awesome sidekicks in the fight against evil.The demons and special effects are ridiculously scary and great to watch. The demonic possessions mimic the old classic with some update abilities. Ash's hand also get some new editions but fans will be happy to see him still sporting the chainsaw hand and the sawed-off he's used in the trilogy.Season 2: Ash (Bruce Campbell) returns for a second season of the gory and hilarious Ash vs Evil Dead. The campy horror show has Ash return to his hometown after the demonic forces spoil his non-stop partying down in Jacksonville. This season has plenty of the disgusting gore and slick witticisms from Ash and his compatriots Pablo (Ray Santiago) and Kelly (Dana DeLorenzo).Ash is in search of evil but has to deal with his skeptical father first. Brock Williams (Lee Majors) believes that his son was a killer and murdered those people in the cabin. This season is a lot more nostalgic to the previous movies even bringing in the time travel that brought us the classic Army of Darkness, but that's later in the season. It's early in the season that it is revealed that the demons are the result of Ruby (Lucy Lawless) and her meddling with the Book of the Dead. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
