First movie by an actor's production house, a director high on technicality, unlimited budget and lots of publicity--- combine all this and u have lagaan. Publicised as "Once Upon a Time in India" -- the once upon a time is just incidental. It is definitely not a period movie, but emphasises on its setting to justify a large canvas. The plot is about some village people trying to beat an English team(englishmen who are the all-in-all for smooth running of the British empire) in a game of cricket so that they do not have to pay any taxes(lagaan) for the next three years. The movie is excellent technically--well choreographed songs, beautiful cinematography etc but that is all the movie has to it. The actors too play their part, which is not substantial, fairly well. The movie has been stretched to almost 4 hours but the plot deserves no more time than a routine movie..(In fact, there is not much plot at all.) There is not even a single actor other than Bhuvan(played by Aamir) which is developed. The movie focusses solely on Aamir and does not allow any other strong character to emerge. The stress on good cinematography (read good looking scenes ) is so large that peasants(poor, starving and all) living in pre-independence India wear freshly laundered (as good as new) clothes most of the time. It just does not look like that these are the poor peasants struggling to save their land but just a cricket team which is desperate to score a win over a fancied team. The love triangle is not even a triangle but a fleeting line....All in all, a movie which looooks good but just that... Its soul is missing...And as for the length of the movie , for people who can watch test matches from start to end may find it to their liking.


                
I liked the dancing and the general cheerfulness. It's nice to see men singing and dancing together. Though I do wonder how on earth did this could get nominated for an Oscar!?!??It's such a simple and banal film, looking like something from TV. The story was like a children's film! How could they stretch this to four hours!?!?!?!? Incredible! It should have been two hours at the most.The Indian actors were good, especially the woman playing Gauri, but the British ones were terrible! The main bad guy and his sister were awfully bad. The sister would not have been tolerated helping the Indians like that. She would have been sent away, not allowed to watch the final match.


                
To say it straight forward as possible, a very disappointing film, wasn't even worth a dollar to rent it. I wouldn't recommend this film at all except, for one who enjoys the experience of diversity in film making, and long, slow, typical movies and little music skits. This was a very slow predictable movie, and was throughout the 3 ½, and more, hours. The storyline seems very similar to kid's movies from Disney relating to little children playing sports and some really corny soap opera. The whole time I was expecting some in depth, mysterious, beautifully woven scenes to come in, because it was actually nominated for an Oscar and was pretty popular ,but, they never came. It didn't do anything for me personally, but, I see some people enjoy the experience of the diversity in movie making and Bollywood movies, I would recommend it those people only.


                
This movie shall attempt to drag you into the colonial India, which has been created in a mould as to justify the movie's weak script, in which of all the inane things, the British try to settle a row with the Indians over Land Tax [i.e Lagaan] with a Cricket Match! Its a combination of sorts of the Baseball movies Hollywood keeps churning out [with the plot of a small town team making it to the big league and so and so), and the various over-glamourised period films. The premise of the film is hence utterly ridiculous. It shall drag along for good 4 hours, the second half being a supposedly exciting Cricket Match with a nail biting finish! And oh, the ending is so predictable, the movie, however is partly saved by the various unknown actors' and actresses' decent performance.
To top it all, this movie has innumerable songs which just test the viewer's patience. The makers should know that the international commercial audience shall NEVER accept the mindless song and dance routine that the Indian Cinema is infamous for. The direction, though a notch up from the usual Indian stuff is nevertheless bland and uninspiring. Basically, a wannabe hollywood type sport movie set in the colonial era. And we should of course know here, that Cricket is to the subcontinent what Baseball is to America. On the whole, a forgettable picture, more so because it goes on  for 4 whole hours! No doubt the movie bombed at the box  office across the United States.
Better off without it.


                
I am tired of hearing about how this movie is supposed to be the greatest indian movie of all time. Its a very bad American movie that happens to be in Hindi with some badly dubbed songs. It needs a severe case of editing, and a much better sense of pace.Only two groups of people seem to like this movie a lot. The first group is Non-Indians who have never seen an Indian movie before and think of themselves as chic and cultured for liking this one.The other group that loves this movie is the 'Jai Hind' crowd, who are amazed that an Indian movie was actually made with technical competence (Note comments like 'amazing production values' or 'high quality prints') AND seen by non-Indians. They are the same Indians that think that the Sixth Sense is the greatest movie ever made; not because its actually a pretty cool movie (which it definitely is) but because it was directed by an Indian and appreciated by non-Indians.If you want to watch a trully great indian movie watch Pakeezah. You won't find it at Blockbuster, and you might need to dig a little, but it'll be worth it.


                
Contains Spoiler Just another Hindi movie where the overtly good prevails over the overtly evil , in the most absurd circumstances. Regular Hindi movies feature a hero bashing up 10 hoodlums ( maybe multiplied by another 10 ). This one features 11 non-cricketers ( including physically and mentally handicapped guys ) , who defeat 11 Eglishmen at their own game. Of course , to make things realistic , they DID get trained in the finer skills of the game by an English woman !The story starts off with the English guys being cruel enough to levy some unbelievable taxes on the poor villagers. The they turn sadistic enough to challenge the poor villagers to a game of cricket , and if the villagers win , they get to TRIPLE the taxes. This is the start of absurdities ...leading to more than an hour of badly photographed cricket , and Englishwoman falling in love with one of the villagers who happens to look like a Bollywood star ( Aamir Khan ). Of course , the chocolate-faced Bollywood boy shuns her for the local village girl . This village girl , played by Gracy Singh , is the only breath of fresh air in this gigantic mess of a movie , replete with over-acting , misfit music and a totally predictable cricket match.


                
lagaan.. what's it all about? nothing but some idiotic story line but surely directed fairly well. and this cricket stuff makes u itch when you come out of the theatre    ( thank director for late itch..)And as any other movie that could make it in the box office some irritating love track and bajana and some mother's tears...oh god save me from such "different ventures"also plz save indian cinema...


                
This is a garbage of a movie, a disgrace to the Indian Cinema. Let me put it this way a proud Indian would dare produce a filth like this where henpecked, castrated men prowl around helplessly. This is an affront and insult to the brave men who defend the Nation. Surprisingly, these are the type of movies that make it to the Film Festivals. Movies like "Monsoon Wedding", "Deewar", "Dev" and "Teen Deewareen" never see the light of the day. This is because of the corrupt suvvar rats of the Mumbai Media who revel in promoting trash like this. Apart from the music and choreography which is innately Indian and the acting of Gracy Singh who is making her debut there is nothing here that made this movie an Oscar contestant. Aamir khan is a midget makaka monkey for a leading actor--this ugly idiot can't walk and chew at the same time let alone act. This scum lowlife only makes Anti-Indian movies or movies that denigrate, degrade Indians and India. It makes sense since this maggot is not Indian and never will be Indian. This is what happens when we let these banchods from Filthystan to infiltrate and takeover the Illustrious Indian cinema in the first place.


                
