Okay, I am not from India, not even close. I am from Scandinavia. Before Lagaan I had never watched any Hindi movies of any kind. I know about 3 words from the hindi language. And I don't like musicals much. I viewed the movie on a DVD of rather poor quality compared to the state of the art DVDs I am used to. And I was told the movie lasted close to 4(!) hours... I figured this would be a complete waste of time... BOY was I wrong! This movie is completely the opposite! It is just amazing! Mr. Gowariker has selected an incredible cast with Aamir Khan in the lead. He makes an stunning performance as the village rebel, Bhuvan. He tries to unite the village in a struggle for life against the greedy Britons. The Britons exploit the villages by collecting lagaan (tax). This means that most of the harvest surplus is gone and there is just enough left for food for the farmers themselves. It's a classic war between "David", the native villagers of India, and "Goliath", the powerful and greedy Britons. But what makes it really interesting is that this war is fought in a Cricket arena. This is a challenge from the Britons, who are well known with Cricket, against the village, where most people have never laid eyes upon a cricket bat. If the villagers win, there will be no lagaan at all, for three years! And if the Britons win, they will collect triple lagaan, which will mean the end of the village.  The stakes could not be higher!!I can't remember a movie being this thrilling and having so much life in it. And the music has a huge impact thanks to the great voices of Udit Narayan, Lata Mangeshkar etc. And the dancing is a chapter in itself! Few or none will leave this movie not remembering the song "Mitwa, sun Mitwa". It is a must see for everyone, inside and outside of India. And this movies has been totally righteously nominated for an Oscar too, and I wouldn't be surprised if it goes all the way to the top. It has my vote! It gets 10 out of 10 from me. Excellent!


                
I still remember the long queue for the advanve booking of this film. Saw this 3 times in theatre. Then so many times on channel that I lost the count of it. What a lavish n enormous entertainment man. It is more than 3 hours long but doesn't bore u for even a minute. Awesome direction. Awesome screenplay. Awesome editing. Awesome cinematography. Awesome acting by all. Aamir khan was too good man. What an amazing performance of his as teams captain Bhuvan. This movie is more than just a sports movie. This is a great sports movie and even if you don't like sports, it is still a great movie. I highly recommend this movie to everyone. It is a movie that you should definitely see if you're down because it is a movie about hope. It is also about victory. Lovely songs n awesome music.In 2010, the film was ranked No. 55 in Empire magazines "The 100 Best Films of World Cinema". In 2011, it was listed in Time magazine's special "The All-TIME 25 Best Sports Movies". Lagaan was listed as number 14 on Channel 4's "50 Films to See Before you Die" and was the only Indian film to be listed.


                
In 1893, India was a colony of England. The starving native farmers had to pay an imposed tax to the British soldiers for the protection of their lands, delivering most of their harvest to the British Queen. In those years, the lands were very dry due to the lack of rain, and the inhabitants of Champaner decide to request to their Rajah Puran Singh (Kulbhushan Kharbanda) to waive the taxes. While waiting for the Rajah, Bhuvan (Aamir Khan), the beloved friend of Gauri (Gracy Singh), comments that the silly game of cricket was a stupid game, comparable to the Indian child game 'gilli-danda'. The nasty and arrogant Captain Andrew Russell (Paul Blackthorne), who had had a previous discussion with Bhuvan, listens to his comment and challenges Bhuvan to play a match against the British team, imposing the following condition: if the natives win the game, they would not need to pay Lagaan for the next three years. Otherwise, they would triplicate their payment in that year. Bhuvan accepts the bet despite of the opinion of his people. The sister of Captain Russell, Elizabeth Russell (Rachel Shelley), finds the competition unfair to the Indians and decides to help Bhuvan and his friends, teaching them how to play cricket. This movie is a magnificent and overwhelming fairytale. It really deserved an Oscar nomination! The nice and well-directed story has wonderful songs and interpretations, romance, treason, dispute, drama, beautiful messages, outstanding choreography, being a stunning film indicated as family entertainment. The expensive Brazilian DVD is a shame, showing a total lack of respect of the 'Columbia Tristar Home Video' with the Brazilian costumers: the important songs do not have subtitles in Portuguese. I changed the option in the 'Menu' to 'English', and there were subtitles in English. At least in the opinion of the ridiculous Columbia representatives, Brazilians shall learn English first to understand the wonderful lyrics sang in Hindi. I feel really sorry for those who cannot understand English, since they will miss the meaning of these songs. It is amazing how 225 minutes running time passes so fast when you see such a marvelous movie. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): 'Lagaan – A Coragem de Um Povo' ('Lagaan – The Courage of a People')


                
It is seldom in this modern era of IT generation that a long movie surpassing three hours of running time and without a show of synthetic acting, vulgarity and cheap comedy, captivates the audience to stick to their seats. WELL DONE Gowarikar ...... WELL DONE Amir Khan ....... Mr. Gowarikar, please note that if this sublime film had been directed by a British or American director like Danny Boyle or Richard Attenborough .... the Oscars would have definitely flown into the laps of the director and the protagonist actor. This is not to say that your directorial skills lack the excellence to win the coveted Academy Awards, but it is to mention the inherent bias and prejudice which prevails among the jury of the Oscar Award Committee towards directors, producers and actors of the Sub-Continent namely India. Mother India (1957) met the same fate from the then jury of Academy Awards committee who simply rejected its nomination for the Oscars on the grounds that it is laden with too much songs, formulaic in nature. Besides, the excellent performance of Amir Khan as an aggressive and challenging native youth 'Bhavan'; Rachael Shelley has put up a remarkable and evocatively strong performance as the suave young British lady Elizabeth Russell, who aspires to help out the hapless villagers from the cunning guile of his brother, Captain Russel. Now what can one say if the members of the Oscar awarding committee do not understand the meanings of wordings of the emotionally focused songs (due to language and culture difference). It is a handicap with them and not with the local Indian movie making team. Keeping aside this injustice, the movie characterizes pure and pristine feelings, emotions, struggle and fighting spirit of a raw and unskilled cricket team of illiterate Indian villagers who capitalized the opportunity to get waived the odious land revenue tax, with exacting standards of will power and perseverance.After a long time, there is an Indian movie bred with the contents found in the Indian films of yester years.


                
This is one of the best entertainers from Bollywood. It has a moving story, excellent music, amazing performances and great dances. All the ingredients are perfectly balanced, resulting in a true masterpiece.To the detractors of this movie(esp the American ones). Granted, on the average, your Hollywood movies are way better than bollywood ones. But your best movies are not even close to the good ones of Bollywood. The reason you may not be able to appreciate good movies like this is that in the US, your life is one dimensional and you don't have the different experiences that people who grow up in India have. For you guys (americans), the world starts from California on the west and ends at NY on the east. Movies are to be enjoyed and not analyzed. If you are of the thinking type, there are lot of other things which you can analyze (proof of Fermat's last theorem for example). Don't apply your analytical skills to movies.


                
It's my sixth Bollywood film, and I have fallen in love with this one as much as with the others. It's not as warm and colorful as K3G or as funny as Main Hoon Na, but the story is so involving that I spent almost four hours anxiously following the main characters' efforts to win the game. I almost started to bite my nails at the end, keeping thumbs up for Bhuvan and his friends! The strength of the film lies in the fact that it shows how important cooperation, faith and effort are if you want to achieve something in your life. And although I, as a Pole, have no idea whatsoever about the rules of the game of cricket, I was not bored for a second during the second part of the movie - thanks to the director's ability to introduce tension at the right moments. I liked the songs a lot and I think they've been nicely choreographed. The camera work is good, emphasizing the dryness of the land and the hopelessness of the people anxiously waiting for the rain. To sum up, it's a good film with an interesting plot, some catchy music and nice acting. A must-see for a Bollywood fan.
First things first.its runtime is nearly 3 1/2 - 4 hours.i watched 4 hour movies before,like Sergio Leone's Once Upon a time in the West and Coppola's Apocalypse Now (special editions).even though its lengthy,i never felt bored.in fact i would love to watch it one more time.its really an Epic film in terms of its grand operatic melodramatic emotions and its musical songs.Like Titanic,the first half is about love story & how he formed the team and second half is about exciting emotional scenes.the climax is really nail biting and adrenaline pumping.the lead actor Aamir khan who looks like Tom Hanks,is fantastic.A must watch for the movie lovers.Don't miss it


                
You can add the name of Ashutosh Gowatrikar to the list of the new generation of Indian Film Directors. An amazing list with the likes of Aditya Chopra (Mohabbatein, Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge), Farhan Akhtar (Dil Chahta Hai, Lakshya), Karan Johar (Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham, Kuch Kuch Hota Hai), Sooraj Barjatya (Maine Pyar Kiya, Hum Aapke Hain Kaun, Hum Saath Saath Hain), Sanjay Leela Bhansali (Khamoshi, Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam). And Now Ashutosh Gowatrikar (Lagaan).When I went to see Lagaan in the theater, I had certain expectations of what the story was going to be like. But as I watched the film I realized that it was nothing like what I thought. The story was totally unexpected. It was quite a surprise. Never before has a film done that, usually the trailers, promos or songs of an Indian film give the story away and you get an idea of what the film is going to be like, but Lagaan was a total surprise.The story is very well told and each character is well etched. Aamir Khan gives one of his best performances in the film. New find Gracy Singh gives an excellent performance. The Direction and Story of Ashutosh Gowatrikar are beyond words. After watching the film, it is very easy to see why this film was sent to the Oscars for the Best Foreign Film category.A great movie, definitely worth watching at least 10 or 12 times.


                
I did not even know what the term Bollywood meant. I had to look it up just now. So I am not gonna try to judge it based on where it was made. I will just tell you what I thought of it as a movie.I have been sick and was ready to head back to bed when my brother said that this movie that just started seems pretty good. I figured I would watch a few minutes and then lay down for my well needed rest. Well, almost 4 hours later, I'm looking up the movie on IMDb.I don't understand the game of cricket at all and, honestly, could care less. I was captivated by the characters and their plight. I was rooting for the underdog The songs were so touching and spiritual. The dance scenes, especially the love dance one, were beautiful.I have read many comments on here that the movie was badly lip sang. I disagree. Until I read it here I hadn't noticed it at all.Overall, I cheered, I laughed at a few of the zanier characters, and I also found myself streaming tears for the young boy. I found myself experiencing the same emotions the English woman was showing during the game.I think they tied everything together well in the end. I ended the movie feeling like I wanted to recommend it to others.So see the movie!! OK. I am finally off to bed.


                
Lagaan rates as one of my top three favorite Hindi movies, along with Devdas and Mohabbatein. Though I am a Caucasian American, my Kutchi wife has evangelized me with scores of Hindi movies in the almost six years of our marriage. While many of them are wonderful (Pardes, DDLJ, Phir Bi Dil Hai Hindustani, Umrao Jaan, Dil Se, Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam, Sholay, Don, Dev, 1942, Roja, Hey Ram, Bombay, Mere Naam Joker, and many, many more), but few stand out as wonderfully written, directed, acted, choreographed, filmed and translated as Lagaan. I heartily recommend it to anyone curious about Hindi films.Aamir Khan's attention to detail is fantastic, as is his energetic portrayal of a young man fed up with the status quo and willing to risk all for a chance to cast the burdensome yoke of British taxation off his village. Revolution without significant bloodshed, beautiful cinematography and choreography, excellent costuming, an intriguing love triangle, and a captivating story line ... all this and an edge-of-your-seat cricket match! Who could ask for more?!


                
Lagaan is a tale from India in the times were the Indian people had to pay high taxes to the British rulers, since India was considered to be a ''piece'' of the British Empire. In one village where Bhuvan, Gauri and other friends live, they asked for the British rulers to not pay the taxes of that year, since the rains didn't come. The British decides to challenge the guys of that village to play cricket with them: if the Indians win, their wish will become true; if it doesn't, they will have to pay even bigger taxes to the British officers. I think 'Lagaan'is a masterpiece and it was one of the first Indian movies I watched in my life. The costumes and scenarios are beautiful as the musics sang.
finally a movie worth watching. Unique from the antediluvian and stale topics of Bollywood( love, stupid fights and family crap).Lagaan is a movie perfectly planned by the director manipulating three most powerful weapons against the people of these Continent, 1 cricket 2 love and emotions and 3rd is their pre independence life and miseries and poverty issues addressed and how people were used by east Indian companies. the topic of cast differentiation and sectarianism has been India's old headache also nailed very well in this movie.Love of gracy singh for Amir khan and the English lady affectionate towards Amir gives a romantic touch to this solid plot of perfectly directed and acted movie.India needs movies like this. different from usual and solid and moral in the end. Lagaan made my dayTreacherous addition of the plot was also well played by the actors. Love, Passion for cricket, status of life before independence, Snake in ones own sleeves, Desire for making impossible possible, sentimental personalities with strong family relations,A glimpse of hope a midst the deep darkness is all creates the life of this continent well narrated and played. the movie was a bit lengthier 224 minutes, God i had to pee thrice in between.But aside from all pros and cons, that is a movie. or in Wll Smith's style " Now That Is What We Call A Movie"bravo director and well done team Lagaan


                
Having won multiple awards and gotten itself nominated in the 2002 Academy Awards in the Best Foreign Language Film category, my interest in Lagaan was actually in wanting to discover more of writer-director Ashutosh Gowariker's works, having seen his latest movie Jodha Akbar, and having bought Swades: We, the People starring Shah Rukh Khan, still unwatched.I've never been a fan of cricket and have never understood the rules, but I suppose after the time you're through with Lagaan, you'll learn at least the basics enough to enjoy the game. No doubt my interest in this sport has been piqued, and non-fans shouldn't steer away from the movie, because knowledge of the sport is not a pre-requisite for you to enjoy this wonderful gem of a sports movie running close to a whopping 3.5 hours (and I heard in the collector's edition, it runs to 4?)Set in British India, we learn that Lagaan is a form of taxation that the villagers have to pay to their Rajas, who in turn pay the British for protection against, erm, invading forces and rivals from other Rajas. In fact, the British were double crossing everyone during their occupation of the country, and bad weather makes the lives of the villagers even more hard pressed since they have zero crops to sell. Every village needs a folk hero, and herein lies Bhuvan (Aamir Khan) who decides to step into the shoes of one, not because of bravado, but because of the atrocities dished out by the British against his fellow countrymen, especially when taxes for the year have been doubled.So the stakes are raised in a game of cricket. Defeat the British, led by Captain Andrew Russell (Paul Blackthorne) and have a tax waver of 3 years for the entire province, or if they lose, then their Lagaan will be tripled. And you don't need a rocket scientist to tell you that when the impoverished have their backs against the corner, they have little choice but to fight back. However, after years of being oppressed and cowering in the face of hardship, you'll need that bright spark or two to shake things up and bring everyone to their senses that Hope is something they have which they can turn into reality if they work at it.The storyline might seem cliché as per the usual sports movies, where our hero Bhuvan has to assemble a team of good men each with their own special farming background which can be incorporated into the game, and recruitment always is a challenge when nobody believes you, and thinks you're the troublemaker who started it all. There are leaders, and there are followers, and some good time is invested to develop this challenge, as well as to explore the plight of the villagers in more detail. The villains of the movie, those pompous Brits personified by Captain Russell with his nose perpetually in the air all the time, are put in very bad light with their looking down of the natives as slaves.But even amongst themselves, the Indians too have their infamous caste system, and this was touched upon when Bhuvan chooses to adopt the more meritocratic route in player selection, and this message undoubtedly stands out. I can't comment much on these themes that Gowariker touch upon in his films, such as that of religious tolerance in Jodha Akbar, but it seems likely that he had incorporated these knowing that his films do appeal to the masses, and therefore serve as a reminder to everyone.While the last 1.5 hours get devoted to the game, where two proud man go head to head against each other with their team, and team members having their own personal vendettas worked out during the matches, it never for a minute played out in a boring manner. In fact, it was entertaining to watch them go through the paces of the game in 101 terms, and from there, those unfamiliar with cricket will likely be able to pick up the basics. Even if the sport is not your cup of tea, its delivery will still appeal to you, as do the usual Bollywood staple of dance and song, as composed by renowned A.R. Rahman - I particularly liked the segment where any self-respective sports movie will have - the training montage, and with a love triangle of sorts fused between Bhuvan, his childhood sweetheart Gauri (Gracy Singh) and Englishwoman Elizabeth Russell (Rachel Shelley), sister of the villagers' enemy but one who decides to teach them the game so that they can get on equal terms with her countrymen.Despite its clichés, Lagaan is wonderful entertainment, and you will not realize the movie's running length, as you'll be engrossed in what transpires, and will find yourself rooting for the clear underdogs as they go about trying to battle oppression in unfamiliar terms. Colourful songs and charismatic folk characters, Lagaan unquestionably reinforces my love for Bollywood!


                
I normally find sports films only mildly interesting. Stuff like Field of Dreams for example is OK, but only because it deals with big issues, like what's important in Life. Also, I normally detest Football and Cricket. When I was young I was forced to watch both - I never understood either and got bored pretty quickly. I think that Cricket is a game best broadcast on radio, and Footy on TV. Most times, they both bore me.Not so in this case. The match only takes up the last 45 minutes of this 210+ minute film, but the build up to it is quite good filled with intrigue, a love story, and a number of song and dance routines. By the time you get to the match you are totally aware of its importance, and how the Villagers are the underdogs. I won't give away the ending, but it really is suspenseful to the very end.If you only see one "Bollywood" film, make it this one!


                
I am writing this review after a decade passed out ...and i read all the users review from worldwide ..and I .....cant express in words For so many years we INDIANS and the Indian film industry is being a joke to most of the world and I really cant blame them ..but sometime it hurts when someone mock us or ignore our creativity just because we have different approach as They say....songs in movies HA HA HA .... Yes we make some foolish crap movies every year but which film industry doesn't ..??? even Hollywood ...a bad Hollywood movie is simply bad and good one is Master piece....but when it comes to us .... bad movie turn to foolish and goods one simply ignored because ooH it has songs ...I am not blaming anyone here and I am a huge fan of Hollywood movies also ....I am just saying that we too have some masters at works and some classic masterpiece and PLZ don't be stereotype and I am happy to say that most of the ppl from every corner of world are not ....YES lagaan is a epic and so are RANG DE BASANTI , CHAK DE India , AND MANY OTHERS ..THANKS FOR READING ..JAI HIND


                
Yeah I watched lagaan the year it came out and I thought it was one the best movies that Indians have ever made and they should be proud of themselves.Its movies like these that make a person feel good about themselves and it makes you want to achieve more in life.I remember when I first watched Lagaan (3yrs ago), it was on VHS the print was terrible but it didn't stop me from watching it. I loved it even though they had cut some bits out. I later got it on DVD and I must say the quality is much better. I kept watching this movie over and over again and have studied it also, I love the making of a movie its so intriguing.Everyone puts on great a performance; Aamir khan is the Protagonist, he so realistic and versatile. He has been my fav actor since 1990 in Dil, he was great, he's one of the finest actors Bollywood has (Also you have got watch Dil Chahta Hai he puts on a great performance). Gracy is new and unique she will do fine, no one would have suited as lead actress except her, a great job. All the eleven members of the team also deserved to be applauded it was cause of them that lagaan worked, same goes for the other opposite team. Rachel Shelley and Paul Blackthorne have done great acting; since they can't speak Hindi it would have been very difficult. They bring a certain amount of realism to the story and how British people use to be like back in the late 1800's.But most importantly, the man behind the scene deserves the most credit Ashutosh Gowariker the writer and director. This would not have been an easy movie to make and bringing it to silver screen is something amazing.I have been reading other peoples comments on lagaan as well, and many people have a problem that the length of the movie is to long, (hey look at the bright side at least you get your moneys worth) I can understand, in the beginning I found the movie a tad slow but it needed to introduce u to the village, characters, and most importantly the time frame. But once that goes ur glued to the movie till the end.Indian movies are very different to western movies, and what makes it unique are the song and dance routines, I thought the music and lyrics were so beautiful. The background music was superb. People also complained that song and dance routines are waste of time I don't think so, I think it's a way celebrating life and people like that.I really wished that lagaan would have got the Oscars, it would have been the first one for India, and all their hard work would have payed off. I haven't seen No mans Land but from the sound of it, it looks good. India just had some tough competitors.Now that lagaan has opened doors internationally India will very soon get an Oscar and I think it will be an Aamir Khan movie, which will get it.Lagaan will always remain a story untouched; Wonderfully made and showcased, I would give it ten out of ten, one of the greatest movies of all time.


                
The story line is your basic underdog movies so I can't say it has an original story.  Having watched or rather endured numerous foreign films, I normally expect production quality to be poor at best.  This one has production quality that rivals your Hollywood studios.  Add to this it has managed to blend drama, sports competition and musical dance numbers into one film which actually works and its simply one of the best movies I've seen foreign or domestic.Oh, don't let the length of the film scare you off... though it may be longer than Gandhi, you'll never be bored or restless during this one.


                
in the history of Indian cinema it is top ten movie. India ruled by British so many years. after many years of the struggle India got freedom from them.and cricket is the every Indian favorite game introduced by British.this movie is mix of Indian freedom struggle and cricket.plot is a villagers in north India waived tax by winning cricket game against British officers.villagers don't know about cricket surprisingly their coach is Britisher.Indian freedom movement also raised with help of British people like Annibesent,A.O Hume etc..in this movie villagers have different mind set and from different communities.as a leader BHUVAN united them,like Gandhi in freedom movement.quarreling brothers united for a game.Harijan and other cast people united for victory.A.R.Rahaman music played vital role in the victory of movie.excellent background score.Ashutosh Gowariker history specialist only director in Indian cinema have the courage to canvass historical movies.i watched this movie 10 years ago when i was watching i surprised. is I am in movie theater or in a cricket stadium,because people shouting through out the movie for cricket scenes.i never saw like that before and after for any movie that much of response from audience in theater .people enjoyed cricket and love story of the movie Indian movie formula two heroines also work out.


                
Analysis of A.R.Rahman's background score in Lagaan In Lagaan, every known ingredient of a typical Indian masala film is in near perfect proportions. A.R.Rahman had to follow and use almost every single film scoring rule and technique for writing the background score of Lagaan. Every principal character gets a musical theme. Every dramatic moment gets an uplifting music score. Every song's melody is used appropriately in the background score throughout the film. Every musical theme that is not based on any of the song's melody is deliberately tuned catchy, so that it could get a life even out of the film. There are big bangs and grand orchestral outbursts. There are moments with measured silence amidst ample music. Every tear-jerking moment is filled with an instrumental soliloquy. Every instrument in the score is carefully chosen, and every piece is carefully orchestrated to convincingly transport us, a century back in time. The beauty of Lagaan's background score lies in the way all of these techniques come up in the right proportion, in the right context, in the right moments of the film....... to read more go to the link given below www.backgroundscore.com/2011/06/10th-anniversary-of-lagaan.html


                
Lagaan is absolutely a stunning piece of work by the producer-director team of Aamir Khan and Ashutosh Gowariker. It is one of the best films i have seen in my lifetime if not the best. Thoroughly entertaining and without meaningless subplots. The screenplay is as good as it gets and the 3 hour+ film just flies by. The cricket match in the climax is an absolute highlight of the film and is as nail biting as a real sports match. The game is explained so wonderfully during the film that people with very little or no knowledge of cricket will understand what cricket is all about. Aamir Khan is delightful as the enthusiastic Bhuvan. He takes to the role as a fish takes to water. He is one of the best actors of India and people who see the film will see why he is reckoned a perfectionist in India. In short, he does magnificently well doubling as the producer and the protagonist. Newcomer Gracy Singh (Gauri) is a revelation. She is simply adorable as the jealous village belle. She dances her way into viewers' heart esp in the "Radha kaise na jale" number. Rest of the cast is on target as well. The music by A.R.Rehman is another positive aspect of the film. The songs heighten the impact of the film unlike many other Indian films where songs act as deterrents in the ongoings. Cinematography has to be seen to be believed. All in all a brilliant effort. That too without leaving the commercial parameters.


                
OK so it has sub titles and you have to read as you go. Who cares??!! Just watch the film it totally speaks for it's self. The music in this film is AMAZING! Phenomenal dance sequences. I love the sound track. Wish I could buy it. I can't speak the language and I still catch myself humming a favorite song or two. And the male lead in this movie.... What a hunk!! The female lead in the movie has an amazing singing voice. The only negative thing I can say is that some of the cricket scenes are really really long, and you can feel the summer heat of that field they're playing on. To whom it may concern there are people in the US that really need more Indian film ASAP! God Bless L


                
What an amazing film! Although a loooong film (over 3½ hours), my wife and I were nevertheless captivated by the variety and suspense. If you have never seen a Hindi film before, or if you are not in tune with Indian culture, then my advice is to have patience while watching the first 30 minutes or so. This is certainly not Hollywood, but 100% Bollywood - at its best! Although I live in a country with cricket only second to rugby, I do not like cricket and never watch it - but I did in fact enjoy the cricket in this film - my wife included.   Towards the end, there is a spiritual aspect of this film that brought tears to my eyes and radiance to my heart. Marvelous! There is not much more that I can add here (considering the many wonderful comments below) except to say that the romance and symbolism is a joy to see. Yes, there are some simplistic soap opera segments, but this is in fact a Bollywood film, so I embrace this difference and see it as wholesome and refreshingly moralistic. You will feel energised and elevated by this film. See it and spread the word. A message to Bollywood: "More films like this - please!"


                
Like many other viewers, I just picked this DVD up from my local library not sure quite what to expect.  2 discs and 225 minutes later I too was cheering and whooping in delight.  OK, the story is nothing original but the exquisite manner and sheer love of detail in which it is told cannot fail to win you over.  The Indian leads are charming, funny, delightful and earn our compassion whilst the English leads play the Imperalists down to a tea (no pun intended) And  as for th supporting cast!  Wow...just sheer joy.  For me I can't understand why the overrated mish-mash that is The Pianist scoops up the plaudits whilst this glorious understated masterpiece slips by unnoticed.  Go rent it now!!!


                
I rented this movie based on a trailer that I saw on another foreign film rental.  I had really no idea what to expect.  I couldn't have been more pleasantly surprised.  The trailer I saw was so vibrant, but there was no way to know that it would be written and shot so well.  (Not to mention that the cast was beautiful and brilliant.)  It took about 15-20 min to acclimate myself to the film, BUT, I was entering a foreign country and exposing myself to a completely unknown culture.LAGAAN was a touching, well-written musical film that , I think, should be for the Hindu community what THE SOUND OF MUSIC is to Americans.  Though it was lengthy, the script surprised me at several pivital turns.  The stakes were raised for our heroic villagers more times than I expected.  The music was new for me and I became mesmerized by it.  The English translations of the songs were nothing short of heart-wrenching poetry.  The diversity of the characters added conflict and comedy.  Many of them had to overcome personal downfalls to lift their community out of bondage.  I cared not only for the hero and heroine, but about 7 or 8 minor supporting characters. THAT is not only good writing, but F***ing brilliant acting!!!! This movie was colorful, beautiful, spiritually uplifting, and entertaining, while still being educational on facets of the Hindu culture/spirituality, the caste system (the most moving character for me was 'the Untouchable') and a period of their history.  I screamed and cheered.  I got misty and cried. It was a long film, but well worth the wait.


                
