Most Indian movie fans seem to think that if a movie doesn't have Govinda doing his pelvic gyrations, or if some big-busted vamp/heroine doesn't do a "choli key peechay kya hai?" number, then it is Oscar material!   How pathetic.This film, apart from being long and boring, is also totally unrealistic. How easy would it have been to get a low-caste person on the same team as the upper-castes, and that too, a hundred years ago?   For our "hero", Aamir Khan, it is a piece of cake!   A few sugar-coated words, and voila!, everybody falls in line!   Well, that effort alone (of convincing the team-mates about playing alongside a lower-caste person) could have been a movie in itself!The plot is ridiculous, the screenplay is ridiculous, the assumptions are ridiculous and the finale' is ridiculous.  Not to mention the numerous songs that the characters keep breaking into every now and then.
There have been some good movies from India that at least had a decent and well-deserved chance at the Oscars -- Manthan, Pushpak, Nayakan, Salaam Bombay... (the last one was indeed nominated and deservedly so), but this movie is so trite that I feel the Oscars committee should really have reduced the field to four films if they didn't find anything else deserving a nomination.


                
when i went into the film, i expected the match to end at half time, followed by some sort of armed uprising by the villagers to overthrow the british, or at least make an attempt. nothing like that. the whole film builds up to one long cricket match.the first time gracy singh came on the screen, i thought she would become someone else's girl, probably raghuvir yadav. i was shocked to discover she was the "heroine" !!the english actor who was the "villain" looked more like a spolt rich schoolboy than even remotely dangerous or evil.


                
This movie was very well made and it looked fantastic with authentic costumes, locations and nice songs but the story and characters were one dimensional and cartoonish.  A bunch of misfit peasants beat the arrogant Brits at their own game with a 3-way love triangle woven in pretty much sums this movie up.  The ending is obvious from the very beginning and hence there isn't any suspense.  There is some petty infighting amongst the peasants along with some modern day political correctness thrown in about the caste system but in the end everyone in the village lives happily ever after.  I much prefer "Monsoon Wedding" and "American Desi."


                
Note: This is the first Indian film I have watched, so I may not be accustomed to the style yet. However, this is far from my first foreign film, and I still believe I know what makes a good movie.Any other sports film I have seen is able to raise the tension and portray the big game in far less time than it takes to actually play the game. Lagaan is filled with numerous filler scenes, including 1 or 2 absolutely random musical choreographs, that only serve to distract from the plot, negatively impact the plot, or beat certain plot points to death with repetition.


                
This movie was more like watching a prolonged , semi - boring cricket match in a stadium , rather than a film in a theatre .The novelty of this period film wore off halfway through the movie & the only recurring thought was ' how much longer is this tedious film ? 'There are several famous films which run into the 3 - 4 hour categories & are engaging in every frame , right till the end . Sadly , Lagaan isn't one of those ...Was relieved when it go over . Took off from the theatre at top speed & haven't cared to revisit this mind - numbingly long film in 17 years .Though a different genre , Nagesh Kukunoor's ' Iqbal ' ( 2005 ) is a much better ' Indian cricket ' film . Low budget , yet high in content .( Aamir Khan could've done without embellishing his character Bhuvan - an illiterate indian villager , with an aristocratic white lady , Ms. Russell , being silently in love with him - if I remember correctly , the film was ridiculous enough to absurdly imply that she was so in love with him that she remained unmarried till she died - such are the preposterous fantasies & daydreams of desi boys ... Lol . Khan seems to have a pattern - he had a white fan in 'Rang de basanti ' as well ... )
