Lagaan evokes emotions by tapping into the Indian psyche.  It distills into film the more exciting moments from a cricket game; batters getting pummeled, wickets getting knocked over, home runs, centuries, and tide-turning errors.  The film also has droughts, evil British oppressors, and a pitiful Untouchable kid.Unfortunately these symbols don't resonate with my ABCD brain.  Removing them, Lagaan is left me with flat characters, a simple plot, an undeveloped lovestory, and an awfully long running time.Purely as a sports movie I think Lagaan falls short.  Compare it to Karate Kids and Rockys.  There, the competition is not so focused on the win/lose/tie outcome, but on the heroes gaining self-respect.  Instead, Lagaan's Indian team lacked a coach-figure inspiring them to "do your best; don't lose to fear."  Instead, they had Aamir Khan telling them "try to let me handle it"The game-ending scene in Lagaan is about as fulfulling as G.W. winning the Florida election or Brazil winning the 1994 World Cup.  The outcome hinges on chance, not effort.Songs and lyrics are fun but have a major problem: most of the the lip-syncing is not convincing.  You see the mouths chatting in a desert while you hear the singers screaming in a closet.  They don't blend well. Save the echo and reverb for the soundtrack CD.


                
Pretty actresses and charming musical scenes cannot save this Bollywood vehicle. This is cliched, unprofessional and nearly four hours. A four hour film is OK for a solid epic, not for a film about cricket. Believe it or not, the "climactic" cricket match in the end lasts for 70 minutes. The sport is ridiculous enough as it is, no need for a four-hour commercial.Rating - 3/10


                
Sooner or later it had to happen: a movie to score a hit from the world's most prolific film industry: Bombay. For years we've been hearing about the 800 or more films churned out by this industry, which largely remain in India, unseen by the rest of the world. Now Ashutosh Gowaricker's "Lagaan" seems about to change all that.  People are going to see his 223 minute musical drama centering on a taxation wager in the form a winner-take- or-lose-all criket game.But how can this or any of these film products be separated from the societal conditions of the country from which they come?  World tourists to India return emotionally shaken from witnessing the horrid suppression of human rights there.   Eye-witnesses of "untouchables" without decent homes, diseased beings begging in the streets, exploited to near-slavery conditions -- all in full view and awareness of the government, church, and upper class citizenry -- point to a highly divided,  confused, and unjust society.Does one just close one's mind to all this, and buy into the fantasy world of "Lagaan"?  Are all of these products, in effect, used to distract the peasanty and others from the actual injustices being perpetrated against them?  The real-life conditions of the country suggest the need for a massive planetary revolution.  Yet, here we are, blithely humming the tunes and savoring the romance of "Lagaan."For me, there's no joy in Bollywood.  Not until the last vestiges of discrimination, supression, and domination are eliminated.  Until then, "Lagaan" can well keep what it has to offer.


                
