I do not quite get the enthusiasm.  True enough, the film has very high production values -- it looks terrific and sounds great.  But to me, Lagaan is essentially a four-hour musical version of Bad News Bears that erroneously thinks is also a profound a political drama.  Also, the characters are rather one-dimensional, particularly the bad white folks. Perhaps I would not have been so irked if not for the nearly four-hour run time.  I have not seen much Bollywood, and I did find the cut-to-music-video scenes, coupled with fact that the actors are not singing their own songs (i.e., there is just one singer for all the women characters and one for the men) distracting, but I do not think that was the source of my discontent. I recently saw A Peck On the Cheek, which is also Bollywood, and I thought that movie was far superior to this one.


                
I had rather high hopes for this. A high IMDb rating (8.3 for Lagaan) should at the same time never be seen as a guarantee (V for Vendetta, Rush, Ip Man to name just a few surprising above-8-ratings) and could be as deceptive as Academy awards nominations/winners. Im sure ratings and accolades accounts for something, but in some cases, it is hard to understand how a movie has grown to be generally accepted as a masterpiece. For me, Lagaan is such a film. The title (Once upon a time in India) and the length (244 min!) implies an epic. At the same time, the length is a double-edged sword. If musicals with an underdog sport story is not your thing ca 4h may prove to be quite a feat. I sat through this but did not like it much. I found it cheesy, sentimental and thought most characters where irritating. I guess the idea is you should sheer for the team of mistreated locals. One of the problems is that you never really feel that their situation is severe, since the film is so family oriented and polished...I'm sure a lot of people like Lagaan, there is a lot of proof for it. For me, it stands as one of many examples of mysteriously high-rated mediocrity.


                
I like my share of movies from Bollywood, so I am used to watching lengthy movies. But Lagaan runs too long and the denouement of all the plot threads drags on and on.There is a some heavy handed symbolism and moralizing, but subtlety and is not a hallmark of Bollywood cinema. The acceptance of the "Untouchable" player by the other villagers could have been handled with more realism. It's not so easy to change entrenched social values.The cricket match is the best part. I probably would have liked it better if I'd skipped over the romance parts and some of the dance numbers.{spoiler} I could have done without Elizabeth being relegated to a Radha-like devotee of Bhuvan for the rest of her life. I didn't think it fit with her character, especially since she had the guts to help the villagers. {/spoiler} Lagaan is above average coming from Bollywood, but it is definitely not the absolute best that Indian cinema has to offer.
