An interesting mix of the bollywood stereotype and the western film. was a bit bothered by the whitey / darkie thing going on though, but still very good.


                
This film happens to the very first Bollywood film that I have watched in its entirety. Not being a fan of musicals, I braced myself as I popped in the DVD. Well, 225 minutes past by rather quickly and although there were moments where I was wondering exactly why I was watching a musical, but most of the time I was fairly well entertained. I mean, granted, my critical side could pick at this film for a while, but that didn't lessen my entertainment.The story is a pretty simple one and rolls forward predictably. The setup is this: poor Indian farmers get taxed by local British cantonments through their raj. One day the British capriciously demand double tax (lagaan = tax) and the villagers, suffering from an extended drought ask for it to be lifted. The big bad Brit offers them a challenge: win a cricket game against the Brits and no taxes for three years. Lose and pay thrice over. I like the word thrice.Complications arise as you have a British woman who goes against her tyrannical brother and secretly aids the Indian team. Of course, since it's a classically styled musical, there's a romance, complicated by a triangle (or perhaps a quadrilateral). And since it's a sports film (a cricket film), you have your requisite training montages. Since it's a musical, you have plenty of musical/dance numbers. And it's a recruiting film, so you could call it Bhuvan's Eleven.All right, the good stuff first. The production values are high, the photography is gorgeous at times, the acting is simple but effective, the story is unapologetically escapist, the song and dance numbers aren't so silly that I wanted to skip them and at least one of them actually moved forward the underlying drama, rather than being just a number. And then there's the tension. The stakes are high from the beginning and the cricket game itself is presented in just a way that the tension never really lets up until all almost four hours is said and done.One of the problems is that the characters are all very simplistic. The villain character is played over the top, which makes sense in the simple world of simple characters that's described here. Perhaps if you let yourself get caught up in the simple world presented and can hit the switch in your brain that cares about what's real, this isn't a problem. But I think the character is so entirely bad (and the hero so entirely good) that it's hard to believe characters in this movie to be real, for the most part.Another problem I have with this film is a problem I have with most musicals: many of the song and dance numbers are long and some of them are unnecessary for the purposes of storytelling. I understand that it's all part of a show, but sometimes I feel like all these things are either just tacked on, or a story is tacked onto a series of somewhat related songs. Which was why I was relieved that not every number was pointless. The movie is also really long and some trimming could help it be a little easier to find time to watch.I'd say that its escapism is a negative trait, but I can't help but wonder if the primary audience is one that faces the harsh realities of the world every day and needs a little hope in their lives. All the same, I can't help but wonder if some of the little things the film does to "say something" about the problems of the caste system, etc., are done with little meaning, but to just appease the hopes of those watching. There is something to say about the critics of escapist films in that it helps keep the disenfranchised appeased in their situation and holding out hope rather than doing something themselves to change the situation.And when it comes to believability, the initial love triangle is fairly believable, but the second complication makes me uncomfortable, since it appears to be over-idealized and part of me thinks that it's also, in part, an unbelievable male fantasy, even if not acted on.Still, for as long a watch as it was, I was suitably entertained. The only real barrier to me watching more Bollywood films in the future is carving out the heroic amount of time necessary to take one in. I suspect that this film will be a joy to musical lovers. 7/10.


                
Yes, I am from India, but I have much better ways to show my patriotism than calling this usual movie just with different setting as a great movie. Unlike posing as a non-Indian and flooding all oscar/film related forum with shameless posts on lagaan. Dont try to make a web coup just like, it was done to make Amitabh the actor of the millenium by BBC!.One new thing as a Indian film is that for first time its a sports film. You have all the usual features, villain's sister falling for the hero, a unwanted love triangle, a black sheep, over melodrama and what not?!.Any sensible cricket fan will know, when limited overs cricket was introduced (by 1971). There we have it about 100 years ago!. So much for details!. There is a limit for cinematic liberties. Detail flaws can pile up like Sachins tons here.I think we have seen may better underdog movies in hollywood, I dont know whats so new about this?!. Tell me about, self-determination and human spirit, I have seen it enough right from seven samurai. I dont need a crowd pleasing, over simplified film for this. Why not call Ajay Devgan kicking bad-guys can also called human spirit.Its a shame calling this the india's best. Agreed its a good film with good songs and some decent production qualities, but please keep your cool guys. First please, go and see some European and Hollywood movies to see what world movie standards are like. I am first a movie fan, then i am a indian movie fan. I dont accept this film as any better bollywood fare.
6/10.


                
Not that the Oscars themselves are always right or always pick the best films but this movie just isn't that good. Sure cricket may be an obsession in India but that does'nt mean that a bunch of villagers can become professional cricketers overnight. That is the biggest flaw in this movie. And how the hell can they get trained in cricket by an englishwoman? How is it that the hero can become such a great and consistent batsman in such a short period? It just isn't realistic and believable enough despite the great production values. It seems that none of the characters had a shred of self respect, the way they portrayed themselves. However, there are plenty of other plus points to make this movie highly watchable for a non Indian. The British cast are excellent in this movie.India has produced plenty of movies actually capable of winning the Oscars but this is just not one of them. Go see stuff like "Black" instead.


                
Well i haven't seen it in theatre but i think it's worth watching on the big screen. Everything about the movie is great. Music by A.R.Rehman is a great asset to the film. Well i don't see this movie as one that deserved an academy award nomination. Anyway it's very good movie and worth watching quite a good number of times.


                
I think Lagaan is a truly amazing film. The use of sync-sound, the fantastically authentic costumes, dialect and dialogues, etc make the film very, very realistic. The film got loads of awards, but I think if such a film was made at any time in the history of Indian cinema, it would have generated the same response. Also, it COULD'VE been made at any time. I think Lagaan deserves all the awards it got in the technical categories; but in the Best Film category, I think Dil Chahta Hai (also released in the same year) should definitely get the award!


                
the nearly 4 hour long lagaan has been a daring endeavour for aamir khan. nonetheless, the thinking khan doesn't let us down. the movie is an entertainer in every sense of the word, yet it is ages ahead of the regular potboilers that bollywood churns out every friday. watch this one in a theatre, the effect will no way be nearly as good on tv. this is the first time i have seen an audience participate with such enthusiasm and fervour. this is also the first time i have sat through a cricket match for an hour without feeling the slightest of ennui. divided into 3 parts by 3 intervals, the last part is completely amazing. the brilliance on display leaves you spellbound and yearning for more, despite the fact that this is your 4th hour on your seat. this is what is known as true cinema. the first part is good, with lots of light comedy which might not appeal to all but do try to enjoy it because that is the foundation of the movie. you won't like the other two parts if you sit sullen through the first. coerce yourself to laugh and soon it will all become effortless. the second part is comic yet dramatic. upto here, the movie can be passed off as a usual bollywood flick. but from this point it is one of the best hindi movies. aamir khan is good, but not excellent. this is his best performance along with the one in 1947 : earth. the supporting cast is probably the best i have ever seen. though there are too many significant characters, this movie shows care for each one of them. aamir and ashutosh picked the best in each field of film making. but the result could have been better. the cinematography by anil mehta is just about ok. the choreography is very good. music by AR rehman is good but not his best. it comes out in its best form on video rather than audio. oscar awardee bhanu athaiya's costumes are fine...historically accurate and all but really, any dress designer would do a satisfactory job here. i doubt if this movie has room for great dress designing, and even if it does, it does not achieve it. the dialogue be k p saxena is once again good. a bit difficult to understand since it is in light avadhi, but you do get most of it. and its worth listening to. what deters brilliance is too much coverage of the pre - climax part. some sharp editing and smarter screenplay would have done the job. despite its flaws, lagaan is a good movie to watch. three cheers to ashutosh gowariker.


                
The story is indeed a great one. Although it contains a somewhat overwhelming hyperbolic, It should actually expected beforehand, due to hyperbolas in the dramatization, even to some extremes, is to some extent a distinctive signature of any Indian movie, beside the all known singing and dancing every thirty minutes or so. I personally don't think that the hyperbolic are really needed in this story because it already is a great story to tell. Fortunately Aamir Khan realizes this and uses drastically reduced hyperbolas in the next works as 3 Idiots (2009). This movie is also able to teach at least the very basic rules of cricket, a game which is not very common in countries outside the British Commonwealth. The acting is just what is expected from any Indian movie. Not to say that it's bad, but I sure will not also say that it's Oscar quality. But then again I'm sure that, like most of Aamir Khan production, this movie's strong point is the great story based on a rare premise to be used as a movie screenplay. The set selection unfortunately is very confined and limited for a movie with almost a three hour duration.


                
If you have it in you to enjoy Bollywood, you could do far worse than to rent this film. With an enjoyable story line and professional acting, it's sure to please. Too bad, though, about the heavy dose of revisionist history! In fact, this movie's a four-hour long demonization of the Raj (British rule) that's sure to disappoint any with an authentic interest in colonial times. The story centers around a cricket match wager between villagers hoping to escape taxes and a local colonial British administrator eager to out-do himself in providing a hateful stereotype for the Indian resistance (and their cinematic inheritors). One must wonder at the insecurity of any producer of so jaundiced and anti-British a screenplay. Not to mention India's movie goers. Far too much singing and dancing accompany it all, of course, but between musical numbers the viewer will find enough quality script, acting and scenery to carry it off.


                
I personally enjoyed this movie, it was very well made for its low budget. It had a lot of singing and dancing and a very good plot. On the other hand the movie was a little "over the top" and was slightly confusing. There was no need for a spy in the community to tell the British what was going on, and there was certainly no need for the girls to get jealous of each other. Those parts of the movie were just a waste of time. Plus the film made me hate the British for 3 hours. The art of the movie in general was beautiful and fun. The dancing was well choreographed and the plot was exciting. I would watch this film again but I would skip a few parts. I give this film a 7 out of 10.
I recommend this filmThe film has more positive than negative . The scénario is found and its history. The réalisateur shows us the injustice for British colonized India. It is interesting to make a film on this subject with cricket.For positives:I find that the main character has charisma : brave ; strong ; intelligent. I find lively music. The film is a mixture of drama , love and competition. In this film , we get attached to the different character with each character. Is the first film that i watch Bollywood.For negatives:The film is good but it is a bit too long. It is mostly in the middle of the film does not happen much and that they are boring... I liked the movie ends badly : that British win facing the people. It would have allowed us to understand the pain of the people who were colonized at the same time in 1893.In conclusion , i found this film good but with elements to change.
"Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India" is an Indian musical movie in which we watch the people of a small village in Victorian India try to survive due to difficult circumstances. In these difficulties came one more about the taxes and everything will be judged on a game of cricket between the locals and the British.I liked this movie because it was something different for me and I found it very interesting and beautiful. I also liked this movie because of the plot and the storyline. The direction which made by Ashutosh Gowariker was magnificent and equally good was the music and dancing. About the interpretations I have to mention the interpretation of Aamir Khan who played as Bhuvan and he was simply outstanding. Some other interpretations that have to be mentioned are Paul Blackthorne's who played as Captain Andrew Russell and of course the beautiful's Rachel Shelley's who played as Elizabeth Russell.Finally I have to say that "Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India" is a very interesting movie to watch because it shows what happened to India in the Victorian times. What difficulties Indian people got through and how were their lives back then. Musical movies are different than the classic movies but I believe that this movie is not just a musical movie because it teaches us many things about India and its culture.


                
The year is 1893 in a small village in the heart of India. A British Cantonment bordered the village. They protect the local Raja from neighboring Rajas as well as the other Rajas. So they are able to demand Lagaan (tax) from the hard-upon local villagers. There is a drought but the cruel arrogant Captain Andrew Russell (Paul Blackthorne) doesn't care and doubles the Lagaan. Local villager Bhuvan (Aamir Khan) rallies the villagers to appeal to the Raja. There they witness their first game of cricket played by the British. Russell offers to forgive the Lagaan for the entire province for the next three years if Bhuvan can lead a team to beat the British. If the villagers lose, he will triple the Lagaan. Few villagers believe in the gamble except for Gauri (Gracy Singh) who loves Bhuvan. The captain's sister Elizabeth (Rachel Shelley) comes to teach the hopeless villagers how to play the foreigner's game.Indian movies are not usually my thing but this one works very well. I'm still not a big fan of the Bollywood song and dance. However the story works here. The Captain is a bit of a cartoon who needs to be a better villain. The love story is good but the love triangle needs to hold off its resolution. The game is pretty much a Bad News Bear situation where all the disparate players join together. The game is interesting. They made it compelling and almost understandable.


                
"Lagaan" is an enormously entertaining movie, like nothing we've ever seen before, and yet completely familiar. Set in India in 1893, it combines sports with political intrigue, romance with evil scheming, musical numbers with low comedy and high drama, and is therefore soundly in the tradition of the entertainments produced by the Bombay film industry, "Bollywood," which is the world's largest. "Lagaan" is said to be the most ambitious, expensive and successful Bollywood film ever made, and has been a box-office hit all over the world. Starring Aamir Khan, who is one of the top Indian heartthrobs, it was made with an eye to overseas audiences.


                
If you've never seen an Indian movie - I've only seen a few - then "Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India" should give you a good inkling. This story of the Indian people's resistance to colonialism (in the form of a cricket game) goes over the top in just about every way. As is often the case in Hindi films, the characters break out into song at one point. I also noticed that the Indians call the English "ferengi" (like on "Star Trek"); I think that the word might mean "foreigner" in Hindi.Overall, this is a fine piece of work from the subcontinent, and I certainly recommend it. I haven't seen enough Indian movies to determine if this is among the greatest, but it definitely makes one appreciate the work coming from Bollywood. Starring Aamir Khan, Gracy Singh, Rachel Shelley and Paul Blackthorne.


                
