The setting is historical<U+0085> The year is 1893<U+0085> The British Raj imposes heavy taxes on the poor villagers despite all the problems droughts have caused on their income<U+0085> An arrogant army captain<U+0097>unknown to him that his sister has fallen in love with a sensitive idealistic<U+0097>confident in his countrymen's ability, offers the people relief if they can beat the fearsome British team at a game of cricket<U+0085> Despite its closeness to the conventions, "Lagaan" proved to be a break-out film<U+0085> Besides the graceful and enchanting attractions of the song-and-dance sequences, it has a plot carefully fashioned to a special kind of audience<U+0097>audience who likes sports movies<U+0085> They are minor characters compared to the captain's pretty sister (Rachel Shelley), who not only upholds the British tradition of fair play but also loses her heart to the handsome Indian hero<U+0085>


                
This is actually the first ever film I have seen where the audience clapped cheered and booed effectively as if they were a part of the actual proceedings in the film. I heard someone say that they felt that they were really at a cricket match. I loved the movie even though admittedly at the time (surprising for an Indian) I didn't know cricket at all...I learned while watching it with the help of a friend but also found I didn't need to! It certainly renewed my interest and made mea cricket fan soon enough, the next match that year I watched with grave interest.About the fikm, the acting was good. Rachel Shelly and Paul Blackthorne were impressive and unlike in other Hindi films where they are usually clichéd versions of foreign characters, they were very drawn out believable characters. Aamir Khan was definitely the star attraction (obviously) as in any case it was 'his movie' but honestly he was very good, one of hsi best performances i'd personally say. Gauri was given very little to do in the movie but she did stand out in her own way. The supporting cast were all excellent in each of their roles, although some characters were a bit too starkly depicted. The British cast on the other hand had precious little to do except look foreboding.The setting in the Gujrati village and country was beautiful. The sets were historically accurate I've been told and the backdrop just right for the match and one would it imagine it fit into the time frame suggested. The costumes were also appropriate. I especially liked that scene where Elisabeth imagines Aamir in a suit, it worked because being who she is of course shed see him like that.)Some historians might nitpick on small points, but they were so minor that the rest of the story overshadowed these errors. At first I wondered whether foreign viewers would understand it what the unusual concept of musical numbers, but most seem to have understood the game of cricket (non cricket playing countries I mean) and the historical context as well and seem to have also taken the musical numbers in their stride.The only thing that got to me was the length of the movie. I really wish that they had done some serious editing, it just ran too long and the cricket match was too dragged out. It should have either focused more on the cricket match for the majority of the film, or reduced the footage of the rest of the film to balance it out. I saw many scenes that could have been edited out and were totally unnecessary.The songs were enjoyable and only one or two were unnecessary and could have been cut down or deleted entirely, like the 'Radha Kaise Na Jale' and the song where both girls sing. Honestly this movie was one Hindi movie that did not require many songs at all if at all. A background score maybe but not 6 songs. It got tedious and it gets on the nerves especially when you've been sitting in the theatre for 2 hours and you know that there is 1 more hour to go. Luckily people with DVDs will be able to fast forward!Although Predictable in places with characters being over-drawn or under-drawn and everyone knew the ending that was inevitable, ending, (it isn't much of a long shot at all) but we watched it for the thrill of it anyway.The overall effect the movie was so good that I fully believe that it deserved a nomination and I never say that about most Hindi movies. Even though it did not win I'm very proud of this movie.


                
I'm not an Indian myself, I'm a Filipina and this is actually the first Indian film I've ever seen but I was automatically enthralled as the film starts playing<U+0085>I have to admit I became engrossed with the film already when the first scenes was where Aamir Khan was. Later on, as Gracie Singh performs superbly with all the musical performances, I decided from then on that I already love this movie! Even though I only have to watch thru the subtitles, it's certainly fine with me. This film was only introduced to me by my cousins during Christmas last year. From then on, I've looked everywhere for this movie in every video stores. Luckily, I got one 2weeks ago and I became so fascinated that I download pictures & wallpapers already<U+0085>all about Lagaan!!! I wouldn't be posting a comment here if I didn't have the Lagaan fever!!! =p The story started in a small village of Champaner , where Bhuvan (Aamir Khan) and Gauri (Gracie Singh) are in a community of poor and innocent farmers who are happily plowing, sowing, praying for the rains and reaping their harvest. Inspite of such unwanted circumstances, they are still full of hope.But then, a British captain, Captain Andrew (Paul Blackthorne), challenges the farmers to a cricket match. He is a capricious character that wants to burden the villagers with a land tax (Lagaan). He waived that there'll be no Lagaan for the next three years and that he'll be the one to pay it from his own pocket. Worst, if they lose, they will pay triple Lagaan for that year. He knows that the villagers are ignorant of the game and its rules. So he's pretty confident that he'll win the game<U+0085> What he didn't know was that his younger sister, Elizabeth (Rachel Shelley) is completely against his outrageous ideas<U+0085> Elizabeth's first meeting with Bhuvan already got her attracted to him<U+0085> Unsuspectingly, all of the villagers knows that she helps them purely out of sympathy<U+0085>well, I guess it was that way but she fells in love with Bhuvan later on<U+0085>it just pains me to see that Elizabeth's love for Bhuvan is an unrequited one<U+0085>she remained Bhuvan's Radha<U+0085> The cricket match between Indians and British was really superb and very uplifting. Nevertheless, their wit and determination never let go unnoticed. Even the British officers cheered for their victory! It's really a heartwarming story<U+0085>of Purity in Spirit, Sacrificial Love and that good still prevails..Aamir Khan has absolutely a god-given talent<U+0085>simply amazing<U+0085>he dances like any other talented men I know who perform. He was very good in the role<U+0085>he looks very appealing especially when Elizabeth imagined him in a princely suit! Gracie Singh looks convincing as Gauri who loves Bhuvan with all her heart. She looks bubbly and cute to me! She displays an excellent facial expression that she can shift from one emotion to another without any difficulty, I guess<U+0085> They are really perfect for each other<U+0085> On the other hand, Elizabeth may have love Bhuvan with the same intensity as with Gauri's but I guess, they weren't really meant to be with each other<U+0085>the rest of the men in Bhuvan's team were also fit for their roles<U+0085>they never failed to uplift, share their sentiments and inspire me<U+0085>the British officials showcased a role of fairness<U+0085>they sympathized and cheered with the villager's victory.For an overall view, the movie was really amazing and I never will get tired watching it all over again. The songs were enjoyable. I can even depict it in my mind<U+0085>sometimes I would hum it 'coz I cannot recite the proper lyrics<U+0085>moreover, even if this film didn't win in the Oscars<U+0085>it's all worth it<U+0085>


                
Unlike, say, Once Upon a Time in China, with which this film shares at least its English (sub)title, this is populist anti-Western colonialism done right! For one thing, having the villains actually be white goes a long way; Paul Blackthrone is an extremely effective "evil Englishman," and he actually speaks Hindi for a good chunk of his role! As a result, we get a real struggle, rather than an ultimately-meaningless proxy battle as we usually do in Tsui Hark's film. This is, however, no Gibsonesque exercise in Anglo-bashing, and everything comes out extremely balanced, perhaps too obviously so. He does, after all, have a sister that helps out the village people as they try to learn cricket and beat his wager. More importantly, untouchables and Muslims, despite earlier misgivings, are welcomed into the team, providing a heartening, inclusive vision of Indian resistance against the occupier.What's nice about this film is that it is clearly a high-profile Bollywood picture with an eye towards crossover, but it is not so compromised that it becomes unrecognizable to anyone who is already somewhat familiar with Bollywood. I imagine this is one of the better "gateway drugs" for the genre, as the music is good and fits with the plot, and one rarely feels that the more-than-three-hour running time is needlessly padded. Sure, they could have made it shorter, but this is actually epic enough to deserve it.


                
I have watched this movie 3 times and laughed, cried and cheered each time, even though I already knew what was going to happen.  I have also seen the movie that won the Academy Award, "No Man's Land". It was good, but Lagaan was better. The book that Satyajit Bhatkal wrote, "The Spirit of Lagaan" that tells the story, from concept to birth is well worth reading.  The movie gets 8/10 stars from me.


                
Everything I ever need to know about cricket I learned from this movie."Lagaan," in typical Bollywood fashion, is ridiculous and ridiculously entertaining. It sounds like something conceived by Bialystock and Bloom -- a 3+ hour musical about British imperialism in India and the sport of cricket -- but much like "Springtime for Hitler" it ends up working like a dream."Lagaan" was nominated for the 2001 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but it lost to "No Man's Land," the first and only entry from Bosnia and Herzogovina in that category. This is also the year that produced "Amelie" as a nominee -- what a great year for foreign language films.Grade: A


                
Lagaan has to be my favorite Bollywood film to date.When a local British governor doubles the lagaan (tax) on a small village in the midst of a drought, the villagers make a deal that they'll be free of Lagaan for 3 years if they can beat the British in a game of cricket, or suffer triple the tax if they lose. Trouble is, they don't know the first thing about the game. It's a typical sports story with a rag tag team of underdogs squaring off against an experienced, arrogant veteran team vividly dramatizing the Indian fight against British oppression. The well executed story is buttressed with lavish Victorian era costumes, beautiful cinematography, and several musical numbers that are a cut above the average Bollywood song-and-dance numbers.


                
I had seen spoofs of the Baliwood genre (The Guru comes to mind) but this is the first I have actually seen. I liked especially that they used subtitles instead of dubbing. It was an interesting look at the time and culture of Victorian India from the Indian as opposed to Euro-centric viewpoint. The musical numbers bring to mind Hollywood of the forties and Broadway.I was interested too to see the costumes and props of the period, again from the Indian point of view. It is not something kids growing up in white-bread suburbia get exposed to as a rule, at least not in the 60's and 70's when I was in school. So I found it educational as well as entertaining.There was certainly more of the older style Hollywood in the acting than the more "method" approach of modern actors. Characters were archetypal rather than deep or subtle.


                
Throughly entertaining combining two of India's great obsessions - Bollywood film & the sport of cricket.Certainly not a short film at over 3&1/2 hours & although it last longer than the current Zimbabwean batting line up would, Lagaan moves along at a brisk pace, suffering few if any dull patches.The cinematography is great, as is the sound.  The songs are fun too!The cricket scenes are well staged & filmed quite well.I was impressed overall with the English cast, especially the fact that it appears many of the cast appeared to have learnt to speak fluent Hindi, minor touches such as these can make a huge difference to a film like this.A great film for cricket fans & non cricket fans alike, even if the end is a tad predictable & not unexpected. 8/10


                
According to Indian flavors, this movie is long and choral, but visually extremely powerful and musically stunning by its perfection and strange beauty. Every character out of the over twenty main characters from both the local and 'visitors' team is wonderfully developed and seamless integrated in this simple yet eternal tale on bravery and honor, in which thrill builds up as the match goes ahead.The simple embedded love story works as a join between two worlds, two cultures, which actually never meet in a direct clash. A beautifully crafted movie to enjoy for both western and eastern audiences, where cricket is just a wonderful alibi.


                
I enjoyed this film very much. It is a classic story in which the underdog eventually triumphs over his suppressors. Colonial times revisited, and hard times they were for the villagers in India where the film is set. The British demand more tax ('lagaan') to be payed, but since a drought has plagued the country there is hardly enough crop for the farmers to survive. They are desperate. What to do? Hopefully a game of cricket will change their fate. The villagers select a team that have to defeat the British who of course think themselves Goliath. It is a game against all odds. Should the villagers win, they won't have to pay 'lagaan' for a period of three years. Should they lose, they will have to pay triple the amount. The three day cricket game in the film is portrayed very convincingly. I watched 'Lagaan' on dvd with two cricket fans like me and we thought the cricket scenes were very realistic. The story develops in a slow manner but that does not raise any objections, for in a way the duration of the film (225 minutes!) reflects the pace of life in 1890's rural India as well as the course of a decent game of cricket. There is ample song and dance in the film as well which sort of gives it an oriental 'Sound of Music'-like pretension. The dance scenes are well-orchestrated and quite enjoyable, though they tend to hold up the story too much. I suppose this is very Bollywood. To summarize: yeah, I like 'Lagaan' a lot!
A bona-fide popular indian film on western screen at last? Maybe not, but it looks more Bollywood than many others "d'auteur" movies from India. Thinking of it rationally, it looks like a Disney Cartoon. Silhouetted dancers against a red sun with heavy drumming in the background as in Lion King; the white heroine throwing doves singing I'm in loooove in high pitches like Cinderella or Snow White, villanious Brits with big teeth flashing through moustaches as they sneer nastily at poor "coloured" as in Tarzan;  the Indian girl frowning childish as Mulan. And musical numbers every now and then. But it works, it works, it works. Sometimes you can smile at the naive approach or rough editing, but I bet you won't be bored by sitting for 4 hours thru' this story. It has the same appeal films used to have on us when we were kids. And if it is Disney, is first class Disney.


                
Just watch this movie as a movie. Doesn't contain anything related to India pre-independence.


                
Good entertainment, but we should beware that this movie injects subtle twists that exalt European (i.e., White) supremacy. Ironic, isn't it? Four quick examples: (1.) As with most all Hollywood-formulaic scripts, no non-White group is capable of defeating a White man without, ironically, help from another White man. In this case, help comes from the kind-hearted sister of the megalomaniacal Captain Andrew Russell. Not even an Indian who played cricket with the British army is capable of teaching the game to his Indian teammates! (2.) The Elizabeth Russell character, a White female, incredibly masters the Hindi language in a matter of weeks. Of course, the local Indian farmers cannot seem to utter the simplest of phrases in English. (3.) It was not surprising to see that even the standard of beauty tilts towards European and away from Indian, by the camera lens work (particularly in a musical interlude featuring Elizabeth Russell) and music accompaniment that underscores the appearances of Ms. Russell. Predictably, she adorns herself in a sari to demonstrate yet another conquest of Indian culture. (4.) For the final insult, how terrible a "resolution" it is to see that as his "punishment," the evil captain is shipped to Central Africa! Supposedly, he is being sent there by Her Majesty in order to "tame" other restless "wogs of the Commonwealth". I guess there should be a sequel to show how the sub-Saharan Africans have been taught (by the benevolent Ms. Russell, no doubt) how to master the intricacies of POLO against the oppressive regime of the relocated despot Captain Russell!
An Indian friend of mine shared this film with me. I enjoyed it very much. I had seen Indian films before, so I was prepared for the "cast of a thousand" musical production numbers. I also knew something about Indian history and culture, but almost nothing about cricket, except that people from former British colonies have become superior players, much in the same way that baseball players from Latin and Caribbean backgrounds are now powerhouses of the "American" sport. I thought "Lagaan" would be mostly "about cricket". I was not prepared for a film that had so many levels.I think it is plain that the villagers' struggle to "beat the British at their own game" is a metaphor for the "power of the human spirit" (regardless of culture), as well as the nascent potential of India, and other "non-western" countries, to learn from and compete with the west in spheres of art, science, culture, industry, and sports. The film tries to be "balanced" in showing that not ALL westerners are "bad guys", nor are all Indians "good guys", however, there is a clear villain and a likable hero.The film weaves a romantic subplot, historical elements, the main conflict (multi-caste/ethnic Indian villagers vs. the haughty British occupiers), the details of the sport (cricket), comic and dramatic elements, even song & dance numbers in such a way that the film does not seem overlong. The film is plotted and paced beautifully. Some might find it too "saccharine", but I think that, like the sports classic "Rocky", "Lagaan" believes in the qualities of compassion, patience, endurance, ingenuity, teamwork, sportsmanship and love that it espouses - and as a result, the film works! If you have NOT seen many Indian films other than "Monsoon Wedding", but you are open-minded and like sports, culture and history, be prepared to step back in time to the days of the British Raj as seen from an Indian point of view. I think you will enjoy "Lagaan".


                
An ambitious epic pitting poor Indian villagers against the British Raj in 1890s India, this film is clearly a Bollywood product, although it manages to transcend some of the Bollywood formulas. Khan, who also produced, is the studly Indian farmer who has both wide-eyed Singh and sexually frustrated Shelley falling for his charms. Although nearly four hours in length, it never drags. The musical numbers are very well executed, featuring tuneful songs and energetic choreography. Although cricket is not the most exciting of sports, Gowarkier deserves credit for making the long, climactic cricket match compelling and believable. Blackthorne makes a good villain.


                
One movie that should have won the Oscar but it didn't. A small village in British India is overdue in taxes. But due to lack of rain, there is no crops, so no money and hence no taxes. the British Raj gets impatient, and demands taxes. The village persons desperate, wants to make a deal. And so a deal is signed. the Deal - A Cricket match between the team of the British raj and the illiterate Indians. If the British win the Indians have to pay the double tax, but if it happens the other way around, the villagers won't have to pay any taxes. A lucrative offer and the naive villagers fall for it. (Considering the fact that they don't know a thing about cricket) The British confident of their success, are in the cool. The Indians start practicing the foreign game. Soon they have their eleven. In the midst of betrayals the game starts. The British post a huge total, but the Indians fight back. The team captain, being their spirit of hope. The irony is in the fact with only 1 ball remaining six runs are needed, for victory with the Jack (Who incidentally is a cripple) facing a fast bowler, the lead bowler. He fails managing only a single. The British rejoice in the victory. The Indians lie down with their heads hung in shame. But the umpire surprises everybody by stating there has been a no ball. The bowler goes back to his run up. He bowls but he is bowling to the captain, the unbeaten batsman looking forward to carrying his bat throughout the innings. He swings and it looks like he is caught by the British Captain. Hang on thats not the end. It appears that he has crossed the boundary. The result the Indians win. The ultimate reward comes in the end when the rain gods bless Champaran with a shower of rain. The movie revolves in a love triangle between Aamir Khan, Gracy Singh and Rachel Shelly. Shelly a British lady takes up in training the Indians the game of cricket, in turn she falls for the handsome Bhuvan (Aamir), the captain of the village team. Bhuvan in turn loves Gauri (Gracy Singh), a simple village girl. The music is superb and the songs are very soothing. Lagaan is one movie which most definitely should have won the Oscars, a real pity that it didn't. But the story and the entire theme was very original. The supporting characters though play a very small part in the movie apart from the leading characters. Yet each character has a definite purpose in the movie. The cripple, has the talent of spinning the ball (reminds me of Chandrashekhar), Laka, the traitor who betrays the villagers for his thirst for revenge, and all the rest of the Eleven. Each one of them has a definite purpose in the movie and thats what made this movie apart from the rest of the usual BS movies about freedom struggle. A must say for everyone. 10/10 from me.........
"""spoiler alert"""
Imagine this,Barren land, 12 hours day of hard labour, a land afflicted by the misery of the villagers coupled by the shyness of the clouds.Lagaan means tax in hindi, a tax that the ruthless british collected from the ruling raja (king) of the village of champaner in the state of Rajasthan. The bulk of the burden fell on the villagers that were already in debt from the previous years of a hard and long drought.
This year they had to pay even more as penalty for the previous years. Just when things coudnt get any worse, a witty yet courageous villager Bhuvan accepts a challenge from the British in a cricket match. To the victor go the spoils.To the ruthless, lagan to the tune of three times the due.To the victim, a light of hope that might change their lives forever.
This is the story of 11 warriors that fight against the greatest empire known to man with a wooden stick, a leather ball, and courage.
Simple story, but brilliantly presented.The two passions that fuel India (hatred for the British rule and love for cricket) are blended to make probably the most elaborate Indian movie ever. Very well made, it captures the struggle that Indians went through (and many still do) at the hands of nature and the powers that be. The one thing that keeps them going is their strength of character, personified as Bhuwan.This was the movie where Aamir Khan ceased to be viewed as Aamir the actor, but as Bhuwan the patriot. His role in the movie, as well as the efforts he put in for promoting the film abroad, earned him a lot of respect. He extended the spirit of the movie and his character beyond the boundaries of Lagaan. It was far more that what anyone else from Indian cinema has ever done before.A must watch.


                
So its not your normal artsy movie... and certainly it has the same plot basics as many a silly american movie... but somehow its different. You leave the movie with a smile and in good humor. Its my first Indian movie so I cant compare, but overall a very likeable film.  The singing and dancing is outrageous sometimes but actually helps set the tone of the movie. (I normally hate musical "interferences") Stereotypes abound but dont spoil the movie.It is pretty long thou and could have been a little more compact... but they used it to give each character some spotlight. Great scenery and the soundtrack is very good...


                
Songs / Dances / Emotions / Fun / Thrills / Action. this is what it takes to make a Classic Indian Film. Very few Indian Films ( one may be able to count on their fingers ) can boast of packaging all elements better than LAGAAN.CLASSIC is the only word for this FILM. The movie has all the ingredients that have been used in the past to make a successful Indian movie. Comedy, Love, 3 sided love (though not well developed), doing the bad part because the person you love loves someone else, Caste / Creed, British rule, Exploitation of poor, Cricket, <U+0085><U+0085><U+0085> the list is endless. The only things it doesn't have is use of vulgar language / Scene (which is used in almost every alternate Indian movie to hit the Marquee) and idiotic Fight Scenes (hero coming and bashing up 10-15 goons alone). The color's used are really earthy and well balanced. The lights (esp. in the night scene's ) are perfectly blended with the set's.  The costumes done are really good just plain and simple. And not going for dhoti/kurta for each and every one. Like giving a Kurta / Pajama to the Sardar, flowing Pajama to the Muslim and the good turban on the village mukhia. This gives you feeling that it is a typical village and does not seem like that the people are just dumped there with the same cloths. Only thing is that they are always clean to the spot even when working / singing / dancing in the farms or learning cricket.The characters are developed as and when required, it really seems like they come into focus just at the right time. They are developed so much as to bring about the characteristic's they display in the climax. It is really a director's Movie and has done justice to all characters. Full Marks to Ashutosh.Music is like the feel of fresh fragrance in the environment. It is really brilliant. The rendering of O Ri Choree is really good and the part where western music is fused, is Masterfully done. Full marks to Rehman. The renderings of the other songs are also as good. The only point where Rehman seems wobbly is that he leaves a feeling that the has taken something for his previous compositions. In LAGAAN also it is not different, the starting of the song MITWAA seem very much like a song from 1 2 ka 4., but the rest is out of the world stuff. The composition of the Bhajan is really good and with the vocal from the ever fantastic LATA Mangeshkar it comes out with flying color's.All the actors on their part have displayed that they are really good. All in all LAGAAN is a really good movie and I will recommend to any one and every one.Once upon a time in India <U+0085><U+0085>.


                
Second time of seeing this epic – well, at 215 minutes long it doesn't seem that long since the last time! Once Upon A Time In India is a Spaghetti Cricket tale superbly portrayed and presented, and yet now I know: apart from the music by A. R. Rahman it just isn't my cup of tea. I'm missing a vital requirement in that (for example) I have no hatred or bitterness towards actual or attempted past, present or future invaders of Britain or any other part of the planet; life's too short.Evil cheating moneygrubbing British rulers and noble honest moneyless Indian serfs in a drought-stricken Indian province in 1893 conclude a deal to pay no tax for the next three years or be taxed at a treble rate: it all depends which side wins a cricket match. Hope it didn't give present-day Indian or English wageslaves any ideas; but I suppose as most British passport holders despise the game – and musicals - it shouldn't make any impression here. It's slickly handled with marvellous acting, music, photography and storytelling but – is it still entirely Bollywood or re-heated Hollywood? I must admit that I prefer the purer simpler films from the past, films like Mughal E Azam, Pakeezah or Roy's Devdas told me more and still give me more pleasure. Why, the cricket match doesn't even begin until after most films have finished! The usual messages are here, of tolerance and self-sacrifice mixed with a hokey competition plot device which becomes the plot...I miss the likes of Gene Kelly and Danny Kaye. Most of the songs are excellent my favourite being Radha Kaise Na Jale delicately sung by Asha and Udit Narayan. I never really liked Aamir Khan especially as a leading man but Gracy Singh impressed as Gauri, a perfect support character. It's Khan's film start to finish and he's seldom far away from the screen; he even bowled more than one maiden over in here too.If you understand cricket and are interested in this film's premise you should watch it - if you've seen it once that's probably enough though some of the songs bear repeated listening.


                
lagaan is a brave venture and the production team succeeds admirably in this heroic tale of the underdogs. the story is simple, way too convenient and predictable. but what makes it work is the high drama surrounding it, the extraordinary music score and the magical one hour finale.the entire movie is a build up to the final on-field cricket battle between the rustics who have no idea about the game and the britishers who brought the game to india. the story in itself holds no surprises, it is obvious from the beginning which team is going to win, but the quetion is how? the drama of the match is simply stunning, with ups and downs. the many characters in the game bring a lot of fun and grit and to the game and make it a a delight to watch. an absolute must for any indian cricket fan and for foreigners interested in bollywood. a very well crafted movie. my man of the match - a.r.rehman for some brilliant songs and an extraordinary background score.an exciting 9!


                
Aamir Khan not only stars in this Hindi film, but sings, dances and even plays the flute at one point, one of the most versatile actors you'll find anywhere. Along side the central cricket match in the story, the movie offers a colorful display of festive song and dance, a hallmark it seems of many films emanating from India. For this American viewer, the sport of cricket is somewhat off beat and try as I might, I couldn't follow the concept of runs and wickets scored. To a degree it resembles baseball, but the way batters and bowlers (pitchers) come and go was quite confusing. I did like the Indian name for their version of cricket though. it was called gilli-danda; if given a choice, I think I'd rather play gilli-danda. The only thing is with these Hindi films, most of them go quite the distance. This one was almost four hours long and it appeared that there were any number of opportunities to shorten the movie by eliminating elements unnecessary to tell the story. Even the song and dance routines run a five minute minimum, which doesn't sound like a lot, but are quite long when you're watching them. I guess this all plays favorably to an Indian audience, as the foreign reviewers on this board are lavish in their praise. What I thought was most positive for the story was the way Bhuvan (Aamir Khan) used his authority to denounce the caste system in his village of Champaner, calling on the members of his cricket team to accept the 'Untouchable' named Kachra (Aditya Lakhia). I think my favorite character in the movie was the fortune teller Guran (Rajesh Vivek). If you check the picture of him posted on the credits page for this movie, he's clean shaven and bears only the slightest appearance to the wild looking seer that joined up with Bhuvan's team. For this long time fan of another sporting entertainment, he had a remarkable resemblance to pro wrestler Pampero Firpo.
This classic cult movie is about a conflict between the Indian farmers low class and higher class British men. But the new is the perspective and it bring life to each character. Ashutosh Gowariker is showing a brilliant performance. This film has boast of many great things. And by that time the first time producer Aamir Khan has faith and belief and this story and investing all he could to make it as director Ashutosh wanted it. The music is excellent. Ten years later it still is one of the best soundtracks of Indian cinema and I think It will get still better. No matter which country are you from, please watch this movie, you wont be disappointed. This movie showcases human spirit.


                
