LAGAAN (4+ outta 5 stars) Years of subjugation and unfair taxation by the British Empire come to a head and the inhabitants of a small Indian farming community face off against their evil oppressors... in a cricket match??? This may seem like a ridiculous idea for a movie (and I won't even mention the fact that it's a musical) but this was the most exciting and wonderful movie I've seen in quite some time. Yes, it all comes down to a cricket match between the upper class British twits and the neophyte Indian farmers... and the movie is almost FOUR HOURS long... but, wow... what a movie this is! The slow building of trust and community among the usually-bickering villagers as they prepare for their ultimate battle is both fascinating and inspiring. It's like watching The Magnificent Seven or The Wild Bunch gathering together for a big showdown... only instead of shooting and killing... there's cricket! A cocky British Captain (Paul Blackthorne) makes a deal with the proud, young Bhuvan (Aamir Khan): he will give the entire region three years of no taxes if they can defeat the British cricket team... but if they lose they have to pay triple tax this year. Since there has been no rain all season and they can't even pay their regular taxes... this becomes a tense, do-or-die situation. Aamir Khan is terrific in the lead (he resembles a cross between Tony Curtis, Peter Sellers and Al Pacino). He is always believable, whether trying to inspire his fellow villagers or facing his English enemies in stony silence or wooing his the lovely Gauri (Gracy Singh) with song and dance. Great story! Great music! Don't miss this one!


                
Initially I was warned about the length of the movie-3hrs and 50 mins.But believe me, its worth it.There is a refreshing Indian-ness about the movie,which is welcome after a recent bout of Hollywood remakes in Hindi that have become such an eye-sore.The emotion that Indians share about cricket is effectively taken advantage of(the cricket match played between villagers of Champaner and the British officers which forms the climax ,extends to about an hour and a half).The best part of the movie is the characterization of the eleven players (villagers).Aamir Khan is at his best in this movie and Gracie Singh lives the role of Gauri.The acting talents of the British actors esp. that of the officer Captain Russel(played by Paul Blackthorne) is notable.There was never a boring moment in the film, the dialogues and songs' lyrics are very meaningful.And lastly I must appreciate the work behind the entire cricket sequence as it covers most of the aspects of the game and not to mention - match fixing,sledging,body line bowling ,making it gripping till the last ball! A must see for Indian cricket fans!


                
I saw this in a Paris cinema on a Sunday afternoon. The French audience loved it, as did I. They clapped at the intermission and they clapped to the music while the credits were running. I thought the song and dance routines were great, providing the perfect bridge to a semi-mythologised narrative. The audience sometimes laughed at the exaggeration and coincidence of the plot, especially at the end -- the rain, the Englishwoman who never married. Astonishingly they even got the joke about 'this country will be the future of this game'. It seems that lack of knowledge of cricket and subtitles with words like 'runs', 'overs' and 'no ball' were not a handicap. Of course the pillorying of the British didn't go down badly here. I especially liked the representation of the Raj, not as a moderrnising influence, but as straight agrarian civilisation, extraction of the food from peasants' mouths.I was on the edge of tears throughout. Why? Because this was the first Indian production that to my knowledge has won a world audience. And it provided a new sentimental bridge to the world for my own trajectory. I could see how Bollywood is the only film-making centre that actually could do what Hollywood does, but in its own distinctive way, with a much more universal human interest. And the music of course. The plot and characters were caricatured, but that made it all that more accessible and touching, like a medieval passion play. I loved the symbolic roles contrived for the Muslim, the Untouchable, the Sikh, the collaborator, the headman, the intellectual etc.Above all, the plot of learning the game and beating the masters was perfect. It was CLR James to the tee. Beyond a Boundary indeed , with society in the shape of the crowd as much of the action as the players. And the idea of the bet! Play comes from an Old English word whose first meaning is to wager. The idea of life as a game of negotiated risks is very widespread among hunter-gatherers, where people have to be trained to respond instantly to the flash of white tail in the bush. Obviously it sometimes pays for peasants (and citydwellers) to pick up these skills. The play goes on.


                
I really liked this movie. It was the first movie that was mainly in Hindu and I thought it was beautiful and had great music. I love musicals like Guys and Dolls and the Music Man and I love the music, but when I saw this it realized how bad and out of place the English language was in the beautiful rhythmic singing. I am not a sports person and this movie definitely had a sports theme, but I didn't mind it. It felt kind of long towards the end when they played the game. It was a story of facing adversity in anyway. Its love story was told completely without kissing which in this day and age is very impressive. I love this movie for the filming music and costumes.


                
Like most Bollywood films, this one satisfies on a lot of levels - music, song, dance plot. Hit has history, sports and romance. Unlike Morton, I had a good DVD copy from my local public library, the colors were brilliant and vibrant. The story contains a lot of clichés, but that's Bollywood, but at least the Victorian Indian setting gives a new twist.At almost four hours, I did find it long. I would advise taking a break at the intermission. Maybe watch it over two nights - or make dinner during intermission!!!!Great movie T


                
I have never been able to find a Bollywood film that was so easy to sit thru the entire film without getting impatient. Excellent pacing, appealing acting, good music and about perfect movie entertainment. I've seen quite a number of Bollywood musical productions as the local Indian fast food restaurants tend to play non-stop DVDs that splice only the music and dance numbers together. It's been very hard to get a good recommendation of an entire film to see. The few that I've been able to watch were tough going, mainly due to the length and corny plot lines. The musical numbers were usually entertaining. I had to stop this film (on DVD) and resume watching it at a later time. I found myself watching from the beginning again and not getting bored! Director Ashutosh Gowariker has developed an excellent technique that I think the subtitle of the film gives a clue where his inspiration comes from. There are many scenes that remained me of the way Sergio Leone built scenes, introduced new characters and involved the viewer in the story. Really impressive.There is one problem, if this is your first Indian musical/drama, there's not much in league with this film. To extend the Leone connection, it's like watching "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" and then trying to find another Spaghetti western that comes even close.Excellent.


                
Don't be put off if you're unfamiliar with cricket. I was surprised, given the film's intended audience (i.e., Indian), but "Lagaan" bends over backwards to make sure that even people who have never heard of cricket know what's going on and understand the rules as much as they need to in order to appreciate the progress of the game. (North American baseball and football films are never so charitable to outsiders.)And forget the reputation the sport has among those who don't know how it's played. Cricket is, in fact, the most exciting, and certainly the most dramatic, of all sports. Yes, test matches can last up to five days (and had been known to last longer before the five-day limit was imposed), but that's the point: only cricket CAN last for five days without sending the crowd to sleep. Most other sports would be pushing it at two hours. Only a game of cricket COULD bear the emotional weight which "Lagaan" places upon its lengthy finale. The conclusion to "Lagaan" is long, at once exhilarating and almost unbearably tense <U+0096> and, ultimately, liberating.No other sport is so well suited to the democratic ideals "Lagaan" wishes to express, either. It's possible to describe someone by saying "He looks like a rugby player" or "He looks like a basketball player"; but "He looks like a cricket player" is meaningless. Almost any physical skill can find a foothold in cricket. (And you never know WHICH skill will prove crucial in winning a match.) Cricket admits all sorts; but once admitted, the division of labour is admirably egalitarian. Every single player, even those who got into the team solely on the strength of their ability to throw a ball so as to make it bounce sideways, must bat; everyone, even those whose only natural ability is to swing a bat at a moving object, must field. It's a pity that not everyone must bowl, but the uncertain length of innings would make such a rule unworkable; and anyway, in long test matches especially, a cricket captain would LIKE every member of his team to be able to bowl, and certainly wants as many different styles of bowling at his disposal as possible. <U+0085>The result of all this is, the world's best cricket players look nothing like one another, yet considerably like ordinary human beings.<U+0085>But back to the film. It's marvellous. It comes along at just the right time to prove (although it has been proven many times in the past) that films considerably longer than Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" episodes don't have to be monumentally boring. "Lagaan" is never less than entertaining, and (despite the occasional moment when it stretches too far <U+0096> there are maybe two or three moments in the whole three-and-three-quarter hours) ends up being genuinely moving and inspiring. By saying this I'm probably betraying the fact that it's the first big Bollywood picture I've seen; but it also shows that the skill and energy required to stage live action musical numbers has not vanished from the face of the Earth, after all. It's not true that "Lagaan" has everything. It's better than that: it has precisely as much as it can hold together in the one story, and no more.Just one teensy little criticism <U+0085>Spoiler ahead<U+0085>As you'd guess from the subtitle ("Once Upon a Time in India"), "Lagaan" is, in addition to everything else, a fairytale; or at least, while the bulk of its presence is elsewhere, it has a kind of shadow life as a fairytale, too. The rule-of-three motif is used frequently: the same thing happens twice; then, the third time, it's different. I was expecting this rule to be used on the elephant (and I'm sure everyone else in the audience was, too). Two times the ball rolls through a gap in the boundary to annoy a nearby elephant; I was sure that the third time this happened, the elephant would sit on the ball, thus allowing the local team (probably when they were struggling with batsmen who for one reason or another were constrained in their ability to run back and forth, or when they needed to score a seemingly impossible number of runs in the last few overs) to get, say, ten runs off the one ball. But it didn't happen. We never see the elephant again. The game DOES end in fine style, and I suppose in a manner more respectful to the nature of the game, but all the same <U+0085> I was a little disappointed. That's all.I wasn't disappointed by anything else.
The best cricket movie ever made.Set in India in the late-1800s, the local British rulers are imposing excessively high taxes on the local population. One of the local villagers has a run-in with the senior British officer, resulting in a cricket match between the British and the villagers. If the villagers win, they don't have to pay taxes for three years. If they lose, they have to pay three times their usual taxes.Interesting, engaging movie with some of the most realistic cricket scenes you'll see in a movie. The April 2004 edition of The Wisden Cricketer, probably the foremost cricket magazine in the world, had their list of the top 10 cricket moments in movies, and Lagaan come in at number 1. I wholeheartedly agree with their assessment. Cricket in movies is normally very badly done, looking as if the director had no clue about the sport. Even Bodyline, the movie about the infamous 1932 Bodyline series, had some laughable moments (eg the England wicket-keeper, Les Ames, standing up to the wicket for the express pace of Harold Larwood!). Considering that it was a movie exclusively about an historic cricket series, thus is even more cricket-centric than Lagaan, which is as much a human drama as a cricket movie, Bodyline's cricket scenes were very badly done. (Bodyline's script was just as bad, very biased and propaganda-like: going out of it's way to be anti-English). I expected similar inaccuracies in Lagaan and was pleasantly surprised. While there are some minor inaccuracies and inconsistencies, this is truly the most accurate and best cricket movie ever made. It is also good as a drama, not just a cricket movie, so recommended for those less-into-cricket too. (Aside: Bodyline came in at Number 3 on Wisden's list).


                
First and foremost, to enjoy this film, and you can--very much--the viewer should leave behind the cynical contemporary moviegoer who expects irony and sarcasm and nasty humor and fart jokes. This is an old-fashioned film about old-fashioned values, and the fact that it was made in India makes little difference.Lagaan pits good against repression, the individual against the system, and although to a modern viewer the outcome may be obvious, its great fun getting there, with a lead actor who very much resembles the early Tony Curtis, full of impish sexuality and the power to use it, a man who challenges an unjust system--in this case the rule of the English Raj before 1900. He impulsively challenges a ruling officer, a really nasty type reminiscent of previous villainous prototypes...and then he must meet his challenge. Viewers not accustomed to the Bollywood product should be able to believe that hundreds of drought-stricken villagers could break out in unified and very colorful song when they see black clouds on the way--if so, and you like romance and being on the winning them, this film is great fun indeed!


                
I've never been a fan of Bollywood movies, but I found "Lagaan" to be an enjoyable film.Of course, it isn't "Two Women," "The Bicycle Thief," "Seven Samurai," "Umberto D" or even on par with "The Apu Trilogy" and "Salaam Bombay!" (which, by the way, should have won the Oscar for best foreign film, instead of "Pelle the Conqueror.") But not every film can be on par with these classics and life would be awfully boring if that were the case. Sometimes, you ought to be able to sit through a corny film and enjoy it - and that's what happens with "Lagaan."There's something delightfully infectious about "Lagaan." And although the running time is close to four hours, the time whizzes by.I was not bored by this film. It was a fun experience, the music has a jovial quality to it and the entire film is truly a thoroughly satisfying experience. If you want to see a "The Bicycle Thief" or "Two Women," and that's the only type of film you want to see, then by all means see those masterpieces. But if you're in the mood for some diverting fun, watch "Lagaan." It is worth it.


                
Lagaan. It's not everyday affair when something like Lagaan happens. When Bollywood entered the new millennium, it was still craving for a turning point which takes Bollywood to international stage. Ashutosh Gowariker came with an idea which defies Bollywood norms by leaps and bounds, Aamir Khan is hooked by the idea as an actor and takes the risky decision of producing the movie on its own so that idea gets the much deserved heart felt treatment and what happened later is a history now. Lagaan year after year is considered the Bollywood's bravest effort of the new millennium.In its unbelievable plot where our hero a villager played by Mr. perfectionist Aamir Khan accepts the challenge of egoist British Commander Officer to play a cricket match in which if village wins, they need not to pay taxes for next three years. Even with a run time of 3 hours and 40 minutes, movie never gets out of steam, in fact gets better with every passing moment. An array of colorful characters played by credible actors, the mesmerizing music and back ground score of maestro A.R.Rahman, soulful lyrics of Javed Akhtar, a water tight screenplay with not a single out of the place scene and the genuine feeling of honesty and simplicity, all these factors make Lagaan an outstanding movie of modern times. First half is a smooth journey of introducing characters, the challenge, the team making and the match preparation. Second half is a like watching a nail biting cricket match. The movie is a perfect example that with full commitment and hard work, Bollywood can create the international level cinema with ease.Lagaan turned out to be an inspiration for audience and its makes alike. After Lagaan, Aamir Khan appeared into Taare Zameen Par, Rang De Basanti and 3 Idiots. Ashutosh made Swades and Jodhaa Akbar. I am going with mind blowing 9 out of 10 for Lagaan. It's a sin for any movies fan to miss Lagaan.


                
There have been hundreds of good reviews and comments on this movie, and I must say that I agree with almost everything that has been said about it. So I'm not going to patronize it anymore, because everyone already knows how great it is. But I did find a couple of negative points in the movie. Things that were either silly or unnecessary. What were they? I felt that the whole romantic angle between Elizabeth and Bhuvan was completely useless and could have been avoided completely. Why couldn't Elizabeth have wanted to help them purely out of the goodness of her heart? In fact, after their first meeting when the villagers are observing the cricket match in hiding, Elizabeth asks their names, and after they've left, she actually whispers "Bhuvan" to herself... as if she's already falling for him.. ridiculous! In fact, i thought the whole Bhuvan/Elizabeth/Gauri triangle was useless and did nothing for the plot. yes, it gave a chance for our "Gori Mem" to sing a song, but come on!! The last few words in the movie claim that Elizabeth never married, and is referred to by Amitabh Bachchan (the narrator) as her remaining Bhuvan's Radha forever. A little laughable.
I am still seething with disappointment that this film did not win the Academy Award for best foreign language film the year it was nominated. What is especially upsetting is that the movie that did win was far inferior in every way imaginable. Ah, yes, the politics of The Academy!Lagaan is a marvel of fine film making. It is a triumph for Garwariker, the actors, the composer, the technicians on every level. There is immaculate attention paid to the framing of all shots. A breathtaking tour de force in Cinematography and fine acting. Lagaan is a colorful melange of music, romance, drama and sports that is completely engrossing despite being nearly 4 hours long. This masterpiece reveals just how far Bollywood has come and, in many ways, surpassed Hollywood in inspired film making.A must-see for the entire family!!


                
Yes, it weighs in at nearly 4 hours.  Yes, it's all in hindi.  Yes, it's about cricket, a game no American understands.  Yes, there is singing and dancing for no apparent reason.  Despite all that, if you don't have fun watching it, then there is no hope for you at all.


                
I found this story of love and honor during the British Raj highly entertaining.  It's all very formulaic but great fun.  Virtually everything in it is recycled from something else <U+0096> it's Rocky, Gandhi and MTV all rolled into one, with a heavy overlay of American-style political correctness.  But it's all done with pizzazz.  I loved the photography, the music (by the amazing A.R. Rahman) and the cast.  I especially liked the performances of Aamir Khan as the hero and Gracy Singh as the spunky girl who loves him.  They are both gorgeous (once you get past the nose ring on her) and have charm galore.  The choreography is a hoot.  Some of the dialogue is a scream.  My favorite line:  `You can't fool me.  I know which way the Ganges flows.'  The film is a campy, over-the-top melodrama, but its heartfelt earnestness makes it surprisingly affective.  The movie has moments of sheer exhilaration.  On the whole it's very sweet and uplifting. It's long, but always interesting.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  I predict that this movie will gain a huge cult following in America and spawn many English-language films with a similar style.


                
"Lagaan"'s multi-talented Indian cast has a great time dancing and singing its way through this very entertaining story. Producers of American musicals should learn a lesson or two from the way Aamir Khan has assembled this movie. By the end, each Indian character is individualized and at the same time significant as an allegorical figure in a modern legend of how to live with grace and courage, even under political oppression. The British villain is the one cardboard character in the movie, but it's clear from the start that he's only meant to be a foil for the hero and his friends. Anyone who likes this movie will want the soundtrack, which is appealing across countries.(Aamir Khan, by the way, also appears in the movie "Earth.")


                
The Movie takes you back to 1940's when INDIA was a British Colony. Back then Indian Farmers had to give atleast 50% of the Cultivated product to the English Govt as a form of Revenue, which means LAGAAN in Indian Language. And one season There was Not enough Rain for people to grow enough to live, and giving lagaan was not even a possibilty but british Rulers are way too shrued to exempt them from that so they leave them with one Condition in order to get rid of the LAGAAN which was to Defeat the british Rulers in a game of Cricket and if they don't win they might have to pay double tax which was to give them everything they cultivate the whole season. So one revolutionist farmer Aamir Khan (the main lead of the film) takes up the challenge thinking that its almost impossible for them to pay them even single tax, double tax wouldn't make anything worse then it already is... so the film describes the sheer power and will of these Indian farmers which makes them Succeed!! The movie is nominated in The OSCARS under the best foriegn film and I believe it should get it with Ease... The BOTTOM LINE - A great MOVIE ...


                
This movie is shot with perfection, takes you to a different time, when India was evovling and patriotism was taking it's roots in India. An interesting way of story telling.


                
That's funny. I always thought the reason of "Lagaan" continuous presence on IMDb Top 250 was due to its being "a little more than" your typical Bollywood movie, as if the opposite was a disqualifying parameter. I confess, from my slightly prejudiced perspective, I thought "Lagaan" was an empowering sports movie about the triumph of human spirit etc. but again, not the "typical" Hindi movie. But that would have been overlooking the subtitle: which goes straight to the point: Once Upon a Time in India. I guess if you set a story in India, you better tell it the "Indian way".So, the fact is: "Lagaan" IS your "typical" Bollywood movie, but that's not saying much as the director Ashutosh Gowariker finds that little extra push to elevate the film above the expectations of a national audience, thus delivering a story of universal appeal: something about the fight for dignity and justice, an underdog story with the same resonance as "Rocky", and told in an old-fashioned way with a despicable villain and a colorful gallery of challengers that goes from a handsome hero, a brute with a golden heart, a sneaky traitor, a comic relief etc. The film use many familiar elements from both Bolly and Hollywood's canon but the result is so enthralling, so exhilarating that it gets away with it.And take it from someone who's never been a fan of that Bollywood trope requiring that characters can break into singing and dancing in such a so well-choreographed act you wouldn't believe it's one of these spur-of-the-moment things. But the power of "Lagaan" is to know exactly what the audience longs, an emotional roller-coaster that includes singing and all dancing. There's such boldness in making a movie almost four hour longs by adding nothing that clearly advances the plot that even someone who's not familiar with Bollywood will understand that music isn't just an ornament, but as vital to the enjoyment as the rest. The film was long and riveting enough, but "Lagaan" primarily addresses its own audience and with such gusto that it widened its appeal to foreign audiences.But the story had a part to play in that success. Its premise alone is captivating: at the peak of the British Empire in India, an arrogant and racist Captain named Andrew Russel, commanding the province of Champenar, doubled the Lagaan tax to the villagers, who are already taxed to the bone. But with this new measure, they risk starvation and misery. Phillips (well-played by Paul Blackthorne) is no man to care for such considerations. And when the young and rebel villager named Bhuvan (Aamir Khan) goes with a few villagers to ask the local Rajah to intercede, the man with one foot in each world admits he's powerless. Russell spices up the situation, he challenges the villagers to beat them in cricket, a game Bhuvan called stupid, if they win, they won't pay Lagaan for three years, if they lose, they'll have to play triple Lagaan.When Bhuvan accepts, he faces a major uproar from the other villages of the provinces and before winning the game, there's a long process of winning the villagers' spirit and the process is crucial to reveal more about the characters and the setting. Meanwhile, Philips confronts his superiors and understands he'd rather win the game or he might pay the Lagaan from his own pocket. The dice are cast and we follow the training of villagers who never understood cricket, let alone played it. But it's not much in the game than the anticipation, to see these peasant trying to defy the British establishment, it's both funny like "The Full Monty" but many highly dramatic moments remind us that lives are at stakes and it's not just a game. The odds are worse but they've got to beat them.They are trying to win with what they have at hands and turning their flaws into tricks is the kind of inspirational material you expect from sport movie. One of the villagers is swift with slingshots, which earned him an ability to launch a ball so fast you literally don't see it coming, another one with a defect in his hand is able to make the ball spin, his status as a pariah allows a film to make a few comments about the caste system, to make sure there is an equivalent to British' ruthlessness. And to make up for the vileness of Captain his sister Elizabeth (Rachel Shelley), finding her brother's method cruel and unfair help the villagers, much to the displeasure of Gaury (Gracy Singh) in love with Aamir. There are many subplots in the movie and they swiftly overlap just like the many rules of that cricket game that you don't need to understand in order to enjoy the film.Each sub-story is bound to a specific emotion, there's romance, there's drama, comedy and tragedy, and at the climactic game, all these element come full circle together. And no matter how hard you expect the game to be, how many sports movie you've seen, no matter how firmly you anticipate that it will all comes down to one final blow, the film will still manage to surprise you. And that's the power of Lagaan that Ebert summed up very well, you enjoy it, you realize it's new and fresh although it's a very familiar material. You really enjoyed it. It is Bollywood but its appeals transcend the story.It has escapism, fun, colors, it's the kind of film, you can't say they don't make them anymore<U+0085> well except maybe in Bollywood, the quintessential place for popular cinema. And it is an empowering sports drama about the triumph of human spirit.


                
When you watch this film, you'll understand why it was nominated for an academy award. Bollywood's go-to-guy for proper acting Aamir Khan plays a rebellious Bhuvan, a young lad who is tired of being oppressed by the British and dreams of liberating everything Indian one way or another. Gracy Singh plays the country bumpkin, Gauri who has fallen in love with him but must first fight off the affections and intentions of a well-to-do socialite named Elizabeth Russell (played by the L-Word's Rachel Shelley) who also becomes smitten with Bhuvan when she comes to help the villagers prepare for a mandatory cricket match they must play against an elite team that includes her brother, Captain Andrew Russell (played by Paul Blackthorne) who has crossed paths with Bhuvan one time too many. Bhuvan, the cause of this dangerous wager must now step up to the plate, in assembling a team that will play the elite, as he was the one responsible for the suggestion of the match in the first place (he belittled the game of cricket) in front of Captain Russell one day and Russell, obviously did not take that lightly. Look for strong performances by Aamir Khan of course, Rachel Shelley, Suhasini Mulay and Kulbhushan Kharbanda. Gracy Singh's whining/bickering performance is too irritating to be considered anything special, she nearly ruined the movie for me and I doubt I will be able to stand her in anything else after seeing her over-consciously play the character of Gauri so wooden and exaggeratedly upsetting. My favourite song 'Radha Kaise Na Jale' unfortunately suffers badly at the hands of Ms. Singh but luckily my love affair with the song began long before my eyes met its interpretation on her and Aamir in the film. Anyways, some key scenes include; a scene in which a bunch of villagers discriminate against a man of lower caste (a so-called untouchable) during the team selection process. Other highlights include the scene in which Rachel Shelley is dressed up in Indian attire, the cricket match itself and the rain anticipation scene. A must see but brace yourself, it's 4 hours long!
9/10 - One of the greatest Indian movies of all time, the only fault being that they did not show the farmers doing any farmer-like activity in the movie, if they did, it would have deserved a a full 10 stars. Good acting from Aamir Khan, Gracy Singh and all the rest of the cast. Good storyline - not the usual emotional rambling of star-crossed lovers or try too hard to be like Hollywood like many Indian films. Though the love story is still there, it does not interfere with the narrative. Good song and dance sequence, they kept it real - there was only one very short piece where a lover was imagining. It makes stiff and formal English culture look very drab in contrast to the flamboyant song and dance sequences, no offense to any English who happen to be reading this. Not one minute of the almost 4 hours was wasted, I have to hand it to Aamir and also Ashutush Gowarikar, good work guys.


                
I happened to come across this movie in one of those times when you just have nothing to do, I think I watched when it already had begun, although I'm not sure how much I missed of it. I started watching when Bhuvan and Tipu are trying to hit the ball in the middle of the village, it seemed interesting to me since I believed the guy playing Bhuvan seemed familiar, I obviously realize now that I hadn't seen him before in my life since this is the first Indian movie I watch.But still, there was something in the atmosphere of the movie that caught me, it seemed different to anything I've seen, perhaps it was the way they kept both languages and intersected them in various ways. The story is outstanding, and even though the dialogues seemed strange for me at times I think it might of been the way it was translated, the musical moments take a while to get used to but after you get past the new sound and get familiar with it you'll find it has great rhythm, I think anyone would get provoked to either sing or dance. There isn't a boring moment in this movie, it keeps you focused on the screen since you don't want to miss what they say!, the language is beautiful as well. Perhaps the songs get a bit long but those are the only times you're allowed to look away.Overall it's a good movie to watch if you want to learn about the culture, and even if you want to kill some time, it's definitely not a waste. And I promise you wont notice how long it is!


                
Many Westerners hold a grudge towards Indian Film. So did I, once.After viewing (and thank Goodness Owing it on DVD) this film, it demolishes the prejudice. (Watching DEVDAS a few weeks earlier helped too !!!) Bollywood produces wonderful films, and LAGAAN is a true ambassador.All right, it's long, but who cares, it's pure entertainment every minute every second ! Yes, they sing (occasionally), but if you like WEST SIDE STORY, HAIR, THE KING AND I, GREASE, Jesus Christ SUPERSTAR, etcetera-etcetera this film will appeal to you. If you don't, but like to undergo different cultures, well, there isn't too much singing here, the panoramas are breathtaking, India, certainly in 1877, is thrilling...Bollywood got his clichés, its typical framework, but with all due respect, doesn't the western film do also ? I mean, every thriller, whodunit, western, Hollywood comedy follows strict rules... And so does every SPORTS-thriller. Costner, Snipes, Redford... Eat your heart out ! Here we have a story that can challenge the wonderful 'Bang The Drum Slowly'. Honest ! Well acted, strong historic references, thrilling sets and costumes...This film is a joy to watch, full off exciting backdrops, some very thrilling acting-performances (watch Miss Rachel Shelley !!!), a story that goes straight to the heart... Honestly, LAGAAAN is a marvel.Give Bollywood a chance. Right now ! So you can say you knew it right before it starts grossing in international trophies.Because it will... Honest...PS: How to find your way through all these 1000's of Bollywood titles ? The usual sellers have discovered Bollywood and charge you outrages prices for the DVD's, without giving any info or guidance. Go to eBay, there are sellers with the same titles from the same manufacturers, but with normal prices AND a lot of know-how on the subject ! My advice to all of you, go the the store H2Bcom on eBay. You will feel like Dante guided by Virgil...Enjoy Bollywood !!!!


                
This film has its flaws, but any movie that can make a three-day cricket match suspenseful and riveting deserves a standing ovation in my book.Lagaan is lots of fun for those used to Hollywood movies.  The variations from Hollywood norms range from small (but amusing) to major (but refreshing).  No Hollywood movie would feature an adult male romantic lead whose primary criterion for a wife is that she be liked by his mother. And no modern Hollywood movie would take four hours to tell this story - four hours that are fun and entertaining, and that pass surprisingly quickly.Yes, this movie has flaws.  Many of the characters are stereotypes or caricatures rather than people; this is particularly true of the British officers and the supporting villagers.  The subtitling, so crucial in a film that uses two languages, isn't always perfect on the DVD.  The rules of cricket aren't made particularly clear, so non-cricketers have to make some intelligent guesses to understand early dramatic sequences.  And some of the romantic sequences (mercifully brief) made me cringe.
However, the novelty of the movie makes it well worth watching.  The songs and dance routines are particularly appealing; they retain Indian character, but are accessible and enjoyable to Western ears.  And the composition, pacing, and cinematography are unusual, hence refreshing to people who are used to standard Hollywood fare.All in all, this movie is ideal for anyone who likes musicals, modern fables, sporting films, or just light-hearted, excellent cinematic entertainment.


                
A little ambitious with music, sports, love, diversity, imperialism, sibling rivalry, religion, etc., but 4 hours gave it time to include everything.  I am a foreign film fan but this is the first Indian film I have seen and it was amazing.  I recommend it highly.  I had to split it into two nights of viewing, but there is an actual intermission in the movie, so it works. Rent it, see it!


                
