What's the fuss about? I am going to be the one who points out that the Emperor has no clothes here. Three Colours Red is nothing special at all. It starts slowly and doesn't get much more pacey as it goes along; it's moderately intriguing but that's it. It never hits any sort of heights.The whole effect is so muted, so underplayed that nothing grabs the attention. Visually it may look good on occasions but dramatically speaking it is inert; there is nothing there. I thought that after the dog incident things would begin to happen and I would be drawn into a web of intrigue. Nope.It's not that I dislike slow, arty films or French films (though I'm not keen), but this one just said very little to me. There are no answers to the meaning of life here. I am amazed that this vaguely pretentious movie has got such good reviews on IMDb and is awarded four stars in Halliwell's Film Guide. (The editor clearly had a bit of a dizzy spell when it came to the Three Colours films as he gives ALL of them maximum marks.)


                
Despite the accolades and awards, despite Jean-Louis Trintignant's acting sills, this is an incomprehensible film. The elderly protagonist Kern is a twisted stalker whose sole occupation is spying on his neighbours, and who has no concern for his injured dog. The other protagonist, Valentine, exercises no judgment over this and is seen raising a glass with Judge Kern. I gave it a four star rating for excellent production values.
According to some moviegoers, Blue is the best of the trilogy, for some of them, Red is the best one, it fulfills the "picture" White? Unfortunately, the people who think White is the best are not many. Despite, in my opinion, Blue is excellent, another masterpiece, White is my favorite film in the trilogy. Roughly, Blue was about death, White was about marriage and Red is about senescence or is it? The film is not mesmerizing, instead heavy in contrast with the previous films, and the story is not powerful, instead it was not sound and not dramatic. The film mostly consists of the conversations between the woman and the old man, but it does not say anything about its theme. Is the film about senescence? Then, the film does not say anything about senescence or is the film about friendship, but the movie does not say anything about friendship. May be just aging or isolation gets people do odd things, nothing more. However, as seen, some people derive a lot of meanings from every single scene. In addition, there is an unbalance in the places (and the characters) As a result, it seems that Red was not made by Kieslowski, instead of him, a young director who admires him did it or completed it. Therefore, Red is like a film made a bit unwillingly, in order to complete the trilogy, in order to make a film which meets the color, red. For example, the scene which the camera follows the telephone cable (by the way it recalled me Bound) was unnecessary for such a film (I don't want to say amateurish), but if Kieslowski liked it and wanted to do it, no problem. Red is pure art may be, but it does not look mesmerizing or impressive in this film, there is something wrong in Red. Lastly, if you were disappointed or did not like an art house film which was made by a master director, some people don't accept the fact. Red might be an example of it.


                
