The third installment of Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Blue, White & Red" trilogy, "Red" (1994), tells a most intriguing story indeed. In it, we meet Valentine Dussaut, a beautiful fashion model living in Geneva who meets a reclusive, retired judge after accidentally injuring his dog with her car. Despite her initial repulsion (the judge is a high-tech Peeping Tom of sorts, fond of listening in on his neighbors' phone conversations), the two become close friends (the color red on the French flag is symbolic of "fraternity"), and their relationship, and what they each get out of it, is at the heart of the picture. Meticulously acted by the two leads, Irene Jacob and Jean-Louis Trintignant, and featuring remarkable direction and photography (dig those stunning, soaring crane shots between apartments!), "Red" holds the viewer fascinated throughout. The film sports the most blatant use of any of the trilogy's titular color schemes, and is completely unpredictable from start to finish. Especially interesting is how the judge's early life parallels exactly that of Valentine's neighbor, Auguste; how their three lives seem to interweave unbeknownst to any of them, like something out of a "Lost" episode. Trintignant's judge character is reminiscent of Juliette Binoche's character in "Blue"; two people who have tried to divorce themselves from life after some cruel setbacks and find that life still has a fascination for them. "Red" also ties itself to the rest of the trilogy in the person of that little old lady by the recycling bin, who strangely appears in all three films, and, most notably, in those stunning, final five minutes. Without giving anything away, let me just say that "Red"'s finale will have fans of the previous two films broadly grinning from ear to ear. The finale shows that the three films really do comprise a trilogy that should be seen in the proper order, that of the French flag's colors: blue, white and finally red.


                
The last and most critically acclaimed film of Kiewslowski's trilogy, this entry is however not as technically impressive as the first film, nor as intriguing in terms of plot as the second film, which can only make me wonder why it is considered to be the best by so many. Make no mistake: this is another fine entry in the saga and a good film in itself, but it just does not throw a punch like the first two films. It is very slow moving throughout, which is not necessarily a bad thing, however the purpose of the pace is a bit ambiguous, and in addition the events and characters are not all clearly defined. It still has very interesting individual ideas, some good cinematography and lighting, plus there is a lot of attention paid to sound. There is quite a bit to take out of it, but I personally found more to take out of 'Bleu' and 'Blanc'.


                
The story in this third and final film in the color trilogy by Kieslowski reminded me of a french version of "Grand Canyon". A lot of "What if's" in the story. If a character had done one simple little thing maybe their lives would be different. Irene Jacob is radiant in a simple way if I can describe it that way. You can understand why her character would find the retired judge interesting. Also, the hunched over little old lady trying to throw away a bottle shows up again! And the characters from the previous two movies are connected to this story and we see them at the end.


                
A three-sided trilogy complements the two general triangles of white and red Kishlovsky's blueprint for the film's mainstream advertisement.
The red is the end of the films package, where there is only one place where each one joins and they are irrelevant and relevant survivors, which you will later notice that; what is the reason for the differentiation of the three stories , tautly derived from the end eventually.
There are strreaks of the presence of some characters in other films that justify the key to the last presence hallmark.
We cross each other for no reason, and we go without that incidental passing, shows a sudden presence. And that is, the life, accident and event.
veryone has his own life from its invardly and is admited for himself
The red loneliness narrator, like the blue film and treachery, is similar to the white film, but more different than of them, narrats the story of three characters that interact with each other in daily routine and desire.
Daily routine can be associated with an accident with the dog. as this would lead to expantion in confrontation with the retired judge and their loving dialogues. and the desire to precisely mean where that some goings_ on lead to their attention to each other ...
But in general, despite the higher score from the IMD to the Red, blue, and white, we can see the film as the more chromaticly one and also the clear part of the red movie to the its sequence end.


                
