In my analysis of "Trois couleurs: Blanc" I wrote that its tone is much lighter than the tone of "Trois couleurs: Bleu". I think it's the same with this film. This time it's not because of a tragic comedy-element, but much more because of the main character Valentine. Although her boyfriend is living abroad and is ridiculously jealous, she manages her life with lightness and optimism, it seems to me that she might be Kieslowski's image for a carefree youth. The opposite seems to be the judge, who is very pessimistic, a grumpy old man, who experiences big loneliness. In my view, Valentine and the judge are pretty similar to each other, the judge is just much older and has experienced many more disappointments. They share a different kind of naivety and they both discover that they can learn much from the other one. Finally I would like to stress Irène Jacob's performance, she rounds off the run of amazing female contributions to the "Three Colours"-trilogy.
I love this film. I don't know how many times I've seen it, and I still love it.When you've seen enough Kieslowski, you know that the seemingly random meetings and connections between people reveal a filmmaker obsessed with his art, craft, and in particular, with his precision. It's been said that his montage, or editing techniques, could reveal plot elements more quickly than almost anybody else. In Red, we see a woman's boyfriend purchase a pack of cigarettes, Marlboros. We see Valentin in the bowling alley. And after watching her bowl, the camera tracks left to reveal a broken beer glass and crumpled pack of cigarettes. Instantaneously we know that he has broken up with his girlfriend. (It's a bit more obvious than it might seem here, of course!)In his use of the camera as a way of revealing the story to the audience, then, Kieslowski is not unlike Hitchcock, who also revealed information to his audiences behind his characters' backs (we see Jimmy Stewart's neighbor leave the apartment in Rear Window, while Jimmy is momentarily looking the other way). What Hitchcock did, in this way, was create thrillers in which the audience has to decode the crime's logic. As Hitchcock used to say, he never made Whodunnit films. We know who dun it sometimes at the very beginning. His films involve a logical third, and where the filmic third (camera, actor being the usual relationship) is the audience, the logical third is the person for whom the crime was committed. His films are built around this question, not the question of who did the crime. For whom was the crime committed. Kieslowski is a reverse Hitchcock. Rather than find out what will happen, we find out what has happened. Kieslowski plants repeating places, camera angles, objects, intersections in his films so that as a film progresses, we realize that indeed we have seen this before, and they were already connected... The connection was latent, as if destined, and "suspense" is the time we wait for this revelation to unfold, rather than for an action to resolve the initial crime<U+0097>the convention of suspense films. Might we say "subspense?" Logically, Kieslowski also works in triads, or thirds. But this time, the benefactor (for whom was it done) is unintended. The logic is meant to be one of serendipity, chance, magic, luck... For every chance encounter between two people, there is a third person who will benefit. A force of goodwill, or love, operates in Kieslowski's universe. A samaritan's helping hand (the old women so often seen recycling bottles; the Jesus is your witness who appears in each of the decalogues... there is a witness, your acts will be seen, we are not alone, your actions are not all in your power). We could say that Kieslowski makes "gift films," not crime films; and that his domain is "subspents" because the currency of love spent by his actors subsists and benefits a third... The gift is an additive logic, and when two exchange, a third is created.
Final entry in a trilogy of films dealing with contemporary French society concerns a model (Irène Jacob) who discovers her neighbor (Jean-Louis Trintignant) is keen on invading people's privacy."Red" was highly acclaimed, more so than the other two entries in the series, and was nominated for three Academy Awards, including Best Director for Kieslowski. Deservedly so, as the film is both beautiful in its color palette (actually making red look inviting) and providing an intriguing story, deep in ethical questions.Mixing Biblical references with the philosophy of law, this is such a great film and really closes out the references from the first two films very nicely. While it is certainly not necessary to watch the first two in order to appreciate "Red", it does add a little something.


                
Time travelThe old man listened all of the characters and found a way to unite his younger version with the woman who deserves his love and loyalty.He knew what will happen on White and Blue too. He was listening.He understood that he will be the one who can make her happy, he just got his younger version on that ferry knowing that it would sink.Although the old judge could not have the chance, he gave the chance to his younger version.I did not see any fraternity but a connection and the kismet is created by a time-traveling judge. Maybe in his dreams, maybe in reality.That's it.
I found this to have more depth than White, and overall way more emotionally satisfying than Blue, which really doesn't seem to go through many new things in what it's trying to say. The story in this, as its own, stands out among the trilogy and is the most intriguing, and the characterization is at its most profound here. It's a testament that the trilogy got better as it went along, and that ending is pure genius. The cinematography is, once again, wonderful and totally reminiscent of the other two in the trilogy. The lead performances are also pretty great and achieve another level that the previous leads couldn't. Overall, recommended.


                
Well crafted. Very interesting idea, well played and well executed. Has most of the art elements of the previous movies. Very beautiful camera angles, zoom-ins and zoom-outs. 20 years from the movies' release it looks amazing, and it probably will look so another 20 years from now.Irene Jacob is fantastic, playing a beautiful soul. She alone kept me interested for the entire movie. The story was interesting, but the way it was told, with its' mystical touch, stole a heartbeat of mine. It deals mostly with flawed, but non the less, good nature people, making it easier to sympathize.I have some prejudice towards art movies (got burned by a few :)), and though I settle mostly on mainstream, I wish more were like Three Colors: Red. It is confined in spaces and characters, but somehow it also feels unspoiled by the fashion and trends. Loved it.


                
The last movie of this trilogy is the Red color and it shows us a woman who discovers that her neighbor is keen on invading people's privacy and we see how she reacts and what are her emotions.Krzysztof Kieslowski directs his best movie of this trilogy. I liked very much the interpretations of Irène Jacob who plays as the woman who discovers the truth (Valentine), Jean-Louis Trintignant who plays as the man who invades to people's privacy."Three Colors: Red" is the best movie of this trilogy in my opinion because it combines everything, drama with mystery and this makes a really nice result.


                
Polish screenwriter and director Krzysztof Kieslowski's twelfth and last feature film which he co-wrote with Polish screenwriter Krzysztof Piesiewicz, is the third and final part of his trilogy which was preceded by "Blue" (1993) and "White" (1994) and which is loosely based on the three political ideals in the motto of the French Republic: liberty, equality and fraternity. It premiered In competition at the 47th Cannes International Film Festival in 1994, was shot on locations in Geneva, Switzerland and is a France-Poland-Switzerland co-production which was produced by French director and film producer Marin Karmitz. It tells the story about Valentin Dusot, a part-time model who one night while on her way home runs into a dog and immediately brings it to it's owner who oddly enough doesn't want anything to do with his dog. After taking the dog to the vet the following day, Valentin receives an anonymous letter which contains money. Assuming that the dog's owner might be the sender, Valentin visits him again and this time he shows her a better side of himself and invites her into his home, where she surprisingly learns that he is a retired judge who devotes his time to listening in on other people's telephone conversations.Distinctly, acutely and compassionately directed by Polish filmmaker Krzysztof Kieslowski (1941-1996), this quietly paced and deeply humane fictional tale which is narrated from the two protagonist's point of view, draws a genuinely humane and incisive portrayal of a relationship between a university student and a pensioner who after a coincidental meeting in Geneva, Switzerland finds a rare companionship. While notable for it's naturalistic and atmospheric urban milieu depictions, sterling production design by production designer Claude Lenoir, cinematography by Polish cinematographer Piotr Sobocinski (1958-2001), the fine editing by French film editor Jacques Witta and symbolic use of colors, this character-driven, dialog-driven and narrative-driven drama depicts two dense and empathic studies of character and contains a great score by Polish film score composer Zbigniew Preisner.This profoundly moving and atmospheric study in human psychology about an unconventional and life-changing friendship between two strangers which examines themes like loneliness, voyeurism, fraternity, faithfulness, interpersonal relations, love and destiny, is impelled and reinforced by it's substantial character development, colorful characters, quick-witted dialog, brilliant narrative structure, multiple viewpoints and the poignant and empathic acting performances by French-born Swiss actress Irène Jacob and French actor Jean Louis-Trintignant. A poetic, existentialistic and masterful piece of cinema which gained Academy Award nominations for Best Director, Best Original Screenplay and Best Cinematography at the 67th Academy Awards in 1995 and, among other awards, the NSFC Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 29th National Society Of Film Critics Awards in 1994.


                
Irene Jacob, so good in The Double Life of Veronique, is equally compelling in Red, Krzysztof Kieslowski's final film. Jacob is Valentine Dusot, a model working in an ad for chewing gum. She is also a student in Geneva who argues with her possessive boyfriend in London. At the shoot for the gum, she is told to look very sad for the picture. While driving home, she gets distracted and accidentally runs over a dog. She finds the owner, a retired judge, Joseph Kern, and he shows little concern for his dog, so she takes the doggy to the vet and then home. She also tells the judge that Rita is o.k. but pregnant. The dog runs back to Kern's house and when Valentine follows her, she catches the ex judge spying on his neighbors phone calls. She threatens to report him to the police, and he says he doesn't care, and that everyone's life eventually turns to hell. She overhears a phone call between her neighbor, Auguste, and his girlfriend, Karin, discussing a bowling date. She believes that they sound like they are in love, but Kern disagrees, telling a story of a girl he was in love with who left him and broke his heart. This event has caused him to have a cynical outlook. Auguste catches Karin cheating on him with another man, and they break up. Kern tells Valentine about a dream he had in which she was in her 50s and happily married. He advises her to take a cruise and she takes a ferry to England where characters from the first two films of the trilogy, White, and Blue, are passengers, and it is all tied together. Red is an interesting look at human nature and justice.


                
A young French model knocks over a runaway dog and starts a series of intriguing encounters with a strange ex-judge who is the dogs' rightful owner.Krzysztof Kieslowski's "three colour" series comes to an end with this piece that is perhaps the best of the three - maybe because it has a script that has something to do and something say right until the end. Not that a great deal happens in a hurry. Sometimes cinematography takes over, as it often does, and coincidence is used (again!) as the central plank of the movie.The director is master of timing and angles. That is his big secret, he never stays on anything a beat too long and his angles, while unconventional, give a feeling of reality.  He gives us strange breaks such as watching workmen struggling with an awning or a sunset over a valley.
However there is excess: The telephone line montage at the start is a bit too clever-clever given that we all know that a telephones are just connecting pieces of electronics. We don't need to be told. Indeed you could read that this piece of gadgetry allows people to distance themselves from one another without breaking the chain completely.  Here people live "telephone lives" and only by tapping in you get the truth.The judge and the young model need a dog to communicate and without giving too much of the plot away, it becomes their telephone line to one another. Their excuse to interact. Quite how feasible the story is I don't know given that telephone tapping is not my strong point, but I presume it is at least possible to listen in on the neighbours conversations. Not that it really matters.A very good and careful film, but not quite a classic because it doesn't set its sights much above conveying emotion. In reality young models don't care less about their own parents no matter elderly people that they barely know - but let us just let that pass for a moment. Let us pretend we live in a better world of care-and-share and that people really have time to hear about our inner thoughts and feelings.


                
This third piece of the trilogy is also beautiful! Better than the first, a bit less than the second. I especially like the settings, the details, the acting and the magnificent use of colours in this piece of work. If you look at the use of colours and the settings/ decors, this is the best of the trilogy. So: a great French piece of art.


                
Red is an odd little movie, one that is difficult to describe or categorize. Superficially, it's the story of Valentine, a fashion model living in Geneva. Driving one day she hits a dog whom she returns to it's owner, a retired judge, after having it repaired by the vet. Expressing disinterest in the animal, he gives it to her. Shortly thereafter, the dog runs away and returns to the judge with Valentine in pursuit. A second time at his house, she begins to learn his secrets, and slowly enters his life. Of course, there's more to Red than this simple story. Red is a modern morality play about relationships, communication, regrets<U+0085>a whole gamut.  As I said it's very hard to explain but very easy to recommend. Rent it if you get a chance.


                
Three Colors Red is often referred to as a "masterpiece", which while not a million miles from the truth is perhaps setting this film up for a big fall in the eyes of many film fans who have short-listed it on the merit of it's reputation.Red is beautifully shot and boasts a wonderful score and (unusually) whilst lacking a dynamic storyline manages to captivate the viewer by using subtle visual cues and inviting you to live in the film for a while rather than spectate a performance. For me this is a film that is best watched alone and in a calm state of mind as it is so far removed from the conventions of mainstream cinema as to make it almost alien to the casual film fan.Kieslowski may speak softly but if you listen carefully you may just hear something unique.


                
Following up "Blue" and White", "Red" is the most complete and satisfying entry in Kryzysztof Kieslowski's Colors Trilogy, improving upon the weaknesses of the other two.The story involves an odd friendship that develops between a young fashion model and a reclusive retired judge when she accidentally hits his dog with her car. The essential theme of the film(as in the other Colors)is the mysteries and subtle complications involved in human relationships, and in the ways that we are all interconnected with one another. Kieslowski ties this up at the climax, with a move that links together all his films.The film's color scheme, and the strong visuals help support the meditative story. "Red" is the last, and the best.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Trois couleurs: Rouge" (1994) is a good drama, which is also the last movie in a "Collor" trilogy, from which this is the first movie i saw. I liked this film because of acting, script, good directing. The plot isn't that interesting or great, although i liked the whole mystery in it, i think i didn't get it at the end the whole meaning and etc. of what happened, but maybe that was the point - it is a life, sometimes mysterious, i guess. I also loved the conversation between two characters, the way they kinda bond with time.Overall, "Trois couleurs: Rouge" is a mystery drama which has some mysterious aura around it but i didn't get it. Nevertheless i liked the movie overall, this is a slow burning drama which at running time 1 h 32 min doesn't drag and interesting to watch not because of the plot, but because of great script and characters (it is a good character study as well).


                
