I mean, has enough time passed?  Or has the release of  *Schindler's List* on DVD fueled a new hushed awe towards the picture?Spielberg's critic-proof Holocaust film has several problems, the biggest of which is the way it turns a horrible real-life tragedy into a three-hanky melodrama.  I continue to maintain that the Holocaust is generally unfilmable, in terms of what we might call a standard movie.  Generally unfilmable, but not inevitably unfilmable.  Off the top of my head, I can recommend two recent films on this subject:  Francesco Rosi's  *The Truce*, and Costa-Gavras'  *Amen".  Both films approach this material with far more nuance than Spielberg's film, which, I repeat, is weepy melodrama.  (And as such, treads a fine line between reverence and tastelessness.)  For that matter, Polanski's  *The Pianist*  gives us a more unique approach than what we get here, which is a movie that features a hero whom your average American multiplex popcorn-tub-muncher can easily identify with:  a gregarious capitalist named Oskar Schindler  (Liam Neeson)  who, despite all the war-profiteering  (read:  "initiative"), turns out to have a heart of gold.  Or marshmallow mush.  Please don't bother pointing out that this is a "true story":  those who've read the actual book by Thomas Kenneally on which the movie is based will be rather shocked by the movie's willingness to sacrifice verisimilitude for  "dramatic license".  The biggest example of this is the  "villain"  of the piece, SS-Kommandant Amon Goeth  (Ralph Fiennes in a career-making performance).  The screenplay ladles all sorts of Freudian syrup over this character, meaning:  he's crazy as a loon.  So much for the  "banality of evil":  instead, we get, via Fiennes'  Method-y performance, a study in mere neurosis instead of a rigorous examination of the murderous pathology that's inherent in humanity.  Spielberg can't resist having Herr Goeth develop a crush on one of his Jewish housemaids, and we get the requisite  "Hath not a Jew eyes"  speech, delivered with what is supposed to be irony by Fiennes.  Then he beats the crap out of her. Change the plot particulars, and you've got your standard  "Lifetime Channel" movie about an abusive husband.Don't get me wrong, the film is not a total waste of time:  even melodrama has cumulative virtues, and many of the scenes in  *Schindler's List*  are quite affecting, particularly the very last sequence in which the surviving "Schindler Jews"  appear  (in color), accompanied by the actors who portrayed them.  They pay tribute to Schindler by laying stones on his grave.  Moving stuff.  Ben Kingsley, who portrays the worry-wart Itzhak Stern, must also receive special mention.  And Spielberg's technical mastery is never open to question:  this is one beautifully mounted film, impeccably photographed.  The set-design, which is called upon to perform the daunting task of replicating Nazi labor camps and so forth, is beyond reproach. Proving that he's still the same guy who directed  *Jaws*, Spielberg is able to send chills up our spines when a train full of Jewish women & girls is accidentally routed to Auschwitz:  it's a night-scene, replete with a light-tower that approximates a beacon from Hell.But, all-in-all, the movie remains an elementary approach to the Holocaust genre.  It's tailor-made for desultory viewings by 12th-graders:  "Hey mom, we learned about the Holocaust in class today."  Nothing wrong with that, but aren't the kids better served by a FACTUAL documentary about this subject, rather than an Oscar-baited exercise in self-importance?  You decide.


                
I reviewed this movie far more thoroughly back when I had a different account but I want to have one on my profile.The basic problem with this movie for me, is that it is not the movie it should me, not unlike Bird Box. It SHOULD be the story of Oskar Schindler saving some jews but it's actually just an exhibition of the holocaust.There's little plot and as much as I like the macabre of genocide, it gets tiring just getting death after death without much sense of plot progression.It's smugly blunt about it's deaths without giving any real reflection on why this atrocity is happening. Then there are incongruously lyrical monologues.It's a simpering and ostentatious historical slasher that jacks itself off it genocide without any real depth or characterization, imaginative moments notwithstanding.Also, this is in English and that's not OK. Why go to such depths to recreate a particular time and place but then ruin that illusion in such an obvious way? Doesn't the German language convey the tone so much better?Don't get your hopes up...


                
I found this movie to be very boring. Not sure what people could possibly see in it. I went with some friends who wanted to see it the 1st day it was released in the theaters. The whole first hour was just about this guy setting up a pots and pans factory. I was ready to just walk out at that point, but my friends wanted to stay so I was stuck there watching the rest of this.I've seen many documentaries on A&E, History Channel, etc on the holocaust and I guess I just presumed that everyone else had too. Apparently a lot of people never have, never read about it in school or anything either. After it was over, these people in the theater were all sitting there like they were stunned or something. Like they just had no idea that stuff like that happened during WWII. I was thinking to myself "lets just get the heck out of here".If you never get drawn into a movie at the beginning, it can sometimes be too late - no matter if it gets better later on you can just lose any interest in it.


                
I have lost my enthusiasm for any Steven Spielberg movies over the past several years, ever since he made the switch from good entertainment to preachy message movies showing people all angsty and heartfelt and noble, emotions which he approaches with all the subtlety of Gallagher and his Sledge-o-matic.  Spielberg's films are now more like the corny ramblings of grandpa in his dotage where good people are really good and bad people are bad and even people who are in that grey zone are given a black or white role in the end.  It's all quite tedious to watch.It took me a long time to finally get through Schindler's List, as it did Saving Private Ryan, because I was all too aware the entire time that I was being manipulated -- what to feel and when to feel it.  Some reviewer put it best when he likened Spielberg to the Wizard of Oz, hiding behind a curtain and pushing buttons and pulling switches on people's emotions.  Then he is hailed as an artist and a genius when it's all gross manipulation.Liam Neeson did give a good performance.  His character had more depth to explore than Ralph Fiennes.  Excellent actor Fiennes may be, but he was saddled with a pitifully cardboard character.  Still, I rooted for him until the end.If I want to learn about the Holocaust, I'll watch a documentary and see the facts and have genuine emotions, not be told what to feel.  Jaws, Jurassic Park, and the Indiana Jones movies are plain fun and have the true Spielberg touch, doing what he does best.3/10


                
Let's face it: Schindler's List is based on a fictional novel. Yet we are made believe this movie represents actual incidents from the WW2 era.Directed by Steven Spielberg, him being Jewish himself, one should think about whether he has an agenda in portraying the German soldiers in such a bad, not to say monstrous, light as seen in this motion picture.But people watching this movie tend to think this is a factual documentary. Which it is not. Like I said before, this movie is based on a fictional novel. For that I gave it 3 points. Not a bad movie in itself but the fact that it is mostly make-believe and often perceived as a representation of the past I have no other choice than to give it a bad rating for the misrepresentation of history. It is not based on actual events like it makes believe. It should only be considered for entertainment purposes only and not as the history lesson it presents itself to be.And quite frankly, I am disappointed in Steven Spielberg's missing integrity in this movie. Not to say disgusted on how he depicts the German soldiers to be - cold and without emotions towards other human beings. For me Spielberg lost all credibility and artistic integrity with this movie. 3 out of 10 stars for photography and scenery. Everything else is groundless anti-national-socialism propaganda and falsification of history for semite interests.


                
What I really dislike about this movie is that it I think I was really mislead about what it was. Whether the movie itself, its marketing or just word of mouth is to blame I can't say.I believed it was meant to be the story of Oskar Schindler saving some Jews. Which I was fine to see. But what I got instead was some candid exhibition of the holocaust with the Schindler plot kind of tacked on for good measure.
I can agree that we should have a really well-made holocaust movie out there but it's the duplicity of the picture that sits unwell with me. The scenes are disconnected and episodic which would have been appropriate if only it could have been established that this experience was the focus of the movie but since there is a pretence of a linear plot that we only get glimpses of they just feel like filler. I barely remember how this thing of saving anyone developed or how he did it. It was really just a marketing gimmick and is in its own right really not that interesting beyond its premise.Maybe if it had been some kind of hybrid of "Shoah" with "Waltz with Bashir" it really could have been something; with real people relaying their experiences which were then dramatized. But because of the way these episodes are contextualized, they just seem pornographic in the sense it is more about a sadomasochistic voyeurism on this example of genocide, relying way too much on its production values and the gruesomeness of what it is showing so to me it is basically just a slasher than rips off reality. At least "Friday the Thirteenth" tried to be original.Another design flaw is the film's desperation to show you things to make you recoil. Once you establish crimes against humanity to be on the stakes, the endless parade of candid shootings just seem redundant. It doesn't matter how bluntly they the lady gets shot, the apathy to human lives already blatantly obvious. It's just "what's going to happen? Oh? Another person got shot? Shocking..." This candour is also jarringly contrastive to strangely lyrical dialogues and monologues that make it very unclear what tone the movie really wants.Powerful moments asides, it's a very sugary experience, and the horror of its subject matter does not excuse the handling. As you can tell from the cover art used on this website. I respect the use of black and white, it's very appropriate and usually the colour against black and white thing would greatly appeal to me, but it focuses on a little girl which is just pandering. The same kind of physiognomy that Nazi Propaganda used. Maybe I'm slow but the point that it was to personalize the impersonal nature of mass killings was lost on me.
Perhaps most insultingly of all, the movie, despite how keenly it fetishizes holocaust imagery, doesn't give any kind of reflection on why the holocaust happened. No one is entirely sure but there is surely something to say about it. It's happy to talk about why people went along with it, but the mentalities of the axis peoples are lacking. That these people don't have more of a presence is a big hole in this movie.Also, it's in English, which costs it a whole point out of ten from me. It should be in German. I am not German.As snooty as this must sound, I am inclined to think that this movie was a case of people really falling for a sentimental, well produced collage of an historical even we all like to hold in mind but not really think too carefully about that compromised the art (and the very story it was supposed to tell) for artsiness.


                
Schindlers list has everything. It's boring, it's horrific, it's pretentious and it's bad. I think the worst thing about Schindler's list is that it seems to be made for the director, not for the audience. It's Spielberg's message to his critics that he can be serious, but honestly, three and a half hours of black and white is trying just a bit hard, and the little red girl is just totally over the top. The worst part about it is the manipulative subject matter, the Holy Cow of the holocaust. Spielberg tries to tie up the seriousness of the plight of the Jews in World War II with the seriousness of his film making, and it turns out totally faux-arte. Give me a break.


                
I watched 2 times on my laptop never understand what just happened dumb movie directed by speilberg my 3 and half hour are waste


                
Except for the fact that this is really 3 or 4 small films ( as if written by a committee ),  this is your typical ham-fisted Spielberg flick.  When it wants to be an art-film it fails,  because it really isn't an art film. When it wants to be a Kubrick-film it fails,  becuase it really isn't a Kubrick film.  When it wants to be a character-study it fails,  because again it won't concentrate on any one thing.I suspect many will automatically give this the thumbs-up simply because it is supposed to honor the memory of those that survived the holocaust -- these people I salute.  People who think this really is a great film -- I have to wonder about.


                
I'm going to have to agree with a previous comment that 'people only liked this because it was seen as unwise' to objectively comment. This was a 'cause movie'- and as such is no better, or no worse, than the others. Like 'Amistad' that followed it, it's plodding, pretentious and badly shot. The black and white cinematography lends nothing to it except the illusion of reality; which it isn't: it's a film. It's a story. Not a documentary. It's a constructed series of events, with 'characters' and a 'narrative' and a 'script'. The fact that the holocaust-survivors laud it as 'how it was' is the ultimate expression of its failure. The novel left you thankful that you weren't there, but never once made you feel like you were. Spielberg's film tricks you into imagining that it shows how terrible the holocaust was- it doesn't. And can't.Many have stated that they 'understand' the events of Hitler's Germany through the movie. By giving them this false 'understanding'; Spielberg has cheapened it, and made it more comfortable than it should be. Subjectively, for many, this grants them leave to display false, *constructed*, grief for something that no amount of 'grieving' can in any way come to terms with.As a film; a piece of fictionalised narrative, it suffers from hammy performances... most obviously the ridiculous Ralph Fiennes with his sitcom nazi- a safe, comfortable idea; neatly slotting him into the 'bad guys' package that drama utilises, but 'real life' finds no easy place for.A film shot in black and white that regrettably uses these absolutes in its storytelling. An effective parable? Perhaps. But a worrying one.Steev


                
By making this movie, Spielberg reportedly wanted to increase awareness of the holocaust. In this regard, he probably succeeded. But that should not cloud the fact that this is a very mediocre to bad movie. The acting is, save for Kingsley, stale and in some instances, such as the train to Auschwitz scene, almost aching to an Ed Wood movie (I assume these women were not professional actors). The story is clumsily told, the symbolism (red dress) heavy handed and the psychology of some characters (such as Goetz's scene in front of the mirror) very simple minded. A few scenes did work for me. I thought that the shower scene was well done and intense, and I do not feel that it was too exploitative in the context of the movie. Also, the shot of the smoking chimney was eerie, but this has been lifted from other movies. What really did bring the film to its knees was the speech at the end. My god! This was even worse than Steven Seagal's at the end of 'Fire Down Below'.If you want to learn about the holocaust, pick up a history book or watch some of the many documentaries on the subject. It will not be pleasant, but you'll learn so much more than from this movie.


                
This movie was a poor effort. The theme is quite interesting, but it was presented in a very tedious way. Neeson gave a quite good performance, but apart from that, the movie was uninspiring. Of course with such comments the politically correct will claim that I was not mature enough, that I did not understand the movie etc. This is quite common with movies made by a prestigious director, with a sensitive theme, emotional screenplay etc. Giving negative critics to Schindler's List is almost regarded as disrespecting the events of WWII. This is not the case however. It was just a wearisome movie.


                
I in no way make light of what this movie is based on. And that, in theory, is the point. Nobody will. I think this movie, while perhaps mildly interesting; perhaps stylish...Is mediocre at best.This is a film dealing with the holocaust. A tragedy that touches us on such a great, and personal level, that making a film about it and having it be critically acclaimed couldn't possibly be easier. The point is, that this is such an emotional topic, that anyone could make a film about it, and people would automatically swoon.I think Steven Spielberg knew this. And by adding the oh-so-dramatic affect of black and white, and selective coloring that no one could resist. I found nothing incredible about this film. It was alright, yes. But nothing special. It seems that it gets far more credit than it deserves.I say see the film, as it is a part of movie-history. But recognize that any shmuck with half a brain, and the proper funding could have come up with a film just as "brilliant."


                
Average. Spielberg should have shot it on order blaaaaaaaaahhhhhh


                
The story started in an intriguing way, but it soon turned out to be quite simple, unnecessarily slow and dull.  It was full of violence, and what's more, the violence was depicted in full details, tediously and slowly, in the most direct ways. Being exposed to the continuous loud shots and rattles of gunfire, I could hardly wait for its end.


                
