Schindler's List did quite well at the box office, while it guaranteed the maker his first Oscar for directing. Jane Campion edged him out for several of the year-end awards given by critics groups, but the Academy put him at the top of their "A" list for this effort. 1993 was quite a year for Spielberg. JURASSIC PARK went goofy worldwide, eclipsing yet another Spielberg megabuck effort, E.T. Schindler's List may never quite reach the same box-office stratosphere, but Spielberg can certainly be most pleased and proud of this film. Shot in glorious black and white, it is the heart-wrenching story of a group of Jews condemned to the Krakow Ghetto who are saved by a most unlikely guardian angel, a German businessman named Oskar Schindler. Herr Schindler is, at first, only interested in these people as cheap labor that can further enhance his bank account, but somewhere along the way he gains a measure of humanity and is soon taking substantial risks for "his" Jews. The movie isn't precisely clear about why this drastic character change takes place, but that hardly matters. The inherent drama of the turbulent situation carries us along for the full three hours, and you'll be hard-pressed not to shed a few tears during the journey. Liam Neeson does a stalwart job of filling the Schindler shoes, not skimping on the little character details while looming larger than life. It has been noted that Neeson has the presence of an old-fashioned movie star and as Schindler, he shows that he knows what to do with it. The real-life Schindler was described as a cross between Curt Jurgens and George Sanders.
Also quietly impressive is that Gandhi guy, Ben Kingsley, as Itzhak, a very clever accountant who is the brains behind the Schindler empire. Newcomer Ralph Fiennes has also copped some Best Supporting Actor awards for his nasty Nazi, Amon Goeth, who heads up the Plaszow forced labor camp. When bored, Goeth picks off unsuspecting prisoners with his rifle from the terrace of his villa. Chilling. The rest of the large cast has been carefully chosen, the script is intelligent, the music is sweeping, and that cinematography by Janusz Kaminski is a knockout. The complaints about Schindler's List are mostly minor. At one point Spielberg feels compelled to use a special-effects trick. It looks like a cheap cut-and-paste job. Couldn't the man who made dinosaurs walk the earth so realistically pull off this relatively simple stunt? The protracted finale also got on my nerves. After the movie climaxes, the director lets it drag on with a heartfelt but misplaced tribute to the actual survivors. Mr. Spielberg, your manipulation is showing.


                
a gripping story, with beautiful shots, and a direction of master himself. a story that takes you to the lane of past and force you to feel that pain and go through their journey. that's the beauty of cinema.. loved it. everything was looking so good, whether acting, music, sound, cinematography, editing. everything was so fantastic. specially the colors,and how they use the contrast of that red blazer, to show the authenticity and pain of those people, the helplessness of those. There are some of the most true and graphic scenes here ever captured on celluloid. People being shot for no particular reason, hiding in fear, stripped and gased, abused......so much so that viewers watching it for the 1st time will be deeply affected.
This and The Pianist are the best War/Holocaust films, that I have seen and both deserve their recognition, both show how mistreated the Jews were but also show how not all the Gremans were bad people, some were good, and some helped the Jews to survive and prosper as a race.A clear must see for anyone, and a clear 8.5/10 from me, not a 9 because it's not really my favourite genre.Brilliance of acting by Liam Neeson and Ralph Feinnes, as well as Ben Kingsley and all of the other major cast and extras. A brilliant Spielberg film with direction, dialogue and shots as well as having a very moving story line.


                
The connection between the people in the film and the audience is almost incomparable with any other film. Even the people who are not regulars, you feel that you know who they are, that you've experienced what they have been through but also realising that how bad this film portrays the war the experience of the Jews will never be displayed to its full effect on the people involved. Spanning through the workers at the end brings to light what a good job Spielberg has done with this connection.In my opinion this film has more in common with inception then any other . in that there is the possibility that one simple idea can change your life and the lives around you. In the case of Schindler it was the red coat of the young girl who provoked an idea to grow and i believe this is the reason for this film to be black and white. To make sure the audience got the poignancy of that scene, that something so beautiful cannot help but stand out against the rest of the world and effect the people involve more so.Ralph Fiennes brings a brilliant typically perceived German into the picture, ruthless and cold blooded in the way he unnecessarily kills the workers for fun almost but eventually shows heart. One of the hardest rolls in the film well played.The ending of the film is perfect as you feel that it has already climaxed with 20 minutes to go and in ways of personal actions changing the storyline drastically it has but in drama it has certainly not . An unbelievable performance by Liam Neeson in its last moments is what pushes this film to 10/10


                
This is one of the most powerful movies I've ever seen.


                
Steven Spielberg, until the appearance of this film, was rightly noted mainly for his child's view of movies, fast action, easy sentiment, and a generally accurate sense of appeal to fantasy and wish fulfillment. He pretty much discarded that sort of innocence here, without leaving behind his appreciation of the commercial value of a story.It's impossible not to be deeply moved. The extermination program of the Nazis was the most horrific offense to human morality of the 20th century, and one of the worst in history. It wasn't the worst of the slaughters. The two world wars qualified for those honors. It wasn't even the worst example of ethnic cleansing, as it's come to be called. But more than six million Jews and more than seven million other undesirables -- homosexuals, the mentally ill, gypsies, political dissidents -- perished in the camps and not a single Jewish family in Europe went untouched. And it wasn't a war in which the victims were fighting back. It was a deliberate and very thorough act of genocide on the part of a people that Madame de Stael once described as "a nation of poets and dreamers."It's a kind of "cross-over" movie in which the protagonist is not Jewish but rather a Christian who comes to their rescue. A basically decent man comes to his senses. This is the formula, whether the despised and abused minority are Jews or African-Americans. If it were otherwise, there would be a danger of this being seen somehow as a "Jewish" movie by the unenlightened masses and, as a consequence, might suffer at the box office. Better "In the Heat of the Night" than "Superfly." But Spielberg has avoided most of the clichés associated with films of the final solution. No voice overs telling us of the suffering. No stock footage of bull dozers plowing corpses into mass graves. For the most part, the story stays at the personal level. (We hear hardly anything of the progress of the war.) And it's at this level that the film excels, due to the mature script and the performances of Liam Neeson, Ben Kingsley and Ralph Feinnes. There are many other characters, including Embeth Davidtz.The film is good because Neason's character begins not as a racist or a humanitarian but as a moral nihilist. He cares about nothing but money and the sensory pleasures it affords. He couldn't care less about the Jews, or about the Nazis either for that matter. The war to him is just a way of making a profit using cheap labor. And the script rises above the formulaic in not giving him a moment of epiphany. At no point does his brow furrow, his eyes light up, and he thinks to himself, "My God, what am I doing?" Nope. Instead, his development is informed by minor but important insights distributed here and there. After the surrender, he leaves the camp as a fugitive, dressed in prison clothes, mourning his carelessness in not saving more lives.Spielberg tells the story in a straightforward way but of course some incidents and dialog from events of fifty years ago must be fabricated. And the fabrications are well done. Especially enjoyable is the touchy, sometimes abrasive, and often humorous relationship between Neason, the salesman and con man who simply has no head for business, and Ben Kingsley as the matter-of-fact accountant who does. I'd give examples of some exchanges but there isn't space.Spielberg hasn't quite gotten over his taste for easy sentimentality. There are only two touches of color in this black-and-white movie. A little girl in a rose-colored coat appears two or three times, so that we can know who it is when her body is wheeled past in a barrow, just another victim. And when the workers hold a ceremony on Shabat, the candle flames are touched with a warm orange that signifies life. Effective, yes, but unnecessary in an adult film like this. Most people watching the film may be trusted to know what's going on without being nudged. But that's small stuff. Somewhat more embarrassing is a scene in which a German officer screams like a maniac and makes gargoyle faces at the camera after emptying his pistol into a mountain of burning bodies. Are we supposed to learn from this that the people running the camps were evil? The Nazi's extermination program prompted many studies in social science, none of which has contributed much to our understanding of why this, and similar programs, seem to be so common around the world. It's easy enough to blame Germany and the SS, but what happened in Kosovo, Maylasia, Cambodia, and Rwanda? Perhaps one of the reasons we've never really understood it is that we don't want to. Perhaps the answer lies not in "F" (for "facism") scales or ideographic studies of power but in the darkest aspects of human nature itself. Is there a group of people who have nothing in common but their ethnic identity that we ourselves would enjoy seeing wiped off the map? We all have massive cerebral cortices, much of the functions of which seem devoted to damping down impulses from structures lower down on the brain that generate desires to mate, to flee from danger, and to kill things and people that get in our way. Some day science might give us an answer but until then we have to rely on poets like Robert Burns.'Many and sharp the num'rous ills Inwoven with our frame! More pointed still we make ourselves Regret, remorse, and shame! And Man, whose heav'n-erected face The smiles of love adorn, - Man's inhumanity to man Makes countless thousands mourn!
Schindler's List tells the tale of a German industrialist Oskar Schindler (28 April 1908 – 9 October 1974) who was credited to have saved over 1,100 Jews during the Holocaust.The movie is based on the book Schindler's Ark by Thomas Keneally. Steven Spielberg both directed and produced this movie, and has been received widely as a classic.The thing that catches your eye when watching this movie is the cruelty of war itself, there are just mainly losers no winners, only those who happen to be in-between that suffers, the men behind it sit behind a desk. Spielberg depicted such cruelty in the Camps.A scene where a Jew who made hinges was moved from where he is working to go shove coal and then when he was done he returned, Amon Göth (Ralph Fiennes) queried him for not meeting up to his regular toll of hinges and immediately had him arraigned to be executed, for something that was not his fault. That scene touched me.The movie was shot in Kraków, Poland for seventy-one days. Shots were done in real life locations, though the Plaszów camp had to be reconstructed in a pit adjacent to the original site, due to post-war changes to the original camp.The plot of the movie is direct; a German businessman named Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson) in Poland sees an opportunity to make money from the Nazis' rise to power. He starts a company to make cookware and utensils, using bribes to win military contracts, and bringing in an accountant and financier Itzhak Stern (Ben Kingsley) to help run the factory.He then hires Jews for the cheap pay, but later after witnessing the cruelty they face in the Nazi Camps, he then tried to get as much Jews away from the Camps to his factory, using all his savings to take care of them.The movie is not so bad when it comes to acting, but the main hat dipping should go to the Screenplay and the directing. The Screenplay and the script had to be perfect in other for us to be able to get the feel of what the Jews were going through. Also the directing had to be top notch so as not to get carried away by the suffering or the cruelty but to understand why a German will like to save the Jews.Although we know that much has been done by Liam Neeson (Taken), Ralph Fiennes (Harry Potter) and Ben Kingsley (Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time) over the years, but they will be fondly remembered for their role in this classic.Take a 3 hour break from your busy schedule and watch this movie. It is one of a kind.
"Liam Neeson continues to amaze me i feel i am his latest victim top notch performance in" Shindler's List"(1993) totally different from his current action hero image what a versatile actor , this movie send u right back to the Nazi exploitation era it makes u feel that u are present their & makes u to revolt against the exploitation,its been black & white makes it realistic , one cant miss how beautifully everything turns colorful in the end when Jews come to honor Schindler's grave , this movie taken 7 Oscar is not meant for entertaining u with mindless plot & it is a brilliant example of how a true event can be told so if u are interested only to get entertained better watch something else :) "


                
When I was younger, I lived in Holland for a while, which is where I saw this movie when it came out in the cinema. Holland was very much in the thick of things during the war, so I had learned all about the horrors that happened there during history classes. I would say I was awed by this movie, although that is perhaps not the right word. Shocked definitely, and saddened too. I watched it again last year, and although the impact wasn't as strong, I still thought it to be very powerful, and deserving of an 8/10


                
This movie is visually stunning. Just the sheer mass of extras, set design, costumes, cinematography, and everything else that went into this movie is breathtaking. Through all this, the movie definitely pulls off a war-time atmosphere, the black & white photography only adds another element to this. The acting is (mostly) great. And the story is a good one and an important one. What Schindler did deserves our recognition, respect, and reverence. I'm glad Spielberg was able to bring it to our attention.Now for the problems with this movie. First off, the length: I think this movie's 3 hour 15 minute runtime just snuck by Gandhi as the longest theatrically released movie in my viewing history. I try not to make a fuss over the length of a movie; however long the director requires to get their story across to the audience is up to them. What I do take issue with is a movie that has a 3+ hour long runtime that is completely unnecessary<U+0085> such as this one. This movie contains a story that doesn't need its allotted time. I think a 200 minute cut of this movie would really improve it, maybe even a straight 2 hours if you're pushing it. Too much time is taken replaying the horrors of Nazi-occupied Germany seemingly over and over again. I just want to be clear that I am not trying to diminish what happened or the emotional impact these scenes have, however when we as an audience are bombarded with scene after scene of tyrannical cruelty via the hands of the Germans, the emotional effectiveness of said scenes starts to fall under the law of diminishing returns. At a certain point, I as an audience member have no emotional energy left to invest and the effort Spielberg's putting into causing a mournful tone just becomes fruitless. With most things in life, overexposure will lead to dulling of the senses and emotional desensitization. I am aware that what is occurring on- screen is horrendous but my mind can no longer keep up with what is being presented. Sometimes less is more.My next issue relates to the treatment of the protagonists and antagonists of this movie. No, there is no excuse for what the Nazis did and defending this party or their belief system is contemptible and disturbing. But as a director making an Oscar-winning Best Picture, please do not make your characters these black and white symbols of good and evil. Not every person in the Nazi regime was 100% certifiably evil; not every person representing the good guys was a sinless angel. It is up to you as a director to show us these characters, their nuances, their grey areas, and their stories as a whole. It is up to us as an audience to take in all of this and make decisions about these stories and their characters. But when a director paints all these characters in broad strokes, labeling everyone as either entirely pure or entirely evil, he or she has taken the decision out of our hands and we as an audience are forced to consume the subject matter from the pre-destined moralistic vantage point that the director has prepared for us. That is exactly what has happened here. Spielberg hold our hand through the entirety of this movie, not leaving anything up to the audience's interpretation or judgment. In Roman Polanski's "The Pianist", we get to see the multiple dimensions to characters from this conflict. Polanski focuses more on the character development of the Nazis and Jews and less on the abhorrent crimes that were occurring. So, when we do see some kind of appalling act taking place on the screen, it is considerably more effect and haunting. But the point is that Polanski treats all characters, whether bad or good, like human beings. And, to me at least, it is much more frightening to see people with humanlike qualities behind these egregious acts of genocide. (See "Downfall" for another great example.) Spielberg's Nazis act more like monsters from some other dimension, far less unsettling. Another issue I see with this movie is the character arc of our main focus, Oskar Schindler himself. At the beginning of this movie, we see a man who can be labeled as a womanizer, a drunkard, an opportunist, and someone who is self-centered and focused on personal wealth attainment. By the end of the movie we see a family man melodramatically balling his eyes out because he didn't give away enough of his wealth to save more Jews. (Did we really need that scene?) In theory this is a nice beginning and end point, however during the movie itself, we do not see exactly how this man went from being an egoist to a full-fledged humanitarian. Sure, the scenes involving the young girl with the red coat is supposed to represent a pair of epiphanies that Schindler has that alters his mindset similar to a Dickensian Scrooge. However, to me at least, these two scene do not do enough to cause me to buy this change. This movie is 3 hours and 15 minutes. We could spend a little of that time seeing Schindler's subtle changes over the course of the war. Instead we have this dramatic shift seemingly overnight that is difficult to swallow for me as an audience member. The character development just comes across as half-baked.Despite all the gripes I have with this film, I still think Spielberg made a fine movie here. He told a beautiful story competently and with a few scenes that left me awe-struck. While the length of this film is a bit overwhelming, it is still something that I think everyone should see at least once, a very important piece of film history.
To me, Spielberg's Schindler's List is one of the most incredible movies made to date for several reasons. This classic film is an emotionally charged historical drama; based on true story. It thugs at your heart, it tells the story of the good in all of us, as Oskar Schindler becomes the unlikely hero, saving the lives of over 1000 Jews during the Nazi madness. I have a VHS collector's copy of the film.


                
This movie was one of the most beautiful and impressive films I have ever seen. It is very naturalistic and logical to make everything as objective and realistic as possible. The film, which tragically unfolds the events of World War II, is a great reminder of human beings at the same time. The time is very clear in the sense of space. I would strongly recommend anyone watching. Good forums.


                
There are a lot of negative reviews on here... Most of those focus on the fact that Nazis weren't as bad as how they depict them. I suppose that's a matter of opinion. And, as we know, opinions are like assholes, everyone's got one. Honestly, the fact that they exterminated so many people (and not just Jews) because they felt them to be "inferior" doesn't make Nazis all sunshine and rainbows. Were they an efficient society? Yes. Did that make them superior to people of other faiths or races? No. No matter how you look at it, everyone has their own definition of good and evil and levels thereof. It all depends on your point of view. And how Spielberg views exactly how evil he felt the Nazis were should not be the sole basis of a movie review. My apologies to those who think otherwise. Now, as for the movie itself, it is a bit dark and depressing. But then again, the real life events weren't like a Club Med vacation. If you know anything about this particular period of time, you shouldn't expect cheerful. If that's what you want, go watch something else. My son watched this in history class in high school (I had to sign a permission slip because of the nudity and content). When he saw it was on one of the movie channels a year later, he told me I should watch it, that it was such a good movie. Now... my kid loves video games and Pokemon. That's pretty much it. He hates to read and hates historical anything. So when he said it was good and I should watch it, I knew I had to see it. I must admit, I was engrossed from the beginning. I had never heard of Oskar Schindler before this movie (when I was in high school, they didn't delve much into WWII) and I found his story fascinating. He risked a lot to save the lives of a lot of people. Whether or not he profited from this financially or not is kind of irrelevant. What's most important is that he wanted to save lives when the rest of the Nazis wanted to kill them all off. And the very fact that these people, who are shown at the end honoring his grave, shows me they held him in high regard, which I found moving. And I'm not easily moved. From an artist aspect, I think this was very well done. The use of black and white was quite appropriate for the content and also allowed for the few splashes of color to help the viewer focus on something important you may not have noticed otherwise, like the little girl in the red coat. As for people who complained about Spielberg... You may not think this his best movie or some sappy piece of fluff he cranked out. For those who felt that way, I'd like to ask that you go read some of the trivia items. He doesn't get a dime from this movie. He wants everything he could get donated. Mind you, he could have just donated a chunk of money, but this was obviously something he felt strongly about. I consider that to be more than admirable.
Movie Review: "Schindler's List" (1993)Steven Spielberg and Universal Picture bring a Man-Booker-Prize-winning book from 1982 by Holocaust-survivor Thomas Keneally to screen for a world premiere on November 1993 in Washington, D.C. to brain-indulging proportions presenting 3-hour-Cut of Nationalsocialist practices in "World-War-II", with hyper-dramatized interpretations of relentless horrors on the human condition as concentration camp leading officer Amon Goeth, portrayed by out-going, abusive actor Ralph Fiennes to confront his nemesis-character Oskar Schindler as holy-savor of lives in steal-pot making factory.Actor Liam Neeson carries this intential black and white shot motion picture by first-time collaborating cinematography Janusz Kaminski, when "Schindler's List" raises and declines tension to awefully-tortured and executed tribe of Eastern European hebrew folk, putting any audience into the position of being a Nazi-collaborator before director Steven Spielberg releases the stranglehold in letting the character of Oskar Schindler become the spiritually messiah of jews, when concluding with color footage of Hebrew "Holocaust" survivors and their relatives without given the disabled, disfigured, colored and psychological derailed humans, which were believed accompanied the centralized jews througout Europa.Nevertheless "Schindler's List" remains to be a controversial Academy-Award-winning motion picture for a confronting subjective vision of a remarkably-talented film-maker, who has realized any possibele dream in his career, where this war-time drama strikes his genius high note with red-coated 9-year-old girl running through a raided SS-platoon village, while O. Schindler and striking-beauty girl-friend on horsebacks have tear-trenching moments of reconciliation.© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Why are people behaving rude when writing reviews? I'm not a jew or from Poland but i lived in Poland few years and it's the totally same what i saw in there and in this movie. in my opinion you people should be bit more humble!
They made an effort to make this movie and it's a nice movie !!


                
Great movie that really engages audiences in the shocking reality of the time. Doesn't over-attach audiences like other holocaust movies but really embraces the truth in a cold and surreal way. Provides great understanding of the politics, ethnics and morals of German Society in the 1940's. A great insight for anybody that wants to have some background of the holocaust or just an idea of what the situation was like despite being in the perspective of a rich business man that profits off Jewish workers.I enjoyed the movie a lot and would recommend it to anybody else interested in history. :)


                
Oskar Schindler, when someone judges him at first time may think of him as a moody business man who most important aim is money. His moody nature takes his contacts made, with higher authorities and women. Now this man does the work of saving 1,100 lives.From where I see, he has done a Godly act by saving lives. He sacrifices all of his earned wealth in rescuing Jews and still at end regrets the money he used as bribe for growth of his industry, could have saved more lives.At last I want to just say his moody nature is nothing, in front of lives he saved.


                
SCHINDLER'S LIST is perhaps one of the ultimate anti-war movies in existence. Directed by Steven Spielberg in a naturalistic, unfussy style, it's a harsh, black and white epic that looks at the extermination of the Jews at the hands of the Nazis. Some humanity is brought to the fold by an excellent Liam Neeson who plays Oskar Schindler, a businessman who somehow found himself involved in the situation and who did the right thing. Like many Spielberg films, this is shamelessly sentimental, but then it can hope to be nothing else given the subject matter. The stirring music combines with the expert direction to make this an effortless watch, complemented by Ralph Fiennes whose role is the personification of evil.
Schindler's List is directed by Steven Spielberg and stars Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, Ben Kingsley, Caroline Goodall, Jonathan Sagalle and Embeth Davidtz.In German-occupied Poland during World War II, Oskar Schindler gradually becomes concerned for his Jewish workforce after witnessing their persecution by the Nazi Germans.Steven Spielberg's horrifically harrowing Schindler's List isn't just a critically acclaimed, award-winning masterpiece. This is a documentary of real life events, a truly terrifying picture which chronicles The Holocaust, within the most destructive period of our time. A time that must never be repeated. Captured masterfully in black-and-white celluloid with hand-held cameras, Schindler's List follows Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson), a German industrialist who begins to feel concerned for his Jewish workforce, leading to an emotionally captivating story that evolves continuously as Steven Zaillian's beautiful screenplay culminates to one of Schindler's final heartbreaking lines: "I could have got more out. I could have got more. I don't know. If I'd just I could have got more."Liam Neeson showcases a raw talent as Schindler, performing skilfully throughout. Every line is delivered with absolute care and feels entirely realistic. His interactions with Itzhak Stern (Ben Kingsley) are some of the greater scenes in the film, most specifically the creation of the list. Kingsley has always proved himself an incredible supporting act. Ralph Fiennes also plays alongside Neeson as Amon Goeth, a ruthless and negligent SS captain who murders for sport. Eventually, Goeth is told that power is in fact to never kill, but pardon a man. It never truly connects with him, but continues his work with it in mind. This is one of Fiennes' greatest, most pre-eminent performances to date.The decision to shoot the film in black-and-white only catapults the 'documentary tone' that Spielberg sets out to achieve, and in doing so creates an eerie experience for viewers. There's one scene in particular that uses colour for a little girl's red coat, as she stumbles through a disturbing site of bloody murder whilst Schindler keeps a close eye. This scene essentially serves as the brutal realisation for Schindler, and becomes one of the most iconic scenes in film history. A simply breathtaking use of colour within a black-and-white picture. Cinematographer Janusz Kaminski expresses his enduring adroitness with excellent execution.John Williams' haunting score captures the horrors of war as violinist Itzhak Perlman performs every single note with intricate skill. The main theme is pleasing to the ears but when paired with Spielberg's picture, it's painfully distressing, traumatic, even disturbing. 'Jewish Town' continues that same feeling, but explores Williams & Perlman's impeccable talent further. This is a fine example of the perfect film score.Verdict; It may be a tough subject and a difficult experience to bear, but Schindler's List is a film to be seen by all.Schindler's List – <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> (8/10)


                
The story and form of the film is moving and engage the audience in to dramatic core of the film. What I have observed more as specific talent and skill of the director is mood and tone of the film being transformed to the audience; heartbreaking sequence of the film where Jews are moved toward the gas chamber and moments later where the smoke comes out is utter shock and depression which we as audience feel it, also the camera shot choice and composition makes the sequence identical.The hand-held camera in some sequences has achieved the aim of the filmmaker to engage the audience into story shift between objective to subjective point of view. For instance where the Jewish women being run into the chamber and the doors are locked on them, apart from the suspense of being burnt in the chamber which we see is not the case and they have shower, the audience feels the tension and terror in the scene.


                
Schindler's List is an amazing story and a great documentation of how we can change as people.A man with greedy,immoral intentions can become a man whom statues are erected in honor of.Liam Neeson gives an amazing performance as Oskar Schindler,a greedy business man who uses Jewish folk as cheap labor and is totally blind to how he is helping them as a people.Neeson's slow character transformation was a thing of beauty to watch and great support was given by Ben Kingsley and Ralph Fiennes.It is also the best documentation of just how things were for the Jewish community during the WWII era and I would highly recommend it to all who love great cinema.


                
Absolutely Great film. Very moving and definitely a must see. Shot in black and white, with the odd carefully chosen touches in colour, the horror of the holocaust is laid bare and speaks for itself. The documentary style allows Spielberg to deliver his message without preaching. The clever use of light and shade also makes it visually stunning. When Oskar Schindler visits a night club, he looks like a 1930s movie star as his cigarette smoke spirals above his head, his eyes hidden in the shade.It is the story of German businessman Oskar Schindler which captivates right to the end. He is transformed from physically imposing, charismatic philanderer to the humbled man, wishing he had saved more lives.You watch nervously as he tries to save over a thousand Jews from almost certain death in concentration camps by getting them to work in his factory. He bribes officials and befriends Nazis including evil camp commandant, Goeth, played brilliantly by Ralph Fiennes.Spielberg has cleverly juxtaposed Goeth and Schindler as two sides of the same coin. They both love the finer things in life, easily swayed by money and women. Playing on this, Schindler tries to show his contemporary that power can be better served by sparing people's lives rather than taking them. It is an idea that Goeth acknowledges, but is destined not to adhere to for long.The film finishes on a powerful note in present day with the real Schindler survivors and their descendants visiting his grave. It is the final reminder that this is a true story of one man's bravery and that in "saving one life, you save the entire world".


                
if you're planning on watching this film id say know the history behind it before you do as you will understand and appreciate it more all in all its a classic, well written and story is fluent and well told throughout the film you really get a good understanding of what went on in real life and how people were treated and how they must of felt, i would say anyone who has or known someone who was present when this was going on agree that its true through out and not maid for entertainment value as such, so if you haven't seen it yet id say do go watch it least you may learn a bit about the history even if you don't like / enjoy the film


                
The movie revolves around the war period between Germany and Poland. The movie begins with how the Jews are homeless and forced to shift into ghetto. Meanwhile a young man named Schindler is in search for riches and fame. he hires Itzhak Stern as his accountant(who later becomes his Jewish eye), with an aim to start a business of 'pots and pans'.He hires the Jews for their cheap labor. With time, the atrocities and violence against the Jewish people keeps growing. Amon a brutal German general makes life a living hell for them. But Schindler is determined to help the perishing people. The movie is beautifully directed. On one side there is this monstrous war and on the other, the heart of a kind man, celebration and the hope of people.


                
At the beginning of this movie it was unclear to me whether Oskar Schindler was a good person or a bad person. Since he was German, my first instinct was that he was the enemy. However, as the plot progressed it was clear that he in fact was one of the good guys. He had an accountant who was Jewish but Oskar treated him like he was a human rather than a disposable creature. He also creates a list of Jews he wants to work for him and provides them with a safe work environment. He insists that he Rabbi carry out religious practices and take part in the sabbath. Schindler is unlike the other Germans portrayed in this movie, he is kind, accepting and overall a good person.


                
