The success of a show like The Daily Show, especially during the John Stewart era, has inspired countless imitators and changed the way talk shows were marketed at young audiences weaned on watching the nightly news with their baby boomer parents. With the Daily Show being shown a half hour early than most late night shows and being shown exclusively on cable TV, it makes sense.


                
It's hard to fill the shoes of someone who was such an iconic host...as is obvious with Trevor Noah taking over 'The Daily Show' from Jon Stewart. Admittedly less successful than Jimmy Fallon was replacing Jay Leno on 'The Tonight Show', Noah would probably be taken a lot more favorably had this been his own show from the start and not as Stewart's replacement ~ a VERY hard act to follow.That being said, Trevor Noah IS funny...especially his comedic take on the current Trump Administration and all its pathetic minions, from Sean Spicer to Kellyanne Conway. Add into that the corrupt Vladimir Putin, deranged Kim Jung Un, and our entire dysfunctional Congress, Noah could easily do an hour long show five nights a week!This South African native has spot-on comedic timing and sarcastic facial expressions that really bring the jokes home! Although 'The Daily Show' still has dozens of writers like it did with Stewart, without someone to deliver them in a funny way makes them completely useless. And unlike many of the reviewers here, I find Trevor Noah hilarious ~ and really look forward to the show the four weeknights it's on!


                
Using comedy to comment news - this is what "The Daily Show" is about. Even CNN broadcasts this show - means - people can be updated on what is going on in the world in a comic way. It is said that the show has become better once Jon Stewart started hosting - so I don't know how good it was before him. The show is basically starts with an announcement of the date following by rocky tune, and a greeting by John. Usually he has an opening monologue featuring the top stories of the day, then he will talk to one of the hilarious correspondents. Furthermore, there will be some kind of parody that is done with some kind of graphic manipulation. Next, usually John brings a guest who is not an actor, but the person himself. In the end, we go to see Stephen Colbert who was a former correspondent and now has his own spin-off show "The Colbert Report"


                
the show is great, has been such since i first started watching over a decade ago.then, suddenly.. a few months after noah took over, the intro tune went from rock solid to an utter abomination.. and most nights this is accompanied by his staggered stumbling to what might be the original tune remixed by a drunk skrillex on crack and meth, being attacked by a pack of feral dogs.just godawful.i sincerely hope they will not keep this atrocious and spectacularly shitty intro.


                
It's still dealing with the same content as all the other evening shows but at least his language is most relevant and the team around him is more timely than anything any other single host has to offer.


                
