THE DAILY SHOW is one of my favorite television shows. In a similar style of Saturday Night Live's Weekend Update, THE DAILY SHOW delivers the news with a comedic sense, and then the host/anchorman, Jon Stewart, will interview a celebrity for four minutes. This show is informative as well as funny, because the news and interviews are all real with a comedic spin to them. Jon Stewart is very funny and talented and is much better than Craig Kilborn, who was also very good. Steven Colbert, Beth Littleford, Lewis Black, Vance Degeneres (better than his sister, for sure!), Mo Rocca and Steven Carell are all very talented comedians. Every episode is just as good as the next and it never gets old.


                
Last year I wrote the review below, but a lot has changed since.I must say Trevor Noah is doing a stellar job, and I was wrong and impatient. I think I wanted Jon Stewart back, but there is only one Jon Stewart. Which doesn't mean nobody else would be able to do a great job.I also loved Noah's new Netflix stand-up show! He is seriously 5- star funny!***************************************************Look, it's not that we have to be stuck with Noah. I mean, in every business it's like this: if you are not competent you get fired.Noah is not smart enough, also pointed out by him saying things like 'I didn't expect there would be so much journalism involved', he brings down the ratings, and he is by far less funny than any single member of the old crew. The constant laughing about his own jokes doesn't help either.Yes, nobody can replace Stewart, but at least do your best to find someone who *understands* the concept. Do your due diligence before making such a big move.Comedy Central really screwed the pooch by not considering/ignoring/letting Samantha Bee leave. She was the perfect choice. Just look at her current ratings. By the way, she brought with her the two head writers from Stewart's team.And about the old crew, look at the new crew. Someone like Trevor Noah attracts mediocre talent, mediocre writers and a mediocre production. That is why Jessica Williams is leaving this week.There are enough smart not-too-young women and men who can do a much better job. But if they don't make me laugh out loud to begin with, then don't even bother.


                
"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" is one of the funniest shows on television and probably the cleverest show on Comedy Central (perhaps tied with "South Park").Jon Stewart was the perfect host - his dry humor and quick wit is great. His group of news correspondants are equally humorous - Steve Carell (who has now left to pursue a film career) is the best of the bunch, always doing wacky, crazy stuff for the sake of laughter.The show features interviews, news clips, and so on and so forth - it's a big hit on college campuses because it seems to appeal to the new generation: it reports news but in a sarcastic, cynical fashion.I'm a very cynical person so this show fits me just right.


                
Yes, we miss Craig and no dice with James Corden but Jon Stewarts The Daily Show is still killing it! Jons demeanor and attitude were just plain fun and outstanding! So after retirement and bringing in Trevor Noah, I thought it would be a flop like James Corden did to LLS with Criag, BUT I think this is the first LN show that has finally picked a great successor! (sorry, Colbert to Letterman is an insult). Trevor is a natural and hats off if Jon had anything to do with the selection process, because I have zero complaints! The transition was smooth and entertaining, and oddly enough, although the format didn't change much (if even at all), Trevor has his own 'thing' going on that keeps you smiling and laughing just as Jon always did, yet he is not imitating Jon. I'd like to see Jon as a guest back on his own show once in a while, both him and Trevor would be a blast. Oh, and the ONLY thing Trevor did better: I FINALLY after all these years noticed that what I thought Jon always said in closing "this is your moments end" is actually "moment of zen" lol. Thanks for clarifying that for me Trevor! Keep up the great work guys!


                
The beginning In1992 Present of the United States Bill Clinton who was standing down the military at the time set this up. Hillary Clinton was drafted by the Clinton Administration to head a new Task Force and sell the plan to the American people, a plan which ultimately backfired amid the barrage of fire from the pharmaceutical and health insurance industries and considerably diminished her own popularity. By September 1994, the final compromise Democratic bill was declared dead and her bid for health care and was turned down; the need for the funding of doctors was for active duty war veterans, I'd like to think that and not what actually happened. The First Lady's role in the secret proceedings of the Health Care Task Force also sparked litigation in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, in relation to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) which requires openness in government. The Clinton White House argued that the Recommendation Clause in Article II of the U.S. Constitution would make it unconstitutional to apply the procedural requirements of FACA to Hillary's participation in the meetings of the Task Force. Some constitutional experts argued to the court that such a legal theory was not supported by the text, history, or structure of the Constitution.[4] Ultimately, Hillary Clinton won the litigation when the D.C. Circuit ruled narrowly that the First Lady of the United States can be deemed a government official (and not a mere private citizen) for purposes of not having to comply with the procedural requirements of FACA.[5] In 1997, the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, along with several other groups, filed a lawsuit against Hillary Clinton and Donna Shalala over closed-door meetings related to the health care plan. The AAPS sued to gain access to the list of members of the task force. Judge Royce C. Lamberth found in favor of the plaintiffs and awarded $285,864 to the AAPS for legal costs; Lamberth also harshly criticized the Clinton administration and Clinton aide Ira Magaziner in his ruling.[6] Subsequently, a federal appeals court overturned the award and the initial findings on the basis that Magaziner and the administration had not acted in bad faith.[7] In August 1994, Democratic Senate Majority Leader George J. Mitchell introduced a compromise proposal that would have delayed requirements of employers until 2002, and exempted small businesses. However, "even with Mitchell's bill, there were not enough Democratic Senators behind a single proposal to pass a bill, let alone stop a filibuster."[17] A few weeks later, Mitchell announced that his compromise plan was dead, and that health care reform would have to wait at least until the next Congress. The defeat weakened Clinton politically, emboldened Republicans, and contributed to the notion that Hillary Clinton was a "big-government liberal" as decried by conservative opponents.[18] The 1994 mid-term election became, in the opinion of one media observer, a "referendum on big government – Hillary Clinton had launched a massive health-care reform plan that wound up strangled by its own red tape."[19] In that 1994 election, the Republican revolution, led by Newt Gingrich, gave the GOP control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate for the first time since the 83rd Congress of 1953–1954, ending prospects for a Clinton-sponsored health care overhaul. Comprehensive health care reform in the United States was not seriously considered or enacted by Congress until Barack Obama's election in 2008. One of America Greatest heroes, a Credible Person, Bud Day (RIP 2013) Class action suit 1996 *Among other endeavors, in 1996 Day filed a class action lawsuit for breach of contract against the United States government on behalf of military retirees who were stripped of their military medical care benefits at age 65 and told to apply for Medicare. Although winning the case in the district court in 2001, the judgment against the U.S. was overturned by the U.S. Court of Appeals in 2002. In 2002 all veterans enrolled with the VA were to transition from Ambulatory Care to Primary Care. The U.S. Congress later redressed this situation by establishing the "TRICARE for Life" (TFL) program, which restored TRICARE military medical benefits for career military retirees over the age of 65, making the retirees eligible for both programs with Medicare as the primary payer and TRICARE as the secondary payer. The government when they enlisted Americans to join the armed services via. The armed forces recruiter gave a verbal contract said that they will have health care for life dating back to WW11 1942 – 2002. This was a key event in the case for it showed nothing about the senior citizen only the abuse of the system. I heard a story about the trial that Bud Day had the Government lawyer into calling a number of recruiters during the procedures, and ask about health care. Government lawyer picked them him self: They all said YES health benefits for ever. NOT sure "I meet Bud that sounds like him" COI can't believe a Medial of Honor Winner is linked to this mess, however only by his creditability. This is decision set the requirement for more veterans to be seen at the VA and also the need for more doctors. But why Tri Care for Life? If a person was in the military before 2003 they were entitled to medical support from the VA, but not Tri Care. The Seattle VA FISCAL inspected by HQ Austin TX one time, March 2004 I was a part timer at the time. IN 2011 FISCAL person Rich, job one person deep, he had to go home due to his mother ell health for two weeks she passed, he was gone for four weeks. During this time frame Seattle VA of lost its license to practice medicine another event happened. Riches job was to take checks from one place, Austen TX break up the funds into different UW accounts. Each month accounts were forwarded LARGE amounts, seven to eight figures. .


                
