they sent him back to be forgotten again. It's pathetic. For dog's sake this film is not THAT good, of course no one will say that because to say anything other than "the plight of Jews" would be anti-semitic and the words of a NZAI. Actually the biggest group of Semites are the Arabs. This film does not deserve to be so highly rated at all. The Nazis killed homosexuals, left wingers, communists, guerillas from Greece, Serbia and Spain and loads of French and all we get is this because it's Hollywood. And this guy figured he wants an Oscar before he dies so he wrote and delivered and they gave him 5 minutes of fame.


                
*SPOILERS*For me, there is a very obvious dividing point between the two parts of this movie: the scene where Dora comes home with her mother and realises her family has been deported. From then on, from that open door showing a devastated and empty apartment that painfully jerks you back from the fairylike world of comic knights rescuing princesses in puffy pink, nothing can be the same; yet the makers of this movie carry on as though it were. The first part works just fine in its way (that of course depends on whether you like Benigni's style at all or not), although it is pretty inferior to his other films. The second is quite simply awful. Fairytales can be incredibly cruel (and most of them in fact are), and there is nothing a priori wrong with trying to present a concentration camp situation in terms of a fairytale (although I suspect you'd need incredibly good writing and a totally different kind of actor). The problem is, here it was done badly and in a completely wrong way, because they had failed to understand they could not use the SAME fairytale as in the first half. As a result, what we actually get is a Viennese operetta. One feels one is watching `Die Fledermaus', complete with bumbling soldiers and in-and-out-of-the-prison-cell shenanigans.The whole premise - telling the kid it's all a game and acting up to support the lie - that so many found noble and heart-rending, is for me simply beyond stupid and irresponsible. I can almost hear a chorus whining: `Awww. but he's doing it for the kiiid.!' It matters zilch whether he's doing something `for the kid'  (filmmakers so often assume that they can simply put a child in the movie, and the audience immediately send their brains on a tropical holiday; sadly, it works); what matters is WHAT he is doing. And what he does here would have killed his son, himself, and many of his comrades  (incidentally, it is made so very obvious that they really don't mean anything to him; what are so many lives compared with his own child's dubious emotional  comfort? Their survival literally depended on understanding the camp rules, but of course they have to be made unwilling participants in a silly game devised for one child's benefit - and it's not even that - instead. So where is this humanism everyone is gushing about?) within the first few weeks. There are two things he could have done, for different reasons: he could either simply have told his son the truth, and thereby equipped him for at least trying to survive (after all, it's a very smart child, as we learn from the first part - although how a smart child would have gone for months believing Guido's story in that environment is beyond me) and prevented him from unknowingly jeopardizing others; or lied to him to shield him psychologically before inevitable death comes. Perhaps a fatalist would indeed have chosen the second option, but only an idiot would have mistaken it for a survival strategy, and from then on Guido looks more like a real fool than a clown playing one.There are some powerful scenes in there: uncle Eliseo helping up a female guard who has tripped while herding him into the gas chamber; the riddle-obsessed doctor asking Guido for help (although you can see that one coming from miles away), but they are lost in all the incongruous clowning and sentimental schlock - like the inexcusable scene of Guido making a whole idiotic speech to his wife on the camp's loudspeaker system. Even leaving aside the implausibility of his ever getting the chance, the sheer stupidity of the very idea, and the certainty that he and Giosue' would have been killed on the spot for such a transgression (before that, we heard how every child is to be killed, and so Giosue' is hidden, yet now the Nazis find him happily babbling into the microphone and nothing happens?! Are we all supposed to be on the toilet at this point and so not notice?) - what is the purpose of that speech?! Having the oh-so-cute line `Buongiorno, principessa!' and similar inanities that just don't belong there repeated yet again? For the purpose of letting her know they're still alive, one word would have been enough. In the end, even his death somehow manages to seem unreal. Instead of shaken and saddened, I was left rather relieved I did not have to support this selfish and foolish person's annoying presence on the screen anymore."La vita e' bella" contains a lot of superficial "joie de vivre", and doesn't want us to think much, as though encountering unspeakable evil were the same thing as grabbing a quick bite; and this movie is a cinematic equivalent of a pizza fast food chain.
This is really two movies: the first an awful slapstick comedy, the second an insulting fantasy.In the first half we are treated to Roberto Begnini (whatever) doing a really bad Italian Robin Williams impression. Boring us with poor comic timing, annoying screen presence, and thoroughly obnoxious rapid-fire dialog that just grates on one's nerves. His clown-like appearance only emphasizing how unfunny he really is. At this point I was ready to turn it off. But lo and behold, the movie then totally shifts into some sort of Italian Hogan's Heros (not to be confused with Stalag 17).We are treated to the mystifying insistence of the wife, apparently a non-Jew, demanding going to the concentration camp where her husband and son are being taken. Guido, the main character, mugs and clowns unmolested all around the camp, which is oddly squeaky clean. He manages to caper about, while semi-hiding his small son, and only has to carry an endless supply of obviously fake anvils from point A to point B.This is not a concentration camp, not a work camp, it's more a summer camp. Everyone plays hard, but stays clean and reasonably well fed. This is a bad movie. Because its funny parts are not funny, its gritty parts are not gritty, and it demands no emotional connection to its poorly acted characters.Oscar? Puleeze!!!
In my view this is an awful film. Cliché ridden, woeful acting, idiotic storyline. Does anybody honestly believe that this otherwise smart kid would continue to believe the stupid story about the point gathering game ? Did we lose something in the subtitles ?This is a totally unfunny comedy (unless one thinks that falling on the floor or getting an egg squashed on one's head is absolutely hilarious. I used to but I haven't for more years than I care to count.)In my view, associating slapstick (and bad slapstick at that) with something as tragic as the holocaust borders on blasphemy. I felt sick in seeing this giggling buffoon prancing around trying to get a laugh in a concentration camp decor.Throughout the presentation, I couldn't make up my mind whether that main actor reminded me more of Jerry Lewis at his worst or of one of the three Stooges, except that the latter comedians did at times succeed in making people of their era laugh. They did not always take for granted that laughter being contagious, all one has to do is giggle intermittently and the laughs will follow.And no, the short scene depicting the bodies does NOT make up for the general lack of sensitivity displayed in the other 99.999% of this movie. In fact, this scene seems totally out of place in the storyline, as if the actor had mistakenly walked off the set. ...As if the ballet dancer had stepped on your toe.


                
In spite of its "message" about the human spirit I did not feel this movie worked. I'm sorry to rebuff those who thought it was great including my favorite movie critic but I don't think the "message" in a movie make it rise above its trappings. If it doesn't look real to me it fails as a movie no matter how lofty it's message.I didn't like it and here is why: This movie tries to be a lot of things it is not. At first it felt like Fellini – crazy Italians! But it is not.Then it tries to be Phillie de Broca in "King of Hearts." But it is not.And don't forget "Captain Corelli's Mandolin." which is about Italians during the war but takes place in Greece and is apparently a true story.High ratings for all of the above – but alas not "Life is Beautiful." It's a sad story but the whole thing feels like a stage set which it is. Especially the prison camp which is too small and clean to be what it represents.If you want to see a dark comedy about Nazis watch "King of Hearts" again. At least it is funny.Or, if you want to get the message watch "Captain Corelli's Mandolin." After all, this is not a stage play; it is cinema, in a world where "Avatar" will win Academy Awards this year.This movie also has all the hallmarks of a soap opera.Who dies and who lives and why "and guess who shows up at the end" is one for the classic soaps.


                
Once again Mick LaSalle, movie critic for the San Francisco Chronicle hits it on the head. Mick is one of the few, non follow the leader, mainstream movie reviewers.To me, the movie crossed the line into Hogan's Heroes territory. I felt the movie trivialized the Holocaust. The "hero" makes the great self sacrifice at the end but life was too easy in this movie.I didn't find the humor to be uplifting or awe inspiring ie: Chaplin and/or Keaton.And, of course, the world media went ga ga again. Roger Ebert stating that if you didn't like the movie then you were probably a right wing fanatic.Oh well, it's now 10 years later, is this picture still a classic?


                
Life Is Beautiful (La Vita E Bella) (1997) Released 13 years ago, but I only saw it now for the first time. I hate to say it, but... what a waste of time.I lost interest about 20 minutes into the movie, then fast-forward the rest. I don't get the point of the movie. It doesn't work as a comedy: first of all because Benigni is just annoying (yeah, I used to love some of his movies once too. Now I find it annoying) and secondly because we get the point of "presenting the holocaust to your son as a game" and there's no need to drag it for another hour. However, the movie doesn't work as a drama/educational either: It just doesn't seem to take any of the situations seriously and it doesn't show the horrors of the holocaust. In particular, I don't get the entire first half of the movie - it doesn't have to do with the rest of the movie at all.I didn't really find the movie offensive, just... a waste of a filmmaker's time and effort. It's funny that Benigni chose the prison camp uniform to have the same number as Charles Chaplin's uniform in "The Great Dictator (1940)", as I wanted to give Chaplin's "The Great Dictator (1940)" as the example of how to make a masterpiece, dealing with the same subject - while making a comedy. Yeah, it's not easy to make a comedy about the holocaust, especially if you want to make a point and have some serious under-layers. In comparison to "The Great Dictator", I would say that "Life Is Beautiful" is quite offensive - making fun of the situation instead of letting the viewer feel the horror and seriousness of it.Let me give you a simple example from "The Great Dictator" to make my point: "How many were going to strike?" - "Three thousand of them." - "Have them all shot. I don't want dissatisfied workers."This is one of my favorite bits. It's so funny, yet Chaplin didn't put it just for the joke - he put it there to show how cruel the Dictator is and REALLY teach about the situation and conditions. Benigni does just the opposite: He makes stuff up just for the sake of being funny - I couldn't find any value in his jokes or in the script in general.To sum it all up, Chaplin entertains the viewers while at the same time letting them feel and understand the horror. Benigni completely detaches the viewers from the situation and his entire purpose is to make them laugh. Comparing Benigni to Chaplin is like comparison DreamWorks to Pixar.I honestly don't understand how this movie got so many praises.2/10 Horrible. Go watch "The Great Dictator" to learn how to handle this subject.


                
I had to fast forward many times while watching this movie. It is packed with the worst Hollywood stereotypes (including its soundtrack) and generally belongs to the same category as the numerous "Titanics" that try (and succeed) to impress their sentimental audience. No wonder it won its Academy Awards. No wonder it had such a huge success among the folks that generally don't watch foreign language movies. I'm not a big fan of Benigni. Although he was good in Jarmusch's movies, he's no Chaplin. A couple of scenes in Life is Beautiful are funny though, and for this only reason I give it 3 out of  10


                
Life is Beautiful made no noticeable impression on me. There were some well-rendered moments, but on the whole I found it to be a shabby movie. It's a hell of a lot better than most movies that get made, but that isn't really saying much.Begnini certainly has some kind of endearing quality about him, but it's not enough to carry a movie, especially one so slightly composed and predictably directed. Indeed, that was the glossiest concentration camp I've ever seen onscreen, but aside from all of that, the part that seems to have most of an effect on the people I've talked to about this flick -- the story and characters -- were not enough of a presence to make any kind of stamp on my mind. This movie relies entirely too much on the work of other movies and on the memory of its audience. If you don't have the camp from Schindler's List or a lifetime of history lessons in mind while watching this flick, you'd have no idea what Roberto is hiding from the boy. There is that pile of bodies and that offscreen shooting, but they inspire nothing. They have no visceral power. That shot of the piled bodies only gets something across because it's expected in a Holocaust movie, not because it is a powerful image. You know what it is because Amon Goeth set fire to such a thing in Schindler's List. Taken by itself, the movie doesn't stand up insofar as it doesn't directly relate its characters to any real atrocity. It relies too heavily on the predjudices of the audience to carry its message across. I tried watching it from the perspective of a child, and I suppose it would have been a little better from a child's POV, but the thing is, a child doesn't have the knowledge of what Begnini is going out of his way not to show. It's a harmless movie that defangs its subject matter while standing up for something that is easy to stand up for. Thinking about this movie afterwards, I went from merely annoyed to just plain mad. What annoyed me about it was how the subsidiary characters were such cardboard mock-ups of human beings. The German doctor who really only cares about solving riddles, the brother that phones his lines in and then disappears, the good wife who shows up at the camp so Roberto can play that record for her, the other prisoners, and all the others that escape me at the moment, are merely foils for Roberto's pranks or the movie's message. This movie is accoladed in the way it is because it says that the Holocaust is bad. And these accolades come despite the shabbiness of its construction. Schindler's List says essentially the same thing, but that movie achieves greatness because of the sheer power of its imagery, the indelible humanity of its characters (on both sides), and the personal conviction behind it. Begnini remade an old Jerry Lewis movie. I went in looking for a great movie because I was told by many people that it was great, but that is not what I saw.


                
Being offended or not by the way the Holocaust is depicted in this movie is a matter which belongs to a person's feeling, and nobody has the right to judge other's feelings. Sure, I would not like to be a Holocaust survivor and to be forced to watch this movie, because I would be probably deeply offended.Personally I was hurt by the extreme superficiality and by the several nonsenses which create really unbelievable situations. In the movie the tragedy is deliberately turned into a tale, from a father to a son, for the psychic survival of the child. But the fiction of the "game" must be confined to the child eyes, and not extended to the whole scenario of the camp. In this way, the show is irritating. From a mere artistic point of view, the movie is not very well directed and acted. Ideas are "old", gags on Nazis, on their way to speak and march, are boring and annoying. Once again, Nazis are shown mostly as stupid and their behaviour arouses mirth. Tragically, they were not !The great success of the movie in U.S. is amazing. I only hope that young people, facing for the first time this page of our History, will prefer to read books and watch documentaries or, if they like modern movies, Spielberg's "Schindler's List".P.S. Please, do not compare with Chaplin's "The great Dictator" (1940) ... that was conceived and produced DURING the WWII and not 57 years after!


                
Ugh! Roberto Benigni's attempts to use Chaplin-style humor as a balm to soothe nightmares about the Holocaust make a mockery of both him and the historical events his film depicts.I'm not offended by the humor itself -- Mel Brooks proved that you can make Nazis funny. My problem with this movie is that the humor is done badly; Benigni is irritating and painfully unfunny. And when the film isn't trying to be a comedy, it's unbearably maudlin and sentimental."Life Is Beautiful," like "Cinema Paradiso," is a foreign film for people who otherwise never watch foreign films.It's got a nice score, I'll give it that.Grade: D


                
I'll stay brief on this, because I think this is an annoying movie. Not that I don't like its idea, because that's the only thing this film is bold in- what got me angry is the way it was done. The first half of it is comedy Leslie- Nielsen- style, read: nonsense. Entertaining?- yes; intelligent?- no. And worse, the second half is a terrible tearjerker. I wasn't at all moved by it as everybody told me I would. These two halves don't flow naturally into one another and you get the feeling you switched channels to watch a whole different and not even better film. The characters felt like in a comic-book and I do believe Benigni's character should have been more tragic than he was.


                
Benigni; an Italian actor, screenwriter, director, and (lets not forget) comedian, won an Academy Award for Best Actor, after portraying Guido – an Italian Jew who manages to conjure-up humorous stories at a concentration camp where his wife and son are captive. The only excuse for his behaviour is the need to cloud the truth from his son Joshua. Whether this reason is enough to mock the true horrors of the Holocaust is a debate of its own.After moving to Arezzo, Guido intends to open a bookstore. Here, the director begins to implement Fascist undertones, such as the Fascist leader who refuses to give Guido a signature to allow him to open his own bookstore. Guido then realises that Dora, who later becomes his wife, is the head Fascists fiancée.For a while, 'Life' does actually seem 'Beautiful', and Benigni's comedy is plausible. The film hints very little anti-Semitic references in the beginning, until Hitler's army evict Guido and his son, Joshua, from their home and guide them to a concentration camp. After Dora manages to track them down, she is voluntarily allowed to join the captives.Guido and his son, along with the other male captives, are sectioned off from the women. Guido reassures Joshua that this is his birthday surprise, and that it is a test of endurance which, in exchange for points will result in a 'prize', a life-size tank.There is an awkward resemblance between him and the infamous Chaplin who was widely famous for portraying Hitler in a comedic fashion (most memorably 'The Great Dictator'). The difference however is that Guido's character, unlike Chaplin, was created long after the war, and at a time when the Holocaust was distant from becoming history, Chaplin's humour was taken at face value. Chaplin was later to apologise to the US for his portrayal of sucha serious event, and admittedly acknowledged that if he knew the true atrocities of the war, he would have reconsidered his approach.Benigni's film however was released in 1997, a very sensitive and historical era. Many of the films that depicted the Holocaust during the 90's have proposed a serious effort to recreate the realism and stigma that revolved the captivation and mass murder of innocent Jews. Most memorably, Spielberg's seven-time academy award-winning 'Schindler's List' (1994) depicts a tremendously reckless vision of horror and the innocent murder of men, women and children. I cannot imagine to compare both films with the same frame of mind, which begs the question, should all films revolving the Holocaust be seen in the same way? Take a modern event, the 9/11 disaster, could you see such an event become apart of a comedy hybrid? It begs the question as to whether it is ethical for a comedian to direct and act in a film which is expected to have serious undertones.Benigni had been approached on many occasions over this issue. He claimed that he was not making a comedy of the Holocaust, but instead a comic who lived through the Holocaust. If you take the comedy out of this film, you are left with a very pathetic approach to the true events inflicted by Hitler's army. There is a lack of reality, for example, all the captives seem clean shaven, the boy is miraculously able to hide for days inside the cabin without getting caught, and there is little emphasis on death. Shockingly, Guido is able to hijack a booth where he makes 'loving' and reassuring announcements to his wife Dora over a microphone, and is not left severely punished, or worse, shot! In the beginning, Guido even pretends to know German, and offers to translate the Nazi's instructions to the camp, whilst all along reassuring Joshua that it is a game, depriving the others of important information for their survival.Such events are highly unrealistic, and any of these attempts would be treated without tolerance. Romance, comedy, and a hazardous attitude are probably the last things on a Jewish captives mind at the Holocaust. Furthermore, it is worrying when spectators laugh at Benigni's material, as it is definitely far from a laughing matter.It's even more unrealistic when Guido dies from a gunshot (off camera of course), after getting caught trying to find his wife Dora. He instructs Joshua to stay in a sweatbox until he hears and sees no one. Soon the camp is dry, and the Nazi's are driven out by the American force, and Joshua is approached by a friendly American in a life-size tank. The boy rides the tank, and is soon reunited with his mother.In Benigni's world of fiction, life truly seems 'beautiful', but it doesn't take much research to unveil the true horrors that came with the Nazi war effort.I give this film 1 out of 5 for its unreal, thoughtless and inconsiderate approach.Article By Screen Reverend @ www.screenreverend.co.cc
Benigni is lauded by many Jews because he embraced the holocaust.Actually we are overwhelmed with that holocaust theme too much. Schindler's List, The Pianist and this movie...There many be many other movies but these three are the most top-rated ones I guess. Well let me give some statistical knowledge about the WW2.WW2 was a period of immense human(not just Jewish) suffering.Nearly 55 million people lost their lives but only six million of this death toll was Jewish. Due to the holocaust 4 million non-Jews made up of Poles, Roma, homosexuals, communists, dissidents, Afro-Germans, the disabled, Soviet prisoners and others had lost their lives. About about 20 to 28 million Soviets died in total, of which 13 to 20 million were civilians. Now given that these statistic are absolutely true why the these directors insisting make movies on the holocaust?As a human being I sympathize with the Jewish people who suffered immensely then! But as a human being I also sympathize with other non-Jewish people who lost their lives then! Why the heck they don't make movies out of the sufferings of Soviet,Poles,anti-communists etc...? If this Jewish suffering had been so real why does this race's governing council create the same stuff in Palestine with a great newspeak of terrorism? Does the Western have a courage of making a movie on Palestine, Hiroshima,Yugoslavia? Isn't anybody aware that The most notorious atrocities occurred in China, including the slaughter of almost half a million Chinese during the Nanjing Massacre, also known as the Rape of Nanking, and Unit 731's experiments with biological warfare in Manchuria, with a view to killing a large part of the Chinese population. Japanese war crimes also included rape, pillage, murder, cannibalism and forcing female civilians to become sex slaves, known as "comfort women". Many of these occurred in Korea, which Japan occupied from 1910 to 1945. Doesn't anybody think it is worth cinematizing the suffering of these people as much as the suffering of Jewish people? It may be a great script to think of a dream quality to make your son survive the concentration camp but it is due to create something else. You may create a dream quality to survive the brothel in Korea or China. Do something for those people. Amen to the Jewish suffering!


                
Odds are that any Italian movie without Sergio Leone in the saddle ain't worth the coppers on a dead man's eyes and this flop pie proves the point! ;)The pieces and parts were well-enough constructed but the stitches to bind them were done with the wrong material and tailored by the village simpleton. I wonder if the director and actors knew that the saddle horn goes in the front since it seems to me they must have had it turned around the other way.So many glowing reviews and awards speak to the old saying that "there's no accounting for taste". While I prefer beef, horse meat would have been more savory than what was served up to this viewer. I'll say that, to me, this tastes like another name for mule and Mr. Bellini seems like a bit of one his own self! hee-haw ;)


                
I've seen Schindler's List and The Pianist, and consider both excellent. I've also watched video's from Spielberg's Shoah foundation, and read many books and accounts. Pál Turán's stories, for example. I've watched Hogan's Heroes, and the disastrous Pinocchio.Roberto Benigni has a particular "I can get away with anything" style that spoiled the movie for me. For example, he slowly rides a green-painted live horse into a fancy restaurant, has a long conversation with a bureaucrat that hates him, steals away a girl, and a large egg that happened to be right over the bureaucrat's head splatters on him as Benigni slowly rides away. No-one tries to stop him. Earlier, Benigni is getting away from the same bureaucrat on a bicycle, and collided with the girl. But as they start to talk, the bicycle is abandoned. It's just a movie prop, after all.This pervasive unreality saturates the film. Benigni isn't acting appropriately anywhere, so it's unsurprising when the Nazi's act with deference to him throughout the last half of the film. All the Italians are good, only Germans are bad (and just mildly so). The Germans are also dumb as bricks.I probably would have liked this more if I hadn't seen Pinocchio first. I did like the boy and many of the supporting players. This could have been a much better film with more reality and thought. A poor person would never abandon a bicycle. There's a good Italian 1948 movie by Vittorio De Sica on the topic.


                
...And it's skull cracked as it landed. Instead of feeling real in any way, this is the most contrived, artificial thing I've ever seen. Instead of being a powerful portrayal of a problem that touches us all, this is a weak attempt to show people overcoming a threat that is portrayed very badly. After a somewhat effective opening scene establishing Guido the main character, we start story A. "Guido(who is so poorly portrayed that you will never for a second stop thinking its Roberto Benigni) meets a beautiful woman who has to abort her wedding and go off with him." Forget the fact he is able to meet her only through an extremely belief-straining series of coincidences which really aren't that funny, but the idea that she feels compelled to even cope with, much less love, a guy who flails his arms like he's on fire and speak like a kid on crack to her is impossible to believe. Story B: the over-hyped holocaust comedy section. People wonder how Guido manages to keep his son in the dark about what's going on around him (which is very questionable in and of itself ethically) The answer is that what happens simply does not reflect the holocaust properly. There isn't the hideous lice problem that existed, offices are left unattended so that Guido can go in them and make a disgustingly sweet moment by playing a record to the camp, piles of dead bodies do not result in the stench simple logic requires they would have, etc. Forget being indignant, just the irritation was reason enough not to waste your money.
As a movie this film ain't too bad. Quite a nice first half, with a beautiful setting and charming humour. However, Benigni deserves an absolute panning as he has basically stomped over the bones of 6 million jews in the concentration camps so he can reach the Hollywood summit. The premise of this movie is absolutely impossible. Anyone with any knowledge of world war two history would know that this is a disgracefully inaccurate depiction of a concentration camp, as it appears much more like a home for POWs than a location for the extermination of a race of people. However, clearly this would have prevented the movie's creation, so he chooses to ignore the facts and ploughs on regardless. Frankly, I found this movie deeply offensive, and those who regard this as a triumph of love over despair, should rather view it as a triumph of one man's ego, and a viewing public's wilful ignorance, over reality and respect for the dead.


                
I was tempted to be snide and nasty toward all the people who were so touched by this movie.  And then I realised how pointless that would be. Why criticize people who want to be uplifted by this film?  It would be so negative of me, and I won't do it.So I'll just disagree.  Say this movie is not very good, and should not be accepted as a Holocaust movie.  And admit one thing I can't get over.How can this movie be rated in the Top 250?  How can people consider this movie better than 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, THE CONVERSATION, THE GRADUATE, THE SEARCHERS, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, ON THE WATERFRONT, THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, DUCK SOUP, FARGO, ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST, THE WIZARD OF OZ, LA STRADA...and so many more great movies.Please, people.  See more movies.  And get some perspective.


                
I'm in the minority of people who hard a very hard time with this movie. Yes, there was much that I appreciated about it, especially the magical romance in the first half.  When the action moved to the concentration camp, I wish I had followed my gut instinct and turned the movie off then and there. Setting the rest of this movie in a concentration camp just doesn't work for me.  I cannot ignore the knowledge that great cruelty and unimaginable suffering occurred in places like this. If you are a sensitive person, I suggest you skip this movie.  It'll rip your heart out by making you care so deeply about the characters and then.... well I don't want to give away the ending.  Let's just say, I was left very sad, NOT uplifted at all.


                
