I do like Roberto Begnini but this movie... First half isn't funny, second isn't realistic. A comedy in working camps? Sounds bizarre. It is. This just doesn't work. It's like a comedy about 9-11. The way working camps are shown to us in this movie reminds me of a fairy tale. It's like the place where the dwarves from Cinderella go when they go to work and that's really annoying.


                
(SPOILERS ahead!)"It's not supposed to be realistic! We already know how horrible the Holocaust was."The above is a direct quote from another user comment. I beg to differ (what, so now we're going to show how hilarious and heartwarming it is?). No movie, or the sum of every documentary, reel of footage, essay, book, novel, etc. could possibly convey the horror of the Holocaust.The first half was moderately amusing, but I was moved neither to laughter or tears by any moment (and in retrospect the first half seems to have been calculated to engender goodwill for the second) in the film. I wanted to be affected by it, and fully expected to appreciate it, in no small part because it came highly recommended to me by a very good friend whose taste usually coincides with mine. But I cannot chalk this film up as a mere disappointment.The dramatist who attempts to muck around with the details of the Holocaust fights a particularly uphill battle, given how acquainted we are with it and its magnitude both in numbers and scope. That said, I have no qualms with dramatic license, provided that it is employed consciously and conscientiously. But "Life Is Beautiful" is not only unsuccessful but willfully negligent in these respects. (For starters, during WWII Italian Jews remained in Italy...)Factual errors could be ignored had the film been set in a more surreal or fanciful context, but it isn't; details are handled in a slipshod fashion when they're handled at all. And so I couldn't ignore my incredulity at the 'hiding' of the child, that not a single inmate spoke German, etc. ad nauseam.Many times have I heard the protest "I could never watch 'Schindler's List', I couldn't bear it." And I respect that. But in the next breath, the same person will often be heard singing the praises of this movie, and that to me is disturbing. The portrayal of the camp conditions alone amounts to a sugarcoating of the Holocaust, making it easier for the viewer to watch; perhaps it SHOULD be difficult, don't you think? But not in Benigni's version- his character even dies off-screen. By pulling its punches, the film is neither as sad nor as funny as it wants to be. The 'hope' offered up in "Life Is Beautiful" is really just of the standard Hollywood variety, will and imagination triumphing despite the most dire of circumstances. I don't have a problem with such sentiment, I just want a movie to *earn* it, and like so many popcorn pictures, "Life Is Beautiful" doesn't succeed, despite its unlikely setting. My suspicion is that if the film had originated in Tinseltown, critics would not have been so kind and audiences not nearly so enraptured. You gotta hand it to Benigni, the conceit of the movie is a great ploy and he's got some chutzpah for even attempting it.Could redemption be found in the midst of such atrocities and suffering? I believe so, but the kind suggested in "Life Is Beautiful" is false and fleeting, evaporating as soon as the kid stops fawning over the tank and wonders "Where's dad?" (Some have proposed that this makes the film an absurdist masterpiece, but any irony is far from intended- hence the bland, affirming title, the smiling faces on the posters, and the sunny first half.) A father's sacrificial love makes for a more-than-worthy premise for a film, but it is taken to shallow lengths here.Perhaps this wouldn't be so damaging if Benigni had not decided to co-opt for his movie what is arguably the most despicable and well-documented event in human history. The examination and implications of an event like the Holocaust should never cease, but I don't hold out much hope for our ability to avoid more like it, not if "Life Is Beautiful" and the overall reaction to it is indicative of our ability to prevent such monstrosities just by force of historical memory. How quickly we forget.(There were two things about the movie I liked: the transition in the greenhouse, and the relationship between Guido and his hoped-for, riddling savior.)I am impressed by Mr. Benigni's irrepressible optimism- impressed and annoyed, frankly -but he can't get by on charm this time.


                
Bad acting with constant intolerable clowning by the lead actor, a sappy script with plot holes you could drive a tank through, a farcical comedy about... getting killed in a Nazi concentration camp? What the...? How was this nominated for an Oscar, let alone was able to win one? And how is it the 26th highest rated movie of all time on IMDb? One of the worst movies I have seen in a long long time.


                
That seems to be a favourite cliché applied to this fantasy film. The entire movie apparently is a child's dream about a concentration camp. Only in fairy stories would a death camp be so sparkling clean and spacious. The detainees in this (holiday) camp are free to move about as they please. They can even play with the Aryan Gretchens and Hansis if they want to.In the Czech Republic, there's an exhibit of drawings made by cute and precocious children vacationing at the Theresienstadt concentration camp. Their amusingly childish artwork shows typical scenes of camp life, large black monsters crushing tiny people wearing little yellow stars, for example.I happen to have seen another concentration camp film this week, Escape from Sobibor (1987). In that film, Jews also banter and jest with the Nazis, only they do it by applying axes to their heads and homemade knives to their stomachs. History would seem to have demonstrated that axes and knives are more effective tools for dealing with Nazis than making jokes at their expense."Uplifting" is another label assigned to Life Is Beautiful. It might better be applied to Escape from Sobibor, a true story about real people -- not "princes" and "princesses" -- overcoming real odds at huge cost to escape from an actual murder camp.Nice Offenbach music can be found in this film though, one of my personal favourites in fact, Tales of Hoffmann. SS men in actual death camps didn't keep a lot of Jewish opera records on hand for the musical edification of the inmates.


                
I expected to like this movie. I love foreign movies and when I watched the trailer it seemed to have so much promise. Unfortunately, the movie did not live up to expectations. There are quite a few reviews for it that go into detail, so I'll be succinct.Imagine an older animated Disney movie. The protagonist is a skinny mouse with an over-the-top, goofball personality. He somehow gets away with all manner of pranks that no one would ever accept in the real world. (By the way, I'm a fan of pranks and awkward humor, but his behavior was both wince-inducing and required too much suspension of disbelief).He has a straight-laced sidekick, who is a shorter mouse; a bit chubby and dour. And of course, we need to add in the female love-interest mouse who does nothing more than bat her eyelashes at the skinny mouse. He somehow wins her over with his crazy antics.Oh, no, here come the bad guys! (Cue dramatic music). Let's make them rats. These rats are over-the-top bad guys, but also quite stupid. Imagine them saying "Huh?" a lot at the zany hijinks of our protagonist mouse.That's essentially what this movie is, except with human actors. As a vintage Disney animation it may have worked <U+23AF> although I'm not sure how well a typical young Disney audience would receive the Holocaust.This is one of those films where it was a bad idea for one person to have such free reign on the whole project. Roberto Benigni directed, co-wrote, and starred in Life Is Beautiful. Sometimes one person can do all of that well (e.g., Clint Eastwood or Woody Allan, occasionally). Other times you get a movie that's little more than a vanity vehicle, which this one seems to be.
I must first say that the cinematography is outstanding but I have the following reservations:1. The "comedy" acting was both unfunny and irritating, a sort of Italian version of Jim Carey. I do not like this exhibitionistic, overacting style and could not really warm to the main character.2. Having visited Auschwitz, read the books of Primo Levi and many others on the holocaust, I felt that the concentration camp sequences in the latter part of the film totally unrealistic; it looked more like a holiday camp. I believe that the death camps (the ones that had gas chambers) were all in Poland and was not sure where this camp was supposed to be. I became even more confused when an American soldier drove a tank in to liberate the camp (the Polish death camps were liberated by Russians and the only inmates left behind were those who were in the hospital block who were too ill to participate in the death marches).I can not understand why this film is so successful and has had so many awards. The silly "comedy" and the unrealistic concentration camp make this film very disappointing


                
As an Italian, I guess I should be proud of the enthusiasm critics all over the World have welcomed this film with. Yet, I cannot help being astonished: a masterwork? A gem? No: a silly, irritating piece of work, by a comedian who is only funny (well, very funny) in cabaret-like TV gags. There is no direction to talk about, and acting by the female lead character is even embarassing. I did not laugh, I wasn't moved; I just yawned...Sorry, Roberto, but you really should put someone else behind the camera...


                
The second half of this disappointing movie ran like a bad episode of Hogan's Heroes. See Hogan make fun of Sgt. Schultz by translating his instructions into some zany nonsense! See that wacky Hogan using the death camp's PA system to send funny messages to his wife - then here him say "oops they're coming" and run away laughing! See Hogan freely move around the camp with complete carte blanche all the while concealing his little Sgt. Labeau even though he's the only kid in the barracks! See the fun-loving Nazi, Colonel Klink, invite Hogan to be a waiter for an important banquet and then get upset when Hogan doesn't know the answer to a riddle, "Hooooggaaaannn!"Ok, so Bob Crane does not have the comedic timing of Roberto Benigni, but the shallowness of the story is the same. What started out as a light, funny, pratfall-laden Benigni comedy turned into a pretentious scattershot bore of a movie. The relationship between Benigni and Joshua was as deep as the Three Stooges episode where Curly performs all sorts of silly antics to get a little baby to stop crying.Really, people, I don't think I'm being too picky here. The acting, aside from Benigni who can be genuinely funny, was awful. The woman who played Benigni's wife delivered her lines as if she was reading cue cards and the little bambino, although very cute, kept looking at his real life mamma or handler or whatever, off camera.Obviously, I do not reccomend this movie, but if you are in the mood for an uplifting, inspirational and funny film with an Italian flavor, by all means go rent Cinema Paradiso instead.


                
Worrying enough, Benigni shows once more he's one of the greatest theatre comedians around, but hasn't a great feeling with the big screen. He hasn't shot a lot, actually, nevertheless I can remember but one really good film by great Roberto ("Tu mi turbi", that is), while "La vita è bella", though widely hyped, is no better than "Il piccolo diavolo". The film is a comedy, though tragic. Or a tragedy, though comic. God, my head aches! It is an appreciable, though missed, attempt to mix the tragedy of the German WWII lagers, with the comic efforts of a father trying to save his child's ingenuity from the worldly ugliness. Two intentions too noble to fit in a bare one-hundred minutes film which is heavy where it should be light and vice versa. Get back to theatre, Roberto, and don't worry: nobody's perfect.


                
Actually I'm not sure where the mark was exactly<U+0085> was this a comedy? A drama? Half and half? I wanted to like it, expected to like it, but really, really didn't.To the folks who have been calling this "Hogan's Heroes"<U+0085> it really isn't that either. "Hogan's Heroes" knew exactly what it was: a silly, impossible sit-com. It was never presented as or intended to be taken as something theoretically possible, while "Life is Beautiful" seems to be doing just that. But the reason I didn't like this movie isn't because I found the subject matter offensive. It simply wasn't very good. (Just for the record, I like "Hogan's Heroes".) For starters, I caught myself saying out loud (fortunately I was in my own living room), on several occasions, "Boy, are you annoying" directed at the star, Roberto Begnini. I'm a Rowan Atkinson fan, and I've read some pretty scathing reviews on his performances written by people he doesn't appeal to<U+0085> I think that's exactly how I feel about Begnini. I find him profoundly annoying and not in the least bit funny. The first half of the film was a real chore to sit through. But I can be pretty sure I'll never forget the Italian word for "princess", since he hollers it every two and a half minutes, so I guess I learned something.As for the second half: completely and utterly unbelievable. No way. The concept was an interesting one, but it would never work: the child would need an IQ in the single digits to believe the "contest" story spouted by Begnini's character. Are we viewers to believe that all those men in the barracks with them are not too overworked, starved, and terrified to be perfectly happy to play this "game" along with Guido and his son? And at the end when the sentry takes Guido off to be shot, giving him the opportunity to do his Italian Mr. Bean impression one more time in front of his son<U+0085> why take him anywhere? Why not just shoot him on the spot? Neatness didn't count at that point; the Allies were at the gates, the Germans were fleeing, and there would have been no point in taking Guido to an out-of-the-way alcove to shoot him. In fact, it's likely he would have been ignored as the soldier ran for his own life. But that would have made for a non-Oscar ending, I suppose.Seriously overrated film with a seriously overrated star. Thankfully it was free on streaming.
I will never understand why this film and the star (Roberto Benigni) were/are so highly praised. This film is mediocre and plain pathetic at what it tried to do. I felt that it was only highly praised because everyone was sooo in love with Benigni and his ridiculous antics! I will never understand how this won any Oscars, or what exactly made this a great film. Now some of my favorite films are those that deal with WWII ("Downfall" for example) and the Holocaust. ("Schindlers List" stomps on this.) I appreciate what was trying to be said about the inhumanity of the Holocaust, and the fathers love for his son in keeping the truth from him. I just felt that it was very repetitive and didn't say or do anything that hasn't been said or done before in film. It is still rated in the Top 100 a decade later so there is obviously those that think this is still an excellent film. I would hope that people would watch it again and see if they still feel that this is really one of the best films of all time. I just can't see how this is rated in the Top 250 when there are so many other better films that are just out of it. Doesn't it make you wonder why we have never heard of this film really since? For that matter have we even heard of Roberto Benigni since? I feel that so many of these ratings are because everyone likes HIM so well, and are therefore biased on their ratings.


                
It shouldn't be surprising that this movie isn't a very great one, as it is very hard to take a matter like the holocaust and try to create a parody of it as Benigni tries to do here. Yet it has been done before succesfully, but unfortunately Life is Beautiful is not one of these instances.It seems to be a movie with the central message that you can find hope in anything or anyone, yet it comes off as a sitcom with jokes you just can't seem to laugh about. Benigni himself was overacting like a madman the entire film, yet comically, dramatically and emotionally he does not seem to make any dent whatsoever. The story is also rushed. He suddenly has a child and expects that this is his free ticket in order to feel sympathy for his character, yet it comes across as a cheap way to get the audiences undeserved sympathies. Benigni uses cliché'd jokes that we have all seen before, rendering it inaffective as a comedy film. The movie doesn't take itself seriously enough in its seemingly serious setting of the holocaust, making it also fail as a dramatic or emotional film. Ofcourse Dr Strangelove by Kubrick is an example of where it actually works to create a comic effect over a serious matter, but this is generally because the comic aspect is a lot funnier, the dramatic aspect is a lot more plausible, Peter Sellers is simply a better actor than Benigni, and the film knows at all times it does not take itself seriously, unlike this one.The cinematography is alright, but nothing special. There are a couple of nice landscape shots and the scene where the train arrives are quite nicely filmed, but it is nothing to cry home about. The music is decent, but not enough to make you emotionally involved in the picture like Ennio Morricone's score for fellow italian film Cinema Paradiso (1988) managed to do so well. There are also a lot of scenes in the latter part of the film where particular scenes could have easily been drawn out to create a more dramatic effect, yet Benigni cuts everything short and everything seems to end way too abruptly and quickly, negating any kind of emotional connection you might be starting to feel. I would say despite the fact that Benigni was even worse in the first half of the film, i would still prefer the first over the second, as atleast it seemed to know which direction it was going at that point, but in the second it turned into an unfocused mess of sillyness to the point where we cannot absorb any kind of dramatic or emotional impact we were supposed to get.If you ignore all these obvious issues, which i am certain a lot of people did, some might consider it a movie with a message, yet you are indifferent to any possible message since the characters seem indifferent to the situation.


                
I don't see what all the fuss is about, I was very irritated by Begnini's overacting and found it by far not as entertaining and moving as, for instance a lot of Fellini's movies. Not every movie about the Holocaust is an instant masterpiece.


                
I cannot get my head round why people love this film so much, it's purely overrated and I don't think it deserved the awards it got.The first half of the film focuses on Guido's daily life and his character. Which he was a very positive and optimistic human being, now that is good character development, I'll give it that. I saw what was coming in the second half of the film which was the concentration camps and it just didn't feel right at all when Guido kept the same character throughout the film. He looked so stupid and oblivious to how much danger his life was in. I was enormously disappointed with how it all turned out.Also to mention the film's poor portrayal of the Holocaust, it seemed very trivialised. Of course the Holocaust is the most harrowing event of recent history, but the film made a very poor attempted to even feature the distress of what the victims went through. Essentially the comparison between both atmospheres from the first half and the second half would seem to be on different sides of the coin, but it didn't give us that at all.The last moment about Guido's sacrifice for his son was not executed impressively for me. It wasn't exactly clear to me that he was protecting his son in the camp pretending that it was all a game for his son. I honestly thought it was a disgraceful thing to do and especially to those who were actually there.
I watched this at home, and I found it tedious. I turned it off after 1/2 hour because I found it boring and Benigni's humor not funny. How this movie got selected for Best Picture nomination baffles me. Perhaps the story picked up after a while, but I wasn't around to see it!


                
I loathed this movie. It's star Benigni, is like a wind-up Jerry Lewis doll on speed. I could not buy the idea that this very nice woman (who in fact is his wife in real life), would do anything but have him arrested for harassing her. His behavior at the Academy Awards is a very good preview for those who have not seen this film. If you thought he was cute and endearing, by all means see it. If you thought he should have been carted away and tranquilized, stay away.


                
What's that all about?To me it was just daft and I didn't find it factually correct, sad enough or funny enough. Some things made me laugh but overall it just trivialised something horrendous.
If you enjoy loudness, complete disregard for others, silly, boorish behavior, and a historical tragedy transformed into a quasi-comedy, then you will probably enjoy this film, directed, starring, written by Roberto Benigni; a truly dangerous combination of talents, and rarely successful.


                
When this movie came out people fawned over it like it was the best movie ever. My friends and I watched it and left wondering WTF were critics loving about this movie!!!! The tone changes are not smooth but, jarring and continue throughout the film! It would make sense once or twice during specific events but, the whole film??? No. This is like "A Quiet Place," where the star is the new studio darling so even though the premise and execution are crap, studio-paid critics give the movie high ratings.


                
Judging by Holocaust movies I've seen it's extremely difficult to recreate concentration-camp life. The best I've seen in that respect is PLAYING FOR TIME which showed, inter alia, the effects of malnutrition & brutality. SCHINDLER'S LIST gets "E" for Effort but doesn't come close to verisimilitude. LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL is pure bullshit! You didn't get to volunteer to go to a concentration camp like the wife did. She would have been arrested and maybe deported later but the Germans were meticulous about record-keeping and had to account for every deportee. The idea that a little kid could be kept secret in a barracks is beyond ludicrous. The guards would launch inspections at all hours, usually the wee hours, and would dump all the bedding in the process. Violations of camp rules were punished with torture and death. This movie is an insult to the intelligence of anyone who knows anything about the camps. It amounts to a feel-good vision of the Holocaust! The only people who love this movie must know less than nothing about life in the camps!
Moving, entertaining, funny, but falls short of being an extraordinary film. Its always nice to see a foreign film so honored by the Academy Awards, pity better works such as Luc Besson's La Femme Nikita and Betty Blue by Jean-Jacques Bieneix did not receive similar praise in the past. It will definitely not be considered a Masterwork in the future.


                
Aharon Appelfeld wrote a novel, Badenheim 1939, a few years ago about poor Jewish souls who tried to ignore the impending Nazi invasion. I see no difference between Appelfeld's characters and the characters in Life is Beautiful.I've read the comments about how heroic the father is.  Instead he was partially the creator of the tragedy.  By blithely ignoring the world around him he helped seal his own fate.


                
I just can't get how such a train-wreck of a movie could get produced, let alone win an Oscar.Roberto Benigni used to be a decent comedian, often over-the-top and politically incorrect to the bone. But he was okay and had some enjoyable comedies under his belt.Then, somehow somewhat, he was given the role of Cinamatic Genius and was led to believe he could write and produce whatever piece of outrageous cinema he wanted, because he was so damn good, funny and witty.Sadly, Life is Beautiful is a comedy about the Holocaust.Sure, not about The Holocaust, but about a father and son getting swallowed by the Nazis death machine. But the "familiar" dimension of the tragedy shouldn't be a poor excuse for getting away with poorly written slapstick comedy about lotteries, birthday parties, riddles and romantic liaisons.The "concentration camp" looks more like a Fat Kids Summer Camp, considering the relative freedom of movement, and the convenient presence of the female camp nearby, allowing the corny "Buongiorno Principessa" episode.The Nazis look like brain-dead tools who talk a scary language and don't understand Benigni making fun of them (while that alone would have granted death on the spot, but hey... it's a COMEDY!!!). Italian fascists instead are the stereotypical self-important buffoons who were even too inept to be considered scary.The message of the movie, whatever it is, gets lost in a sea of cheap comedy in a frighteningly misplaced location.Is it supposed to be sweet, touchy, emotional and even funny? To me it was just painful, disrespectful and unfunny (even ignoring the absurdity of the situation).Last but not least, Benigni spoofing Chaplin is the craptacular icing on an equally shitty cake of a movie.The fact Benigni got an Oscar, worldwide recognition and domestic superstardom is a clear sign of how sheepish the movie industry is... Some topics just scream "Oscar-bait", and sure Holocaust is one of them.Sadly, Benigni had to take a different route to get to the same goal.


                
