This is one of those movies that have a lasting effect on you.   After watching it, I found that it has less to do with the Holocaust and more to do with the human feelings and the beautiful relationship of a father and his son.  The holocaust provides the ultimate context, that brings and highlights the story and adds yet another deep dimension to the movie.  No such piece of art has ever before combined laughter and tears of sadness in me before and that is the miracle of the movie.  The realism of the movie is not its strong point, but then again it is  not supposed to be; this helps in bringing the audiences to a state of mind away from reality, focusing on the feelings generated by forgetting about all external events and developments of the war.  Despite that, the movie does not fail to point out an element of the nazi psychology demonstrated by the doctor who was obsessed with riddles.  This portrayed the nazi 'state of mind' (if ever such an expression existed) as a sick mentally disturbed state.  Life is really beautiful as you watch Guido's relentless efforts to make a lovely exciting experience of the concentration camp to his son.  You get exhausted just watching him going through his painful day and yet you smile as he speaks to his son and makes him laugh.  One can go on forever  describing the creativity of this movie, but one will not be able to capture all its beauty in writing.


                
Roberto Benigni's Vita e bella, is in many ways similar to Chaplin's Great Dictator.  Both are comic attacks on fascism, but the former's is the more successful.  Benigni initially accesses the emotions of his audience through simple comedy, which is a pleasant mix of Keaton and Chaplin.  Romance ensues with his real life wife Nicoletta Braschi.  The first half of this film has been seen by various critics as being inferior to the second, but this is certainly not the case.  In the first section we follow the delightful romance that will eventually lead to marriage and the creation of the wonderful Giosue (Giorgio Cantarini).It is the first half where the audience can laugh the loudest and delight at the immense comedy talent of Benigni.  Unlike so many films nowadays there is nothing crude or course, his is simple innocent humour, which is all the more effective.  The way he ties together little strand in the film to create comedy elements shows a great writing ability, and a mastery of timing when it comes to their execution on screen.  Various incidents related to the rise of anti-semitism and fascism in Italy show that there are sinister forces at work which come to the fore in the second segment.Guido (Benigni) moves events on from Tuscany in 1939 to the last year of the war in a concentration camp.  In this period he and Dora (Braschi) have had their son Giosue (Cantanarini).  The five year old greatly reminds me of Toto in Cinema Paradiso, and plays an equally important role in his prospective film (though in Paradiso's case it is at the beginning of the movie).  The relationship between the two is very similar to that of Jackie Coogan and Charlie Chaplin (though Benigni, unlike Chaplin, keeps the best of the comedy moments).  Guido attempts to keep from the boy the horrors of what is going on, and this eventually manifests itself as a game where the aim is to score 100 points, with the winner winning a real tank (which, of course appeals to the young boy).  Comic moments are still present, that involving Guido's translation of the rules of the camp is particularly notable, but it becomes somewhat more difficult to laugh when we consider the gravity of what is going on.The emphasis begins shifts, and we realise that this is a film about human spirit above all else.  Guido not only appeals to the audience due to his comedy and sheer pleasantness, but also in the way that he loves his family and the measures that he will go to to protect them.This is certainly no Schindler's List, but it never pretends to be. Occasionally events seem a little contrived, but this does seem to work in the film's favour.  However, this film avoids the tendency of Hollywood to go far over the top in emotional and credibility terms.Benigni shines like a lantern throughout the picture, showing that he is a talent, not only in comedy terms, that far outshines his peers.  Cantanari is a delight, and Braschi also plays her part well.  There is even an appearance by The Magnificent Seven's Horst Buchholz as Doctor Lessing, a man who events change for the worse.Please don't let the fact that it, to all but the Italians, is a foreign language film.  The language itself adds a beauty of form to the film, much as it did in the case of Il Postino.  This has to be a certainty for the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar, though something tells me that it will be overlooked for other awards as it is Italian and not a mainstream English language picture.Please see this film, and make up your own mind.  It is appealing in so many different ways that I'm sure that you will not be disappointed.


                
I have never in my life seen a movie that so truly symbolizes its name and its message. Roberto Benigni - 'The Italian Treasure House' has probably given to his viewers his best. The story, the performances, the entire theme of a person performing his duties as a husband, as a father is very 'moving' and inspiring. 'Life is beautiful' as the name goes is about a Jewish man, who falls in love with a non-Jewish lady, marries her, has a kid and who is then taken as a prisoner in a concentration camp along with his wife and kid. But the way he protects his kid from the horrors of the genocide, how he always tries to find ways to make his wife and kid smile and laugh, is what makes the movie, a MUST SEE.It is certainly one of the best movies that I have seen.


                
Life Is Beautiful takes the premise that love and hope can survive the most trying of conditions, in this case a Nazi concentration camp. Most everyone knows this very popular and honored film, so I won't belabor the story. Briefly, in my humble opinion, this film deserves all the accolades it's been awarded. A near perfect film, my only gripe is that Mr. Benigni's performance could have been more understated, especially the half of the film that's set in the concentration camp. But this is only a slight complaint. For a joyful, life-affirming movie, Life Is Beautiful is tops. But be forewarned, as its principal backdrop of anti-Semitism and Nazi murder, it is not a very happy movie.


                
I typically don't care much for sub-titled movies.  Foreign films to me are slow and about nothing.  So I naturally went to see Life is Beautiful with a chip on my shoulder.  I wanted to hate it.  I wanted it to be just another movie that Hollywood was praising to show that they were an intelligent bunch of people.  Oh boy was I in for the surprise of my life.  Not only is this film good, I honestly believe that it was the second best film of 98, next to Saving Private Ryan.  The mere fact that Shakespeare in Love won best picture over not only Ryan but over this, is a joke.  It's actually funny.Benigni did everything in this film.  He wrote, produced, directed and probably swept the floors at night.  There is that much raw energy in this film.  There really is.  For someone to have that kind of vision is truly incredible.  And not only is the film a terrific cinematic experience because of the importance and seriousness of the subject matter, but it is one of the funnier films I've ever seen.  When Roberto is translating the German soldiers insructions to his son so that he isn't scared, it is at that moment that you realize you are under his spell.  He's got you and no matter how much sceptisism you may have about the film you know you're witnessing a classic in every sense of the word.I loved this film.  Loved everything about it and I am so glad that I got to see it and cheer Benigni at the Oscars.  He certainly deserved his best actor award and he should have gotten more.


                
When I first saw this film, I was told up front that the first full hour of the film, the first half, was all slapstick comedy and character development, and that the second half was more serious and important. I prepared myself mentally for the first half, but I was still surprised by how annoying the gags and jokes were. We're talking cake-in-face, fall-over, slip-on-banana humor. For one full hour. At the end of the first half of this film, I was thinking "this had better get better very soon..." And it did. Right then and there. From the very beginning of the second half, the serious mood enters. And it doesn't take long for even the most average minded viewer to realize that the first half of humor and character development was important. It was important for us to ease into a less tense mood, to make the important subject strike even harder, and for us to get to know the characters, to make us care more about what happens to them. I've just finished seeing it for the second time, and I've come to realize that this film is not entirely perfect, as I felt just after seeing it through first time. It does have its flaws, though there aren't many of them. The first half, and some parts of the second half, are heavy on humor, which some will mistake for making fun of the subject(which is almost a crime), or trying to make it seem less important. I don't believe this to be true, it's just a retelling with a more positive message; yes, people do horrible, inhumane things sometimes... but after all, there is beauty, too. The first half will also deter some viewers who will enjoy the second half much more. The plot is very good, though slightly unrealistic. The acting is pretty much all flawless, even in the child actors. The characters are well-written and interesting. The humor is more acceptable in the second part, because it's more toned down and not trying way too hard to get a quick laugh out of the audience. All in all, a great film which anyone and everyone should see at least once during their life... you'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll realize that, in the end, Life Is Beautiful. I recommend this to just about anyone, but I know that not everyone will enjoy it equally. A near-perfect film. Keep watching past the first half... you won't regret it. 9/10


                
I never thought the day would come when a movie centred during the Holocaust would be provided with humour. The Holocaust was anything but funny then and now as thousands of Europeans of Jewish faith were killed off mainly towards fear, paranoia, economical insecurity and just plain hatred. But once in a while towards sadness, we can open our hearts and try to survive the grimness with some humour to raise our spirit. And that is exactly what actor/director/writer Roberto Benigni succeeds in "Life is Beautiful". It's a refreshing break from the graphic and and disturbing images that has haunted the theatres past and present like Spielberg's "Schildler's List" or Polanski's "The Pianist" as we look to a more brighter side of the Holocaust mainly toward the humour of the leading protagonist, Guido Orefice (Benigni).When it first came out and it was listed as a comedy, I thought it was just too surreal to be true. I mean nothing funny ever happened in the Holocaust. And film adaptations have been quite demonstrative at that. In those troubled times, lives were lost, families were separated, people were cold, starving fear and doubt was on the minds of Europeans Jewish and non-Jewish. at the time. But Benigni showed his mastery in front and behind the camera that we can enjoy the goodness of life, even in times of uncertainty because we only live once and we must enjoy it while we can.Benigni was not the only person who made this film all the more worthwhile. Nicoletta Braschi turns in a wonderful performance as a Catholic girl who loves her husband regardless of what religion he practises. A grand portion of scenes demonstrates just how pointless racism is and the best example is set in the schoolroom scene.Concentration camps are one of the worst establishments anyone would ever dream of entering and yet in this movie we can enjoy a chuckle. In one scene, Guido persuades the soldiers as he defends his son as a ploy to prevent his son from further dire circumstances. While we laugh as he tries to weasel his way out from further punishment, we are still aware and concerned about the welfare of Guido and his young son and the dangers they are encountering.The fearful and depressing effects of the Holocaust is exhibited in brief moments of sad truths that weave into Guido's detailed fantasies. But you never see him fall victim to disparity. His wild imagination and his determination are the only weapons of protection he utilizes to keep his family and his son in tact. The remarkable story of love and tenderness is worthy enough for everyone to see. This movie should be cherished for a long time to come.
The story of a man (Guido) who moves to a small Italian town to work for his uncle. Along the way he meets a beautiful "principessa" who falls from the sky. He runs into his princess again in the town - he later finds that she works in the local school. He naturally falls for her and invents ways of surprising her - sometimes contrived and simple but funny and romantic nevertheless.He steals her away from her fiance, opens the bookshop he dreamed of and everything seems fine... until 3 months before the end of the 2nd world war - did I mention he was Jewish???He and his son are taken to a prison camp and that's where the movie changes style. Guido is now fighting to keep his son alive. He invents a game for his son that will keep him away from the horrors of the war.Although the horrors were not made obvious by Benigni (why would he when you and I know what happened in WWII) we could see the desperation in Guido to hide the reality from his son so he may survive. I get chills just thinking about it as I write. Subtle in its horror but effective as a tragi-comedy.For those who do not understand Italian there is a point near the end of the film where a "riddle" is asked of Guido which I believe was meant as a hint to stay off the trucks.


                
On seeing this film, my first thought (after wiping the tears from my eyes) was "My god, he pulled it off."  I can think of only one other director who's dealt with the Holocaust in a comedic film and done it with any depth, and his name was Chaplin -- and "The Great Dictator" was made before the horrors of the Final Solution were known to the world.  Chaplin didn't have to deal with that baggage.  Begnigni did, and did so brilliantly.The film begins as an earthy comedy as only the Italians can do and ends as a dark tragedy with a hopeful note -- and the transition from one to the other is seamless.  In fact, the latter half of the film would not work without all the meticulous set-ups of the first half.  That we get to meet Begnigni's character, see his world and hopes and dreams, makes it all only more poignant as they are threatened with destruction.  On top of this, the first half of the film is reminiscent of "Amaracord" (one of my favorite films) in appearance -- possibly a result of it being set in the same period, possibly intentional.  (Begnigni pulls off at least one homage to "The Bicycle Thief," among other films, during the first act and a half.)Anyway... I really debated with myself before seeing the film, thinking, "Hm.  A comedy... about the Holocaust.  Do I want to deal with that tonight?"  I went, I saw, and the film conquered me.  Fellini made me suspect that the Italians might be film geniuses... "La Vita è Bella" made me realize they are film gods...See it.  Now.


                
R O B E R T O !!!!!!!!!!!! At last a great Italian international movie. We have been sleeping since the 50's. The Oscar should have gone to the script and not to the music. A real masterpiece......like "TRAIN DE VIE"


                
I just can't get this amazing film out of my thoughts and have decided to write this brief review in the hope that I can move on..."Life is Beautiful" is an unforgettable film. Absolutely unforgettable. This was the 1st film whose DVD screening on my laptop got a standing ovation. I still remember being so overwhelmed, that by the time it ended I was crying. Not sobbing. but crying. It's amazing how this piece of fiction could so meaningfully influence my thoughts & emotions. The story, although totally implausible, is uplifting and depressing at the same time. Please see it for yourself & have a box of tissues handy. I can go on forever describing the inherent beauty of this movie, but will never be able to capture all of it in writing. I simply can't recommend it enough. Roberto Benigni's masterpiece is a true classic. No wonder it's a top contender for the best film I've ever seen.


                
One of the amazing movies that I've seen in a long time.....Everyone recommended this movie to me, but I was pessimistic... But after watching the movie, I have to say that it is truly a masterpiece.... It doesn't show the effects of the holocausts or the brutal torture suffered by the Jews, although there are brief references about it, but the most marvelous thing about it is the fact that the entire thing is brought about in a beautiful manner with full of laughs.... The beauty of the script and screenplay, makes it amazing.... It portrays, the importance of family ties, and the love of a father for a son... The love which ultimately leads to sacrificing his own life for the welfare of his wife and son....


                
While some may complain that Life is Beautiful does not portray death camps in the appropriate level of detail or realism, the simple fact is: Life is Beautiful is not intending to be a faultlessly accurate portrayal of concentration camps in World War II Germany. It could also be pointed out that very few (if not none) contemporary movies can even come close to fully portraying the horrors endured by Jewish, Polish, and Gypsy people in such camps.That said, the film itself needs to be addressed. Life is Beautiful follows one idealistic and offbeat Jewish man's life, love, and experiences when the Germans take he and his family. The central plotline is this man (played sensitively by Roberto Beninini, who also wrote and directed the movie) trying to keep his son alive and sane in the camp. In this way, the film sometimes reminded me of Hogan's Heroes, with a Jewish man in place of the American soldiers- with the Nazis being the butt of jokes and generally being outsmarted by Bennini.But to say this piece is a fairy tale or a comedy far from the truth, while it is true that the movie never really approaches the real horror of a concentration camp- that is not to say that it is a happy movie. It is feel good, I'll give it that, but you will cry during the movie. Perhaps it is the fairytale quality that makes such loss all the more powerful, and when you consider a lot of this movie is focused around a confused and naive child, it is actually powerfully done. By 'glossing over' the horrors (as a child undoubtedly could), the inevitability of loss is made so much more painful.This movie was, and still is, one of the finest movies I've had the pleasure of watching. The subtitles are a minor issue, but easily overlooked. Simply put, Life is Beautiful is one of the few emotionally driven movies to be acknowledged as real cinema in recent years.See if you liked: Big Fish, The Devil's Arithmetic, The Green Mile. Strengths: Has the viewer's emotions on a string, excellent music. Weaknesses: Lacks realism and subtitles can be distracting,


                
My only regret is that I didn't extract the digit and see this when it was on the big screen.  A film of extraordinary beauty, humour and pathos.Whatever you do, just don't miss it.  And whatever you do, avoid any dubbed versions that have been criminally placed in your video store like the plague.


                
This is the most moving film that I have seen since the Elephant Man.  It is a triumph of the human spirit and the Cinema.  I can't wait to see more of this man's work.


                
This movie is simply brilliant. Casting aside all of the trappings of modern movie-making (special effects, brain-jarring sound, big name stars, bizarre plots and settings, language sex and big explosions) it produces instead a film which captivates audiences because of its simplicity, classy acting and the sheer beauty of its tale. In what may well be the hallmark of a great movie, opinions of LIB are markedly polarised - the number of '1' votes are about equal to the range of 2-6, strongly illustrating that it is difficult to be indifferent to this movie. This is a major difference between LIB and most of what Hollywood churns out where indifference is the only acceptable response. It saddens me that so many people have failed to recognise the charm of this film by choosing to take offence at the way in which the Holocaust was portrayed. I am not Jewish (or Romany, Eastern European, handicapped etc) and would not attempt to presume to tell any of these groups how to react to this portrayal but I can say that I was more moved, more hurt by man's inhumanity towards man, by LIB than I was by Schindler's List or any other Holocaust movie or doco. I, like many others, came out of this film wanting all my friends to go see it. The sub-titles in no way detract from the experience, in fact they are hardly noticeable after a little while. My vote 9/10.


                
I put off seeing this "romance" because of a basically grumpy temperament. Now I will want to see IL POSTINO as well. Don't want to miss any dimensions of humanity made available through a great and deep comic personality.I'm an older person who first learned of the Nazi concentration camps through documentary footage from the Nuremburg trials shown in my Texas high school.  How to ever recover from this knowledge, much less the actual experience?  Well, to paraphrase Andre Gide, you don't get to the far shore without losing sight of the shore behind you.Roberto Begnini and his fine cast welcome us to the far shore.  Here, the love and care for family and children is far more important than any personal pain, even one's own death.  That the character Guido is capable of clowning for the hidden eyes of the child while being taken away by an armed soldier is a lesson in courage as great as in the great samurai films.The quiet and surprisingly strong character of Dora gives a third point of support to the power of LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL.  Her insistence on going with her family to the camp is humbling when you recognize her options and test your own ability to sacrifice any comfort or advantage. The love between these three -- the adoration of the father by the child, the care between the parents and love for their child -- reflects a transcendent reality which is played against brute power in the ongoing battle between Heaven and Hell.How can we endure such pain?  Through comedy, through love . . .And please also credit for depth of situation shown to the gentle old uncle, the Nazi doctor going crazy, the Italian school director easily embracing Fascism as she might embrace any other new educational fad.  Also must credit the patient horse and the kitten.  In SCHINDLER'S LIST (black and white), a touch of color, a little red coat, (thank you Akira Kurosawa -- see HIGH AND LOW) made sharply poignant the loss of a child in the camp. Here, a live kitten looking for the child who cared for it is left with the pile of clothing of the dead children.  Life gone, life remaining.Life IS beautiful . . .  the movie is teaching us.  Learn, the undercurrent of it whispers, and live well.  I'm really grateful for this film.


                
Life is not about circumstances, but about how you choose react to that!In this Italian drama which delves into Holocaust, creators have very powerfully shown what a man can do in the gravest of all situations. Roberto is shown as a charming playful fellow who likes to live in his own fairy tale. At the same time, he is an opportunistic man and knows how to take advantage of a situation.But what when all the odds are stake against him? Things he endear the most are doomed!Roberto finds himself in a concentration camp along with his son and wife. And here comes the attractive part of this entire film. Instead of revealing the harsh reality to his tender kid, he chooses to keep the kid in his fairy tale. Luck favors the brave one!Say it co-incidence or law of attraction, things turn out as he had promised to his son who gets a final ride on a large tank. But film ends in a melancholy.
"Life Is Beautiful" is not a holocaust movie, although it has some striking scenes that show the precariousness of the camps, it's a movie about how far a person would go to save his own son.The first half of the movie looks like it's made by Chaplin, it's incredibly funny, and shows how brainy the main character is (Watching his plans to "surprisingly" meet Dora are priceless). And it's also a love story, and not a bad one. It's hard to find directors that are competent in doing comedy and drama very well, usually they make a good drama, but not so good comedy, or the contrary, but Benigni deserves to be compared to Chaplin in this one, he made me laugh and cry, and there was almost no break between these two emotions.The second half is more about the father/son relationship. What that man went through to protect his son is one of the most beautiful stories i've ever seeing. But all those sad moments merged between funny ones. Benigni's performance is amazingly funny and moving, but what really surprised me about the acting was Giorgio Cantarini as Giosué, I'm not saying he was better than Benigni, but for a kid to make such a big difference in the cast of a movie is rare to see.Verdict: Funny and moving, this is a masterpiece as good , if not better, than Chaplin's "The Great Dictator".


                
"Life is Beautiful" is an unforgettable film. Basically it depicts wherever or whenever in every situation if you are damn bad,you need to enjoy life. It prescribed how much he loved his wife and kid. I love this movie very much. I am sure it is gonna change your life. Thanks a lot to the director Roberto Benigni. I am sure this movie will be loved by all. Roberto Benigni's Life is beautiful (La vita è bella) is a modern fairy tale, as touching and as relevant as the tales collected by the Brothers Grimm to entertain, enchant and ,yes, to scare children over 150 years ago. Thanks Faizal


                
For me, the movie is divided in two parts, the first is a little silly (when R. Begnini meets Dora), some non - sense situations, but since he and Dora have a son, what happens next it's really really good, it's impossible not involving with the plot since that moment. The performance of the R.Begnini and the child can't be better. Dora is great too, except for the situation of the car when R.Begnini surprises her in her boyfriend's car, her expression is very poor, except for that, her performance is excellent. The character of R. Begnini is a smart man who does everything for the people he loves. If the first part were shorter (20 minutes less), it would be a 10/10 for me.


                
This film is as beautiful as life according to the title. Undoubtedly, it will have added to my overall appreciation and understanding that I am Italian and did not need to see this subtitled, but even so, I am frankly staggered to find that so many people were outraged by this sweet, tender little gem of a film, one (the one who finally convinced me to write this) even going so far as to brand it fascist propaganda.La Vita E' Bella is anything but fascist. It if were, it would condone Nazism, which it never does - nor does it belittle its crimes, and the sufferings of thousands of innocents during WWII.What it does is tell the story, heart-warming and -wrenching at the same time, of a man who so dearly loves his son that he will not have him tainted by the horrors of the concentration camp, and thus does every thing he can think of to make the little boy believe that the corpses around him are just pretending, just taking part in a complex game where people only look like they get shot and hurt.Why would Benigni, I wonder, go to such pains to invent a whole new reality for his child, if he did not fully comprehend and condemn the terrible events as they really happened? Calling this revisionism is just plain silly; the film is not trying to re-write history. It is simply showing how, through the force of fatherly love, an innocent may be taught to smile, and hope, and never to despair. If that's not a message worthy of the big screen I don't know what is.If you haven't watched this film, please approach it without prejudice. Approach it not as a slanderous lie, but as the story of how imagination may save a human soul.
How can you possibly tell the audience, that your main characters go to concentration camps and still show them, perceiving it as a game? That might only be possible if you go a long way and illustrate what a person is capable of doing such a crazy thing. And this is exactly what Benigni does. Everything Guido does in the seemingly comedic first half of the film, prepares us for how he is going to explain the situation to his son, in the second half. The Schopenhauer-magic trick, the wit to act as somebody, who you aren't under extreme danger, only for the one you love, first his wife, then his son. All this is part of a touching story, which does not need any greasy effects, but tells us about love. In addition to that Guido is so impossibly witty, like when towards the end, he breaks from the camp and tells his friend, Bartholomeu, to meet in Vareggia and open up a steel business. Although the tragedy already being inevitable at this point, I cried tears from laughing. When Roberto Benigni jumps around screaming, full of life, it looks easy, typically Italian. I'm convinced it is not, for it must have been hard work. How hard is it to tell a sad story in a funny way? To find anything funny, regarding the background of the setting, the holocaust. Beningi achieved it and consequently was awarded the Oscar. Never have I agreed more with the academy.
For the last 60 years, films regarding the Holocaust have had to tread carefully. It is truly a horrifying and disheartening period in Mankind's history, and, quite evidently, little humour could possibly be derived from it. Perhaps the last mainstream film to attempt such a thing was Charles Chaplin's classic 1940 satire, 'The Great Dictator,' which memorably spoofed Hitler and his Nazi regime, and poignantly highlighted the plight of the Jews. Indeed, Chaplin's film was released approximately a year before the true Nazi death camps, such as Auschwitz, were constructed, and Chaplin would later state in his 1964 autobiography, had he known the actual extent of the Holocaust's horrors, he could never have made such jokes about the Nazi regime.It would take until 1997 that a film dared to try again. Popular Italian comedy entertainer Roberto Benigni co-wrote, directed and starred in 'La Vita è bella' (Life is Beautiful), a truly heartwarming wartime tale of love, family, courage and imagination. The film made an international star out of Benigni, with 'La Vita è bella' winning three 1999 Academy Awards (including Best Actor and Best Foreign Film), and nominated for a further four (including Best Picture and Best Director). Though I find it difficult to judge a performance in which an actor is not speaking English, there is no denying that Benigni does a terrific job as both actor and director. His surprise Best Actor Oscar win was only the second time a performance completely in Italian had been awarded (after Sophia Loren for "La Ciociara" (1960)).The first half of the film contains not a hint of the war, and acts as the genuinely entertaining story of Guido Orefice's (Benigni) whimsical attempts to romance a beautiful Italian teacher named Dora (Nicoletta Braschi), whom he calls "Princess." Guido's exploits contain a large amount of innocent slapstick, evoking fond memories of Chaplin's antics sixty years earlier, and it is truly a pleasure to watch. We gaze in wonder as he continually meets his "Princess" in the most unexpected of places, whether she falls from the sky and into his arms, he arrives at her school pretending to be an Aryan inspector, or as he serves as a waiter at her engagement <U+0096> to a loud and rude bank manager with a certain attraction to eggs.After Guido "rescues" Dora from her unwanted marriage, riding her out of the engagement party atop of a green-painted steed named Robin Hood, we cut to five years later, and the two lovers are now married, with a bright and curious child named Giosué (written Joshua in the English subtitles), delightfully played by the young Giorgio Cantarini, in his screen debut. On the boy's birthday, Guido and Giosué are captured by the Nazis and herded onto a train to be transported to a concentration camp. Not being Jewish, Dora is spared such a fate, but she insists that she be taken also, unwilling to abandon her family.In an effort to protect his young son from the horrors taking place around him, Guido cheerfully pretends that the entire concentration camp set-up is a huge game, with the ultimate prize going to the first team to score 1000 points <U+0096> the ultimate prize being a real, fully-working tank. Young Giosué's imagination is captured by such a prospect, and he enthusiastically sets about winning 1st prize, his daily duties largely involving remaining hidden and silent on the top bunk of a set of beds. Meanwhile, Guido spends his days performing gritty slave labour, lugging hefty anvils considerable distances, all the while detailing to Giosué the phenomenal time he had playing hop-scotch and tug-of-war.Whenever Giosué occasionally expresses his disbelief in the authenticity of his father's explanation, Guido is always able to sway him back. "How ridiculous. They were just teasing you!" exclaims he, when Giosué reveals what he had overhead from a sobbing old man. "There are wood ovens, but there are no people ovens. Putting people in ovens creates too much smoke!" The weary, disheartened Jews in the adjoining beds do their very best to perpetuate Guido's glorious façade. In one highly-amusing incident, to put his son's doubts at ease, Guido volunteers to translate a speech from one of the bad-tempered Nazis <U+0096> the "rude men who yell" <U+0096> despite not speaking a word of German, substituting the actual speech with the stern rules to his supposed game.There's no doubt that 'La Vita è bella' shields the audience from most of the horrors of the Holocaust <U+0096> no deaths are actually shown. Indeed, with the exception of one, no deaths are explicitly implied, with most of the murders lying deep in the subtext, only apparent due to our knowledge of history. The death of Jewish children should have been a heart wrenching moment in the film, but somehow Benigni manages to gloss over it. Giosué comes running to his father during the day, declaring that he refuses to take a shower as he has been told. We immediately recognise that the remainder of the children must now have been led to the gas chambers, but we do not dwell on it. The wider focus of the Holocaust is simply not what this film is about <U+0096> it is about a loving father and his desire to protect his family with the most powerful weapon he possesses, his sense of humour and imagination.
Innocence and courage, sometimes that's what you need to get through some hard times, more importantly, get the one you love through, have a shoulder for them when they need it. It's about love and family.It's the story of a father who uses his humor and his son's innocence to help him get through the Jewish Holocaust. He makes his son believe that it is all part of a game and the winner wins a tank.The first half of the film is actually a rom-com set in the politically strained environment of Italy. Whereas, the second half is set in the concentration camp where Guido tries to protect his son.Critics argue that the film handles a delicate subject matter in a comedic and carefree manner and it might offend a group of people. But it should be understood that that is actually the purpose of the film. What the character of Guido does is present the whole concentration camp as a part of a game to his son, and the viewer. If the actual holocaust was show, it would defy the purpose of the film and take away its innocence. We have Schindler's List for people who want to witness the actual holocaust. This is a different film. It is supposed to depict family love at its best. The film is about optimism and hope.The film being comedic, which manages to bring a smile every now and then, is depressing all of the same. Not only Benigni delivers a superb performance, he has directed it just as well. Barring the occasional goofs by the supporting cast here and there, it's the story that ill stay for you for a long time. The film is perfectly blended with just the right score and beautiful use of "Belle nuit, ô nuit d'amour".Direction: Strong self direction, might be a little flawed at places but great nevertheless.Screenplay/Story: Extremely good. It handles the controversial and delicate subject matter with utmost ease and delicacy. Strong character development, creates a character that stays with you. Even better executed.Acting: A deserving Oscar for Roberto Benigni. Giorgio Cantarini had the innate innocence required for the character. Rest if the cast was fitting.Music: 'Perfection in simplicity' is the most fitting phrase to describe the subtle score by Nicola Piovani.All in all, a film that stays. A film that can effect you if not change you. A film to be enjoyed with the family.


                
