This revival of the beloved show should never have been.. Try to remember the cool flow of the first two seasons, and then imagine turning the speed to about 5%..It's like walking under water, I completely understand how this is supposed to make me feel, but it's just so overdone that I want to rip my nails out just to feel something. We are constantly introduced to to new characters, none of which are very interesting, and most of them don't seem to have anything to do with the story (if there ever was any). It's just a big mess of weird dialogue and loooong scenes with absolutely no content or context whatsoever. It might be wrong mentioning the word unrealistic in regards to this show, but why the hell wont anybody just take Doug to the effin' hospital? He's been shuffling around like a complete imbecile for days, weeks maybe (it feels like months) and not his wife, friends, boss, the police or anybody seems to think that it would be a good idea to have his head checked, this is actually the most annoying detail to me at this point. I am currently on Episode 5 and I feel like I HAVE to power through this in awe of the first two seasons, but it feels like Lynch is ripping me off. The show is a complete waste of my time, but I have to keep going to see what happens (if anything), it's very painful. How this piece of junk got a 9.3 score here is beyond my comprehension.
Long, pointless scenes, drawn out until you want to gouge your own eyes out. Dozens of pointless characters introduced and just as quickly abandoned. Terrible pointless music sequences.Special scorn for the acting. I've seen better acting in porn films. Seriously. And since some of the actors I know for a fact are excellent at their craft, acting this bad can only be due to direction. I'm embarrassed watching people like Naomi Watts in this. Special mention goes to Chrysta Bell in the worst FBI agent performance ever committed to film.Memorable characters from the original series are reduced to cartoon characters. The exception is Dana Ashbrook's Bobby Briggs, whom I was glad to see grew up to be a decent guy.Oh and story? There is very little. Maybe ten minutes of every hour moves the plot, the rest is just pointless, navel gazing drivel.Addendum: after watching the entire series, not only has my opinion of it not improved, but it's actually made me retroactively hate all previous incarnations of Twin Peaks.Submitted for your approval: a typical scene, in my humble opinion:Gordon Cole, Albert, and Special Agent Cheesecake are all sitting in a room that for some reason is filled with racks of digital guitar effects. Diane walks in and sits down. She States "Deputy Diane reporting as ordered." (I guess she doesn't have a last name.) She discloses a bit of information, one that the other characters couldn't possibly have known. Mind you, this information ends up having nothing whatsoever to do with the story. After she delivers the exposition, SHE GETS UP AND WALKS OUT. What? Why had she been summoned there in the first place? I guess we'll never know.If your reaction to this scene is to fawn all over David Lynch, and sing his praises, then by all means, give TP17 a shot. If, like me, your reaction is to shake your head and mutter that it makes no sense, then stay away. It's eighteen hours of this. I took the bullet and watched this so you don't have to. Don't let my sacrifice be in vain.
I loved the first Twin Peaks and give it a 9 out of 10. It was groundbreaking, surreal and completely captivating. I was extremely excited about this new series and have tried to give it a chance during every episode I have watched, but it is simply terrible, unwatchable and has ZERO plot.I literally have never watched something that has less intrigue or less point. It rambles on and on and on and on....boring. David Lynch should spend more time working on storytelling and less time meditating, because his storytelling skills have taken a huge dive.


                
Quite simply, I loved the original TP. I even like most of David Lynch's work, although not all of it. But in watching this, all I can say is, DL, either go BACK on your meds, or get OFF of your meds-- whichever is making you think that this crap is worth watching. If it gets renewed, I'll know that you obviously have the pictures of some studio boss somewhere, with a kid and a dog. And you KNOW what I mean.The ratings? Want to amuse yourself? All those haughty 10-star ratings, saying "if you don't get it, well, go watch some drivel someplace?" Click through and look at the OTHER ratings from those folks. Oh, wait...almost NONE of them have, wait for it, any other rating or review--ever. And that one review is for TP 2017, as it happens. You know, all these years, I've never really believed in the big Paid Reviewer conspiracy/meme that's been all over the Net--but I do now. All these inexplicable 10 ratings, for a show that is simply dreck--and wow!--all these raving fans of auteurs everywhere, have ONLY decided to review ONE SINGLE SHOW? C'mon...paid reviews, anyone? I'm surprised, IMDb--you're owned by Amazon, and I'd have thought you'd have tumbled to this by now, as you've banned it on the Mothership site. The show is simply unwatchable. I've tried, I have, but the myriad criticisms leveled by other reviewers here are accurate--the show is slowed down to beyond boredom level. In ep 7, Lynch runs film of a guy sweeping up a bar, for TWO MINUTES, after which, the bartender answers a phone call and has a cryptic convo about 15-y.o. hookers. Two minutes? Then we have this ridiculous discussion between Henry Horne, and Ashley Judd, wasting another 5 minutes, in her office, chasing some "hum." The nonsense with Dale Cooper being a Zombie? We watch him stumble around, monosyllabic--not even knowing how to pee(??)--for WEEKS? And nobody takes him to a doc? Nobody notices that he acts like he's had a stroke? His domineering wife doesn't domineer him to a doctor?The whole "symbolism" shtick is simply agonizing. The psuedo-60's- trippy "let's see someone's consciousness" stuff is, well, 50 years old. If I see one more distorted-convo crap, I'll shoot my TV. And, of course, Lynch HAD TO put himself in there, as Deaf Albert, which wasn't that damn amusing originally, much less now. What a SHAME. I was dying to see this show...now I'm dying to never see it again. It's simply horrible. I literally cannot see any sane studio exec in charge of properties greenlighting this. I'm sure it sounded like a great idea--who wouldn't think so, reinvigorating TP, right, the cultural phenom of the 90's?--but this is NOT what anyone expected. The only thing that this has to do with TP is ripping off the same characters and same actors. Even the shtick--like the ever- idiotic Lucy--is old and tired. Watching Lucy flip backwards in her chair, because she's "scared" that the Sheriff walks in, while talking to her ON the phone, after a quarter century of cellphones? Oh, come ON. Lucy was naive, and sweet, and not bright, but she wasn't a moron.Enough. DL, retire gracefully from the field. This was an egregious misstep.


                
Seems like David Lynch can do whatever he wants.
Somehow the whole thing seems like a test,, like when Joaquin Phoenix went hobo as an experiment.
I belive that David is winning a bet, that die hard fans would eat out of his hand and not question his genius.
This 3. Season is a complete waste of time.


                
well i'm not gonna argue with people who "apparently" love this show so far, either we who are not enjoying this crap are completely blind and stupid or people who enjoying this are super brilliant alien art masters LOL. anyways just to be clear i love most lynch's works, mulholland Dr. is among my top 20 movies and i like his other surreal works like blue velvet, lost highway. IMO original twin peaks especially its first season was one the best 90's shows, a great mix of romance, mystery, a little surrealism and drama with a great score by Angelo Badalamenti. after 25 years and its cancellation it was like a dream to see a third season, especially this time a premium channel that gives complete freedom to lynch and frost to do their job, but guess what? all those good mysteries, romances and weird but lovely characters gone to shiiit, even i don't hear Angelo Badalamenti's score much, that lovely theme song, funny jazz, nothing all in favor of a complete mess of stupid lame characters and excessive weirdness without any major plot and yes i agree this show is different BUT because it is a continuation of the original twin peaks we can't stop comparing it with the original.in the end i just wanna say: thank u Mr. lynch, you ruined one of the best/memorable 90's show like nobody ever would/could !!
The 1 star is for MacLachlan managing to shine in this utter turgid disaster. In fact, the man deserves an Emmy for being the only thing breathing life into this sterile nihilistic nonsense (no thanks to Lynch+Frost). The people raving about this are pseudo-art-house lovers. This is utter garbage masquerading as art-house. After giving this the benefit of the doubt, I don't just hate it: I wanna spit it back out of my head and separate it from my loving memories of the old, great Twin Peaks. And this is coming from the artiest of arty viewers with diverse international tastes who has sat through some of the weirdest, slowest things ever put on screen.Congratulations, Lynch. You have now managed to make the Evelyn Marsh, Dick Tremayne and Billy Zane sections of the 1st 2 seasons look like gold in comparison. This production is the single most awful,repulsive thing I've ever seen on screen. It's right up there with watching a live octopus being eaten by a actor in a Korean film. At least the latter was mercifully brief...


                
Obviously some kind of test of Lynch lovers' loyalty. I'm not clear how anyone got through this entire season of what's not television as much as an 18 hour experimental film that is so slow it could easily have fit into about three hoursAlso, how on earth does something with so many one star reviews end up averaging 8.5 stars? I've just read around fifty reviews at random: roughly 90% of those, thoughtfully constructed and specific, were 3 stars or fewer (mostly ONE star!); of the few glowing reviews (Lynch completists? who knows) many of them seem so disconnected to the content I have to wonder if they're genuine at all. Kinda like those "gorgeous!" comments people leave on your instagram posts when you've put up a photo of a "do not enter" sign on a chain link fence or something. What are these people doing? advertising for themselves? who knows.


                
This show is terrible.I've watched every episode aired so far and was hoping at some point it would become interesting but it doesn't look like the show is ever going to improve.I watched the first two seasons of Twin Peaks and enjoyed them. Wasn't a big fan of Fire Walk With Me but at least it made a bit of sense and had some reasonably good pacing. The new series is slow, unbearably so. It's bland and incredibly boring. It has none of the charm and humour of the original series. The show has a slew of meaningless new characters and a hugely muddled up array of story lines, most of which don't seem to connect to each other. Bad dialogue and over the top acting also add to this nightmare.I'm very disappointed in this show. At this point I'll probably watch it to the end and really hope it answers some questions or becomes somewhat entertaining, maybe the very last episode will be worth watching. I've really tried to give this show a chance. Don't waste your time on this.


                
DON'T believe them. ALL the negative reviews just happened to end up at the back of the title now even while it has gone down from a 9.9 to a 9? This series, beyond any other series ever put on television, is utter and complete garbage and even that is giving it too much credit, as maybe a hobo can find some sort of useful thing in a pile of trash. This series is beyond salvageable, but like always, you will have people rating on PAST works. That's so ludicrous. Imagine if the first time you saw your girlfriend she looked great, but every time afterward she looks awful, but you keep dating her because you know that good-looking chick is in there somewhere even though you may never see her again. I could use a hundred analogies, but why even bother. This show is tripe, with maybe five minutes of 'okay' for every three hours of "awful". What is irksome is that a really good series was probably shelved in order to accommodate this brainsore. IMDb used to be someplace you could more or less trust for ratings and reviews. That's out the window.


                
I very rarely stop watching a TV series if I still enjoy it after the first season, in fact a television show would have to seriously fail the viewer for me to cease watching as I like to know how a story ends. Well congratulations Twin Peaks, because I have never seen a rapid decline like I have in season 3. There is no fluidity in the telling of this story. Every episode raises more questions with no thought into solving them. The avant guarde attempt at looking into cooper's psyche in episode 8 however was the straw that broke this camel's back. People who applaud this cinematography are merely playing devil's advocate and kidding themselves if they believe this is entertainment. It was a nine inch nails plug for a song followed by a 30 min rendition of the video from the ring. Awful, just plain awful.
I truly enjoyed the first season of Twin Peaks. The second season was just OK. I thought the movie was great. It explained a lot stuff about Twin Peaks. But this new season so far has been excruciating to watch. It is so slow and trying so hard to tell us something. David should just come out and tell everybody what was on his mind, instead of trying so hard to do so using so much of his beloved tunes, bands or overstretching silences. Fuzziness does not stand for profound deep knowledge. Thanks GOD we have got the skip/forward functions.


                
David Lynch is just wasting our time, and getting paid well for it. Episode eight is just horrible.Who o.k's this garbage? It's hard to believe a room full of suits saw merit in this. Mr Lynch is out of viable ideas and is disappearing up his own ass. It appears he has too many yes men on his staff.


                
When Twin Peaks first aired in the 90's, I considered myself to be the biggest fan of the show. I could not have been more eager to watch the "the Return" . What the hell went wrong! Every single week I ask myself, why the hell do I keep watching and it's because I still can't bring myself to believe that a show which was once such a fantastically brilliant watch, could be so terrible! I have held high hopes, but I just can't and I'm done. Each episode of The "return" consists of 30 sec scenes switching from a man staring at smoke, a stranger looking in the trees, a child looking out the window while his crackhead mother yells out numbers, Dougie aka Cooper walking around like a penguin unable to speak or button up his pants, eat or open car doors while no one including his wife seems to think anything is wrong, 30 sec of strange incomprehensible graphics, another 30 sec of new characters having a what seems to be irrelevant conversation, another 30 sec of men eating cereal, then finally ending with random people in a bar sitting and watching a band. I truly did not want to give up hope but after 15 episodes, I am done. Done and miserably disappointed. At this point I feel like the writers just mocked their viewers and could care less. Seriously, if you didn't want to make another season then you shouldn't have.


                
First of all the third season does not have the same feeling as the first two, it is a totally different movie: the ambiance is different, the way the characters are portrayed is different, the dialog is different, the way the action is taking place is different; everything is different. Most of the action takes place outside Twin Peaks. I can easily say that the third season is a collage of surrealistic and abstract imagery that makes no sense, the story and the details that made the first seasons of Twin Peaks are simply not there. Too many characters that are not contributing to the story. Too little time on screen for the old characters. Everything moves too slowly. It lacks in coherence at all levels. The surrealistic entities and the mysterious behaviors of the characters are lame and mindless in an ugly way. At the time I made this review I just finished the part 8. I can clearly say that this is the last part I will watch from this show. As a David Lynch creation I can say that this is the worst one ever. I cannot find any reason why this show received positive reviews and has 9 out of 10 stars.


                
David: Hey Kyle, what about playing again Agent Cooper in a totally plot-less sequel of my hit series Twin Peaks?Kyle: OK, David, but I am busy with other projects...David: No problem Kyle. In this series the main character will be Gordon, you know the FBI agent I play. He'll be the superstar, because he's much more interesting than Cooper and anybody else. This time Gordon will also be a chick magnet, with lots of women half his age flirting with him...Kyle: OK David, if you think that will work...David: Of course it will. Gordon is so interesting and irresistible. Not like that wimp Cooper.Kyle: Uh... OK... but as I said I don't have much time...David: No problem, your character will have only very few lines. In fact he's not in most episodes and when he is, he'll be catatonic. You'll just repeat the last words pronounced by the character you're speaking with and that's it.Kyle: Does not seem an interesting angle...David: There will also be the evil doppelgänger, with slightly more dialogue, but not too much. Don't forget that this series is about Gordon: His Return to Twin Peaks.Kyle: Uh... OK David - your audience love whatever you do, regardless... and I can focus on other projects, since this requires minimum effort...


                
Approximately 18 hours which could have been easily cut down to a tight 12 if they ever found the editor. Apparently he fell down the inter-dimensional rabbit hole along with the plot, the characters and those ghastly 80's style effects which looks like Lynch went back in time and hired a guy who was fairly good with the first version of Adobe After Effects.
The great cinematography is destroyed by these cheap special effects, and that is only a small part of the problem.
Various dead end characters who serve no purpose other than to pad this bloated failed finale to what was a great original series.
I understand and often enjoy slowly paced films, but you can only take watching the silent expressions of two people in a car drone on for 10 minutes without any artistic reason whatsoever. Painfully boring scenes like this occurred a lot throughout this last series, and during the last few episodes I wondered if Lynch just gave up and put the thing on auto-pilot and they just made stuff up as they went along.


                
What a piece of crap! I watched today the 8th episode and I couldn't understand how could be made a movie like this. Till now, I tried hardly to understand something from this so called movie, but this episode was really stupid. No script, actors acting like wood puppies (the single sunshine is Naomi Watts), a mix of psychedelic dreams with a lot of dark. It's a big fart with pretensions of art, but I tell you guys, the emperor is absolutely naked. Who could give a so big rating to this? Surely, the team production and theirs relatives. Shame...


                
Just saw all of the nineties episodes. This whole debacle really started with the last episode of season 2. It didn't make much sense and the over all quality was really poor. Now, after 3 episodes, I am baffled. Completely nonsensical story to put it mildly.The dialog ,so far, is absolute gibberish and incoherent nonsense. I have taken pride in being able to watch just about everything at least once but no more. This might be the worst she*t ever televised!


                
Latest episode (8). A few homeless men revive Cooper's doppelganger and Bob's head pops out of his stomach in a slimy bubble. A rock band performs for five minutes, a nuclear explosion is unfolding for ten. The explosion triggers something in space to puke something, including Bob's head in a bubble. A giant in space views the event on a cinema screen, gets lifted up, and from his head oozes Laura's face in a yellow bubble, which is sent down to the United States through a saxophone pipe. There, an evil Abraham Lincoln asks people for a light, then crushes their skulls and goes live on radio to say something about a well and the white of the eye which is a horse. A swarm of homeless men wander. A cockroach-frog mutant crawls into a girl's mouth. Evil Lincoln walks out into the darkness.
Smacks of some one trying way too hard. It seems like the story line (or lack of one) was traded for the surrealist crap. Honestly, does anyone even like this? Or they just say they do to be hip? That scene with Michael Cera, what the hell was that? There were several epsisodes so far where I was left scratching my head and even uninterested.


                
go to anyone leaving a 10 star review... chances are they have been an IMDb member for 3 days and this is the only title they have reviewed; you know what that means. There are not even enough fan boys to drive this garbage's rating up so high. David Lynch was one of the greatest directors of all time, but now he has 18 unwatchable hours of sheer boredom as his latest work; and I thought Quintin Tarantino had fallen from grace. How anyone is supposed to torture themselves by watching this is beyond me; you could do anything else and be more entertained... washing your toilet is more rewarding that suffering through 2017 Twin Peaks. After episode 8 the damage control started; articles being written (probably by people being paid by Showtime) telling you, "New Twin Peaks is not to be understood, rather experienced." Most of that "experience" for me was looking away from the screen and staring at the wall to my left and thinking about what I needed to buy from the store.


                
Who made Twin Peaks?It becomes apparent that David Lynch is not the brains behind Twin Peaks.Growing up with Twin Pekas, watching it over and over again it becomes obvious. David Lynch is not the brilliant mind behind Twin Peaks.The piece we are exposed to today is a mad mans handy work. A mirror reflection of junk like Fire Walk With Me, Blue Velvet, Eraser Head and Mulholland Drive. It's not good.An egocentric old wannabe is taking, his own, center stage as long due retired FBI section chef with a slight hearing deficiency.Makes me wonder, who made Twin Peaks? Mark Frost? Who made it great? Because it's not any more...


                
This is worse than season 2. There are side stories that are started and then dissipate into thin air. Imagery that means nothing to the plot, and imagery that takes 5 minutes to get through, like watching a man sweep a floor for 5 minutes in episode 7, or the nuclear explosion that takes 10 minutes in episode 8.There is only one story line that makes any traction and it is mediocre at best. The secondary story line of the real Agent Cooper is frustrating in the way that other people across the US don't know that there is anything wrong with him, even though he's mentally handicapped to an extreme.I honestly feel that the stories are so weak that they are trying to stretch everything out into 2 seasons. None of this show is eerie, none of it correlates to Twin Peaks and none of it is interesting enough to keep watching it.Just wait for the series to end and I dare you to try to binge watch it to completion. Game of Thrones will be back in a couple of weeks anyway.


                
Perhaps I have been spoiled recently by shows such as game of thrones,breaking bad, quarry, banshee, stranger things but I believe this is as bad as TV gets.With a lack of action, tension, dialogue, character charisma, special effects and plot there is nothing to praise about this show.Most disappointing of all is the amount of 10/10 reviews. I often check out,even rely on IMDb for what I foolishly thought were honest reviews but my eyes have been opened. Anybody who has given more that 3/10 for this show should be blackballed and forbidden from reviewing again


                
