What a fascinating case of mass self-delusion this has been. It's truly amazing and disgusting how heavily people are stroking themselves over their ability to force themselves to choke down something that is so very poorly executed just so they can reach that oh so "clever" hidden story within.Look, I know that it must be very comforting to keep talking down to people about how they just don't get the weirdness and complexity of it all (because WOW, use of metaphor and non-linear storytelling in the video medium? UNHEARD OF!), but that's really not the problem here. It's the absolutely abysmal pacing and structure. Yes people, we get it. Lynch likes to pull the same old thing out of his bag of tricks that he always has, where he tries to artificially induce unease by drawing scenes out well past their welcome, except instead of the handful of times spread out across a 2-3 hour movie we are now treated to 45/60 minutes of this filler in each episode of an 18 hour saga, leaving very little room for any actual worthwhile content. You don't need to be a mathematician to see that the ratio between the two is incredibly uneven. But OK, yippee hooray for ARTISTIC INTEGRITY! He has such complete free rein to spew out completely unfettered streams of consciousness that no one at all will dare to tell him that maybe things like having a confused old woman talking to the police about who has the keys to a door for 10 straight minutes is an absolute waste of film, and none of you will dare admit that this pile of slop is in dire need of editing because you're too busy preening about what an artistic genius Lynch is, and how open-minded and avant-garde you are by extension for being able to wrap your heads around a plot that's literally been done a hundred times before in superhero comic books. A big slow clap for you all.


                
Dozens neglected plot lines. Extremely slow pace. Long, pointless scenes resembling film school failed assignments. Contrived references to TP original series. Missing context for many scenes. Continuity nonexistent. Random musical performances. . . . . The thousands of perfect 10 ratings are clearly fraudulent. We deserve better.


                
This is the kind of bilge you'd find out an art-house theater, which is fine if you're into that. But to slap the Twin Peaks name on it is an insult to the fans who've been waiting 25 years for an ending to one of our most beloved TV series.The revival feels like David Lynch just used the Twin Peaks name and memory to secure financing for more pretentious and tedious artsy cinema that would never see the light of day otherwise.


                
Thanks to the inventors of the forward button. I watch most of the episodes of this season holding down that button most of the time. Especially the 8th episode. I finished that in less than 10 minutes. THIS IS NOT TWIN PEAKS. Original Twin Peaks had an engaging plot.It was full of compelling characters, their relationships and my God that good old town. May be some of you will defend the new season by saying about Lynch's visionary style. I have got a question for you. Would you have accepted it if this was made by an amateur filmmaker??It is simple. They tried the psychological BS with the second season which apparently did not work for majority of the audience. And now they are desperately trying to clean up the mess with even more BS. For me the series ended with Cooper saying "Into the light" to you-know-who. That was a proper ending right there.Believe me I'm not a person glued to a particular genre. I'm open to unconventional ideas in movies and television. But this has taken things too far. I kept watching it thinking may be Lynch is trying to mess with us and will get back on track slowly. After the 7th episode I strongly believed that. But now I have lost faith. Last request: Pls don't ruin the characters we once loved so much. So Long!


                
I too watched the early episodes and had great reviews for friends and family and felt like this was going to be a great revival. But instead, it has been revealed as nothing more than a weekly outlet for ridiculous cameos and pointless dialog. I'm 14 episodes in, and it's torturous barely suitable for SyFy. David Lynch has managed to bury the stellar reputation of the first season even deeper into the ground. How did Kyle Maclachlan agree to sign on to this garbage. He can't be that desperate for work or cash. A total waste of your time.


                
I'm giving this a 2 because there are SOME decent parts, maybe 5 minutes of each episode. there are 18 eps, approx 18 hours in this series. I feel like it could have been made into a halfway decent 2 hour movie. so much of this is filler, long pauses, unnecessary scenes, unnecessary episodes even. IMO anyone who says this is good TV is lying to themselves, wanting desperately to love it because the original series was so good. absolutely unwatchable.


                
Let me preface anything I say as, I LOVE "out there" stuff... and I understand far more of this kind of stuff than many. I somehow overlooked Twin Peaks when it came out in the early '90s, and just binge watched the entire show a year ago. I really, really enjoyed it... weirdness and all!So, coming into this "new" season, I was REALLY looking forward to the fast forward 25 years thing, especially since the end of the original show left me asking, "OMG... what happens next?" I was REALLY glad I didn't have to wait 25 years to find out...... and then this happened.What "this" is... 8 episodes in, I have no idea at all. There are wisps of story that show up occasionally, but all in all, I think if those wisps were taken out of the acid trip that's the rest of the show, random dots all over the place with pretty much nothing connecting or making sense, the stuff that actually has story could be summarized in one episode. In fact, at one point while watching the show last night, I had to put on the on-screen markers to make sure I hadn't accidentally changed to a different station.I keep looking to write-ups, and those who are die-hard fans who critique the episodes. Pretty much all are general, "Oh, yeah... David Lynch masterpiece... even if no one has any idea what's going on..." So basically, they don't want to trash David Lynch or the show... but they're not really into whatever this is, either.So I'm saying it: Sorry if I missed the disclaimer that said one must obviously take hallucinogens previous to watching, if I'm ever even going to pretend to "get it." I'm not going to pretend, and I'm not going to drop acid; I'm just admitting that this show has lost me. The long pauses, the story lines being all over the place, the extensive parts of the show that I know are supposed to be multi- dimensional happenings but 8 episodes in have absolutely no semblance to this being anything but flashes of random insights of a disjointed mind state (hey, that's it! Maybe Agent Cooper simply had a break in his sanity and this entire show is now the schizophrenia that's his reality!). OH... and don't forget the completely out of nowhere, irrelevant and very BLAH musical numbers put in there (last nights was a terrible number done by Nine Inch Nails themselves). There's no write up out there I've found that can really describe what's going on. Some say that makes it a "cinematic masterpiece"... me, I say it's gotten me to fast forwarding through at least half the show last night (thank goodness I recorded it and didn't watch it live). If this were a book, I would've put it down and never gone back to it chapters ago. Actually, if it were a book, I might have a better idea of what's supposed to be going on!As I said above, I'm all for far-reaching concepts. And I've held on to this show far longer because of my love for such oddness... for Kyle McLaughlin and the original ensemble cast of this show. However, this season of the show feels like at a party, David Lynch got really drunk then started telling a very long-winded story, got side-tracked to another irrelevant story without finishing the first... then side-tracked to another... and another, all in the same fashion. If I was in a conversation with him at a party, after about the 4th long-winded diversion (interrupted by the awful music), I'd excuse myself to go to the bathroom... and never come back.That's pretty much where I am with this show update. I will always revere the original show - THAT is a masterpiece! - but this is just... there's no word for it, because I don't even KNOW what it is, that's the problem! At this point, I'll most likely wait until the last show and just fast forward through it to see if something gets it to the point... any point at all.


                
I barely got through first episode. It was excruciatingly dull.Lots of long abstract shots, no rhyme or reason to the plot that I could detect, and even more obsessed with its own Importance than the original (a feat which I would not have thought possible). Avoid this unless you want a sure-fire cure for insomnia.


                
The first TP was certainly good. Fire Walk with Me was good too. It made sense and had rhythm. The new series, though, is unbearable, charmless and humorless, with countless new nonsensical characters and a series of confusing plots that do not connect with each other. Ridiculous dialogue and too much Actors Studio Method also aggravate the nightmare. The series is total rubbish, without even the esprit of the first, a totally different film: different environments, characters, dialogues and places. The action does NOT occur in Twin Peaks. It is a surrealistic and abstract collage of images that do not make sense. It lacks consistency on all levels. When it comes to David Lynch, this is the worst of his essays. What nonsense is this of Dale Cooper being a zombie? He stumbles all the time, monosyllabic - he cannot even urinate (!) no one takes him to the doctor? Does anyone notice that he acts like someone who had a stroke? All this "symbolism" is agonizing, pseudo-sixties. And, of course, Lynch had to appear in person, as Deaf Albert. What a pity! What may have sounded at first like a great idea - to reinvigorate an icon from the '90s - has not returned what it might have been permissible to expect.
I was elated when I heard Lynch was doing a Twin Peaks season 3. Now I believe TP 1&2 and FWWM should have been left as the complete story, complete in their incompleteness, which would have been a superior legacy for Lynch over this mess. It honestly feels like he hates his fans and the world in general. Maybe he has given up on the human race and hence has adopted a new style as a film maker, that of 'Whatever.'


                
Having enjoyed the original series I forced myself to sit through all 18 episodes and what a MASSIVE disappointment!
I guess DL just gets weirder as he gets older and has now reached the point where its just ridiculous. This series makes no sense in any way. Only positives for me was Richard Beymer and David Patrick Kelly, reprising their roles of the brothers Horn.Hang your head in shame and get back to the DL we all loved. Thanks in advance mate.


                
Im giving it two stars for the look of it. Basically, there is nothing here. No story, just a hollow, well made mess. I truly loved the first two "seasons". Many of the actors and characters from the first two series are just thrown in here for the sake of it, and have lost everything that made the interesting in the first place
I watched this show when it originally aired and was a fan. Was disappointed when it was cancelled, but could see it was a show ahead of its time and just wasn't appreciated. I've since binge watched it by streaming several times. I've always loved the quirkiness of the characters and slightly over-the-top drama. There was action and intrigue, mystery and frightening darkness, love and humor all rolled into one. And it was a masterful mix of vintage and modern.... when was this happening 1989 or 1950? Best of all, it was the Pacific Northwest, an all important character that was the living, breathing essence of the show. So now, 4 hrs into this long awaited revival of the story, and I don't really know what the heck is going on! There are definitely elements from the original, but they add so little to the story. They make it difficult to navigate and slow the movement of the show. I can discern no real storyline thus far. It's just all over the place. I love seeing the original characters, but honestly there is a lot of bad acting going on by the newly added characters. Bad. What also bothers me the most, is that I feel like the quirkiness I so enjoyed in the past, has been turned into a spoof of itself. Some scenes are so ridiculous that I feel like the viewer has been tricked into watching an overtly dumbed down version of Twin Peaks so we can be laughed at for taking the bait. And where IS Twin Peaks? There has been hardly any time shown in the great PNW! That missing presence is what Hawk is looking for, if you ask me! I watched these 4 eps on a free preview and will most likely have many months for it to stream (if it does) to decide if it's worth finishing. I hope it is. I hope it gets better. That it flows better and grows a plot. The fans of old deserve that. The original Twin Peaks deserves that.
The series starts out interesting, then it just slows down rapidly, turning into a show that is beating around the bush forever. Then you get to the ending, and it's so anti-climactic, and it's so bad, it's confusing in a bad way, not in a good way.The first 2 seasons were much better, and I saw those for the first time this year.


                
The first two episodes may have been good, but during the entire time my head hurt, my eyes hurt and I lost interest. I think I dozed off, but that didn't help the headache or the pain in my eyes. The characters were still doing nothing when I woke up. I wasn't tired and the TV was the correct distance for a TV that size. The boredom may have had something to do with it. Either way, two stars. One for each episode.


                
All in all, this series seems to be nothing more than a life support system for some awful bands who for some reason are given several minutes to put us to sleep at the end of each episode - as if he weren't already halfway there. And then there's all that dead air! Minute after minute with no change in scenery. Blah. Generally incomprehensible. Why was this permitted to see the light of day I'd like to know.


                
After watching first four episodes - there's absolutely no positives. There's nothing in here that made the original series so great. There are no great characters, there is no Twin Peaks really, nothing that would intrigue. It looks like a one time-deal - an awkward reunion for no purpose other than to bring them together for one last time.Creators took away all good things from season one, threw them away and kept only the bad things from season 2 (not that there were no good things in season two - I liked it in spite many pointless plots).If you're a fan, you'll going to watch it but don't expect anything good.


                
I'm a die hard fan of the original two series. I loved everything about it. I also adore films like Mulholland Dr. and Lost Highway. But this absolute cowpat of a attempt to revive the series reeks of desperation and money harvesting. It has bugger all to do with the original series. The atmosphere is gone, the beautiful music is gone, the tempo is absolutely ludicrously slow and the plot is downright boring.The attempts at throwing every single actor from the original series back into the story - one way or another - are just so feeble. Especially Audrey Horne and James Hurley - they just reek of desperation.Lynch never used bad actors and neither did he on this occasion. They get two stars because more or less everyone is great. Everything else gets a nice round zero. This is not Twin Peaks - in any way, shape or form. It's just a desperate attempt at repeating the success from the early nineties. Failing miserably.A lot of people are going to stand around like in The Emperor's New Clothes claiming that people "don't understand it" and that it's absolutely brilliant! Don't believe the hype. Believe the little child pointing at the king saying: "But he's got nothing on!".18 hours of my life that I will never get back. This is dire and I think it's an insult to Twin Peaks fans everywhere.


                
Extremely boring, I get it, I really do, I get how David lynch tries to make us curious and amazed but he also made us bored and questioned our intelligence by making lot of mistakes and expect us to believe that its all part of his creativitythe one punch guy fight that what embarrassing for the show, the way we have seen major briggs as well. and many many other embarrassing stuff, 
the show let us down completely and its truly sad that it has this rating because it only means that the creators succeed to take advantage of their previous work and gain credits even by doing a complete nonsense season.


                
I really liked the first episode, and was excited for the rest of the series. But then I watched Episode 2. "Hmmm... that was odd. Oh, I'm sure it'll get better." During Episode 3 I was fidgeting for the remote, resisting the temptation to hit the fast-forward button, but I persevered and made it through Episodes 3 and 4.But now...I'm afraid to watch Episode 5. Even though, I kind of want to just because I have this masochistic need to see this through. AND everyone keeps talking about how f'd up and awful Episode 8 is! That's tempting. I have never done drugs, but I may have to start because I'm convinced Episode 8 would be a life-altering experience on 'shrooms or Molly; inspiring me to write the great American novel and become the voice of my generation.But alas, I cannot make it to 8 because I cannot bring myself to watch Episode 5 (at least not anytime soon) because I cannot sleep anymore. My dreams are completely messed up, FUBAR, and out-right icky. Don't get me wrong, my dreams were a bit f'd up before, but now they're downright disturbing on a- well, a David Lynch level I guess. I also cannot watch it because I can't take my wife laughing at me anymore for thinking David Lynch is a genius.


                
The new season rests on the laurels of the original. The original two seasons had plot and pacing. Episode 7 was the only episode I didn't find myself irritated with Lynch's lack of editing. I tuned in to watch Twin Peaks not short versions of EraserHead and Lost Highway.8 episodes into the season and Cooper is still lost. It would have better to leave the story at the end of season two.


                
We saw this series earlier, the last chapter we didn't like it. The new series, the scene's with the red curtains and the slow talking people inside, and than some talking tree, looks nothing, it is giving the series not that extra's or specials, looks like you look to some nightmare scenes. Also the original cooper person kills someone very easy in the first chapter in the new series. very raw, no story. And some people are to old already to play there role good in this new series, looks like you looking to somebody who's already above 80 and talking very slowly and difficult. I only saw one chapter now, because it was disappointed to look, i go here to see what other people writing about this new series. It has not the bling bling from the first series and first chapters from that. Update After i saw the 3 episode, from this new series i conclude that this is garbage my rating goes to from 5 to 3, one off the most amateur TV-series i ever have seen, Very bad quality, cannot imagine someone give a 9 for this bull shtt, very skinny story, details where not working propely out.Old and new telephones where shifted in one episode or can see it is not realistic, cars are mixed from the police old model with an model 20 years later in one scene.


                
Did I wait 25 years for THIS??? I am at episode 7 now, and only reason I keep watching is because I hope and pray that the next episode will be better, that it will find it's roots and pick up in pace. Because let's get one thing straight: there's no magic in 2017's so called revival of the show. Just one episode more boring and lacklustre than the previous. Nothing happens. Nothing at all!!!The story is for the most of the time not even set in Twin Peaks. We're in New York, South Dakota, Argentina... The old cast is mere cameos and the new one brings nothing to the table. It is overacted, underacted, and completely and utterly pointless. Who green-lit this mess???Can someone please PLEASE explain to me why nobody is taking Coop/Dougie to a doctor??? The guy is walking around as if he had a stroke or five, unable to speak, eat, drink, walk etc - but wifey just keeps yelling at him, and at work a colleague lends him a helping hand or two, and pushes him about the office as if this strange behaviour does not at all call for medical attention. Arrrrgh, it's so dumb!Will I be able to get through this? I honestly can say! I am a die hard Twin Peaks fan - having watched the original 2 seasons quite a few times since they first aired. I belong to the (un)lucky few who grew up fearing Bob for all eternity! I had the soundtrack on vinyl and boy, did I have a crush on Bobby! I sat like glued in front of the TV and was blown away by one episode, after another, after another. Nothing compared to Twin Peaks!That is why this is a complete slap in the face. It uses (abuses more likely) fan nostalgia and our love for the show to air pure trash! I give it 2 stars - one is for the music at the end of every episode. It brings back fond memories of Jullee Cruise performing songs like 'Falling' in the old show. The other star is for the original cast who deserve so much better than this failure of a show. They are Twin Peaks.
"I'm David Lynch. I'm a creative genius. Therefore, anything that springs from my mind, and I slap on the screen is brilliant".The original was great, but this thing is simply boring and stupid. Thankfully we watched it through on-demand. After the first hour I began fast forwarding to get to action, and, or dialog. We avoided wasting the entire 4 hours, but my god. With the 9+ IMDb rating there has to be a lot of hard core DL fans out there, or the expanded legalization of pot is in play.


                
The weirdness, quirky characters, mystery and atmosphere in the original series built the town of Twin Peaks and gave its inhabitants character. It all played a part in creating the unique backwater world where we got to follow a creepy murder mystery with it's supernatural elements, which were also very much a part of the landscape.The 2017 version is an awkward and frustrating experience and I wish I could get back the time I put into it. I've been very genuinely surprised by the high rating the show is getting on imdb, and I believe it's due to having Lynch as director and the old cast back. The show is a complete pretender and has no direction. It is weird for the sake of being weird, because the original show was weird, and boy does it try too hard.The acting is incredibly awkward from just about everyone who participates, and this is probably because no one knows what is going on. Lynch can pull of a film where you won't understand half of what happens but the atmosphere is so brilliantly crafted that it doesn't matter. Unfortunately this is not the case here. Everything about Twin Peaks 2017 feels skin deep. It's an imitation of a 90's TV show that people fell in love with.


                
