Lynch is amazing, Lynch this Lynch that. Everyone is so desperate to love David Lynch I don't think they are watching the balls he's making. are there any reviewers that like this without creaming over how amazing David Lynch is? what other TV series does that happen with? where the guy making it can just do a load of nonsense, star himself in it, make it weird and everyone thinks it's genius.This isn't genius, the first two series were great, although it lost it's way a bit. But at least it had a goal, a story line. Which is just lost in this series.There's too many story lines that mean nothing, they won't reappear later and make sense of anything, they are there for no reason, dozens of characters you'll never see again but you wast too much time watching them think about something. each episode has 5 minutes where an awful band sing a song.. that's it, an awful band sing an awful song for 5 minutes. every episode. that's a tenth of the whole show watching a bad music video. it's ridiculous that you have to watch a 9 inch nails advert for 5 minutes before moving on with the show..Kyle Maclachlan walking around aimlessly got boring very quickly... how they persist in this the whole serious is beyond me. it's boring, the jokes are the same. Apart from that... there is some good stuff going on, a couple of clever story lines and interesting developments, enough to carry on watching, but there's just too much filler to make it anywhere near on par with the original series


                
If you want - to see more of the town Twin Peaks - to see more of Agent Cooper - to see a meaningful show - to see a well-acted show - to see a well-written showthen this show is not for you.Some reviewers say this show is only for the intellectual. I disagree. If you are intellectual, you can see through the crap and realize there is nothing there. Nothing at all. Just video art you would expect in a video art museum.This is a show for the art elite.It's a big FU to all the people who liked the very first season. Season 2 wasn't very good IMO, and this season is more like the second season but worse.There is a reason this show was very close to being canceled a lot of times during filming.


                
There's a scene in Episode 12 of Twin Peaks: The Return (hereafter, TP3) in which Agent Alfred Rosenfield (played by Miguel Ferrer) visit has some important, confidential news to impart to Agent Gordon Cole (played by David Lynch himself) and visits him in his hotel room. Cole, however, is entertaining a lady friend (whom we have not seen before); he asks her to leave. What follow is an excruciatingly drawn-out farce in which - over literally 4-5 minutes - she slowly puts on her shoes, inches her way towards to door, says goodbye, giggles coquettishly etc. all in the most desultory fashion possible, with Lynch standing there smirking away to himself the whole time. To Albert's relief she eventually leaves, after which Cole makes a joke about a turnip and informs us that "there are 6,000 languages spoken in the world today". The scene adds nothing to the plot. It is not especially amusing or interesting, and indeed we never see this woman in TP3 again. I focus on it as it perfectly encapsulates what's so wrong with TP3 and the basically hostile attitude it has towards its viewers. Most TV series (and films, books etc.) have one or a handful of characters who are the focus of the show and who we get to know well over the course of the series, and an overall narrative arc that the viewers can engage with and become engrossed in. The original Twin Peaks is a perfect example of this - it gave us Agent Cooper, brilliantly played by Kyle MacLachlan, who we implicitly identified with as the outsider in this strange little town, and a plot device (uncovering the murderer of Laura Palmer) that kept the viewer engaged with both the characters and the story over many episodes. Off this fairly conventional core Lynch hung his eccentric baubles, tangents and surreal subplots and it worked as he took the viewer along with him and surreal style gradually emerged from a solid core of character and plot-driven substance. The contrast with TP3 could not be more stark. There are a seemingly endless number of characters and sub-plots in TP3, however the overwhelming majority are not developed or explored in any depth. There are numerous scenes in which characters appear and then disappear never to be seen again (e.g. the numerous drinking scenes in the Roadhouse, the Buckhorn and Las Vegas police officers, Becky & Steven, the Buenos Aries scenes, the New York couple, the humming in the Great Northern Hotel etc.). Sometimes these characters even discuss others - at length - who do not even appear in the show. The end result is that the viewer has no clue as to which characters they should emotionally invest in, which will be integral to unravelling the plot and which not, with the final result that one ceases to care about any of them. In TP3 Lynch has removed the substance and left us just with his eccentric baubles, and forced to stand alone they quickly become sterile, unengaging and ultimately boring - much like the dull, interchangeable indie-electro band performances that end each episode. There is a clear parallel here with Season 2 of Twin Peaks, where the network forced Lynch to reveal the identity of Laura Palmer midway through the series, and - thus shorn of any supporting structure - the whole edifice collapsed, ratings plummeted as viewers lost interest, and the show quickly became enmeshed in an almost self-parodic series of bizarre, tedious and uninteresting subplots. In addition to the lack of plot or pacing there are also numerous scenes of sadistic murders which serve only to allow Lynch to indulge his sad, juvenile fascination with extreme violence. In TP3 characters from the old episodes do appear, though these are basically cameo roles which add very little and seem to have been included more as a sop to fans of the original series. The new ones are largely so uninteresting and undeveloped that they might as well not have been included. This being Lynch, he has of course managed to attract some stellar actors and actresses - Tim Roth, Naomi Watts, Harry Dean Stanton, Laura Dearne, Michael Cera, Robert Forster etc. - though their considerable talents are so underutilised and wasted that they might as well not have bothered. Kyle McLachlan in particular is short-changed, forced as he is to spend a good three-quarters of the show bumbling along in a semi-catatonic state as 'Dougie Jones', in what must surely rank as one of the worst, most excruciatingly wearisome sub-plots in televisual history (not to mention including one of the most cringe-inducingly bad sex scene I've ever seen). In the unlikely event of the network commissioning a fourth series I would not be at all surprised if McLachlan declined to participate.  However it's not all bad - this is Lynch after all - director of such cinematic gold as Blue Velvet, The Elephant Man and Lost Highway. Naomi Watts gives her all to what is basically the rather dull role of 'the nagging wife' stock character. The Mitchum brothers are hilarious and brilliantly portrayed, and - shock, horror! - are also given some emotional depth by the use of quiet asdies that reveal some of their backstory. The dream/fantasy sequences and Red Lodge scenes are superb and a real treat for Lynch fans. And of course Lynch as ever is adept at creating a certain mood in the viewer via the use of light, mise-en-scene and music. The 'Gotta Light?' episode in particular is a wonderfully dark, genuinely unsettling piece of experimental art that's as good as anything Lynch has done, albeit marred by graphic shots of skulls getting crushed by hand. Sadly these gems shine all the brighter due to turgid muck in which they're set. If Lynch has set out to create an overly long, overly drawn-out film-poem which delights in its eschewing of things generally deemed necessary in a 16-hour TV series - such as plot or character development - as well as viciously eviscerating all the human warmth and humorous quirkiness that made the first run such a success, then he has succeeded admirably. However the flip side of this aloof approach is to leave the viewer emotionally cold and completely unengaged - bored, in a word. Of course the critics - unwilling to criticise the Lynch-god - have been praising it to the heavens. Apparently it a bold, exciting experiment in pushing TV past such boring old traditional tropes such as 'plot' or 'character development', a glorious postmodern deconstruction of televisual norms, a conceptual art masterpiece in mood and suggestion. Well, like most postmodern conceptual art it will appeal only to a very small coterie of self-important pseuds, congratulating themselves for being so clever for 'getting it', whist leaving the vast majority of those stuck-in-mud, conventional ordinary viewers and Twin Peaks fans in the cold. Now, experimental Lynch can of course work very well - however this tends to work best when he manages to first emotionally engage the viewer - as he does so expertly in Lost Highway, Mulholland Drive, the first series of Twin Peaks, or even the flawed Inland Empire. Often Lynch will introduce a fairly realistic world with characters we grow to care about, and then hit us with his surrealism and reality-shattering experimentalism. He succeeds because he takes the viewer with him as they have invested in the film and its characters and actually care about where it goes and where the characters end up, even if they don't fully understand everything they're seeing. With TP3 however the whole sagging mess just plods along, episode after increasingly dull episode, before eventually whimpering out in a conclusion that of course concludes nothing. To return to my opening paragraph and that scene in the hotel - we are Agent Rosenfield, patiently waiting for Lynch to get a fricking move on so we can get to the good stuff we know he can deliver. In that scene Lynch is there the whole time, quietly smirking to himself - knowing that he can do whatever he wants, knowing he can test the audience's patience repeatedly and still keep us watching because hey, it's David Lynch the artistic genius and American auteur who can do no wrong. David Lynch - the man who can make a film about a man riding a lawnmower across Iowa deeply engrossing. But as the credits roll on the final episode one of TP3 can almost hear Lynch laughing to himself- 'ha ha - gotcha, made you watch!'  I would quite happily re-watch the first series of Twin Peaks, and even the flawed second. As for TP3, with the possible exception of the 'Gotta Light?' episode (which works quite well as standalone film) I will not be sitting through this endurance test again, and it is sadly destined to join Dune and Wild at Heart on the list of Lynch works I have zero desire to ever watch again. If the above critique has the feel of an almost personal betrayal, it is because I'm angry that I wasted 16 hours of my life on this purely out of loyalty to Lynch, but it also because I love Lynch's work and know that he can is capable of so much better. Deeply, deeply, deeply disappointing.


                
Yes, this has you glued to the TV screen but, got to episode 8 and just could not keep watching. Should not be called twin peaks cos the plot rarely takes you there. Just want to shout at the screen for Cooper to snap out of it and get back to normal. love, love, loved the original and David Lynch MAY be talented but there is way too much that makes no sense and seems to not have anything to do with anything remotely regarding the show. Pure let down :(


                
I started watching this with zero expectations. I'm a fan of David Lynch and I pretty much like everything he's done. This, however, is the worst imaginable result. It's an embarrassing copy of the series from the 90's. It's like when a band is trying to recreate the sound they had 20-something years earlier. While the first series was a perfect balance between thriller and comedy, the 2017 version is goofy, unfunny, without timing, and filled with cringeworthy acting. The people who gave this standing ovations at Cannes should have been brought out and drowned in the Mediterranean sea.


                
Ridiculous. Grotesque, but from a completely negative point of view. Without any "logical" meaning. Lynch has seriously fed up with putting his follies in video; 30 years far from now he's playing this "joke" with us, a couple of times he had succeeded well, for the rest it is personal follies addressed to an audience that can not understand them and, I add, who do not even care to understand them, being small personal paranoias that he identifies how the nature of the world. Stop bothering us!!!


                
I am a fan of twin peaks in general having watched the originals many times and also the Wire Walk With Me Film. For the 2017 episodes I cannot deny there was a lot of interesting shots and sequences, atomic bombs, outer space. I also love the performances of the actors, and the characters and some scenes are really funny and it was fun to watch in general. However now that time has passed since i watched it, to me it has no lasting value like the first series. Why? because there was no contrast in pace or content between weird and normal for the weird to have a punctuation mark. In the first series there was a lot of small town or seemingly normal (if not normal at least quirky) life and then the strange or wierd and violent things stood out. There is no real quality of poignant or specialness to the strange experiences. Also there was just a lot of walking and traveling going on at times, i do not want to spoil anyone's viewing but some scenes have a lot of time devoted to going through one room or courtyard and then entering another room or courtyard. It was supposed to feel eerie. There were also too many characters to keep up with and it felt rushed, unlike the first series. In 1990's the tv series on a network has a full season to develop unpack itself and hold together with a simple plot line, who killed laura palmer, Here the entire focus of what was being shown was to general and broad an exploration to hold interest or develop a focus of plot.


                
