I would say none of fans and followers could have predicted story line of new Twin peaks, completely directed by David lynch.Most fans would love continuation of characters and their story lines.But we can see show has evolved as complete control were given to lynch.I will say he has created extreme dark elements but still I have hopes as character of good cooper will give answers to all questions that we have.Show is taking place in multiple locations and there are multiple time lines, so it is very difficult to keep track of all the elements, you have to be extra careful, completely devote your attention to minor details.Also new characters are not given enough time,so we can not understand their behavior.Much focus seem to be on mystery story-line and fictional elements.Lastly cinematography of old Twin peaks town is somewhat missing.But if see history of Twin peaks most critics and fans said that Twin peaks created new world in that era under the guidance of David lynch and Mark frost.We can hope that will create new world in this era also.
I saw the whole 90's Twin Peaks last year...so the story is still fresh in my mind (more or less). I guess I wanted to see it because:1. I heard there would be 3rd season 2. I was little when this came out and I did not watch it whole or maybe I forgot but I surely loved the soundtrack and Falling is one of the best songs from any soundtrack!I finished watching episodes 1&2 and man, it was great!Must say I was kinda worried before I started to watch because season 2 was kinda ... blah towards the end and I have to say I did not enjoy it. But these 2 episodes - joint together - were interesting, mysterious, new, and old at the same time and I enjoyed it!It is so weird but also cool to see all those people - aged now, from Cooper, to Laura to Lucy and James!And the song playing at the Bang Bang bar is really good!10 from me for episodes 1&2If whole season 1 would be somewhat 9 season 2 around 5 to 6 These 2 episodes so far are 9,6!But episode 3 was for 95% boring! It was like watching one of those modern installations in museums - which I do not like, so... I did not like E3 for most part. If I would rate, I would give it 3,4E4 was far more better and it was great to see Bobby and Denise! Dennis as Fox Molder! OMG, that was hilarious! The monologue of Andy's and Lucy's son was boring.... my rating of E4 would be 6,7E5 was again a step back. For the most part it was just ... there. Highlight was seeing that woman without one eye. My rating for this episode would be 5,2So, so far, Twin Peaks has been a rollercoster ride of great, awful and good.I will continue to watch it but I am not as enthusiastic as I was several days ago after the 1st 2 episodes.


                
I do not like to go negative on a movie or series and it is hard not to do so with this version of Twin Peaks. To learn what the old one was like, I watched it after watching the new one and I am glad I did. I enjoyed the old one because of the quirky elements. When it was on, I did not have a VCR so since I worked an evening shift, I did not get to watch it but everyone around me was taking about it. That does not happen much about any TV show today since we are blessed with a huge variety of choices and can DVR a show and watch it went we are able to.Getting back to the new show. I watched it to see if I could "get" what Twin Peaks was about and was able to stay with it until the end. However, I have to say that watching the new one was like watching paint dry. I am glad I watched the old one after watching the new one. The new one had enough in it to keep me interested but it was not easy. It was good to watch a lot of the people who were more active in the old one and I do say this show had extreme success getting most of the actors from the old one to come back and reprise their characters. Maybe it would have been better if Michael Onkean had returned to be Sheriff Harry S Truman. Robert Forster did well playing his brother but without Sheriff Truman, there was a large hole in the show. I also was delighted to see an actor that I have always enjoyed come out of about 18 years of retirement to do a part that was not in the old one. Don Murray showed that although he is close to 90, he still has what it takes. Good job for all of the actors.


                
In my previous review I said I would patiently watch all of the episodes in the hopes of a satisfying payoff/ resolution. Well, now that the final episode has aired, I have to say, I'm done. I can embark on a lengthy critique with a plethora of both positive and negative points, but why bother at this point? All I will say is that rather than offer a real resolution, Lynch has served up his version of the "many worlds" theory, which instead of providing closure, expands the possible threads and blows the Twin Peaks universe wide open. In short no answers, just more questions. Or rather, the questions ARE the answer. That's fine from a creative/dramatic/ narrative perspective, but it left me feeling cheated. If, by some miracle, Lynch returns to Twin Peaks on film or TV, I won't be going along for the ride next time. See ya , Coop.
Not sure how I feel about this series yet, as a hardcore fan of the first 2 series' and the movie, this season has an entirely different vibe. There is less trademark music, less familiarity, hollow scenes that you hope adds up to the bigger picture, and a sense of desperation, or even frustration you get hoping Coop will return to his faculties. The connecting of pieces here and there to the past series and glimmers of what made the original show great are still there in minor proportions, but it won't be enough to make me a fan of this season unless it all comes together masterfully in the end. One can hope!


                
First of all. I'm a big fan of David Lynch and the original series. So when I first heard about TP was coming back I had conflicting feelings. I've always believed that the original episodes even if they ended with a lot of open questions, but they ended. So maybe if something is over it's over. Sequels rarely work. But at the same time it had been a long time since I last heard from the director. For me his last big film was Mulholland Drive back in 2001. Yes there was Inland Empire (2006). But it was rather something more experimental or even personal for David Lynch (I need to admit that I was able to watch it to the end, only after several attempts). So it was a big news that TP was coming back.It has been almost a month since I finished new Twin Peaks. Now I feel that I'm ready to review it. Yeah it's different. Even if the original cast is there, the place, RR cafe, Dale Cooper, Laura Palmer, the red room, it's still different. I has more from Inland Empire than the beautiful works D.Lynch used to make in the past.Let me try to explain. For instance mystique in the original TP never prevailed. You always wanted more. It was never enough. Character like Mrs. Tremond with her weird grandson or the dwarf from red room. The whole idea was to have layers. One layer ("normal" layer") for an ordinary viewer, and another one strange and puzzling. Plus everything supernatural in the original series did not have any special effects. It was looking so real and even ordinary. The good example can be trembling hands that happened without any obvious reason. Just happened. And all of that was wrapped in Angelo Badalamenti's 'unearthly' music.And new series in comparison has prevailing mystique with very poor looking visual effects (hmm, I have no real explanation why they do look so bad). Music has changed and not always to better. There are a few very good songs but I did not like all of them.So do I think that it's all a fail, and better that new TP would have never been created. No, of course no. Because at least there is Dogue Jones, because of a chance to see Dale Cooper again, and because of the last episode. It came, I'm sure, from that old D. Lynch I like so much. Finally he got rid of any weird and not looking real visuals. You can see just ordinary things, like a car, or a hotel, characters just walk, speak, make love. They don't do anything that can't be seen in real life. I suspect many of those who watched new Twin Peaks before the last episode started to think that they understood something about what they had just seen, and I think that is why Lynch is go great. He was able to repeat what he did 25 years ago with the finale of the original Twin Peaks. I felt once again I don't know anything about where we are, on Earth, but what is Earth, who we are, what time is it now...
Worth watching just for Laura Dern and David Lynch's characters.


                
One of the most bizarre television shows out there returned after two and half decades with a humorous and wild season. There were moments of intense violence mixed with otherworldly occurrences and interspersed with silly scenes of nostalgia. Characters had grown old or become possessed by strange spirits with a story that spanned the country. Knowing this show was coming back, I revisited the old seasons having never watched the second and really enjoying the first. I found the pace slowing in the second season as the murder investigation ended and another villain took its place but the finale left plenty of things unexplained. The biggest cliffhanger was that Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) had become possessed by Bob, a demonic spirit that was responsible for the death of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee).The new season begins with some strange scenes and the discovery of a dead body. There is a class case that is being watched by a man but when he invites a woman to see it and they start making out, they are brutally murdered by a strange creature that appears int eh box and breaks free. The murder victim is several people whose body parts have been placed together in a motel bed. An evil version of Dale Cooper has been traveling around causing trouble and could be responsible for the murder. The time has come for Bob to return to the signature red room but to avoid detection, the rogue Dale has created a clone known as Dougie Jones, an insurance agent who liked to spend times with prostitutes. He is taken back and replaced with the real Dale. Unfortunately, Dougie, or Dale, is unable to communicate so he travels around only repeating words he hears. This still works out as he can predict which slot machine is about to reward a jackpot and his wife Janey-E (Naomi Watts) doesn't seem to notice his limited vocabulary.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
