It's finally here! And the first 2 hour episode of season 3 is an absolute joy to watch. When the original series aired, i was in my early teens, but i could still enjoy the show. I might not have understood all that was going on, but as it turned out, neither did anyone else.This was the magic behind Twin Peaks, it had no conclusion, like ever. It's the everlasting chase or hunt for something, that is never found. And once the murderer was revealed in the original series, the viewers left the show quickly, it wasn't suppose to be revealing. People watched it for the mystery, and apparently this mystery could have been stretched for 10 seasons, and people would still have been glued to their seats every time a new episode aired. The show was that captivating, more so than almost anything ever aired before.This was so different from anything else back then, no one had ever dared to make something like this, almost not even with movies. Actually the show was intended to be just a TV movie, but the people that saw it went ballistic, so they decided to make 7 episodes to air. But then the show exploded in popularity and got 10+ emmy award nominations and suddenly the show became insanely popular.It's kind of a mystery how, it was definitely not a show made for everyone, but still, it ranks as one of the best shows of all time. Why? What was so special about this show? Well you could probably line up 10 professors and movie experts to try and explain it, you would probably get 10 different answers.So here we are 25+ years later. The first episode of the new season has just aired, and i am thrilled. This was an absolute joy to watch, and it captures the essence of the original series really well. You can tell that Lynch is all over it, he has total control. And just as you would expect, it is bizarre, weird, mystical, scary and incredibly entertaining. And i have no idea what so ever what is happening.When i saw this first episode i thought of Quentin Tarantino a lot and how great he is at setting up conversation scenes with lots of tension, like the pipe scene at the beginning of Inglorious Basterds. Which is one of the best scenes in all of movie history.Here in this first episode you have this kind of tension in almost every scene, and the people could be doing anything. Eating donuts, checking voicemails, deliver packages, watch TV, have sex. Whatever, the suspense is with it all the way, and i have no idea why, because i have no clue what I'm watching. It's just there.This is one of the things that makes Twin Peaks so special, you are just along for the ride, no matter where it takes you, just enjoy the moment. Let it embrace you, it is what you want it to be. And this show does this better than any other TV show in history. The new season is apparently no exception. After the first episode I'm sold, when the song was performed at the end of it, while we see many of the original cast come together, that just sealed it for me, what a way to continue the saga. Absolutely brilliant film making.I can't wait to see the rest of it, this is quality.10/10 first episode - Masterful


                
A quarter of a century after it ended, Twin Peaks gets a season 3. That in itself is part of the weirdness of Twin Peaks; it's not a reboot, or a remake, it's just ... season 3, picking up just where season 2 left off. No one but David Lynch would do that. I suspect whether you will love or hate this series return (and people seem to do one or the other) will depend on what you liked about the original Twin Peaks. If you liked the quirky soap opera aspect of things in plot threads like the lumber mill, well, this might not be for you. If, like me, your favorite scenes were the really weird ones like the hotel scene that began episode 2 and the amazing scene of the kid and the creamed corn, and if you didn't understand while people didn't appreciate the utter brilliance of Fire Walk With Me, then you'll probably like this.The series begins with the weirdness turned up to ten and the eventfulness turned down to zero, as though Lynch is saying, yes, I made Twin Peaks, but don't forget I'm also the guy who did Inland Empire. After a while the Inland Empire aspects thankfully become fewer and there is more of the quirky humor of the original series (as in a scene with cops try to track down a key to an apartment), actual story and character, and Lynch's typical approach of painting a placid surface and then showing the rot underneath. And some of the old elements of the series, like a weirdly ageless Kimmy Robertson as Lucy and Lynch as Gordon Cole, are every bit as fun and funny as they were in the original.At times full Lynchian madness flares up, like the a-bomb test episode that thrilled some people and that annoyed others, like me. Other times, Lynch shocks everyone by actually offering detailed explanaions of some of the mysteries he has raised in the original series and Fire Walk with Me. At times Lynch seems to be saying, "here's a sensible answer to that thing you've been wondering about for years, but before you get too happy here's another unexplained weird thing to replace that."I wasn't as fanatic about Twin Peaks as some people. I didn't find the pilot especially interesting until funny, eccentric Dale Cooper appeared, and without Kyle MacClachlan I probably never would have watched the second episode. I didn't fully love the series until the incredible weirdness of the second season, and that love didn't last long since the show quickly spiraled into a disastrous mess. That may be why I enjoy this third season and Fire Walk With Me; they represent David Lynch giving me the aspects of the series I love without all the boring soap stuff.Some of Twin Peaks is hugely annoying, other parts are utterly fascinating. Overall, I found it very entertaining, and if it's not everything I want (after 4 episodes I rated this 9 stars, but at season's end dropped it to 8), well, that's David Lynch.One final note. I've seen several reviews saying that the only people who like this series are "hipsters." This is the silliest critique I've ever seen. I'll admit I don't know much about hipsters except they wear funny mustaches and churn their own butter, but my guess is hipsters are not all people who like to watch a revival of a series they don't remember starring a bunch of people old enough to be their parents. Just a guess. No, you silly 1-star reviewers, I'm not a hipster, and I'm not, as some have suggested, a "paid reviewer" (although if someone can tell me how to make money by writing IMDb reviews please do so). I'm just someone who likes David Lynch when he's very weird but not tediously, incomprehensibly so. And that's what, for the most part, Twin Peaks the Return gives its audience.


                
I was a huge fan of the first season, and after the 2nd season I was left with a jaw open and uttering the words, "What the eff is this?". Season 2 is not for everyone. Regardless of what some pretentious reviewers may say, Lynch films are not for everyone and you're not uncultured just because you don't enjoy them. I like Twin Peaks a lot and I still find a lot of his scenes overbearingly long for no reason other than to impress these pretentious critics and viewers. To lift their pompous attitudes and have them exclaim how "you just don't get it". Nah, there's things to get and then there's Lynch's bizarre and "artsy" stuff that is sometimes boring and a waste of time.But regardless of that, Lynch can tell a story and make a thinking movie. If you can ignore your frustrations of boring scenes that may not appear to make any sense, you're in for a heck of a ride.So why do I like Twin Peaks? It does incorporate thinking and solving a deeper mystery that's on the surface. You're interpreting a dream (not literally) instead of just listening to a generic story told a million different ways. So, here's kind of a break down for newcomers and what I think so far of season 3.Season 1 is the most watchable season in the series. It's a pretty straight forward murder mystery that's set up like a soap opera with added mysterious overtones. If you're starting this show at season 3, stop. Just stop. Go back and watch season 1. It's a crazy and awesome show.Season 2 sets up what the show is actually about. If I remember, season 2 also suffered a lot due to ABC at the time not fully letting Lynch do his thing and forcing so many episodes out. I could be wrong. But season 2 is nothing like season 1 in terms of your basic audience watching it. It's through and through a David Lynch nightmare of sorts. Spoiler for those who never seen it: everything you know about season 1 is wrong if you watch season 2. This season is about why there's corruption, evil and hell. It's a long, drawn out season with lots of forgettable plot lines that never seemed to go anywhere or explain anything. And like I said, I think that's due to ABC. But the last couple of episodes, if you can bring yourself to watch them setup what the Twin Peaks show is about. And it's about evil. And it's a disgusting nightmare with hallucinating visions of pure evil and nonsense. But quite honestly, it sits with you and makes you seriously ask what it was all about.The show was done and cancelled after season 2. I think most people really only remember season 2 for the ending. The setup to what is called the Black Lodge and White Lodge is long. And a lot of fans only truly remember season 1 because season 1 is amazing. So season 3 starts and it picks up where season 2 leaves off.At first, I didn't care for the first episode. I sighed a bit with my wife thinking this is just gonna be more of nothingness and artsy junk from season 2. I'll sit through it, but I'm not going to enjoy it. So I thought.Season 3 is in-between season 1 and 2 in terms of weirdness. It has a mystery again that isn't just bizarre sequences, even if it feels like it at first. It wasn't until the 4 part return finish did it really all mesh together. It's a lot better than season 2 and explains some of the WTF moments of that season and leaves some more mystery behind. They bring back most of the characters from the original and (again) if you haven't seen the original, go back to understand everything. A quick review isn't going to help you here.I don't really enjoy artsy things as obvious from my initial paragraph. I find the fine arts world of symbolic poetry, extreme weirdness and unexplained movies to be boring and for those who, as South Park put it, like to sniff their own farts. But Twin Peaks is actually interesting to watch in a group and figure out what things means and what is going on. It's one of the few shows that requires you to really pay attention and focus on stuff. Just ignore the long, drawn out and utterly pointless scenes of blank stares and empty rooms. You have to suffer through some of that to get a weird and unique story that's ultimate a nightmare for the viewer.
The David Lynch and Mark Frost revival brings back the show without the restrictions of network television as a single 18-hour movie split into chunks and (I'm currently 4 episodes in) all end with a different band performance. Yes, composer Angelo Badalamenti has returned and the nostalgic Twin Peaks theme is intact with a slightly different credit sequence, the mill replaced with the Red Room's curtains.Doppelganger Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan), must return to the Black Lodge in order for the real FBI agent Dale Cooper to be freed from his 25 year slumber. But things are completed with a third Cooper (also MacLachlan) throw into the mix. While all of this is going on, other events are transpiring in New York guarded building where a mysterious large glass box has sprung to life and killed its watcher. In South Dakota, a severed head and a headless body have been found and all the various narrative threads have yet to come together in any fully coherent matter.Off the top of my head the majority of the cast return, those actors who have since passed on even show up as manipulated archive footage, notably Major Garland Briggs (Don S. Davis) floating head, David Bowie's Philip Jeffries' character is mentioned. Who knows who else will turn up. Some have passed on since filming the latest series and are acknowledged in the credits including the posthumous appearance of Catherine Coulson's The Log Lady and Miguel Ferrer, who played Albert Rosenfeld. Those who don't return have simply fallen out with Lynch and their reasons are well documented in the press.Lynch has created something just as fascinating as the various directed predecessor and what is most striking is that quirky tone of the old series is recreated without merely forcefully copying it (as the recent X-files tried too hard to do). Lynch is on form here and it's just as weird as ever. The mix of crime thriller with elements of surrealism, odd humour, soap opera outlandish off beat acting and supernatural horror is as effective as ever. If you're left flummoxed - that's the fun, because you're probably meant to be.Twin Peaks helped shape much of the modern television landscape and this latest addition is great looking with surprises, thrills and chills - season 3 is an artsy must see.
Judging by the first 2 episodes, the magic of the original series in terms of atmosphere, music, style and humor is definitely not there.The style is much more similar to the Twin Peaks movie, and to other Lynch movies.Within that frame, the episode was very enjoyable. Well made for the most part, interesting, powerful, suspenseful.The most rewarding part is that the plot really does take off where the original series ended, directly following up on Cooper's experience in the Black Lodge.Overall, it was a very good Lynch experience and I'm looking forward to the coming episodes.But.. if you're looking to reminisce on the ambiance of the original series, that won't happen.And, if you haven't seen the original series, plus the movie, you won't understand most of the plot and it would all seem pretty senseless. Yet you might enjoy it still!


                
This is trademark Lynch; the situations the characters encounter are like nothing any of us have or will ever encounter. And there are multiple mysteries that keep us watching. Addictive and compelling. Lynch's stunning visual style is on display here, although this series is rather indulgent in terms of spectacle, favoring style over substance. What's missing is the character development and character interest of the original series or his best films like Mulholland Drive. Everything here is very fragmented and surreal. This ranks up there with the most surreal films ever made by Bunuel and Dali or some of Lynch's previous works like Rabbits. There's too much gratuitous violence and sex. I wish we had a whole new cast, although that would have meant a loss of continuity. The actors from the original series seem old and tired now, just going through the motions, compared to their energetic and lively performances in the original series. BTW, I'm a HUGE Lynch fan, I loved Inland Empire, and I consider Mulholland Drive a true masterpiece, but so far, "Twin Peaks: The Return" is not on the same level. This is indulgent film-making from a master who is past his prime, unfortunately. For die-hard fans of Twin Peaks only.The FBI chief, played by Lynch, is is deaf or hard of hearing; he yells all the time and can't understand people; Lynch apparently thinks such a character is hilarious but really his character is only annoying. That goes for several extended sequences, notably the Cooper character who has lost his memory. Lynch apparently thinks a man who has forgotten how to go to the bathroom is hilarious, NOT! Especially when we watch his life ad nauseum. I don't mind slow action, but there are long sections which advance NOTHING, not plot and not character and not mood. Twin Peaks: The Return is still better than 99% of the other TV shows this year, but that's a pretty low bar, folks.


                
I just finished episode 6 of Twin Peaks: The Return. I have watched the other seasons years ago & re-watched before this new Return. I'm not gonna lie, parts are slow. Douggie is pretty funny, but it gets boring as a story line. Everything going on in Twin Peaks I want to see more of. The murders and evil Dale are interesting and have me thinking. Which is what David Lynch wants: viewers to think. He doesn't make easy viewing. You need your brain to watch his works & I like that. These slower episodes that are Douggie centric are a bit too much. But I really think it's gonna lead to something epic.......... Coop's return???? Hopefully! I will continue watching because I like how it keeps me guessing and, no I really don't know what's going on. But I've got theories & I can't wait to see how things turn out. I will say this, if Coop isn't himself soon, or at least becoming himself, my excitement will start to wane. After all Special Agent Dale Cooper is what made the original Twin Peaks for me.


                
I can not give an objective review, as I practically grew up with the first two seasons of Twin Peaks. It would be impossible for me not to follow and see where the story goes in the new episodes. Overload would be the single word if I would have to summarise the first few episodes of the new series. Overload of new characters, places, plots, surreal and gruesome scenes. Overload of nostalgia and reflection. Lynch plays and tests the patience of the (average) viewer with an onslaught of disturbing, odd and seemingly totally unrelated events. If you manage to weather the magician's distractions, you will be rewarded by genuinely (dark, bitter and wicked) humorous and haunting moments, twists and turns which again are not trying to appease the average viewers sensibilities. The new episodes will not become an overnight popular sensation like the first season, but they will surely achieve a cult status. The question remains how all those loose strings of different parallel plots will eventually be tied together?! Knowing Lynch, they WILL form a picture, a dreamlike, unforgettable glimpse into the terrible and wonderful hidden world where souls live. Shadow, take me down...


                
"Twin Peaks" and this re-boot of the series on Showtime is a program for select audiences only. Those who consistently watch the show love it and many might try but not stick with it because there is so much strange and surreal content. This isn't a criticism...just that it's a show that would tend to have polarized reactions since it is so unique and strange...which isn't that surprising considering it's from David Lynch.The program picks up 25 years after the original series. Many of the original actors have returned, many have not (and several have died such as Bob and the Major). So, I am sure this had a big impact on how they wrote the story. And, this would probably explain why so far so little of the story is set in Twin Peaks but in places like New York City and South Dakota. It's every bit as weird as the old show and the main plot involves the activities of the evil Cooper doppleganger as well as the real, but incredibly brain-addled Cooper who has just magically returned from that weird red room.Overall, it's well directed and acted. Episode 8 is one in particular that will polarize even dedicated viewers as it seeks to explain the origins of Bob. I didn't care for it...a friend of mine thought it was one of the best episodes. Regardless, the show is incredibly original, strange and is hard to stop watching...at least for me.


                
So here I am, long time IMDb lurker, day 1 of official membership and I just signed up specifically to write this review.I just re-watched Part 8. I thoroughly enjoyed everything post the NIN performance in this episode (not so much prior to and including the NIN song). Absolutely everything after it in all it's weirdness. Visually this episode is stunning and the composition and flow of the scenes flows incredibly well. Without a doubt a standout from TP The Return so far. Will be remembered in history.I have a few things to say about the entire series to date.On the positive side, there are moments in this series that are so beautiful in an unexplainable way. My favourites to date are (with spoilers of course): - Dougie + the Windswept track (it is used quite a bit in this combo). The scenes with lost Dougie, seeking something but not knowing what it is. So helpless. The way these scenes are overlayed with the beautiful 'Windswept' number by Johhny Jewel. Like the scene where Dougie keeps staring at the statue in front of the office block. End of Episode 5 / Start of Episode 6. There is something so deep and magical there, especially with this music that is so fitting and empty. It has actually become one of my favourite tracks now, I got the entire album (Jonny Jewel - Windswept)and it is brilliant. I cannot explain what it is, but there is this very relatable loss in Dougie, he is seeking something but is completely powerless. The emptiness of the music just fits in perfectly and evoked a lot of emotion in me the first time I watched it. Also when Dougie sheds a tear while looking at Sonny Jim. Dougie is without doubt my favourite character but not in that funny or humorous way that he is sometimes portrayed. More in a very human way. Hard to explain / verbalise. Which is why it is so strong emotionally.Wally Brando. My ultimate favourite scene. I've played it so many times now. Love the subtle and distorted references to various Brando characters. Perfectly absurdist scene, one I would have never expected to see on TV.Seeing the print of Trinity behind Cole early in the series. I loved it immediately without realising the role it will have later in the series. Looking all over the internet for a print of it now :) - The fact that 'BluntedBeatz's "I Am (Oldschool HipHop Beat)' plays every time we see Loraine. Even her photo. So funny! - Part 8. Love it. As above - Closing credits. Usually very well done and beautifully blended in. Also full of key information about the characters.Sound design and music. Understated and brilliant - 119 lady's kid. I am eager to see where this is going - the fact that S3 is something completely different to S1 and S2. An addition to the story. I truly appreciate this direction instead of going back copying what once was.----------- I am NOT a big fan of: - Bad Coop. This character could have been done so much better. It lacks any gripping characteristics IMO. Too cold and not in a good way.Any of the Gordon Cole / Albert scenes. Never liked this crew in the original and still don't like them now. The jokes are so repetitive (seriously the hearing device references are overdone beyond belief). They were overdone in 1990.Diane. I can see what Lynch was going for but the character of Diane does nothing for me. I prefer we never met her and she always stayed as 'Diane'.All the scenes at the Twin Peaks Police Dept. The only parts I fast forward through. Seriously we don't need any more character development for Andy and Lucy. Very slow and unnecessary scenes. These have been very disappointing. Even some of Hawk's. I would much rather see more character development for Mr C or Richard Horne.The black lodge scenes. Don't love them and sometimes they are weird for the sake of being weird. Lynch should have really left them as they were in S2. Even then I thought they over-capitalised on the black lodge visuals.The opening credits. I hate the fact that they introduced the red curtains and zig zag floor into the opening credits. Very disappointing to see. It's like they wanted to create a 'logo' for the series by using these symbols. Not cool and very commercial. Wish it wasn't done.Sheriff Truman's wife. Waste of time and annoying as hell ------- Overall I think this is a very unique and brilliant series. This is ultimately about Agent Cooper finding his way home (hence: The Return) and I wouldn't be surprised if it took the entire 18 episodes for him to do so. I wish I had the patience to wait until the end and binge the entire thing at once. But at this stage I am impatiently waiting for each installment every week.I think in time we will see TP S3 set a benchmark for a new way approaching TV series. As much as there is some good stuff out there, they all fit into the same category / style really. Different themes but all the other formula is the same. TP S3 is so unique in every way possible and I believe it will set some precedents for a new way of approaching TV drama.I look forward to one day seeing a cinema edit of the entire S3 journey, or at the very least Part 8 on the big screen.
Solid series, this return has blown my mind. The cinematography, style, and depth are enjoyable.What am I watching, some kind of parallel universe into the past, present, and beyond. It is almost like some kind of a Twilight Zone, and it's hard putting your finger completely on it, so it grips you as you are left scratching your head thinking what is going on, and what is that. Why are they speaking German, underwater, subliminal backwards messaging, or the hell is its Ouija board. Aren't they mimicking that seance or EVP, psychic phenomenon, and what are those clones? It started and I was yawning, I thought it was some other comedy, because it was in freaking slow mo, that's back to front, forward, and inside out, as its scenes drew in order to stress out the points, adding both imagery and depth, then oh no it's not the Ring. What is that box, what is it. Hellraiser, Fringe, was it Houdini's last act. Perhaps it is a devil's toy box, capture any spirit in glass with as scented candle on sacred ground, no that's way too easy, is it a matter transporter, that tetron hydron collider of some other type of Philadelphia experiment, into some other parallel dimension of spirits causing their EVP, manifesting as that Poltergeist, as its travelers are lost in between its parallel's and dimensions, having their evil twin syndrome's. Who knows, I really don't? But most of all it is an acid trip, and it's entertaining, those scenes stick with you. I don't know what its pay off will be, as it is also caught in the loops, but it is absolutely unique and it's completely watchable. No it's probably not for all, judging some of these ratings, it's a finer wine, and some of these kids today, are like are we there yet, have never been on a Billabong.
Twin Peaks (2017) is amazing in terms of its direction, music, and suspense. The mystery remains unsolved even after the finale. Here is my way of concluding to this MASTERPIECE. 
As we know that Audrey was in a coma after an explosion in the bank vault (Season 2). In season 3 we saw peculiar Audrey who wants to go to the Roadhouse but she couldn't and after a while, she goes there and due to a fight she becomes frightened and then she suddenly saw herself in a mirror. My opinion is that she was dreaming in the coma and her struggle to get out of it was artistically showed through her journey from her house to the Roadhouse. She helped herself and ultimately came out of the vegetable state. Events related to Audrey are not shown in chronological order (Is it future, or is it past?). First, we saw Richard (which born after coma) and then we saw Audrey coming out of the coma. I assume that Audrey gave birth to Richard after she woke up from the coma. Why I am saying Richard born when Audrey is out of the coma because Ben told to the Sheriff Truman that Richard never had a father. Ben didn't say that Richard never had parents. We also learned from Doc Hayward that Evil Coop may have visited the comatose Audrey and in my opinion Coop raped Audrey and Richard was born because of that. Evil Coop finally took his son to the coordinates on the rock where Richard eventually burned to death. In my opinion, Sarah Palmer is Judy. Bob always posses male body like Leland Palmer and Del Cooper, and Judy always enters in a female body like Sarah Palmer and a girl in Mexico (a peculiar type of insect enter in her mouth). Judy replaces original Sarah that's why Sarah laments while hitting Laura photo when Copper intercepts Laura on the night of her death and saved her from murder (this shows that Cooper already defeated Judy). After that Laura disappeared into thin air. Then we see Laura whispers something in Coop's ear which I believe she said is "Is it future, or is it past??" (same already been spoken to Cooper by Arm and Mike) before vanishing from the black lodge. I think Laura goes in a phase of transition while coming to the real world from the Black Lodge. Earlier we saw Cooper descend from Black Lodge to a room where he found an eyeless woman (Diane) (transition phase). The woman pulled a lever on a mechanism present on the roof and received an electric shock, causing her to fall into the void. Cooper went back down the ladder to see a different woman sitting in front of the fireplace I think that different lady is Laura stuck in the transition. Laura knows that time can be manipulated as we can see for Audrey (That's why Laura whispered to Cooper "Is it future, or is it past??"). Now this transition of Laura is her own dream (just like Audrey). I said dream because Monica Bellucci said: "We are like the dreamer who dreams, and then lives inside the dream. But who is the dreamer?" to Agent Gordon Cole so dream and dreamer both are important. This assumption can further strengthen when we see Laura missing diary pages claim that she knows about Del Cooper and Black Lodge from her dream. We also saw Cooper drove into a different dimension (I think its Laura's dream) where he woke in a different place without Diane. Why I am saying its Laura's dream because this Cooper is serious (different) and didn't comment on coffee in Judy's cafe. However, we saw original Cooper when he cheerfully asked for coffee to the Sheriff Truman on phone (season 3 episode 17). Cooper in his own dream (season 1) is same like Cooper in Laura's dream i.e. always serious and not cheerful at all. In Laura's dream Cooper then save a young waitress from three cowboys, however, he conveniently ignores a dead body in Laura apartment. This act is illogical just like any dream. Cooper also saw a white horse in Laura apartment (white horse was also seen by Sarah Palmer on two occasions: the night before the one Laura was killed and just before her niece Maddy Ferguson was killed). This signifies that Cooper still can save Laura from her own dream. Now come to the climax, Copper remembered what Laura whispered to him (Is it future, or is it past?) and he asked Laura "What year is this?". This question made Laura remember that she asked the same type of question to Cooper in Black Lodge. After this Laura listens Sarah (not Judy but her real mother) calling her name. Finally, she became aware of the fact that she is Laura which makes her frightened and the way Carrie Page screamed is exactly like Laura screamed to James Hurley on the night of her death. Ultimately Laura knows who she really is. I think like Audrey, Laura also helped herself (through Cooper) and awake from her dream after she got frightened (like Audrey). So finally I conclude that Del Cooper wins over Judy.
The Twin Peaks revival is the quantum mechanical version of a soap opera. Much like Shroedinger's cat Cooper is stuck in a box. There is much spooky action. Some of it has Charm. Some is Bohring. The series bends and distorts time. That's about it.
Maybe a little less atmosphere there, because the scenario develops in several places and falls beyond Twin Peaks. But don't listen to those "Blah blah blah not the same". It's the same Twin Peaks, but with Skype and wireless networks. 
Great show! 8/10


                
At first I did not like these new episodes. However I kept watching because each week is so interesting! As they said in "Blue Velvet" "It's a Strange World". Now I BEG ALL OF YOU if you haven't already watch "Fire Walk With Me" and most importantly watch "The Missing Pieces". It will help you enjoy this new season more.The reason why I like these episodes now is because I realize after each episode airs it is still making me think! This is what happened to me when season 1 came along in 1990. So to quote the giant "It Is Happening Again".At first I was disappointed because the show was not taking place in "Twin Peaks" as much as I wanted it too. Then I realized that "Laura Palmer" is not the central focus anymore. The focus has always been "Dale Cooper". Now it's just obvious. I know this new season will end up with some kind rumble going down in our favorite small town! I hope there will be another season.If you think about it Bob form "Twin Peaks" has something to do with "The Washington Post" and "President Trump"? So as Agent Cooper says in the Red Room "Are we the public in the past or is it the future"? Don't take the ring America! "Don't take the Ring"


                
