(I have edited this review to reflect my thoughts of the whole season after the finale)People usually say things are "divisive" when they really aren't. Here, with the new Twin Peaks, we can see what it really means. Even on this review section people absolutely love it or hate it with a passion. Season 3 is nothing what people (including me) expected. If you expect a nostalgic revival akin to modern obsession of bringing back familiar brands or names, trying to capture the old magic, you will be shocked because this is not it. It's not what you think it is, which is exactly what Twin Peaks has always been!This season is almost like a really long movie. The episodes don't have that central focus to them, so it feels more like a really big puzzle coming together in weird ways, and you're not sure what you're looking at. Nothing about new Twin Peaks is telegraphed to you and simple closures just can't happen. But something gets your attention, and you start to dig deeper. And that's where it shines. That's also where many get angry and frustrated. It works like this: with its nightmarish, outright weird visuals and cues it evokes something in you, almost at a subconscious level. And the more you give in to the intrigue, the more you start to put together something almost coherent rationally as well. Eventually your reason will only get you so far, and you start to go deeper again. The methods of telling a story can be very obvious, and at the same time far from it. This is what I love about it. It's not just some art crap thrown in there for no reason. There is a reason for most of it (at least for Lynch and Frost) and it's so satisfying to finally make those connections that you already "felt" were there, but couldn't articulate them to yourself before...until it all collapses, and you notice you're running in circles. It's frustrating, but somehow the emotional investment doesn't let up. That emotional resonance is telling of something very real.I know Lynch won't give us answers, and the events can be interpreted in 100 different ways. While I enjoy the many layers and possibilities, I still want closure. I was sucked in and given the hope of one, but I can't get it. "Closure" is a negative word for Lynch, but not for me. Anyway, let's get to visuals, structure and pacing.Sometimes the new season looks dull, bright and cheaply mundane (which might be intentional), but most of the time it's beautifully shot with plenty of expression. Long, slowly panning or zooming shots, extreme closeups that make you very uncomfortable, great use of light, attention to detail. Lynch and cinematographer Deming seem to excel at that. There are problems though. While traditional effects and tricks and used well, there are instances where the CGI is just horrible. Some of it is brilliant (episode 8), and other times it's the opposite. If I recall right, Lynch had some troubles with budget at some point which might explain this. Twin Peaks used to look great without CGI. Here, some of that magic is lost, and it's a shame because at times it pulls me out of the experience. Badalamenti's beautiful, familiar music sadly isn't as prevalent as I'd like it to be. No relaxing jazz accompanying quirky scenes, no constant moody themes to give us that dream-like immersion like before. When we hear the old classics, the songs don't quite match the scenes or the mood. Everything is either disjointed or nightmarish. The main difference to earlier seasons is musically the same as tonally: it's darker and more over the place but also full of long lulls where nothing seemingly happens and you haven't heard music for ages. When the music works, it's not really music anymore but more like pressing ambiance accompanied with Lynch's weird sound experiments. Some of the younger bands/music featured in the show put me off. While Lynch was definitely going for something there involving the big picture, I felt like I was watching hollow advertisements of bands performing to a fake audience full of paid extras. I was taken out of whatever mood I was in, and I hated it.Most of the actors are very good. Many of them died before or just after the season aired (rest in peace ladies and gentlemen, you were all great). Some only appear as archive footage. There is a sense of death, grief and replacement (some characters are now objects), and I can't fault anyone for it. Perhaps it even works. And while I would've wanted to see more of Sheryl Lee, I'm glad for what I got. She is still phenomenal. Some actors, especially extras, stand out too much. Perhaps it's the intention, but I can't help my reaction.One thing is certain: The new Twin Peaks feels entirely uncompromised when it comes to artist's vision. I'm sure I will never ever see anything like this again. It's so wonderful to see something like this in the midst of all kinds of pretentious crap and corporate-driven bullshit. Some things bother me, often a lot, but I have to appreciate this truly creative force that defies pretty much anything. Yes, I consider this to be art. Right now, I feel like my subconscious is holding the answers, both frustrating and freaking me out in the process. At the same time I'm disappointed, excited, confused and utterly fascinated. It's been days after I saw the finale, and I just can't get any peace. This is a lasting emotional impression. For this alone I love it. Twin Peaks has never been more divisive. And once again, we have to dive into it (and into ourselves) to find the closure instead of getting one. I may love it, but it also tears me apart.


                
In typical David Lynch style the story twists and turns like a meandering river. Sometimes it also resembles that same river as it gently flows through time. With most series you get some kind of idea about the general direction of the story, with this there is no way of knowing that. I can understand that some viewers don't like it, probably because they don't have enough patience to watch when the story takes a few steps forward, then backwards and sometimes a few steps into the weird or even absurd. In a way in resembles the original series and yet is on a different level.


                
Season 3 of Twin Peaks flows in naturally from season 2, as if the 25 years gap between both seasons was always supposed to be that way.If you were a fan of the original series, then this new season is a must watch so far. I've only seen the first episode (2 hours) so there is still a way to go, but so far so good.Stylistically it remains true to it's origins, while subtly adapting to the modern times.


                
Twin Peaks: The Return came back in style! In a giant 4 hour chunk too and i also just found out that Twin Peaks: The Missing Pieces exists. It and certainly the new season finally explain what the controversial prequel film was about. The new show is basically a 2nd and more... structured (?) Fire Walk With Me (7,5/10), as it answers how the inbred child of Eraser Head, Lost Highway and Inland Empire would looks like. S03 is that ####ing wild and from nearly minute one too! Undeniably the most niche big budget show of ALL time and certainly the most frightening. Just show anyone the scene of Cooper being eaten by an electricity socket or that strobe light tree with a heart for a "head" talking backwards. They will never talk to you again. The unsettling gore is though the roof too.Long story short. David Lynch is about to create another masterpiece, especially if i consider that the 4th episode then suddenly takes a time out to recreate the 1990/91 original, before veering back into relentless psychological horror in the last 10 minutes. So go back to the classic + film, if you never saw it. Even if S02 historically crapped the bed after solving the big mystery. It ended strong though. Get the 3 hard canon books too (don't ask me which one is the craziest, but The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer is a hard NC-17) and strap yourself in for 18 hours of old man David Lynch without ANY restrain + a final book. Unless someone at Showtime decides to fund these mad men again. One can only hope...


                
I was more than excited when it was mentioned that a potential new Twin Peaks season was upon us. Would it by Lynch or not and if not who would be in a position to take the helm of one of the greatest shows of the 80's.Suffice to say common sense prevailed and David lynch took the reigns with long time collaborator Mark frost.and now we have Twin Peaks season 3.Ever since Lynch turned down Return of The Jedi to direct Frank Herbert's poorly received Dune his career has stalled. With no time for pushing through producer requests his Films from Blue Velvet to Inland Empire have reflected his distaste fot the Hollywood community. It seemed he was more into art installations and producing local talent namely The Chromatics who did the excellent music for Ryan Goslings Drive than concentrating on serious film and I had forgotten about him for awhile. It seemed great he was back and I settled into the first four episodes of the new season.25 years to the day and officer Dale Cooper is locked in the Black Lodge drowning in psychosis as his twin Dogie Jones both played by Kyle enjoys life a little more. Dogie is hard and connecting in all areas where connection can get you in trouble. Twin Dale Cooper is a polar opposite to Dale Cooper and after a particularly violent double murder The Black Lodge decides it is time to swap back and this is the story of Twin Peaks S 3.This is not the Twin Peaks of old. It is a Francis Bacon painting, a quiet story bubbling under incredible imagery and almost a Science Fiction Horror Epic.. David Lynch answered to no one in this masterpiece. It is a simple story with influence by all of Lynch's later work and everything he has ever wanted to do. A solid vision by two people who have taken a formula from the 80's and bought it to a knew era and it is works.


                
First let me say I'm a Lynch fan from way back. Eraserhead anyone ? Some folks just like the weird. The DGF and I watched Twin Peaks back in the day, and she'd get so freaked out by Bob, she couldn't watch. T.P. was like a soap opera on acid. Judging from last night's premier, Mr. Lynch dropped the soap and the opera in favor of plain ol' acid. As in what a trip. Made no sense whatsoever. But some of us like it that way. I enjoy the imagery and the soundscapes he creates. Seeing the (surviving) cast members who came back for this new installment was fun as well. There's also some new characters, my favorite being the "arm". Have to see that for yourself. The David Lynch universe is not for everyone. Visit at your own risk. Your results may vary.
Twin Peaks was first aired on April 8th, 1990. It starred Kyle MacLachlan, Michael Ontkean, Madchen Amick, Dana Ashbrook, and many more. The show opened on the murder of homecoming queen Laura Palmer, and the secrets exposed in the small town of Twin Peaks because of it. The original show was a wonder. It featured brilliant writing, beautiful cinematography, and impeccable direction. Twin Peaks forever affected television, as it was one of the first non-soap opera shows to use over- arching plots which spanned seasons. The show did have flaws though. Season Two lost focus a bit after Episode 9, when creator David Lynch left the show. However, Episodes 21 and 22 picked up the pace, delivering a great cliffhanger ending. However, ABC cancelled the show, and fans were left with a brutal cliffhanger ending.Now, 25 years later, Showtime picked up Twin Peaks for an eighteen episode limited series. So, we follow protagonist Dale Cooper as he exits the Black Lodge, and we see how all of these iconic characters are doing after 25 years. And, it's a great comeback for Twin Peaks. The show is on the same level as it was before, packed with surreal imagery, bizarre characters, and spooky supernatural elements. I truly think David Lynch's return to this show proves ABC was incredibly stupid for cancelling this show 25 years ago. If you are open to a new, surreal experience, you will enjoy this show. If you are a person who is expecting to fully understand everything you watch right away, you will loathe this experience. Five episodes in, Twin Peaks is back, and as good as ever.
I really loved the original Twin Peaks, I found it kooky, weird and fun and felt that it gave something different than most other shows. There's been some fantastic shows in recent years such as The Wire, Madmen, GoT, Breaking Bad, House of Cards, Fargo, Westworld...the list goes on, however, what Lynch does is brings something different to the scene, with strange but beautiful scenes which leave you feeling uncomfortable but entranced.If you haven't seen the first two series, you will not have a clue what is going on as the first two episodes of season 3 re-introduces many old characters and starts building a new story around them. The black lodge scenes will not make sense either and as such I'd understand why many people would find it 'boring' or 'bad' but if you have seen them you can appreciate the slow deliberate tempo, unique artistic touches, quirky characters and strange horror that lies in wait.


                
At the end of the developments of the Twin Peaks procedural there was a breach of Agent Cooper's all American, literally cherry pie fueled world view. A cathartic revelation. This was the point where a surreal parody of soap opera transcended the form and became an allegory of the fight for the soul in the face of change.This confusion, this realization that places in the universe hold sway over our soul or psyche and that our own cosy view of ourselves or the world can change, has been brilliantly expressed - as a journey of the now both childlike and diabolical Cooper doppelgangers and of the viewer's discomfiture. Won't sit well with some but this is a better sequel than Twin Peaks could have hoped for. Let it wash over you.
Thoroughly enjoyed Lynch's expressive freedom, and the new season is as enigmatic as ever. In modern terms, the show's plenty "WTF" moments live up to the series' infamous wackiness. The transition from 25 years ago is smooth. In a world that advances at break-neck speed, Twin Peaks is a pocket of time-space discontinuum. The reboot definitely has a more poetic feel, and nothing makes any immediate sense. Nonetheless, connecting the dots is part of the fun.


                
After 4 episodes, I can't decide what I like most about the show: the constant and obscure references, the puzzles that transcend time and space, the semblance of coherence spanning more than 25 years. Is it simply the gratuity with which Lynch creates desires and expectations on screen and then immediately fulfils them for me? Or is it the fact that he has managed to trigger so many people. I feel privileged to enjoy a television programme that so many plebeians seem to have no time for. Anyway. So many questions remain unanswered. The alien? The golden pearl? Major Briggs? The blue rose? And what about Judy? JUDY? I don't think a TV show has borne so much interrogation since Tinker Tailor was broadcast back in 1979. This is a magical moment. It's like a dream.
It's clear that Frost and Lynch have chips on their shoulders to get rid of after those 25 extra years on this planet, and they do it so much better than others. It's pretty much Lynch and Frost on steroids, their highly personal revenge on the TV/Movie industry. Visually stunning in all aspects; The first TV-series on my expensive computer-screen that really treats my eyes with superb cinematography and the camera-work of a lifetime. Not to mention the way it has been edited. I watch it in the dark, with headphones on, because audio has been so enjoyable as well, mixed perfectly, subtle sounds. The musical performances at the end of each episode are brilliant. Seriously, a treat if you can watch it in high resolution, with high end audio equipment. Then the cast and acting are simply flabbergasting. Yes, some would rate it 'slow', it's almost documentary-like in places, but like with David Lynch's Interview Project, you have to appreciate how he sees things. For me, it has never been boring anywhere. I can understand some would get bored, but that's probably more impatience and stress than anything else. If you have the time, and I gladly waste it for this, this is one of the best TV-series I have ever seen in my 51 years on this planet. I have never smoked or done drugs, and I'm not into alcohol much either, more of health-nut perhaps, but I do like the kinship with the dark side that comes across with Twin Peaks. I had to write this review after watching Part 6, which has numerous outstanding scenes in it. The rants of Naomi Watts' character about a payback for a loan is just TV-history in the making, to name one.If you normally watch documentaries without any problems, go watch Twin Peaks and enjoy the ride of refreshing video art, beautiful views and portraits, outstanding shots and colors. If you're short on time, stressed out, burned out, late, procrastinating, impatient, hyper-tense or hyper-active, this is not for you.


                
David Lynch, free of the shackles of broadcast television, has created a quite amazing story in partnership with Mark Frost. Abstract art. Some people understand that abstract art is open to interpretation. It is an object or painting that allows the observer to form their own, unique, interpretation. David Lynch and Mark Frost have created an abstract television series. It is not meant to show all viewers exactly the same story or episode, it is for viewers to go with the flow and understand that the creators have created the show with the intent that viewers, as with abstract art, will form their own interpretation.If abstract art is something you hate and cannot see the purpose of, then fine. Many people hate abstract art and more than likely hate this series. That does not make them stupid, blind or ignorant. It merely says that abstract art (whatever its form) is not for them.I love the series but that does not make me brighter or superior to those who hate it, it just means we are all different.The continuing saga of Agent Cooper being created again and very slowly learning to live is fascinating. As is the story of his doppelganger and now we have Tim Roth and Jennifer Jason Lee on board as a couple of hillbilly killers for hire, the show is ramped up to another level. Wonderful television. Knocked one point off because Chrysta Bell (FBI agent Tammy Preston) is terrible. Whether she is just a bad actor or David Lynch has encouraged her to act that way is a puzzler. She has worked with Lynch a number of times in the past and they have released albums together so who knows.
Unlike other TV show you have a lot of things to take into consideration while writing a review on Twin Peaks. Anyone who reviews a Lynch Movie has to go through a lot of explanations and reviews by others to confirm that he is well educated about what he is reviewing about. And judging such a Man's series by first few episodes is pointless. Because it's guaranteed that no one has a clue. That's not anyone's mistake, but that's how it's supposed to be.1. It's a fact the in 1990 twin peaks was a game changer. Totally out of the ordinary. David Lynch has to keep up that label here. If the new season was just as season 1&2 it wouldn't be a special TV show now, would it ? So story wise he has to stir up the old ideas and mythology. And so far I can see that there are a lot of ideologies hidden unlike the previous season which has 1 or 2.2. Now, everyone is expecting the weird vibes, awkward silences and unconventional comedy scenes and joke as before. Trust me, you won't be disappointed.3. Don't waste time watching the show if you haven't watched season one, season 2, the movie, and the missing clips. The original twin peaks fans had plenty of time (25years) to analyze their theories based on these sources. You are not any special to understand everything in one go. 4. Just like Richard Linklater's movies have profound conversations between characters, Lynch movies have got a characteristic of working up your brain. It doesn't spoon feed you like all the other TV shows/movies.5. And the new cast ? Oh My Lord!! You are in it for a surprise. Famous characters popping up in episode is like Christmas every Sunday.


                
Lynch and Frost were never going to give you "more of the same" or play it safe in any way. For this they must be applauded. This series is not for fans of the campy side of the 90s Twin Peaks. Although always dreamlike, the somnambulist aspects of the original series pale by comparison. The new show is like a living, moving Jean Metzinger painting, seemingly devoid of logic but bubbling underneath with purpose. Rest assured (micro spoiler) by episode four, halfway through you will be presented with a defining moment that signals your arrival in the Twin Peaks we remember (hint musical score). The 2 hour premiere bares little resemblance to what comes later and we can see the narrative hitting it's stride. It's Twin Peaks people, and most assuredly it is most definitely David Lynch at his most unfastened.
I had some reservations about this series when it first aired, so I waited 7 episodes to write this review.This series is nothing like I had expected. I expected some doughnuts and lots of coffee and some frequent nightmarish imagery. The series has instead given me lots of nightmares and very little doughnuts and coffee.This could be one of the 'un-criticisable' work of art ever created. David Lynch is not your normal filmmaker. He has ideas which he wants to bring to screen. At the same time, he likes to manipulate his audience. He has said many times that he has an idea and a frame in his mind, and he creates a script and story around that. This series shows that 100% to be true. The plot lines are moving very slowly, and they seem unrelated till episode 6 at least. However, you can't say there is no story and no plot. I fast-forwarded first 6 episodes again after watching episode 7 and I was able to make sense of lot of things. E.g. 1) I had almost forgotten that Ray (with help of that girl) attempted to murder bad cooper. Bad Cooper caught the bluff and killed that girl in bed. 2) He found out from the phone recording that Ray is in some jail. That's when he changed his plan and made sure he goes to same jail, at the same time foiling an attempt from Black Lodge force to be pulled in. He sends Dougie instead. 3) There is something with electricity. Dougie goes in from a socket, Cooper comes out of a socket. There is an electric buzzing every time someone gets killed or if something bad is going to happen. I guess the bad spirits from Black Lodge get their feed from pain and sorrow, which is carried from electric wires. (When the little boy dies) 4) Now Bad Coop came out of the jail and also took Ray with him. 5) He was in contact with Philip Jeffries who had been missing for years and whose last appearance was in Fire Walk With me and Missing Pieces. 6) Bad Coop himself was 'The Billionaire' (remember his photo in white suit revealed in episode 6) who was paying that guy to watch the glass box. He also got that lady killed and sent Ike to also kill Dougui Coop 7) Bad Coop is now out of the jail with Ray, and he is definitely up to something big. 8) I think Dougie somehow needs to arrive in Twin Peaks in order to get his memory back. It sure is not coming together at a pace we expected it to be. There is a good chance it will never come together for viewers, but if you really are able to dissect Lynch's mind and what he wanted to tell, may be, just may be there is a little chance you could appreciate this show for what it is. I can totally understand why someone could blame its slow pace, but nevertheless they can't deny the fact that the imagery is haunting and we can't take our eyes off screen even if it is that Doctor painting his shovels in gold for 2 minutes straight.
I am a huge Twin Peaks fan and I had a feeling (my intuition was correct, too) that Hawk would have much to do with getting Coop out of the Black Lodge. My theory was Strengthened by Mark Frost's book, The Secret History of Twin Peaks, which explains how the Native Americans helped Lewis & Clark find a portal in an area north of there which was not yet TP yet. They made the map to the black lodge, Lewis went to find it & was missing for a while, and he returned, changed. I'd prefer to hear more old TP scores from Angelo Badalamenti besides in the opening credits (Laura's theme) & when they used that one song to you want to snap your fingers. I did think the song playing as bad coop/bob was driving in the first hour of the pilot was very appropriate as well as NIN-esque song from an import with scary versions of "Closer." When they put Matt Lillard's character in jail there was some spirit in another cell that was difficult to see since the shot was dark, & then it disappeared. I'd like to know more about that situation since she was in cahoots with bad coop/bob. I would also prefer to know what happened with Donna & James, Norma & Ed, & Audrey. The one thing I can't get, the blue rose, was mentioned. It's too soon though...I'm sad that Michael Anderson didn't return, and now there's that weird electric sycamore tree with what may be a brain at the top? I like the tree, but I liked Anderson much better. I give it an 8 for now because I'm guessing things may get back more to what the hardcore fans such as I would like to see. Many years have passed & despite the loss of some great characters and my mild dislike of many of these new characters, I'm still interested to see how the season goes. Bad Coop with Bob inside of him creeps me out. I'd also like to know what or whom those two guys in the office are, since the one sitting at the desk warned him to never get involved with someone like "him." Was he talking about Shadow Coop/Bob? No idea. I'm hoping at the end the rating I'm giving it now will go higher, not lower.
I didn't love the original Twin Peaks. I watched it out of curiosity only a few years ago, then again just before starting season 3. I enjoyed the characters and the strangeness, but never really fell in step with it. Somehow with season 3 I'm completely enrapt. After reading a bunch of seethingly negative reviews I felt like I had to say how I felt about it.I'm not quite getting the complaint that it "has no story". I feel like it's all there, it's just a bit under the surface. The mystery is still building. Tiny bits being revealed. The tone is strange. Frightening and disturbing piqued with little moments of adorable humor, then suddenly disturbingly absurd.I find myself completely endeared to Agent Cooper in his tragic state of mind. I want him to find himself.I remember reading that Lynch never wanted to solve the Laura Palmer murder from the original series, he wanted it to be something that would loom over the town, continually adding this feeling of dread and uncertainty. I think that dread is back and it's stronger than ever. Every scene I feel like something mystical is happening or about to happen. Stretched out takes have me anticipating some new horror. For me, it has that special quality of something you can't look away from.


                
Instead of giving the fans of the original show more of the same, David Lynch invites the audience to see for themselves that the fundamental problem with revivals is their innate lack of originality. By delivering a revolutionary study of nostalgia, Lynch once again proves that one of the greatest minds in modern cinema is still hard at work.


                
At first I thought this series was disappointing. I wanted the show to be like it was in the series original run. Well that is not what I got. What I got was a story I never would have thought of and after a few weeks I realized "Of Course They Can' Just Go Back" things have changed. I am not the same person I was in 1990 and neither is television. I came to the conclusion that this was the correct thing to do. "Laura Palmer" is dead. Agent Cooper is now the main victim and hero this time around and we are getting some of the best produced television since "The Sopranos". I have seen every aired episode that has aired so far. (As of today its 9). Yes this a little weird but the episodes stick with you. You are still thinking about them the next morning trying to figure out if what we are seeing is "A Dream" or someones "Reality". "Twin Peaks" has me hooked once again! I hope that we will get more "Twin Peaks" after this season is over.


                
David Lynch returns with a captivating 21st Century masterpiece. All the trademark nightmarish surrealism, uncomfortable dialogue, supernatural themes, and offbeat comedy that is sure to please any Lynch fans. However, the storytelling and cinematography are far more refined than this series' predecessor, with Kubrick-esque attention to scene-composition. Essentially a long film chopped into barely- digestible pieces, each episode leaves the viewer with something to chew on. The series demands patience and directly contradicts modern trends in rapid consumption of media. Lynch has you constantly questioning the story's meaning and questioning your own relationships, daily routines, spirituality, and ultimately life. Well worth the wait.


                
At first I thought this show has worn out is welcome to me. I loved the original show and "Fire Walk with Me". After 6 episodes (I thought)it was slow. I didn't mind new characters but I hate not seeing the original cast. Fans like me have waited 25 years for new "Twin Peaks". We are just like the "Star Trek" and will never admit that! That's because we are little crazier?The new episodes of "Peaks" are all slow. Nothing much happens. It like watching paint dry. You don't need to know the original show to watch this (But it helps). However once an episode is over you will still be thinking about it! No show has done that to me since "THe Original Series".I just wish the fans of this show would be "REAL" and come-out and state that "At first it seems like a huge disappointment". They won't. At first I was mad that David seemed to be ignoring the original cast and locations. However the more I think about this show the more I figured out that its 25 years later and things change. LAura Palmer is dead. This year its about Dale Cooper and his journey. Where as "Fire Walk With Me" was about Laura Palmer. I bet the final episodes are "Going to see a huge showdown in Twin Peaks". If you don't like this show watch the first 2 episodes over again and you will realize how layered each episode is and how they are connected.


                
What year is this?2017.Jeez.Can you believe that over 25 years has passed since the original Twin Peaks?Who were you 25 years ago?Were you a teenager with the world at your doorstep?Perhaps you had just turned 30 and were dealing with the reality that you live in a nightmare?Maybe you were approaching retirement and looking forward to reclaiming your life from capitalism?Or maybe you were non-existent?Suffice to say, you are not the person that you were then.You will never be that person again.You are you today.You are not the you of yesteryear.And yet instead of being mindful and focusing on where we are at a particular place in time and space, we often dwell on who we used to be, and who we will be.But we cannot change the past, and we cannot control our future.It's a theme prevalent throughout this return to Twin Peaks.Lynch and Frost explore the sheer terror of time and the role it plays in fostering anxiety within their audience.At the root of anxiety is our past and our future.It can either be brought on by thinking of mistakes, or because of some sort of trauma we experienced, in the past; or it can be brought on by thinking of things yet to come and things we do not yet understand.As such, there is no better time to be than in the present. For better or worse, you must stay in the present to have any chance of warding off this anxiety.This is very important to remember as you sit down and watch what is, effectively, an 18-hour movie. There are no 'episodes' here, there are 'parts'.This is a key distinction. If you attempt to sit down and watch this with 'episode' in mind, you will be left confused, annoyed, frustrated, and unimpressed.An 'episode' is a chain of events happening in a sequence; but a 'part' is something that makes up a whole thing.The whole is full of anxiety and things we cannot control - these are the combined parts. Those parts have happened, will happen, and are happening right now.Those parts needn't be in any particular chronological or sequential order.After all, anxiety's relationship to time is so powerful that we can relive the horror of our past in the present; while, almost simultaneously, we can feel terror as we ponder our future.It's all so strong that we can even ponder the future of a past that we cannot have.There's nothing truly sequential about these moments - lived or un- lived - that invade our present in an arbitrary manner over the space of a whole day, week, month, year or longer.And yet despite how all over the place these parts may be, they still make up who we are; they still make up the whole of our existence.The usage of time isn't something entirely new to Twin Peaks, especially THAT Fire Walk With Me scene in Laura's bedroom, but time has never been more important than in The Return.Note that this is not season 3 of Twin Peaks. It stands alone from the original show, much like 'Fire Walk With Me'.It is a 'return' - but a return to what exactly?It is not the return of your beloved Twin Peaks of the 1990s.Lynch and Frost are dealing with a rabid fanbase that, on one hand, demands new intrigue and new lore; while also wanting to explore old locations and characters.As such, The Return is caught in a struggle between the lore's past, present and future.But Lynch and Frost also want to remind you of how important it is to be mindful.Interspersed within terrifying and turbulent scenes are moments of sheer, undiluted presence of mind.You will see two characters sitting and mindlessly staring at an object in silence.You will see otherworldly happenings.You will see someone sweep the floor for two minutes.You will see extreme violence.You will see a musical performance.Twin Peaks: The Return travels between realism and surrealism like the flick of a light switch.That may not be something new for those familiar with the original show, but there's an inescapable feeling of discomfort throughout that is missing from the more formulaic original.It plays with your anxieties over time: fear of time being wasted on scenes with seemingly no purpose, fear of not being in control of the story, and fear of whether or not you will reach the end having understood what you have just watched.Whether you choose to accept or reject that you do not understand the whole, and whether or not you are able to make peace with that choice, will likely dictate how much you enjoy The Return.Unlike the uncertainty and mystery within the original Twin Peaks run regarding Laura Palmer's murderer, which likely left you deeply intrigued and whimsical, this 18-hour movie's uncertainty and mystery is full of inescapable darkness and palpable anxiety.Will we see this?Is this going to happen?Will this be resolved?What is happening?This is an existential crisis playing out in front of your eyes – both for you and your beloved characters.It is uncomfortable viewing, but with some of the most satisfying pay-offs I have ever felt.Remember: parts, not episodes.Now, to get to the review part.Actually... I think too much time has passed.I have other things to do, other places to be, and other memories to dwell upon.Come to think of it, what year is this?


                
I noticed the depressing tone of those user reviews giving this a 1-star and claiming the positive ratings are written by paid hacks, as if they can't otherwise fathom anyone enjoying this. You see similar guff under news articles where opinions on major current affairs might differ greatly. This insistence on there being only a black & white with no nuanced shades in between ('you're either with us or against us') is a sad poison within our culture.Saying that, Twin Peaks 2017 is difficult to recommend to viewers who want & expect a jovial reunion of an energised Cooper with the rest of the classic cast. And it's also not for those who don't particularly appreciate abstract interpretive works of art, but for those that do there are indeed two ways you can enjoy this: 1) wallow in the atmosphere...imagine watching a surreal painting which moves in distinct stages: inspired by the works of Caravaggio, Hieronymus Bosch, Dali, Escher and others. You don't necessarily understand what's being shown, but you know you like it.2) follow the plot and attempt to put the puzzles in their place. By watching carefully your attempt at the puzzle so far (10 episodes in) will begin to show something recognisable, but it's still only about half-done and likely won't ever be complete.Of course you can do both! I'd also suggest if you enjoy most of the following works then you'll appreciate the new Twin Peaks: the red-room scenes of the classic series, plus generally Lynch's film work. Kubrick's 2001 & Eyes Wide Shut. Tarkovsky's Solaris & Stalker. Apocalypse Now, Pi, Kontroll, Seventh Seal, Under the Skin, There Will Be Blood and the more mythological/metaphysical mystery elements of Lost, BSG and X-Files.Twin Peaks 2017 isn't perfect (nothing is), there'll be bits you may not enjoy, not least the shoegazing hipstery electro-pop showcased at the end of almost every new episode...not always tonally befitting of what went before as that specific ethereal quality of a trippy Julee Cruise is somehow missing. Plus there's a handful of extremely slow scenes which seemingly show you nothing much except making your mind wander, but these aren't game-changers and after a while they become tools for further immersion: like those times when you're sitting at a train station just waiting and you end up staring at something inconsequential for several minutes...somehow hypnotised.Drink full...and descend.


                
Twin Peaks: The Return is a beautiful examination of trauma and aging, I feel the later subplot with Audrey is sorely lacking any need to be there, but other than that this may be my favorite television show of all time.


                
