It never ceases to amaze me how many people exist out there that you can spoon feed garbage to and they will come back and tell you it tasted like delicious ice cream. This appears to be one of those very same situations.I watched the first 2 all the way through and tried to watch 6 more beyond that, but was unable to complete them. Some of them had very good animation going on, others not so much. They ALL had terrible writing, dialogue and voice acting in common however.If adults came up with this, then they are NOT masters of their craft. They either don't have a talent for writing, or they need to get a lot more life experience under their belt before they should be given a platform like this to show off their work.Every show I watched was loaded with extremely predictable scenes and plots, VERY bad dialogue, and very frequent clichés. Most of them tried very hard to be artistic, but it all felt so forced. As such, it failed to deliver any real entertainment value to me.Most people are giving this pile of garbage a ten star rating... TEN STARS!! Y'all realize that means this is one of THE BEST THINGS YOU'VE EVER SEEN IN YOUR LIFE! That's like saying sesame seeds are the greatest snack you've ever had. It just doesn't make sense.... and.. it's an abuse of the rating system that IMDB was kind enough to provide you. I bet most of you gave Aquaman 10 stars as well. The celebration of mediocrity continues... sadly...


                
Well that's a couple hours I'll never get back. I guess I'm alone here, but seriously, people liked this? Aside from 1 or 2 mediocre episodes, it was a complete snoozefest. Yes, it's visually beautiful, but that's all this show has going for it. It's mostly either tired, played out stories, done a million times before, or complete random nonsense. It's just not worth the time at all.


                
As i went through each episode i couldn't help but start predicting the scenes. The scenes werent only predictable they were illogical. Take for example Three Robots which had three robots on vacation traveling around taking vacations to see post apocalyptic civilizations.Two of the robots had mouths, one digital, one mechanical, both used for talking, but when they looked at human food they... nevermind. It isn't logical and it is a lack of attention to detail.Every episode had these logical errors which dragged down the story. So overall while the idea, the art, the motivation were interesting, the series of short movies failed to keep me entertained.
Presaumably a bunch of 13 years olds watched a load of black mirror episodes and decided, "we can do that, but let's animate it instead so we can go really over the top with it so hopefully nobody will notice there is zero substance to it".First episode is actually not too terrible but the series goes steeply downhill after that. Be prepared for a lot of "and then he woke up & realised it was all a dream," type endings, with plenty of clichés & terrible dialogue filling in the gaps.Maybe some kind of Tom Hanks "Big" scenario actually happened in real life & the person in charge of commissioning at Netflix was actually a 13 year old in an adult's body at the time this got signed up?


                
One second into the first season you immediately get your generic Netflix 'girl power' vibes, 'let's yell at the generic antagonized white male and automatically win everything because muh feminism'.Waste of resources, but because the animation is pretty awesome and it's violent everyone will love it without thinking twice about how cliche it is for Netflix, how senseless the 'plot' is and how it has nothing new or original to offer.It's like a bootleg ABC's of Death but with a way bigger budget and taking itself way too seriously. As always when it comes to Netflix, I knew exactly what to expect and I wasn't pleasantly surprised to see anything new.If you're desperate to watch "strong" female characters with either the Skrillex haircut or no hair at all kill "evil" white men in countless different scenarios, and scenes featuring lots of tits and dicks, the dicks often being shot at or damaged because (???) -- make your own conclusions what the agendas are here. As usual Netflix is waging a war against men in general, but I did enjoy two of the 18 episodes because they happened to not be SJW trash.


                
This is my first review of a movie/series ever.Maybe I'm not a fan of this genre, but I didn't quite catch the plot of most of the episodes, when I did - it was so dumb... otherwise there seemed like no plot and they tried to hide it with nudity, monsters/aliens and other weird stuff with no logic whatsoever which I wish I wouldn't watch.Although the yogurt episode seemed fun.I wouldn't recommend to watch this "amazing" series at all, better go watch something good from real life or save your time to enjoy other stuff.e7After watching this I'm feeling confused and shocked. There is no benefit in watching this, no inspiration, no mood boost, not a single good and useful thought to get from this series.1 for the graphics, typography, intros, animations. Those are great. Enjoyed.


                
I suffered through each episode hoping something would redeem this show, I think I would have preferred being waterboarded. Half-assed pointless stories with little meaning. Feels like they were written by a 10 year old.


                
I watched the first episode and lost precious minutes of my life. Boring, un-interesting are the words that come to mind.Please avoid better see porn that this utter hideos series. Of course, I am judging by one episode... and I do not believe it can get better


                
I dont get what all the fuss is about, while the CGI is good (like all movies nowadays), this series is just social engineering. I watched the first 2 episodes and it was enough to put me off, the first was pushing LGBT/feminist garbage with cheap lesbian sex scenes, and the second was about 3 really dumb robots who were wandering the earth which was destroyed by global warming, im sorry, 'climate change', or whatever they are calling it now. All their dialogue was very weak and just cringe worthy. It would make more sense if they were from another planet, seeing how exceptionally stupid and ignorant they were.I think the problem is that there is nothing else on Netflix, hence this looks like a gem amid a sea of dreary programming. Anyone remember the Animatrix? It just feels like Love, Death and Robots is a big ripoff in terms of the styling, gore, sex and story telling. This programming really is for the netflix zombie hordes who dont know any better.


                
It never ceases to amaze me how many people exist out there that you can spoon feed garbage to and they will come back and tell you it tasted like delicious ice cream. This appears to be one of those very same situations.I watched the first 2 all the way through and tried to watch 6 more beyond that, but was unable to complete them. Some of them had very good animation going on, others not so much. They ALL had terrible writing, dialogue and voice acting in common however.If adults came up with this, then they are NOT masters of their craft. They either don't have a talent for writing, or they need to get a lot more life experience under their belt before they should be given a platform like this to show off their work.Every show I watched was loaded with extremely predictable scenes and plots, VERY bad dialogue, and very frequent clichés. Most of them tried very hard to be artistic, but it all felt so forced. As such, it failed to deliver any real entertainment value to me.Most people are giving this pile of garbage a ten star rating... TEN STARS!! Y'all realize that means this is one of THE BEST THINGS YOU'VE EVER SEEN IN YOUR LIFE! That's like saying sesame seeds are the greatest snack you've ever had. It just doesn't make sense.... and.. it's an abuse of the rating system that IMDB was kind enough to provide you. I bet most of you gave Aquaman 10 stars as well. The celebration of mediocrity continues... sadly...


                
From Russian Doll to this, a solid 9 ?I feel tricked with all these one-liner reviews, what is going on with the ratings on IMDB?
Where are all the reviews that explain why a movie/series is great, not that Jesus died for this show and you have to see it just "because of reasons".8 episodes in and my eyes are glued to my telephone, figuring out why this show is a 9! And #26! If i look down that list, how can any of these shows be inferior to this?I do appreciate the creativity, wich it has. The animation is great but that doesnt make it that, what ever happend to great writing? Dialogue? Is it out of style ? Am i getting old ? Why are robots cursing so much?The idea is great, different episodes in different animation styles. It is just not really consistent, especially when the episodes are short -o wait some nudity-Well maybe i am just becoming an old fart but i just had to give it some critique in a sea of 9's and 10's, because of reasons.
I got 6 episodes in before I couldn't take it anymore. This show is amazing artistically, the style of the animation is insane and I'm sad it was wasted on this. The fact so many people are rating this a 10 just goes to show how sexual violence against women is barely a blip on their radar. I wonder if perhaps this show had featured men being sexually abused and physically castrated, it would receive the same response. I'm doubting it. Most episodes just represent what I imagine a room full of incels who consider themselves "nice guys" would write after real life women don't want them. And I know most would read my review and go "it's just a show, it's art". But therein lies the problem.If you can watch this series without being sickened and concerned that an all male direction and a 99% male writing crew basically had Netflix finance a cartoon fetishising violence against women, you probably need to reassess yourself.


                
Far away from Black Mirror, this "thing" or better this piece of series-crap, will waste your time. The short stories are absolutly bad told. The animation and CGI effects are full of mistakes and cause eye cancer.Violence, sex and satanism are the main messages. Don't expect social criticism or visions of the future. All episodes were a bunch of crap as i said. There is nothing else but disgusting violence and sex.Please manage your money wise. Don't invest in such crap-productions.


                
I don't understand the high rating. At first I thought it was all paid reviews, but it turns out some people actually like this show. The animation is charming in places. Otherwise you'll find the worst writing you've ever encountered with pointless storylines. Shockingly terrible. Don't waste your time.


                
Very bad the worst and it sexual animation like hentai
Rather a sad collection of highly derivative stories.It has strongly fascistic, pro-war, pro-US imperialism themes.It seems, in many of the stories, to be propping up US exceptionalism.It is basically badly made, very obvious, immoral propaganda.


                
Poorly written bs, extremely misagonystic, no point in the meaningless short stories that are not short enough, lots of fake reviews and ratings on IMDB, totally disappointing!


                
The trailer of this show was very bad, and I was not gonna watch it, but after reading a lot of reviews saying this show was a masterpiece, I gave it a try, sadly, all the good reviews were a lie :/ this show is the weirdest, most boring and senseless show I've ever seen, it has no logic, it talks about nothing, dumb plots, with dumb twists, lame script, boring stories, can't understand how some people gave it a rating above 1!!!!! it's unbelievable, probably those people are easy customers and like anything that it's trending and has a lot of publicity.


                
Episode 1 is good, at least I was enjoying that. But then episode 2, 3, 4 feels way too American with Tipical American "jokes" and plots, this show certainly will be loved just like Marvel movies are so popular. But not something for me. I prefer game of thrones, black mirror, Witcher type of stories and dialogues at this decade.


                
Extremely offensive, over the top violence and as per usual in a modern series too much sex.


                
Unwatchable tier audio, unfortunate cause I'm sure this series is great.Have to turn off anything lower than 120hz and put a limiter on to hear any of the dialogue, what were you people thinking?


                
