What a unique production! Netflix definitely got something (very) right here. In fact, I wish there would be more quality content like this.Every single episode is intriguing and spectacular; it can be very violent at times, funny and sad. The art is just breathtaking. Writing is on point.So far I liked "Sonnie's Edge", "The Witness" and "Beyond the Aquila Rift, "Good Hunting" and "Zima Blue" the best. More, please, Netflix!


                
Sublimely animated (NSFW) shorts... each with it's own unique and beautiful (& mature) story. Think game cinematic-Animatrix saga with hyper-realistic futurism/multi-dimensional concepts. Absolutely GORGEOUS. I enjoyed each immensely, and cannot wait to see more, hopefully becoming a mainstream format.


                
Honestly it just appeared on Netflix so I thought why not give it a try? and I am so happy I did. Every episode is so beautifully animated and the stories keep you interested from beginning to end! The most impressive and immersive thing Netflix has done in a little while, you aren't wasting you're time. believe me.


                
I seriously hope Netflix produces more shows of this quality.
Great animation quality together with themes and stories for adults are pretty much non existent. Until now.
This is really worth getting a subscription for. At lest for me it was.


                
Watched the complete series in one go!!! Could not stop watching!


                
I am in awe of how truly great this is.On every level it impresses...Visuals, audio, script, acting, dialogue, atmosphere... It's got them all in spades!Just sit back and let the episodes draw you into their worlds.It is a work of art and should be celebrated.


                
Once you start watching, you can't stop until it's over


                
Spectacular audio and animation violent,sad,funny good stories.Netflix did a good job,did something that most people do not expept to see.I want more content like that please Netflix.


                
Just Watch It!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
I was blown away by this series, having accidentally stumbled upon it. All I can remember is thinking every second that it's so good it can't be real, can it? Must watch.


                
I love all the Devilman Crybaby vibes I get from this show!!! It's disturbingly gruesome at times and laugh out loud funny at others. I haven't even watched the entire season but I'm already looking forward to season 2! If you loved Devilman Crybaby or Black Mirror, you'll love this show. If you aren't sure about it, just give it a try because it's honestly so good!!!


                
To make this clear I don't like watching animated films or shows I'm not a child anymore, I was flicking through netflix this morning and came across love death and robots I watched the trailer and thought this looks good but it's animated what shall I do ignore it or give it a go if I don't like it I can just stop watching it so I just give it a go so I started to watch it WOW this netflix series is brilliant I can't stop watching it I could watch this all day everyday and still not get bored of it. Because I'm not into animated films or shows I like the shortness of each episode plus it's not made for kids it's an 18 or should be with the swearing, nudity, blood and violence in each episode. It's well written and the animation in some episodes are so excellent they almost seem so real I know they are but from an animation perspective..... It's brilliant what else can I say just keep up the great work and please have many episodes to come thankyou for your great work it's been a great watch thankyou. Anybody who isn't into animation like me just give it a go it's a must watch.


                
The first episode had me hooked! Was like watching an amazing story line in a game! I wish there was a movie done on it, that's how much I loved it! Animation is incredible, on episode two and I am laughing my head off. Hitting each genre perfectly. 100% recommend!


                
Not every episode is a masterpiece but they are all beautiful. It's like SciFi heaven. I want to shake Netflix's hand for putting this together. I haven't enjoyed this type of thing since the Animatrix. It's just wonderful. I can't tell you my favs. I'd have to rewatch them all a few time to separate the good from the brilliant.
Please encourage more of this!


                
This animated anthology is truly awesome.
And for anyone that is a true fan of sci-fi fantasy horror, and Japanese anime. This is the series for you. Not only is this series brimming with great storytelling and stunning visuals. But it is absolutely brilliant. It is a must-see series.
And also, Netflix should not be hesitating in commissioning a 2nd season.


                
... i have good news for you.
This is the most incredible series of films I've seen in many many years.I literally feel like a kid again.I barely watch movies these days, because i KNOW I'll be bored to death.But this... Just wow...The excitement i get from this... It's just too amazing!The brutally rad artwork.
The deep, EMOTIONAL stories about characters that we actually care and root for.I give this show 1000/10 stars. It's not enough but, i think you get the point.This gave me hope for the future industry.The ONLY minus, is that the movies are short.Over and out.


                
Beautiful .
To be honest I was skeptical about it at first. , but immediately fell in love with the unique story's , and the ability to make me attached to each character in 15 min , as if I know them for 10 seasons . I teared laughed bit my fingernails energized by the action,U Pushed all my buttons
brilliant work thank you.


                
I find myself amazed at the variety of deep and engaging storylines that left me at the edge of my seat... Enraptured, in awe, perplexed, in love, angry and even clamoring for more.This anthology is unique in its offering and I can't wait for the second volume. Nearly all of the visual novellas are masterpieces in their own right both in story and in animation style.


                
I have to say I've never given a 10/10 rating before, but this merits it.
Pure genius! Definitely has a Black Mirror vibe which can never be a bad thing.
Each episode stands alone in its brilliancy.
Can't wait for more.......... well done to all involved in making this masterpiece!


                
Wow. just wow. Love, Death and Robots is an amazing eye catching short story show that just wowed every second. For Netflix's first NSFW show, it really delivered and this will for sure set a path for future shows like this down the road. Love Love Love! <U+2764>


                
Seriously. I paused it mid way through the first episode to leave a review to encourage ppl to watch this. Animation is amazing, the story telling is impressive especially in 17 minutes. Not sure how every episode after the first will pan out but the pilot shows ridiculous promise. This is no animation for kids thats for sure. A lot of people are really gonna enjoy this, i know i am


                
This is one amazing show.Episode 1 - Sonníe´s Edge & Shape Shifter were AMAZING(the latter had me almost in tears).But all episodes were magnificent. This is a must watch.Just speechless.


                
When I saw this on Netflix, I admit I was skeptical. I thought it might go down the way of some of Netflix's other animated shows (which can be very hit-or-miss). When I saw the reviews, I was still skeptical, so thought I would give it a go.Just watched the first few episodes straight through and the reviews check out. For me it came off a lot like a Ken Lieu compilation of short stories, with each piece delivering as much wonder and captivation as the one before.I would give this show 9/10, but the innovation behind the idea, as well as the animation, easily bump it up to a 10.


                
It is the best animated series I have ever seen. I'm in 10 minutes of first episode and I'm loving it. I wish I could rate it 11. If this gets below 9 average, that'd be unfair.


                
I have to agree on the reviews on here that Netflix has made a superior show with great acting story telling and over the top violence. Just hope they make a second season thumps up


                
