I was really excited to see this show on Netflix as the premise seemed to echo along the lines of black mirror or the animatrix.Unfortunately, this show is none of those things. The stories are vapid and "edgy" with random nude women and "fucks" thrown in for no reason except to realise the seemingly 12 year old writer's wet dream.We barely it though 3 episodes in the hopes things would change, but it didn't. Don't waste your time on this, It's sad that they didn't pair the brilliant animators with some at least barely decent writers.


                
The animations in this show are beautiful. Really, it's top notch. As far as the storytelling is concerned, there it fails. It tries to be cyber-punky, it tries to be horror and it even tries to be funny, but it falls short of all of those goals. If there is any societal commentary in there, I don't even want to know what it is.That being said: I just saw the first four episodes and decided to quit watching. The first one was silly. It was dark for darkness' sake. As if a fourteen year old wanted to come up with a video game and hatched a blandly violent one while throwing in a blandly flat extract of Lisbeth Salander in there. Yuck.The second one was just flat. It wasn't funny enough to be funny, it was a bit trite, and the twist device at the end was ham-fisted at best. I can't even come up with more than two lines about that one.This leads to the third one. Similar story outline: stuff happens, we throw in some nudity and violence and the twist at the end is a deus ex machina that doesn't explain the circular story at all.The fourth episode is a typical American piece of mythology where hardworking white folks are colonizing the wild west, surrounded by savages that need killing. It features a completely senseless amount of violence against an indigenous species with no backstory whatsoever. It's more stupid than Starship Troopers was, and that's saying a lot.To cut a long story short, this is what you get when you take science fiction, strip it of its philosophical inquiries, boil it down to a 15 minute sound bite and dumb it down to serve adolescents.The two stars? Well, they sure can render breasts and gore very well. I'd steer clear of this mess and go and watch some Star Trek, Doctor Who or Orville, really.If you just want to see animated nudity, there's a whole genre out there that does that better too.


                
So I guess a good script is out of fashion. By the looks of it it seems to be inspired by Animatrix, both visually and auditorial, and if not for the horrible script, bad voice acting, the neverending one-liners, unnecessary nudity, it's predictable plots and the constant immature profanities, it could have been good. But it's not. It feels like it's been made by a bunch of teens who wants nothing more than to animate naked women and sex scenes.


                
I watched the first 3 episodes. The initial reaction was the animation. Highly detailed and you can see the effort that went into every shot.There wasn't much of a story any interesting characters. Im sure that they could have made it better because animation is expensive. Spend some of that on writers.I don't understand why other reviews give it a 10. Maybe those users have never seen a good movie or maybe they actively avoid engaging their brain.


                
Animation don't have his place in series, especially when some episode have 6 min lenght and look like a youtube video made by a real artist, i give +1 because of the episode 16 with real actors


                
Ground breaking stylish animation undercut by simplistic, objectifying and sexist plotting. Half-baked. Saturated with jingoistic violence, gratuitous sex, nudity and nihilism. Rather tone deaf in its willingness to blindly celebrate these themes rather than examine them with any degree of intelligence. Characters are cartoonish in their motivations and responses, failing to react in a recognisably human (or intelligent) way to their situations but instead picking from a short list of tired stereotypes -- usually grunt, sex object or both. Disturbing, but only in the sense that you hoped removing inhibitions might lead to something fresh whereas it feels a lot more like a poorly developed male teen fantasy. The overall experience is like the old animated "heavy metal" movie which frankly today is just embarrassing to watch. Each episode feels like a long video game cut-scene with no skip button. A few interesting twists appear but they don't make up for the rest. Ultimately sterile and disappointing.


                
In the space of animated fantasy, anything is possible. In this hyper-masculine dark fantasy world, the use of female bodies for soft porn sex and abusive violence are front and center, starting right off in the very first episode, and in many thereafter. If you're enjoying the lush and charged visual aesthetics, I can understand that, because it's really well designed. Dark fantasy can be compelling and charged, and there's definitely a satisfying place for that in the human psyche.What I'd ask you to think about is how this show quite literally uses virtual (3D animation models) women's bodies in all the ways that hard porn does. It grabs on and glorifies all of the "male gaze" stereotypes that are clearly NSF soft porn. The majority of hetero male porn reflects the more toxic aspects of the insecure male issues with power and control over women. Those insecure males need to push it onto and into female bodies, treating those bodies like objects and containers used for service. It's applied in isolated, fantasy spaces in order to support the psychological manifestation of power that converts to physical and mental pleasure. 'Love, Death & Robots' adheres and reinforces this toxic male perspective so frequently that it becomes a significant part of the project, and this is a problem. Netflix and the show's producers, writers, directors, designers, modellers, texture artists, riggers, storyboard artists and animators are all making choices about how to keep perpetuating porn standards for females.


                
