Definitely worth a watch. Allthough not every episode is really that "good". I would recommend to check the different episodes ranking on imbd. There arent many bad episodes but you could save some time skipping 2,3 pointless entries. My personal favs are helping hand and good hunting!


                
Credit must be given in all episodes to the animators - the levels of technical detail and stylised novelty is incredible in every instance, showing glimpses of future possibilities. The storylines themselves, as with anthologies, are hit and miss. Personal preference will play a large part (for instance, IMDB reviews of some episodes are far from what I think), but on the whole explore interesting concepts. Some are even genuinely forward thinking, emulating Black Mirror-esque storylines.Being only 5-15 minutes long, they are all easy watches; thus, even the unenjoyable ones are only short interludes. I would give this a watch purely out of curiosity - at least one of these sci-fi stories is bound to entertain.


                
It is good for sure, a little strange but the concept and the changing of stories reminds me of the classic Animatrix which came out after the first Matrix.
Something else that needs to go onto Netflix if this is popular


                
You can see plenty of this sort of thing on youtube. I did enjoy for what it was but alot of this needed longer. If they gave every "episode" half an hour or an hour I think it would have worked better. Alot of them felt like video game trailers. However, there are some really interesting episodes that given more time would prove amazing and the talent on show is quite clearly very good. Definitely worth a watch bit don't believe the hype.


                
Really nice series a lot of different individual stories that needs to continue. I'd wish some episodes would me longer tho :)


                
I like the idea and the concepts, but the episodes were not original at all: the dialog was bad, the characters shallow and the plot twists obvious. I really liked some of the animation and "The witness" was beautiful to watch (it's crazy how they were able to animate a body's movements without mocap or rotoscoping! They were so fluid!).
Overall I think series like this could be an incentive to create and experiment with the craft of animation. Just think of better plots next time!


                
All the animations are put together well. The stories are individual and unique, leaving you wanting more.The only problem is most of the stories are objectifying women... lots of scenes of naked females and potential rape, sometimes glorifying it, which is disappointing and unnecessary.The stories themselves are original, and could have been more.An interesting move by Netflix, but as stated, women in a larger majority of the shorts, do not need to be objectified.Women watch and enjoy animation too.Make sure the next series has more equality for women, portraying us more than just objects of sexual immature male fantasies.Grow up guys!!


                
Set aside the stories, this series has the best animation and different variations of it. The visual effects of some episodes is absolutely jaw dropping whereas some other episodes nah!!! Narratively weak.


                
They really need to make the first episode feature length. The series gets a 7 from me just based on that, the other stories are interesting, some better than others but there's something for everyone.


                
If you remember the 2012 anthology show, Metal Hurlant, that show was supposed to essentially be this, but failed miserably. Love, Death, and Robots has some relatively fun story ideas as long as you can tolerate a truckload of gratuitous violence, exploitative sexuality and writing generally aimed for delinquent minded male adults (or kids whose parents don't know or don't care what their kids are watching). It has a lot of similarities to the adult SF comic book magazine Heavy Metal, so a fair number of stories contain nude women on display in some sort of titillating scenario. The humor is also often sexual, and when anybody gets killed in this show, which is about every five seconds, it is generally in a violently bloody fashion. Oh, and if you have ever wondered how many times a show can drop the "F" bomb, well get ready...Despite its juvenile fixations, there are some concept ideas and themes with solid action and good production, but don't expect any developed depth. These are more like snippet ideas. but effective for what they are. With the writing specifically, many episodes carry themselves more on gratuitous displays than any real story after they hook you in with some basic concept. For the comic book shop crowd, this is sure to be a winner. There are some episodes that are quite creative and/or humorous, with Twilight Zone or Star Trek type of twists, which offer a welcomed variety, but probably not most. Five minutes in to most stories and you pretty much know what it is, which isn't necessarily bad. I would put most of these on the same level as video game plots with added adult content. So my take is that this is sort of a dumbed down version of Black Mirror with a comic book spin and video game level plots for adults.


                
Good show, some of the stories felt like a wild acid trip, over all fun and creative


                
Netflix doesn't stop surprising. After massive failure of classic animation adaptations, they finally got something damn right.Let me start with saying, that overall quality is all over the place. It seems that there aren't many common elements. Quite few shorts just don't keep up with the tempo that was imposed by first five episodes. Clearly there was little to none communication between studios as many stories don't have much to do with anthology's title.If we were to judge book by it's cover it would be solid 9/10. Absolutely stunning variety of styles gives a once-in-a-lifetime trip. Unfortunately, only few decided to go beyond looks and serve us narration that is equally engaging. Majority looks like impressive tech demo, especially ones using motion capture.It is a bit disappointing, that instead of love, death and robots we get more of immature nudity and primitive exposure as a common theme. Although, there are fragments that use it as a part of world-building and that can leave quite an impression (vide The Witness, season 1, episode 3).Whole anthology is quite a mess in regards to what it's trying to convey. First few animations seem to resonate towards "Black Mirror" or "The Animatrix" in the best way possible. Further down though it feels like going to posh, underground restaurant. Entering with a promise of wild, crunchy dishes served in complete darkness we realise soon enough, that said meals are half cooked broccoli.Regardless how anthology feels as a whole, first few episodes deserve an ovation. And when you finally take a sit after applause you might as well watch till the end. Because even though emotions disappear seconds after fade out, during viewing itself it's easy to convince oneself, that veganism is highest form of cooking and broccoli can actually be quite a feast.


                
Definitely something different. Episodes 1,2,3 and 7 my best so far. Some episodes tho are really lacking and almost seem to have no point and nothing like the ones mentioned. Now if they created a series based on Episode 1,2,3,7....DAMN!


                
I was recommended to watch "Love, Death & Robots" by one of my friends, so I decided to give it a chance, despite being initially deterred by it being an animated show.Well, it turns out that I would definitely have been missing out on something quite unique, bordering on being extraordinary, had I not decided to sit down and watch it. And I ended up binge watching all episodes of the first season in rapid succession. Yeah, it was actually that interesting.The stories, despite being relatively short in playing time, were all very interesting, and they were all very different from one another. I was adequately entertained by all segments in season one, aside from the one with yoghurt - as it was just downright ludicrous.I liked the variation in different art and animation styles, because it gave the show a very unique quality. And it made it all the more fun to watch, compared to if every single story had been presented in the same manner of animation and art style.One thing that stuck out like a sore thumb, however, was the pointless display of nudity in many of the segments. It felt forced and just dumbed down the segment unnecessarily. They should not have opted to force in all the nudity, because it served no purpose whatsoever.The animation was quite interesting and top notch in each segment, despite the varied styles used. So there definitely is something for almost everybody here. The voice acting was also quite good.All in all, "Love, Death & Robots" is definitely worth checking out, and I am quite glad that I did.


                
