I finally got a hold of the 'Sunrise' DVD, which is only available in English-speaking America (for free) by buying three titles of the excellent Fox Studio Classics line and sending in proofs of purchase. I urge everyone to get this DVD either by sending your three coupons to the promotion or by dealing with someone in the province of Québec since it appears to be the only place in North America where this contest is void and one can buy it directly off the shelf.I have heard about 'Sunrise' all my life but the closest I ever got to see a part of it was, as a quote, in Martin Scorsese's 2-DVD made-for-the-BBC lecture with illustrations 'A Personal Journey with Martin Scorsese Through American Movies' (1995). Nobody told me the following:It is a pioneering, overwhelming piece of cinema that still manages to move me (ME!) after I thought I had seen everything. It is a profoundly human film which made me cry for 15 minutes solid in its first part (a reconciliation scene that has to be seen to be believed). This film has more special effects than Terminator 3, all in the service of a thoroughly poetic, bucolic, pastoral, personal, contemplative, idiosyncratic, lyrical, late romantic and expressionist vision of humanity. Its love story, poignant and comic elements have inspired, in no specific order, René Clair ('Le Million'), Jean Vigo ('L'Atalante', 'Zéro de conduite'), Charlie Chaplin (all his subsequent films), Fellini ('La Strada', 'Nights of Cabiria') and even James Cameron ('Titanic').The camera is extremely mobile (more so than in most of today's films, except maybe The Matrix) and the acting is superb. I finally understand why Janet Gaynor was such a big star and a big deal in her time. Her co-star George O'Brien would be hunk-o-rama of the month at the box office today if he was still around. Margaret Livingston (who she?) is also quite realistic as a believably enticing city girl vamp (of modest means) who tries to lure the hero away from his deserving wife.The DVD has more extras than a Criterion issue, including a tentative reconstruction of Murnau's missing American masterpiece 'The Four Devils' (a circus love story) and the entire shooting scripts of both 'Sunrise' and 'The Four Devils'.'Sunrise' is presented with two soundtracks: the original (mono) Movietone (i.e. optical track) anonymous composite soundtrack cobbled together from several sources (think Wagner's Siegfried Idyll) and a newly written and recorded (stereo) score with all-original themes, that closely follows the original in spirit but not in melody.Both soundtracks try to add an intimate, poetic dimension to the film, which is subtitled 'A Song of Two Humans'. The music is an integral part of the experience as the film is conceived as a tone poem and, as such (my theory) is a kind of transcription for the masses of Schoenberg's 1900 string ensemble tone poem 'Verklärte Nacht' (Transfigured Night), a late-Romantic/early expressionist attempt to describe musically the 'truly profound and authentic' relationship between a man and a woman who have problems (the music follows a poem of the era).Both soundtracks succeed admirably, my preference going to the new one, despite the original's polish, historical value and magnificent preservation. And that would be because, although in the silent era there was no stigma attached to accompanying silent movies with a score made up of public domain and rather recognizable pieces, as long as they fit the mood, times have changed ('2001, A Space Odyssey' notwithstanding) and this practice is more distracting than anything for a contemporary, moderately educated spectator.Murnau had very highbrow ambitions but his film is totally clear and populist and made to reach the widest popular audience thanks to the incredible sums of money and artistry that Fox poured in the project. 20th Century Fox basically imported a genius from Germany, gave him a ton of money and told him: 'Make us a movie that will be the most prestigious ever made in this town and that will win us the first Oscar'. And that's just what he did!Needless to say, that was a long time before Rupert Murdoch took over the Fox Corporation...


                
This is one of the few movies that fully deserves all the raves that it gets.  Some movies are artistic masterpieces more to be admired than enjoyed, leaving the viewer feeling a little distant; other movies can be enjoyable and satisfying to watch, but with obvious artistic defects. "Sunrise" is a nearly perfect movie that is impressive in every detail, and it is also a joy to watch, offering moments of suspense and tension and other moments of humor and humanity.The story provides a very thoughtful look at the importance and the fragile nature of human relationships.  Janet Gaynor is wonderful as the wife - she is always believable, endearing, and completely sympathetic.  George O'Brien is also good as the husband, and both of their performances are enhanced by director Murnau's use of their body language.  There are also many minor touches in the settings and action that help guide the story and the mood, and it is all complemented by some fine camera work.  The first time you watch the film, your attention is fixed on the leading couple, as you hope against hope that things will work out all right for them.  Repeated viewings reveal many of the other fine details that make everything work so well.The movie also has plenty of variety and a masterful structure.  The first part and the last part are tense and full of suspense, but they sandwich a very enjoyable series of lighter vignettes in the middle, which make a perfect complement both to the story and to the tone of the movie.It is very difficult these days to track down this movie, which is a real shame, and even when you do find it you generally have to make do with a rather fuzzy or defective print.  But it is well worth the trouble, and "Sunrise" is highly recommended to any silent film fan or to anyone who can appreciate a movie made the way that movies ought to be made.  It is not only one of the great masterpieces of the silent era, but is as good a film as any made since.


                
This Murnau work comes from the end of the silent era,and the miracle is that it needs nothing:it has everything.There are hardly a dozen of subtitles for a ninety- minute movie,and that's enough.The rest is the actors'sublime performances and Murnau's flawless directing. George O' Brien and Janet Gaynor do not speak,and however,we can hear them,with all our heart ,with all our soul.Their faces reflect what they endure,suffer and enjoy.Because this is not only a drama.Sometimes it turns to a true comedy.For me the scene in the church climaxes the work:the husband,desperate to a fault,and his wife ,who saw her sincere love atrociously betrayed ,"get marry" again and the priest's words will drive you to tears.Unlike "Nosferatu",which took place in dark places ,and before "tabu" which would be an hymn to the nature -in every sense of the word,and probably the key to WF Murnau's entire canon"-,"Sunrise" is a diurnal movie,beginning with a meeting with the husband and his mistress at the break of dawn,and ending in the deep of the night,but the very last picture brings back sunrise,which epitomizes a new beginning, a new christening,a redemption.And the man ,crying and begging for pardon,it might be Murnau who thought his homosexuality was a crime -Nosferatu might be a metaphor as well,as the hero who abducts a priestess he's in love with in "tabu" -A true auteur opens up in his movies,if we can read between the lines.Murnau was,along with Fritz Lang,one of the two most influential forces of the expressionism .


                
Put simply, not only the greatest silent film ever made, but one of the 10-15 perfect films.  Sunrise, to me, is the definitive moment in silent cinema.  Not only is sound unnecessary, but so are words -- indeed, there are remarkably few title cards.  Instead, Murnau trusts in the ability of his images to convey his story; he doesn't need words.  The story itself is simple, archetypal.  It functions primarily as a frame onto which Murnau fastens scene after scene of breathtaking splendor.  In particular, the first shots of the City are dizzyingly complex and layered.  Additionally, it's impossible to come away unimpressed by the Storm which tosses the characters during their return journey.  Murnau is one of the few filmmakers, and perhaps the first, to truly embrace the possibilities of film as its own medium, rather than as a novelty or, alternatively, a convenient way to preserve a stage play.  Though he is better remembered for other films, most particularly Nosferatu, Sunrise is his crowning achievement.
I found this movie at the library the other day and I had to rent it after being aware for the longest time that it's the highest film on the Sight & Sound list that I have not seen yet. After seeing it, can I say that it deserves its honor? <U+0085> I would say so, it's the polar opposite of modern film and that gets my interest since it reveals so much that cinema has gained and lost in 75 years. It tells a simple story while getting the most out of my reaction<U+0085>as opposed to movies that utilize technology, over character and story development, even though this is a movie that has time to be showy and flashy with its beautiful city sequences. After seeing Abel Gance's Napoleon, a film from the same era, I would consider this movie on par for its technical angle, which I think is half the selling point for the critic's circles. It employs a magic realism that you will not find in any modern film today, a movie where you don't care if it takes them a minute to travel from the forest to the city<U+0085>.


                
... and yes, I have plot spoilers in this review, but you could read the plot of Sunrise from beginning to end and have taken away no more versus actually seeing it as you could substitute the reading of a menu with actually enjoying a fine meal. In other words, plot is not the point of this film at all.There is nothing special about the story behind this movie. A farmer (George O'Brien) is attracted by a vamp from the City (Margaret Livingston) who seduces him and has gradually had him selling his farm off piece by piece to provide presents for her. She finally suggests that he leave his failing farm altogether and return with her to the City. However, to complete the plan, he will need to drown his country wife(Janet Gaynor). A few days later, the farmer takes his wife for a trip to the city. As he rows his wife across the lake that is between their village and the trolley, he comes close to doing away with her. However, always a reluctant partner in this plan, he recoils in horror and rows the boat to the shore, his wife unharmed. The wife, having seen the murder in her husband's eyes, jumps onto the trolley to the city with her husband in hot pursuit. Once in the city, he reassures her that he would not harm her, and he begins to feel real remorse for his previous actions. They slip into a church and watch a wedding ceremony going on, and in doing so begin to reconnect to one another. By the end of the day, they've fallen in love again; the man remembering why it was he married his wife in the first place. However, when a storm breaks out on their way back across the lake, the wife falls out of the boat. The farmer goes for help and the entire village looks for her, hoping she has not been drowned in the storm. This rather simple story could easily have been transformed into a hackneyed melodrama. What makes Sunrise a great film, though, is the majesty and tenderness F.W. Murnau managed to give it without the benefit of audible conversation.Particularly intriguing is the set of the unnamed "City". If the traffic patterns shown in this movie are indicative of traffic laws in the 1920's it's a wonder anybody made it to or from work alive. Early autos, horse-drawn carriages, and people all chaotically race through the streets without rhyme or reason. Also wondrous are the night shots of the Coney Island-style amusement park where the farmer and his wife go for some fun before returning home as well as the view of the trolley ride and and the glide following the farmer through the moonlit marsh. A little known fact is that Sunrise was one of the first feature films to use sound-on-film techniques, in which Fox was a pioneer. There were fully synchronized sounds of automobiles, church bells, crowds, and other effects. Unfortunately, "The Jazz Singer" was released shortly after Sunrise, and Sunrise failed at the box office. Time, however, has had a different judgment. Sunrise is still appreciated today as a whole motion picture experience, not just a temporary technical triumph that has faded as other technical triumphs take its place.
Captivating to say the least. In the beginning, this film bombards you with plot and puts you to the edge of your seat. All while telling a magnificent tale of a dying marriage, adultery, plots for murder, and the rekindling of a forgotten love.The acting was done very well. George O'Brien does a wonderful job of depicting a man broken by society and looking for a way out of the life he's built. Margaret Livingston also does well with portraying the "siren from the city" who, in the end, ends up exactly where she started.In all, I believe the film was ingeniously done and was revolutionary for it's time. With film-making being a fairly new concept (Just over 20 years), and the fact that the first sound film was released the same year, this movie truly cemented itself as one of the best silent era films.
A man and woman live on a farm in the European countryside and live a happy life, until a woman from the city comes and destroys the paradise the married couple enjoy, which leads to financial stress for the farm and isolates the man and woman. During a romantic romp at night, the city woman suggests to the man that he sell his farm and come with her to the city. When he asks what would happen to his wife, the city woman suggests that she could die in an "unfortunate boating accident". The man has his doubts, but is so infatuated with the city woman, he reluctantly agrees. The next day, the man and woman go rowing across the lake to town, while the man plans the murder, but when it comes to the exact time to push her over the side, he loses his nerve, scaring the heck out of his wife, who runs as fast and far from the man she can when they anchor. When they reach the city, the man pleads with his wife to not be afraid of her, but breaks down and admits his stupidity while observing a wedding (symbolic for renewing their own vows). The couple enjoy the rest of the day in the city, ending it sailing back home. The couple however get caught in a terrible storm, and the couple becomes separated, leaving the man searching for his wife, hoping she's not lost at sea. Perhaps the city woman got her wish after all. There is not one excuse ever for someone not to watch this film, which contains some of the most brilliant directing and cinematography ever. O'Brien, Gaynor, and Livingston are so natural in their roles, you swear it wasn't acting. Murnau was an absolute genius creating a film which is touching, emotional, suspenseful, and humorous throughout, with such beautiful and memorable imagery. An absolute treat for every viewer. Rating, 10.
Just as the silent era was drawing to a close, F.W.Murnau made his American debut with Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans. Simple in plot, Sunrise speaks to all of us in a powerful way. Its deep and meaningful subject matter ponders the universal human emotions common to all mankind; the need for love, companionship and happiness. This gives Sunrise a timeless quality, as its message reflects a certain truth in every one of us, no matter how old or young. The dialogue in this film is scarce, but this makes the film all the more powerful, as its messages are delivered through images rather than words. Our deepest emotions are not ones we can voice or explain, they must be felt. Janet Gaynor and George O'Brien emulate this in a brilliant and believable way.Sunrise is also a visually stunning film. Without the story behind it, the photography stands alone as a wonderful display full of beautiful scenes and images. Many of the camera techniques used in the film were avant garde for the time and set a new foundation of film-making for future directors to build on. The tracking camera movements that appear in many of the films sequences created new found levels of depth and vastness, setting a precedent for the future.This film, probably the magnum opus of Murnau, underlines the great loss the world suffered when he died in a car crash when he was only 41. Like all the great minds who die young, there is no knowing what they would have gone on to achieve. However what we do know, is that this film will always be remembered as one of the greatest films of all time. (Sunrise was voted the 7th best film of all time by The BFI in 2002)


                
I began watching this movie quite skeptically. I am not typically a big fan of the silent movie era. There are a few that break the mold and capture my fascination, and this is at the top of the list. And it's not because of the plot, or even the actors. It's solely because it is simply one of the most visually beautiful and artistic movies I have ever seen.The director, Marnau, and the Cinematogrophers were pure geniuses. They accomplish what no other film or camera had been able to before - and that is to make the bulky camera seem to become weightless and no longer tethered to its immobile base. It actually appears that the camera takes flight - especially during the marsh scene. Also, the use of superimposed images is quite stunning and adds to the dreamlike atmosphere of the movie.The plot is quite simple and one that has been done hundreds of times since then. But the plot is secondary compared to the visual art that seems to be the primary objective of their film. So many frames of this film could be frozen and become a framed painting, they are that beautiful and artistic. It's hard to believe that the city shots were on an elaborate set.In terms of the actors, they do an adequate job - but again that is not what draws me to this film. Janet Gaynor plays "the Wife" and is so delicate, young and innocent looking - like a porcelain child doll. She has such large, saucer-like eyes and even her hair is doll-like. Margaret Livingston, as "the Woman from the city" does quite well in making herself contemptible and trashy. She is quite brash and arrogant - all the things the sweet wife is not. It makes you dislike the mistress that much more.I was really surprised how much I liked this film and look forward to re-watching it again and again - as I believe the beauty captured here, and my appreciation for it, will grow with subsequent viewings!


                
My pick for the greatest silent film ever made, SUNRISE is an unassailable film masterpiece. It is one of those rare, rare films that are valuable on both an artistic/technical level and an emotional level. Murnau's use of the camera here is astonishing- over 80 years later I still cannot think of a director (well, maybe Welles in CITIZEN KANE)that has used the camera with such inspiration.The film is brilliant in all aspects while framed around a deceptively simple, fable-like story. A married Country man (George O'Brien, never more handsome)is lured into an affair with a Hedonistic, black-bobbed, threatening City vamp (Margaret Livingston), who tempts him into killing his angelic, blonde, innocent Wife (Janet Gaynor, a deserving Academy-Award Best Actress winner for this role and two others in the same year). However, he has a change of mind at the crucial moment (attempting to drown his terrified wife in a small boat)and realises his true, undying love for the woman who he took his marriage vows with.It is a story told in so many films before and since...but Murnau's vision here is remarkable. He combines the lurid Expressionism of his years (see NOSFERATU) in Germany with the pastoral American style of D.W Griffith's old-fashioned melodramas to unique effect. I've never seen a film that is so beautifully shot and composed as this one-and the new DVD transfer renders it even more exquisite-looking.However, Murnau's exciting, innovative camera movements and placements do not jar the film's emotional power one bit. Gaynor and O'Brien's acting combines beautifully, and their reconciliation scenes in the City (where the couple re-discover their affection for each other) rank as some of the most powerfully, yet sensitively, emotional acting scenes on record. Yet everyone scene is amazing- and Livingston's femme fatale (her bob pre-dating Louise Brooks by one year!) is equally unforgettable as the ultimate dark temptress, a sort of female Dracula who threatens to drain O'Brien's soul.Scenes of potential tragedy (O'Brien's failed attempt at doing away with Gaynor) are brilliantly mixed with scenes of comedy. Murnau's aesthetic mix of European and American styles is replicated in his juxtaposition of scenes of dark erotica (the reedy marshes where O'Brien succumbs to the clutches of Livginston- minimal lighting and Expressionistic shadows) and innocent playfulness (the Man and Wife encounter a photographer in the City).A triumph on every level.
Mary Pickford once commented that, if you didn't know it happened the other way around, you'd swear that talkies came first and silents afterward. What she meant, I think, was that silent movies, especially toward the mid-to-late '20s, achieved feats of camera-work, lighting, composition, and cinematic expressiveness that talkies spent decades learning to equal. Compare the grand sets and sweeping camera movements and fluid cinematography of, say, the Douglas Fairbanks "The Thief of Baghdad" with any talkie made before, say, 1935, and you'll see that the aural step forward was accompanied by a larger visual step backward. "Sunrise" is silent cinema at its peak. Many have commented on the dazzling camera movement; the amazing, expressionistic sets; the ease with which it tells a story in purely cinematic terms, with minimal titles and ingenious little camera tricks. What makes it really unusual for anything from that era is that the story still holds up. (Two others that achieve this: "The Wind" and "The General.") While some have been put off by its abrupt shifts from melodrama to comedy and back again, I think Murnau was consciously testing the limits of genre, creating a unique tone poem that resisted categorization. Add to that the natural, unhammy performances of handsome George O'Brien and demure Janet Gaynor (who, in Fox talkies, often over-peddled her sweetness) and you have a universal work that can catch modern audiences off-guard with its visual beauty and emotional power. It's so expressive that it really doesn't need a musical soundtrack, but the one accompanying the TCM print -- a little Wagneresque bombast here, a little "O Promise Me" there -- is appropriate and pleasing. A real wallop of late-silent-era magnificence, and one you can show to the uninitiated without fear they won't comprehend or be moved.


                
I had never really been a great fan of silent films (still not, to be honest), but this trancends the barrier between the two film forms. Simply it is wonderful cinema!I watched this a few years back as part of my degree course and was simply overwhelmed by its inventiveness, humour, visual poetry and cinematography. When a film can draw you in completley and make you lose track of time then it has succeded. Sunrise does that and more.The effect it has had on contemporary film-makers is immense; Se7en, for example, was heavily influenced. An interesting interview with that film's d.p was published in Sight and Sound a few years back where he raved about Sunrise and how he used it for certain shots in Se7en.Any one who wants to wallow in unashameded romance could do a lot worse than watch Sunrise. Sometimes less is more (are you listening Hollywood?)!


                
This is the best and most powerful love story that I have ever seen.   It is the story of a farmer who feels that his life is to simple and boring.  He is seduced by a woman of the city who talks to him of living in the city and the excitement of the city.  The film brilliantly shows a montage of city life and the excitement of the city while they are lying in a field.  The farmer is convinced life would be better and more fun in the city.  But, he has to kill his wife.On the way to the city he does indeed make an attempt to move toward her to kill her.  But, he doesn't.  I felt that inwardly he was torn.  He still loved her (though those feelings were being repressed).  From there he realizes he made a mistake and makes attempts to reconcile.  It is not until they see a wedding that he realizes how much he loves her.Sunrise!  Thus the title.  Murnau's use of lighting to show mood is brilliant.  The cinematography is inspired.  It is hard to believe that there is only music.  There are very few cue cards.  But, they are not needed.  There is never any question as to what emotions are being felt.
The movie really draws you into it.  There is the story and there are also many lessons that can be learned as well.  This movie has many levels to it. This is a definite 10 and I intend to see this again.  I think additional viewings will draw out even more.  This is the best and greatest silent movie ever made.


                
** Beware, Minor Spoilers** Janet Gaynor is truly a remarkable actress and it's a shame we don't have more like her in the Hollywood of today. In a day without scripts words and catch phrases,it really took some imagination and to put these splendorous images to lyrical form. The raw emotions displayed in this magical film capture the senses and I was entranced the entire time watching it. George O'Brien's husband character was truly a marvel to behold. His emotions sparked anger and passion from one moment to deep remorse and dark brooding pain the next. The repentant and contrite husband truly loved his wife and his scenes with Gaynor were very intense veiled in a genuinely poignant love for each other. What an expressive and gifted actor!Of course Janet Gaynor's wife character ultimately was his light of his life and she of course was the sunrise at the end of her husbands long dark night and of this wonderful film. It's a shame they don't make them like this anymore. A true work of art.
The silent films of the late 1920s are more timeless, not more ancient, than the films of the 1930s.  "Sunrise" was made in 1927, but could just as easily have been made in 1957 - or, indeed, at any time in between, had it not been for the temporary disturbances of the sound revolution.Everyone describes the film as "beautiful", because it is, and because that's the most apt description.  It's beautiful.  It's the kind of movie you drink in with your eyes.  It's a simple fable, but it's not just Aesop stretched out to 95 minutes; since it's a journey as well as a fable, every minute is justified.I like the role the City plays.  At first it looks as though it will be a place of evil, but it isn't; rather, it's a place of possibilities - a place where you can more easily find, or become, either good OR evil.


                
Now there's a lot of people who like to say that this or that film is the best ever made – or more commonly the best that they've seen. I would like to politely disagree, you guys can't say either of those before you've seen Murnau's Sunrise.What we have here, is one the finest films ever made and propably one of the three or so best silents ever filmed. Murnau's other films are all masterpieces in their on right, but this is The One that hits you with the power of couple of megatons of awesomeness. It's almost impossible to describe it without talking exclusively in superlatives – that's how sublime piece of filmmaking it is – but I try to stay in my pants through this rant, that is also a sincerest kind of a love song to a film that a man can absolutely adore.When I first saw this late in the night I was kinda tired and not so sober, but once the film started rolling I must have looked like Malcom McDowell in Clockwork Orange's famous scene with his eyes forced open to visual images. That's exactly what happened to me, but the force came from the sheer poetry of the visual cavalcade that was thrown before my eyes. I'm actually surprised that from the few reviews I've read about this piece, none of them seem to notice that this film is basically three separate films also – first part is extremely dark and tremendously powerful tragedy in nourish style, that also incorporates images from Murnaus's other films and maybe grim stories from his home country Germany. It's gripping, it's devastating and it forces you to suck every inch of it into your membrane. Second part is more lighter in the general mood but none the less powerful in any way. Third part is more of a synthesis of the previous two but a separate sequence on it's own.Talking about the imagery is hard because it is so provoking and sheer visual poetry in any way. Like some reviewer might have already said, the camera movement in the film propably haven't been surpassed until with the Matrix in 1999. That is little bit unfair thing to say, but actually not that far away from truth in cinematic sense.Light & dark play their sensuous dance throughout the whole film, lighting being one of the central actors in the film in any way. Film also owes a great much to the whole industry of silent cinema and German and French expressionism in part. Story is universal and almost on the par with the great Greek tragedies and also at the same time profoundly intimate.This is a movie that gripped my heart and soul wholly, extremely personally and profoundly and with intention never to let go. I'm quite a aware that this so called review is more of an confession to a love of mine, but that's the way you can only talk about your loved ones - sincerely, poetically and with utmost appreciation. I will gladly carry this piece of art to my grave as the last images I will remember before succumbing to darkness.If you are going to die soon and have the time to see just one film - please see this one. You will die as a human with a soul fulfilled.


                
While cleaning out my desk this evening and organizing my film note papers, I came across my file on this movie and realized I had posted a commentary on it back in 2001. Well after logging on, I discovered that there are now 11 pages of evaluation and all speak quite highly of "Sunrise." Of course, I have always held that concept and have 'pushed' this movie upon everyone and anyone whenever cinema topics arise. My personal 'connection' with the film is that while a teenager (16yrs old) I went to see it at MOMA in NYC. Unfortunately, they accidentally failed to bring the second half from their Archives in Fort Lee. NJ. Suddenly, the screen went blank, the lights went on, and there were apologies. The Museum offered the audience tickets for a future showing of it. Afterall, it cost this high schooler a whopping $2.00 to enter the Museum back in Spring of 1968. So, I returned and finally saw it in full that Fall. Then, years later, getting tired of the poorly copied tape I had purchased; I called and called FOX about when it was being prepared for DVD. Eventually, *they* must have gotten tired of listening to me and actually 'gave' me the FIRST disc! Of course, it isn't numbered, but that's what they told me, I guess in order to keep me quiet! :-D Meanwhile, my connection with Silents has continued, have lectured at MOMA (1993 Bobby Harron Centennial), done various film festival showings/lectures, and written articles on the Silent Era.However, anyone who knows me also knows what my favorite film is and I am very happy to read that others find "Sunrise" fine since the AFI does so as well in its ratings. Enough of my story-telling, since you are logged on because you want to either express your opinion or learn evaluations of the films posted by others and you definitely now know that my evaluation is A++, 100%, 10, and any other Highest Rating possible!


                
SUNRISE (Fox, 1927), goes down in cinema history as one of the greatest movies ever made, in fact, one of the finest ever produced during the silent era, and the type of movie that could only be seen and appreciated only as a silent film. Although produced in Hollywood, it has all the ingredients and flavor of a European production mainly because it's directed by a German director making his American debut, F.W. Murnau. While other directors (D.W. Griffith or King Vidor for example) have attempted styles all their own, Murnau was not only unique, but very much different due to his artistic attempts no others in Hollywood have achieved until that time. There isn't much of a story, actually. In fact, while this can be categorized as a love story reborn or a tender drama perhaps, it can be best summed up as one about a farmer and his wife. There's much more to it than that, as told through the camera focusing on its visual darkness to simplistic visuals of another world, montage effects, inter-titles of spoken words that slowly slide downwards on the screen, and most important, its haunting musical score composed by Hugo Risenfeld setting the tone, mood and pattern to what's to be shown.The opening title reads as follows: "This is the story of the man and his wife, no place and every place; you might hear it anywhere at any time, for wherever the sun rises and sets in the city's turmoil or under the open sky on the farm, life is, much the same, sometimes bitter, sometimes sweet." In a setting that could be somewhere in Europe or the Florida everglades, the main focus is on a farmer (George O'Brien) with a trusting wife (Janet Gaynor) and a baby. Their happiness is interrupted by a visiting city girl (Margaret Livingston) who takes over the husband's life and soul with the attempt of having him give up his farm and going away with her to the big city. She even goes so far as suggesting on murdering his wife by drowning her. The following day, husband attempts to carry out her plan but guilt takes over. While the wife fears suspects his intentions, she leaves the rowboat and runs for her life. Husband catches up to her expressing his sorrow. As she gradually feels his sincerity. the couple gather together for a happy day in the suburbs. Upon their return home by row boat, a sudden windstorm arises throwing the wife overboard. Husband swims to shore, leading the vamp to believe he actually carried out her plot, unknown to the city girl that husband has other plans for her.George O'Brien, a rugged actor best known for his lead role in director John Ford's epic, THE IRON HORSE (1924), and other westerns, offers another memorable account captured on film that's overshadowed by the sensitive portrayal of the young and upcoming Janet Gaynor. Who could forget her fearful moment set in a restaurant as her husband tries to regain her confidence as she attempts to eat her cake and breaking into tears at the same time. It is her fine work that honored her to become the very first actress to win an Academy Award. In fact Gaynor became the only actress to be awarded for three separate movies, the others being SEVENTH HEAVEN (1927) and STREET ANGEL (1928). Gaynor had worked with O'Brien before, but this was to be their best known collaboration only because it's arguably their very best together. Supporting them in this venture are Bodil Rosing (The Maid); J. Farrell MacDonald (ThePhotographer); Jane Winton (The Manicurist); Arthur Housman (The Obtrusive Gentleman); and Ralph Sipperly (The Barber). Interestingly, none of the performers are given character names. They are only listed in the credits by their professions or what they are aside from whom they are.The story is not all melodramatic. The script had added some amusements such as the husband's chase after a drunken pig as one of its prime examples. Murnau's work could not have been possible without the assistance of cameramen, Charles Rosher and Karl Struss, as well as the lavish scale sets where the metropolis that gives indication of a futuristic outlook. This could very much had been a long dream sequence, but in reality, a story set in two worlds apart.An Academy Award winner in the category of "artistic quality of production," SUNRISE remains an perfect example of silent film study. My introduction to SUNRISE was at a revival theater in New York City dating back to 1982. In spite of its reputation, it didn't play to a full house as the Charlie Chaplin comedies did, yet those I've noticed in attendance sat there in amazement. Later that year, SUNRISE made its New York City premiere on public television's WNET, Channel 13. To date, this became it's one and only showing. Video cassette distribution from Critic's Choice Masterpiece Collection during the late 1990s had been limited. Could it be that SUNRISE isn't a great movie after all? Not quite. It might have limited appeal, but thanks to cable television revivals ranging from American Movie Classics (1997); Turner Classic Movies (1999 to present); Fox Movie Channel along with availability on DVD has SUNRISE earned the recognition it rightfully deserves. Maybe it needs to be seen more than once to absorb the director's true intention not as screen entertainment but artistic achievement. (****) 


                
There never has been nor likely never will be another film quite like SUNRISE. I consider it a perfect film in every aspect. There is not a wasted frame, a poor shot, or frivolous tangent in the whole film. It's a director's movie and an actors movie. Cast and crew shine together in brilliance. The art direction, the photography, the almost non-existent titles blend into a symphonic poem of a man and a woman, their family, and the threatening storm of evil both in nature and human character. It's a film about choices - bad choices and good choices. It is a tale of repentance and hurt and forgiveness. It is filmed with types and parable, vivid, tender and powerful. SUNRISE is a simple experience so very complex in its ramifications to the viewer. It is an asset that it is silent as far as spoken dialog is concerned for more is spoken in the mind of the viewer than could ever be spoken by human tongue. It is not a film to entertain but succeeds in entertaining soaring and searching thoughts of the mind. SUNRISE is a veritable experience.


                
One of the greatest films in movie history, and perhaps the supreme artistic achievement of silent cinema. Although the plot may be very simple (a happy marriage threatened by a vamp), the original way the director Murnau tells the story blending drama and humor confirms his genius.


                
Before watching this movie on the new laserdisc edition from Fox, I had only read critical review and articles about it I had such high expectations on this movie, I was afraid I would be disappointed when I saw it. But when I saw it, I simply sat in my sofa and was so captivated by the story, acting, sets and photography, I was stunned. The scene in the church when a priest read the marriage vows to a couple while the two lead characters listened, I began weeping. It was one of the most beautiful scenes I've ever seen. I'm even moved by just thinking about it while I'm write this commentary. Nothing in sound movies have moved me so, with exception of 'It's a wonderful life(1946)'. Such a simple story told with so many visual beauties is something I haven't seen in the many films today.


                
This is one of only about 8 or 9 films made between 1890 and present day that I would give 10 out of 10. "Sunrise" represents the pinnacle of achievement, technically and poetically of F.W. Murnau, and arguably stands on top of all the brilliant films made around 1927, which represent the greatest period of movie making ever!!!! Hyperbole? Yes, but my comments are not unfounded!


                
All I have to say is that the scene in the church made me cry like a baby. I never thought a silent film could be so powerful! Love, betrayal, redemption, trust, and humour!(Not to mention innovative camera work and seamless special effects that never intruded on the film's elegance.) After watching it for the very first time in a film history class, I immediately said to myself "This is going on my top ten all time best list, and I don't care what film I need to kick off the list to make room for this one!" As Martin Scorsese once said about this film (I can't remember the EXACT words)"This film is pure visual poetry" (or something like that).


                
