For its time, SUNRISE was a masterpiece of silent film. The print shown on TCM included bits of street noise, musical background score and bells tolling from a tower or for a church wedding. Combined with the sights and sounds of a bygone era, the acting by JANET GAYNOR and GEORGE O'BRIEN doesn't seem as overly melodramatic as some silent screen acting is. And F.W. Murnau's excellent use of tracking shots and overlapping visuals to suggest what the actors are thinking, is done with stylish flair. The photography itself suggests German expressionism as the mood of the film.The story is deceptively simple--a husband goes astray after an affair with a seductive woman in the city. The woman convinces him to kill his wife and leave the countryside for a city life with her. The boating scene builds to a frenzied climax when the husband convincingly changes his mind just as he is about to hover menacingly over the frightened wife. How things turn after that point is what makes the story (and the film) so great.Gaynor and O'Brien both give priceless performances that will keep you wanting to see how all the strands of the story work out. Viewers will get drawn into the story from the start and be rewarded by watching the entire film unwind in its own dreamlike way. Highly recommended.


                
In this film, a man attempts to reconcile with his wife after a woman he was having an affair with convinced him to take his wife's life. The story lost me when reconciliation scenes, as it slowed the progress of the plot by filling it in with scenes of romance and comedy. However, the music was perfectly synced with the film. The sets were very expressive, and fit the artistic movement of the film well. Despite limitations of modern equipment, the editing tricks were surprisingly unique, and it worked well with the film's atmosphere.


                
Sunrise is the filmic equivalent of entering a sauna and getting splashed in the face with a bucket of ice water... then enjoying the sauna before getting splashed in the face with another bucket of ice water.It starts out very German Expressionist and horrific, with a city woman dressed in black convincing a farmer to kill his wife so that he can run away to the city to be with her. For a while, it stays on this roller coaster as he finds himself unable to do it and, following his wife as she flees to the city, tries to pull together his fractured emotions and stop her from demonizing him.Yet at that point it becomes a tender love story with a lot of light comedy. The expressionistic elements are still there, but everything is clean and happy and easily resolved. Even the carnival they go to has nothing weirder than a drunk pig. But it's not like it can stay that way, because there's death and lust and insanity hanging over them, so eventually it kind of has to head back to getting really crazy again.It doesn't really work for me. I can't speak for anybody else in this case, but this film jostles and sends my emotions trying to keep up from one extreme to the other so quickly that it eventually just leaves me uncomfortable with the film itself. This is unfortunate because for one thing, the imagery and craft behind this film is absolutely amazing, and for another thing, it's so good at being insane during the insane parts, tender during the tender parts, and absurd during the absurd parts. It's just that nothing seems to tie everything down enough for my tastes, as if I had watched three different shorts and accidentally thought they were the same disjunctive movie... only they are the same movie.I'm guessing I probably didn't get it. I am, after all, writing this after my first viewing.--PolarisDiB


                
It is one of the most mature silent movie i have ever seen. Great powerful performances of leading pair ,beautiful cinematography and stunning set decoration makes this movie overall a wonderful movie.the starting of the movie was brilliant with great intensity and depth but then after first act movie became dull and just like any other rom-com, just mildly entertaining,in it's second act there was nothing striking in the movie,the twist in the movie at the end just saved the movie for me and the thrilling third act give brilliant ending to the movie.The thing that really amazed me was it's special effects and the set decoration that seemed ahead of it's time,melodious soundtrack also saved the movie in it's dull second act.The most wonderful scene of the movie was the scene of the boat, when the husband was going to drown her wife but at last he conquered his evil.The scene was very intense and powerful. Another scene was brilliantly shot(considering the time when movie was made)the morning scene when the husband sitting in the bed watching her wife feeding birds struggle between his evil desire to kill her wife and the love for her wife. the scene was shot with wonderful visual effects.It is a overall good movie and a must watch for every silent movie fan.


                
I did not find this film to be that entertaining, per se, but the great visual depictions were unarguably influential and beautiful. There is a definite reason why the two cinematographers won the very first Academy Award in cinematography. What truly interests me about the film is not necessarily the melodramatic story behind this, but rather the fact that this is so interesting as a study of views that many people had in the 1920s; a concept that agrarian life is naturally virtuous, and that city life is often very corrupt and contributes to decadence and immorality. The country-city dialectic is something that people do not think about so much, nor do they think about it in more recent times as anything but the 'backwards nature of the country people' when this film shows that at one point, people thought nothing more of this dialectic as demonstrating the backwards ways of the city people.It is very interesting to see such a passionate portrayal of the sins of the city, and the virtues of the country. This very one-sided study of the country-city dialectic makes this film very interesting, in addition to the cinematography. The symbolism is very interesting. Overall, an interesting watch.


                
Stark photography, fairly solid acting, but a somewhat overboiled thriller/redemption story.  Murnau tells his story through visuals very nicely; you would hardly need title cards for this one.  A peasant is convinced to murder his wife by a lover from the city (where the film's most striking visuals occur) but he repents and she has to decide whether to forgive him (here's the heavy melodrama spoken of above; it seems to take her the whole movie to decide).Somewhat simplistic in plot but framed with a timeless fairy-tale style perfectly suited to the medium.


                
Handsome, muscular George O'Brien used to be happily married to his winsome, devoted wife, Janet Gaynor. Yes, the farm was a blissful place. Then O'Brien met and was seduced by this filthy slut from the city. You know the kind. Always wears a cloche hat, dresses in black, lots of make up, short skirts, does the hootchy kootchy right in your face while you slaver into the turf? Well, George is in Schtupp Heaven. And when the tart from town suggests he murder his wife, dump the farm, and run away with her to the city, he guiltily accepts the idea. He invites his wife to let him take her for a ride out onto the lake, where he plans to drown her, overturn the boat, and save himself with a bunch of floating reeds. George waits for Janet in the rowboat while she pretties herself up and prances down to the wharf with a bouquet. Their dog apparently wants to be taken along. The dog breaks his leash, runs to the wharf, leaps into the water, swims after the boat, and is pulled aboard. It's all too much for O'Brien. Killing his wife is one thing. But -- the dog? The wife is not as stupid as she looks. She figures out something is up, probably when O'Brien stands up and approaches her as she sits in the stern, and he's goggle-eyed and his hands are outstretched as if just about to strangle her, which is in fact the case.He can't bring himself to do it and rows her back ashore. She dashes off to the city in a state of terrible distress. He follows, filled with chagrin, and catches up. They renew their marriage vows and wander happily through the city, which resembles Disneyland or rather some cheap rural amusement park. There are comic interludes that involve J. Farrell McDonald as an effeminate photographer and a fawning Italian barber and a drunken piglet on the loose. The beaming couple enter a ballroom and do what is called a "peasant dance," which looks mightily acrobatic to the non-Terpsichorean eye and -- if it's a peasant dance at all -- is more likely to be recognized as one by somebody from Westphalia than from Waxahatchie.A great storm catches the duo while sailing back to the farm. The boat is overturned and O'Brien gives Gaynor the bundle of reeds to save herself. He's washed ashore alone and the villagers conduct a fruitless search for Gaynor on the lake. The city babe, thinking that O'Brien has gone through with their plans for drowning the encumbering wife, rushes to the stricken husband. He tries to strangle HER but before he's done there comes the cry of the villagers -- wife found alive, thank God! What kind of a guy is this O'Brien anyway, ready to strangle at the drop of a hint.It's a well-made movie, given the conventions of the time, which include outrageous overacting. Terrific storm scene as the city is deluged and the boat swamped. It's considered a classic, I know, but I can't figure out what all the fuss is about. For one thing, speaking from a position of relative ignorance, I thought the director, F. W. Murnau, was known best for introducing the swooping high-angle shot. James Mason once wrote some doggerel about it: "They took away his crane and then/ I thought he'd never smile again." Nice montage but no swooping cranes. And the story didn't seem to hang together all that well. It's a romantic drama with the middle third consisting of pointless demonstrations that you can have fun getting your portrait taken by J. Farrell McDonald. Nobody should call this screenplay "taut." O'Brien and McDonald, by the way, had worked together on John Ford's big Western, "The Iron Horse", a few years before. McDonald was a reliable Irishman, usually with names like O'Shea and Reilly, and made four or five other films for Ford. O'Brien was a close friend of Ford's and accompanied him in the mid-30s on a trip to Southeast Asia. Ford tied one on and was too drunk to get out of his hotel bed for about a week. O'Brien, after repeated warnings, took off on his own. End of friendship, at least for almost twenty years. You can see George O'Brien, who aged pretty well, in Ford's "Fort Apache" and "She Wore A Yellow Ribbon."
I believe that Sunrise was an impressive film. The actors in this film did a good job portraying the story and emotion of the film throughout just their action. As this movie progresses you get to see how in the end true love wins out in the end.It was interesting how towards the beginning of the movie when the husband was going to drown the wife the dog could sense it and swam out to the boat to protect the woman, that was a sweet moment. I thought that this was a heartwarming concept how the man fell back in love with his wife and they ended up making a re commitment to each other. Something I noticed in this movie was that when the man was having memory's or thoughts they would show him sitting in thought while they had other images overlapping his image showing what he was thinking, I thought that was a very interesting concept. Overall I thought that this was a good film that showed how even though sometimes people may face bumps along the way in their relationships or marriages if someone truly means something to you hopefully it will work out in the end, this film also had some very interesting effects that were used through out its duration.
Sunrise was one of the few silent movies I have ever seen. Although silent, I was able to stay entertained through out the movie, therefore I thought it was done pretty well for not having any sound. I thought that O'Briens acting was good because the audience is able to understand what was happening and how the characters felt, through the use of dramatic facial expressions and their actions, which also leads me to point out the fact that there were not a lot of inter- titles between scenes. I thought the movie was well done in a technical sense as well. For example, when the scene transitioned from the swamp to the city.


                
Coming from an individual who mostly has watched colored films with sound his whole life, I felt Sunrise was actually a very good film. I felt the acting was very well done on the parts of O'Brien and Gaynor. Both were able to portray the story very well with their only their actions and emotion. However, their is one complaint I do have about this film. I felt at certain scenes in the film their were some very awkward angles that could have been shot better. For example, in the beginning scenes their was a shot of the two parents sitting at the kitchen table eating breakfast. I felt that the angle in which the camera was set was a little slanted and awkward, along with their being what appears to be a lamp shade covering the top right corner of the screen. Also, at times it was a little dark in the scenes, i felt they could use better lighting. However, overall though, i felt that the film was put together very nicely.


                
First time seeing this film not too bad but was definitely not the ending I saw coming..but was a very good movie none the less I think one of my favorite scenes was the carnival it was pretty cool seeing the old time games and the amount of money they would have to pay for them I think This movie was more of a romance than a comedy but still there were many good comedy parts I think my favorite comedy was when he was getting his haircut and face shaved. The sound effect and certain props that were used also were pretty good some of the noises you could make out what things could have been used to make that sound back in that time.


                
*CONTAINS SPOILERS*This film tells the story, not only marriage between a farmer and his wife, but the mistress who tries to seduce the man in her attempts to get him to sell his farm and move to the city with her. During the mans affair, the mistress tries to convinces the man to drown his wife so that they could be together. Upon his attend to kill his wife, the farmer fails and tries instead tries to win back the affection of his wife. After witnessing a wedding the two are reminded of how they fell in love bringing them closer together than before.Returning home, the couple faces a storm. The storm represents the obstacle that they must over come together in order to "survive".The over all "effects" and over lapping of images was extremely impressive for its time. Although not a very realistic story line, the symbols and foreshadowing contrasted well with it.
I was very pleased after viewing Sunrise.I did not have very high expectations for the film since I am not accustomed to silent films and prefer dialogue, but was surprised to find that the simple yet moving story was effective and emotional.Since the characters voices could not be heard, I felt that the viewing was in some ways similar to reading a book since my imagination often filled in for what was not there.I also enjoyed how the film starts into emotionally dark territory, and then transitions to bittersweet.Despite the lack of dialogue, I was still very satisfied with Sunrise.


                
F. W. Murnau the master of German Expressionism and horror movies ("Nosferatu" (1922) later went to USA invited by William Fox and he made there this film in 1927, still silent, when the beginning of the sound era already came nearer. In silent movies the facial and bodily expressions somehow replace the speech in communicating sentiments and emotions to the spectator, assuming very expressive forms, sometimes dramatic or tragic sometimes funny. Therefore Expressionism always combined very well with silent cinema. This movie tells us a story that could happen to anyone on its beginning,a story of love and adultery: a small farmer, living with his wife and a little son, is seduced and charmed by a townswoman who ends by convincing him to drown his wife, sell his farm and go with her to town to live together. The man tries to do that during a sail that he planned with that purpose but he repents of that on the last moment. Then it begins a sequence of admirable scenes full of poetry and romanticism marking the rebirth of love between the spouses (the wife had became aware of the former intention of her husband and her first reaction is of fear and mistrust) and the husband's deeds in order to regain the wife's love which he ends up by achieving. The performers' acting namely of Janet Gaynor as the wife, attains sublimity. When happiness seems to have returned to the couple and they return home at night by boat after a day spent in vibrating displays of amusement and joy, a sudden storm makes their boat to capsize putting their lives in danger, the wife being even considered dead because not found. But on a spectacular turn she is found alive at last, for the joy and happiness of everyone except the townswoman who is seen leaving the place at the end while the sun rises upon the land and those tormented but finally happy souls. Of course this movie has very little to do aesthetically with nowadays movies as the story has very little to do with the current moral values (with no intention of mine to disdain them). But universal sentiments and feelings of all times still make us to appreciate it rather much. And the story is told in a moving way and with great technical mastery in terms of images and scenography.
For a silent film, Which I have never since. this was amazing I actually stayed late to watch the ending which did surprise me I won't give away the ending. It was strange to watch movie with no words or talking but it still told a story. I thought it was even better in black in white yet a little on the darker side I think that because most of it took place in the night time but over all I thought it was put together very well the scenes would kind of dim-into the next which I liked. Very good movie especially for my first silent film. I like how it had you kind of sitting on the edge of your seat wondering what the man was going to do.In the end it was nothing I expect but what you hope for. Meg


                
This movie blew people away back in the day. I can see why. It contains sound effects which were combined with the background music to enhance realism. It is a useful tool for the day that makes any silent movie better. I didn't say always good, I said always better. It also had decent acting for the time when silent films often had overacting to get certain points across. This combined with the movies impressive story telling make it worth seeing for any film buff who wants to learn more about the silent film era. I got a lot of enjoyment out of it, but only because I can appreciate a silent film. Even so, there were noticeable flaws that can only be called flaws from an outside perspective. A good amount of the movie was filled in with typical silent film banter scenes used for long doses of comic relief. It somehow works, but it gets old after 10 minutes especially when the first half hour is so incredibly interesting. Once the story changes after that, the attention given to the movie feels like a waste because the entire plot shifts moves faster than a plane. It's one of those cases where the story itself isn't necessarily that great, but the way it is told makes it come off well enough to make it a must see. I recommend it to any fans of silent movies, but no one else. They would probably rather watch Die Hard.


                
I am usually not a fan of silent films, I love older cinema and the first of the "talkies" but silent films have never really struck my fancy until I viewed Sunrise. I have seen several, but this movie really struck a chord with me, and I found myself completely intrigued. The story (about a man having an affair with a woman from the city and the woman enticing him to murder his wife and run away with her) is great, and it is something that still rings true today. There have been modern films based around the same concept, but Murnau truly shows it the best, and without talking. I actually liked the acting, cinematography, editing, and story so much that I watched it again just a day after I had seen it the first time, and that says something. This film is just wonderful.


                
