Before the movie starts properly, Sunrise professes that life is sometimes bitter and sometimes sweet, and that is exactly what this film is; a bittersweet symphony of life and love. Flamboyant German director, F.W. Murnau directs this film with a great love and precision, his direction in the movie is flawless. Sunrise features very little story cards, and it almost totally told with just visuals and music. This is a testament to Murnau's talent for storytelling; to portray a story without dialogue is something that all silent films have to do, but to tell a story without many story cards either is something that many directors would struggle to do. The music in Sunrise is simply sublime; it fits what's going on in the film to a tee, and also succeeds in making the visuals' power more potent. Sunrise is a groundbreaking film, some of the techniques used by Murnau to tell his story are amazing, especially for the time. Techniques such as his use of flashback have had a major impact on cinema as a whole.And the film isn't just a technical marvel either; there is more than enough substance here. The plot isn't massively substantial, but it's the subtext that is important. It follows the story of a man who, tempted by a woman from the city, gets talked into murdering his wife. Him and his wife used to be madly in love, described by their maid as 'being like children', but the love has since stagnated and so the man is easily taken in by an offer from a beautiful to move to the city. However, when it comes to doing the act; he can't do, and so the film moves into following the two falling back into love. Like life itself, the film is never plain sailing and that seems to be it's central message, along with the fact that love is more powerful than anything that life can throw at you. And those are welcome messages in any film, especially one as brilliant as this.Overall, Sunrise is a masterpiece. It easily ranks as one of the best, and most important silent films ever made and it is as brilliantly technically as it is on the substance front. A must see for all fans of cinema.


                
A lot of film historians will tell you that Gone With the Wind was the first film that has the leading man crying on film. Clark Gable was said to be the first actor to do this.This is not so.In fact, George O'Brien is the first actor to do so. In the famous wedding scene, O'Brien breaks down in tears in front of his wife when he remembers back to the vow he took with his wife.Sunrise is one of the last great silent films that is filled with so many wonderful moments which helped it win the first and only Academy Award for Best Silent Film.


                
In that first year of the Academy Awards when for the only time players were nominated for their whole body of work that came out in that period rather than for one particular performance, Janet Gaynor was so honored with the Best Actress Award. Besides Sunrise Gaynor was also acknowledged in the award for her work in Seventh Heaven and Street Angel.But in Sunrise has any lasting importance it is because it is the most honored work of German director F.W. Murnau who succumbed to the lure of Hollywood and created this film as his first American production. Murnau did only four more films and died in 1931 prematurely in a car crash. Being a gay man, I'm sure he would not have found the atmosphere of the Nazi controlled cinema that would come to his native country very shortly. Unlike Emil Jannings who returned to Germany because of his language problems here in America with the coming of sound and who liked the new Germany, Murnau would not have found a producer like Joseph Goebbels very congenial.There is no hint of the nationality of the leads George O'Brien and Janet Gaynor or the rest of the cast. It was deliberately so, I believe as Murnau was trying for a universal story about true love and virtue triumphing. Gaynor in both the silent and talking cinema nearly always played women of rural background as she is here. Her husband O'Brien is having a tough go on the farm and falls prey to a silent screen seductress played by Margaret Livingston. Her advice to just kill the wife and run off with her is met with horror. But it does prey on O'Brien's mind. Gaynor senses something wrong and becomes afraid of her husband for a time.The story is a simple one, but the cinematography is mesmerizing. In fact Sunrise won another Oscar, the first awarded for best cinematography. The images created by Murnau of the city, especially the fair where Gaynor and O'Brien rekindle their romance will stay with you. And Sunrise has good special effects, especially the flood sequence.George O'Brien was a popular leading man in the sound and early talking era. He first gained attention in John Ford's classic silent western, The Iron Horse. As the Thirties progressed he went down in popularity and was doing mostly B westerns. Ford always kept him in mind though, you might remember him as Captain Collingwood in Fort Apache and post commander Major Allshard in She Wore A Yellow Ribbon. He was also a foolhardy Colonel who gets killed by the renegade Cheyenne in Cheyenne Autumn which was his farewell film. I was interested in the fact that Murnau made very little use in this film of subtitles, fewer here than in most silents. He preferred to let his cinematography tell the story.And it's a beautifully told tale.
Beautiful, perfectly filmed story about love, passion, guilt and redemption. In my opinion, his sin is unforgivable, but if you are able to get over that, you'll enjoy for sure. Camera, directing, acting, music, everything is perfect. Movie leans on German expressionism and it truly is visual work of art. This is the only movie in history to win Academy Award for Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production, maybe because it was the single year that award existed, and maybe because no movies deserved it ever after. Beside that, it won Best Cinematography and Best Female Leading Role. Film keeps attention and conveys strong emotions. This is the very best silent movie I ever saw.


                
Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans is an incredibly close-to-life, touching, tender love story, where an attractive woman (Margaret Livingston) comes from the city and sets her eyes on a local farmer (George O'Brien), who, might I add, is married with a baby. The Woman from the City selfishly convinces him to drown his wife (Janet Gaynor) in a lake so they can be together in the City. The farmer tries, but cannot bring himself to do the horrible deed of murdering his wife. Oh boy, does it come back to haunt him.This movie is filled with beautiful imagery (in fact, some of the best I've ever seen in a movie. The craft behind this movie is simply magical) which just screams German Expressionism (the director, F.W. Murnau, was German). The way they set scenes out, the links between shots and the deep meaning in some scenes is incredibly clever and very touching. I really appreciate all the hard work they put into making this movie.The acting is (surprisingly) also very believable and still, till this day, extremely realistic. The expressions, the gestures, the actions all seem natural, realistic. It hasn't dated at all, and I don't think this has any 'silent acting' (which definitely does look dated). In other words, I thought the acting was amazing. The characters really drew them in and you could feel what they were feeling.If you haven't seen this movie, I suggest you get the DVD and watch it! The DVD is fantastic (very crisp and clear colour), plus I found the commentary very, very useful and showed me things I didn't know or didn't realize. It is extremely informative and very useful, I definitely recommend listening to it.This is the third silent film I've seen, and this is possibly my favorite. A very dark film, but so wonderful and touching at the same time. The imagery itself is worth a look - the fine details are excellent and a joy to watch. A beautiful romance/melodrama fit for people of all ages (I'm 15 and I really, really enjoyed it). Absolutely breathtaking.


                
This silent film was very artistic and for its time looked very stunning and just caught my eye overall. Offering moments of suspense and tension and other moments of humor and humanity I never found a dull moment throughout the movie even though it was a silent film which I tend to usually find a little uninteresting. Comparing to the film "The Circus" which is the only other silent film I've seen I think I liked this one a little more. The camera work I feel was a little more intricate and the plot was a little lore interesting in my opinion as well. Also the artistic nature and overall look to this film drew me in more as well. Overall great silent film which actually made me interested in maybe seeing a few more in my free time.


                
Not to be confused with 1926 Australian lost film of the same name. One of the earliest, most influential romantic melodramas from the silent era, was 1927's 'Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans'. Directed by German Expressionist, F.W Murnau & adapted for American audiences from the novella 'A Excursion to Tilsit' by author Hermann Sudermann, the motion picture delivered a well told story of forgiveness and redemption of a unnamed couple travelling to the bright lights of the big city in hope to save their dying marriage. Without spoiling this expressionistic masterpiece too much, the movie appeared at the very end of the silent era and came only a few days before the first 'talkie', 1927's film 'The Jazz Singer'. Because of this, it became one of the first feature film released with synchronized sound effects using the Fox Movietone system, and incorporating an original soundtrack by composer, Hugo Riesenfeld. The film even incorporated classic music from melodists Frédéric Chopin & Charles Gounod. The latter happens to be the theme for the 1950 & 1960s television series, 'Alfred Hitchcock Presents'. So, that was kinda jarring. Regardless of that, the film is still, pretty 'silent'. It actually has very little written dialogue and very few intertitles. Most character interactions are done through facial expressions and body motions. This is where the movie really does shines. Both, George O'Brien & Janet Gaynor gave, very good performances despite Gaynor really fake blonde wig. O'Brien achieved the beaten, plodding walk of a depressed man by putting weights in his shoes, and covering his scruffy face with his hands. He appeared deranged and under an evil spell in the beginning of the film; only to transform from a monstrous figure into, guilt ridden, irrational to clean cut, reform leading man by the end of the movie. It's a huge improvement in appearance. I just wish, his character didn't still have murderous rage still boil within him. It was bit extreme, to see him, still act violently toward the unnamed woman from the city (Margaret Livingston), after the events, he witness in the city with his wife. I would like him to be more pacifism & gentleman like by the climax. After all, the message of the film is about forgiving. As for the unnamed wife, Gaynor's acting was heartbreaking. Her coquettish beam, slowly fades to sadness during the boat ride makes you felt for her. You just want to see her happy! By the end of the movie, you rejoice when you see her angelic smile return, even if you can't stand that her character too easily forgive her husband's faults. After all, he did almost murder her, and that was after he cheated on her and sold off much of her farm. If anything, the movie could had been a little better, if he sacrifice himself in the end to save her in the storm. Now, that would be very compelling end. Regardless, 'Sunrise' was still a great fable like, poignant story. Both performers deserve to win awards for their acting in this movie. However, Gaynor is the only person that got one. She won the 1st Best Actress Award at the very first Academy Award in 1929. Another award that the film won that night was for Cinematography. Indeed, cinematographers, Charles Rosher & Karl Struss did a good job. Their skillful breakthrough camera tracking movements fluidly and sophisticatedly move throughout the space, creating an unusual illusion of depth and vastness. Another thing, great, was the way, F.W Murnau & his film crew, use the camera to superimposition images. It was very effective for symbolism. Some good examples of that, were the scenes where the a dark, bobbed haired, sophisticated urban vamp, appearance embracing him like a ghost; the way, an intertitle looks like it's underwater, & where the couple walk through the city traffic, dreaming of the countryside. Its poeticism were amazing. Even if some of the effects are now dated & fake looking. It did influence a lot of future films. Another thing, that I like, is how all the sets, both exterior and interior were constructed to recede slightly in the distance, to produce further illusions of depth. It made the city look, much more larger than life than it is. Other techniques included placing larger physical objects in the foreground of shots, and having little people as figures in the city backgrounds. A good example of that, is the entertaining city fair and the marvelous wedding sequences. Additionally, the use of light, dark and shadows was sophisticated. It shows the different in contrast between rural and urban life. The moonlight, the swampy marshes, and the surface of the lake all capture the astonishing light of calm, somewhat mundane & depressing, mindset of the brain. While, the bright & bustle city lights are rhythmically overpowering, mesmerizing & highly sexual, metaphoric shows the extremes passion side of the heart. Only, by balancing it, can one be, morally sane. Its humanity at its best and worst. That's why I didn't care much that the movie's mood set was all over the place. When it start off, as a tragic horror, then morphs into something like romantic comedy with a loose pig, then a quite emotional drama by the end. Its might be a bit jointed, but it's still moving. It's the same way, a person might act. No wonder, why this movie was honor for "Artistic Quality of Production" at the Academy Award. It was still unique enough to gain viewers over time, even if the movie was a box office bomb when it first came out. Although, the original 35mm negative of the original version was destroyed in the 1937 Fox vault fire, a new negative was created from a surviving print. Thank goodness, because this come rain or shine. The film really does deserve the honor to be preservation in the Library of Congress's National Film Registry. It's one movie worth checking.
I was hesitant at the start of this film, as it has a slow beginning that took a few minutes for me to become fully engaged, but once the plot really took off I was hooked into the story until the very end. The continuous development of the plot throughout the story is truly amazing. Watching the man sway between so many different emotions and situations with his mistress and his wife, finding himself in his marriage and falling in love with his wife again after so long was very moving. I enjoyed the way the story had so many different components to keep it constantly developing and growing until the end.
I also enjoyed that there were few intertitles as there wasn't a big need for them, the acting was enough to understand and follow to get the full impact of the film. The few intertitles the film did have were done in a very interesting way as they come up as if they are being said and give the dialog more depth without there actually being and dialog to listen to. It made the whole film come together in a wonderful way.


                
I was not bowled over by the plot of SUNRISE. It seemed like a pretty simple but watchable morality tale about a man who has an affair and his new lady tries to get the man to murder his wife. And, while Janet Gaynor received the first Best Actress award for her COMBINED work on this and two other films (the only time the committee did this), her performance didn't seem out of the ordinary. However, I still recommend the movie because of the director and cinematographer--it simply is one of the most beautifully made silent films I have ever seen. Again and again, the images on the screen are like works of art. The way the leads are framed, the vivid and realistic storm at sea and the amazing camera angles and movement are well ahead of most silent pictures of the day.By the way, in many ways the plot from later films such as THEY WON'T BELIEVE ME and A PLACE IN THE SUN appear inspired by the plot of this film.


                
This is a timeless, beautifully told story presented in a fairly new medium in its time. To me, for that period, it seems harsh to make comparisons based on relatively rapid evolving technology. It would be like comparing products made using a Timex-Sinclair computer to a Commodor 64 to a Mac to a PC. All of those evolved within 3 years of each other. It's about who has the deepest pockets with the better toys and when - within a short span of time.This film held my attention throughout. The story had wonderful drama and surprising twists. I was delighted by the comedic scenes that came so unexpectedly and translated from the film so deftly. The actors all performed with talent and finesse. A great drama makes you laugh and cry as does this story.I was rather impressed by the special effects. They were ambitious without exposing the "man behind the curtain" in the process.You know what to expect going into watching older films. It's not so much about peeking under the hood as it is enjoying the ride.What I enjoyed most in this film is that it drew me in easily. I immediately fell in love with the characters and I never got the feeling the whole thing was going to collapse like a cheap tent. I was too far into the story. The laughs came completely unexpectedly while adding another delicious layer to the play.I recommend this film if you ever get the opportunity to see it.


                
I saw Sunrise at a pop festival in 1997, where it was accompanied live by the Belgian band Zita Swoon. It was the last time they would perform it (even though they're considering to do some more shows in the future), after a  long tour through Belgian theatres. I was amazed, both by the music and the movie. I think it quite a ... to keep a sixteen year old occupied for over two hours with watching a silent movie. After the festival I bought the album (too bad there isn't a movie and music video available)and even though I had only been focusing on the movie, and not on the band, I could exactly recall which episode belonged with which part of the album. The story is romantic,tragic and still topical, the music is romantic and tragic as well, with the singer switching from a crackled Tom Waits voice, to opera, to an almost silent whisper (Where's my love). That Murnau was a German impressionist, and what a document Sunrise was, I learned only later but I will never forget that show.


                
Hysterical, heartbreaking & heartwarming, Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans (simply known as Sunrise) has been cited by many as one of the finest films of its era and has always managed to find a spot in the most sough-after lists, whether it's Sight & Sound or American Film Institute, and even after 90 years, it holds up quite well.Sunrise tells the story of a farmer with a pretty wife & kid whose downward spiral begins when he starts an affair with a city girl vacationing in their town who wants him to move to the city with her. Things are set in motion when she suggests him to get rid of his wife by drowning her in a staged accident. Reluctant at first, he decides to go ahead with the plan.Directed by F.W. Murnau, I almost gave up on this film within 5 minutes into the story as its opening moments seemed a tad too dull & uninvolving. But the decision to continue turned out to be a wise one as Sunrise only gets better with time and becomes more n more compelling before finishing on a satisfying & rewarding note. Add to that, it's full of filmmaking innovations.Murnau stacks the first act with frequent use of title cards but it is then slowly phased out as plot progresses and is virtually absent near the end. Cinematography makes use of forced perspective, soft focus & superimposed images in addition to distinct camera angles, tracking shorts & clever transitions, each contributing to its symbolic effect while adding a chapter to filmmaking manual.Coming to the acting department, the cast consists of George O'Brien, Janet Gaynor & Margaret Livingston and with no dialogue, they have to rely on their expressions to articulate the desired emotions and for the most part, they do a fine job. Gaynor is absolutely spot-on here and it's an absolutely show-stealing work from the actress. Lastly, it's one of the first films to incorporate a full-fledged sound & score.On an overall scale, Sunrise is the first silent feature I've seen that didn't star Charles Chaplin or Buster Keaton or Harold Lloyd, and while there are a few amusing moments here n there, it is an endearing love story that brims with charm & heartfelt passion. Having endured the test of time for nearly a century now, this first & only recipient of the Academy Award for Unique & Artistic Picture lives up to its legacy and will remain an enduring classic.


                
With an opening so dramatic and intense, there's no doubt you will witness a great movie. The simple yet very profound story bout love, lust, faith and betrayal "Sunrise" captures your attention from the beginning and it doesn't leave you until the end. It is the first and only Oscar winner for Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production. With the spectacular portrayal of the 3 main characters played by George O'Brien as "The Man", Janet Gaynor as "The Wife", Margaret Livingston as "The Woman from the City" and directed by F.W. Murnau this movie show that no matter what happens in life LOVE finds a way to overcome everything bad. "The Man" is thorn apart between his two loves - his sweet and simple wife and the woman from the city, who is on holiday. She tries to convince him to kill his wife, so they can run away together. As he struggles with his feelings about both of the women, something turns inside his mind and soul. This is a classic story of the power of true love. This a movie that makes you think about your own life and what have you done for your loved ones. And no matter how bad things could go you can always find a way to make it better. Told and played very accurate, on point with every feeling and emotion showed to the audience, you don't need to hear the actors speak. They have done an outstanding job pouring their inner self to the public. The movie absolutely deserves to be named one of the greatest silent movies ever.
Sunrise (1927) is a historically interesting and beautifully photographed work from the cusp of the transition from silent to sound films. The simple story follows a young country couple as the man falls for the wiles of a temptress and plots to kill his innocent young wife. He finds that he cannot carry out the heinous deed and is then redeemed as the couple rekindle their love in the mad rush of the city. The acting, typical of the stylised gestures and expressions characteristic of silent films, dates the film more than the black and white cinematography and absence of dialogue. Some scenes are fun (e.g. the pig chase, with the cheesecake shot of the critter running under the legs of a row of women) and the realisation of the city and the amusement park (apparently all done on studio lots) is outstanding. The ending is quite melodramatic: a massive storm ironically threatens to fulfill the man's murder plot, there is a miraculous salvation, and a new dawn touches the couple and while the hussy leaves town empty-handed. Clearly pre-code, as the Jezebel shows a lot of skin at times. Enjoyable by anyone willing to accept the style of silent melodramas but a must-see for anyone interested in the cultural or technical history of film.


                
Sunrise wrestles with themes of morality, love and redemption. For a 1920s movie, the quality of the cinematography is impressive, with the light of sunrise illuminating the screen at the film's end while cameras even move to follow the action of characters from time to time. The film also provides quality shot to shot transitions, with city landscapes and elements of a fun fair fading in and out of focus. It's no question that Gaynor and O'Brien both perform miraculously, but the evolution of their marriage over the course of the film is a spectacle to behold. The film's greatest irony lies in the boat journeys taken by the couple to and from the nearby city. Initially, the man's love for another woman provokes a failed attempt at drowning his wife which foreshadows her fall off the boat on their return journey in the storm. Though he initially ponders sacrificing his wife for his mistress, the man experiences genuine regret and despair when he thinks he's lost her. Sunrise is an admirable look into both the fortitude of marriage and the challenges that it constantly brings about.
The people of the city goes to the countryside on vacation. A Woman of the City lingers. She entices a farmer to starts spending money on her. She pushes him to sell his farm and even on a plan to drown his wife. He reluctantly sails out with his wife but can't bring himself to actually complete the deed. His wife is heartbroken at almost dying. They end up in the city where he wins her back. As they sail back home, a storm comes and capsize their boat.The style and special effects are striking. There is one particular scene that completely wins me over. The farmer is struggling at home about murdering his wife. Then the Woman of the City in a double exposure appears behind him caressing and encouraging him. It's not only seamless but is actually perfectly constructed as his interior struggle. The movie is a little extended after he wins back his wife but the drama picks up again with the storm.


                
I really enjoyed this simple classic from the twilight of the silent movie. My main qualm with many speechless pictures, the title cards, are cautiously kept to a bare minimum - they're virtually non-existent in the third act - which results in a film that not only flows much more smoothly than most of its peers, but relies heavily on the performance of its cast. Fortunately, they deliver en masse. Janet Gaynor, who looks strikingly similar to Drew Barrymore, actually won the first-ever academy award for best actress for this film (along with the two others she appeared in that year), and deservedly so. Both she and her male counterpart, George O'Brien, are tirelessly emotive throughout, telling their story so well through expression it didn't need to be spelled out on the screen. It's also worth mentioning that, considering its age, I was blown away by the quality of the special effects in Sunrise, which were used ambitiously but realistically by its script. A bit over-the-top at times, it's more accessible than other films of its age and still deserves recognition as one of the best of the era.


                
Drama.Humor.Suspense.You have to love a film that is able to offer you all three in the telling of it's story.Sunrise offers exactly that.You have a married farmer blinded and brainwashed by lust.He is persuaded by his lady on the side to do something awful.He nearly goes through with it but has a change of heart and begs forgiveness from his bride who is now frightened of him.Determined,he must now fight to regain her love.The film does an excellent job of keeping the viewer guessing as to what might happen next.It is a virtual precursor to both the romantic comedies and suspense films of today.You will enjoy the film for this fact even if you are not a regular watcher of the silent film genre.See it!
Director F.W. Murnau (probably better known for "Nosferatu") really hit the nail on the head with this one. We have a great story of a man's lust for another woman and his love for his wife and how the two come to face each other. Does the heart triumph over the appetite? We also have some amazing camera tricks. Film is layered over film in such a way that I think was unheard of at the time. Today with digital editing this would be easy, but when film-making was an art, to layer it so flawlessly really shows a craftsman in his prime.I also enjoyed the train and roller coaster sequences. Murnau makes hem look futuristic, something that grabbed me from the very beginning and exaggerated the night and day world of the city and the country. (Night and day, incidentally, are important themes of this film... the name "Sunrise" may not be obvious at first, but by the end viewers will see how much this one word says.)


                
The wonderful framing of the shots in this film sets it apart from other classics of the silent era. Although the film has some of the usual "problems" found in early cinema (the occasional over-the-top acting, a couple jump cuts), it is still a beauty to look at. The use of dissolves is captivating, especially in scenes such as the husband's fantasy of the city girl and the wedding.


                
This movie is a masterpiece.  Simple story (man plots to kill life for other woman) but unbelievably beautiful shots, great performances (it's a shame Gaynor and, especially, O'Brien are forgotten today--they were wonderful actors) and beautiful music score more than compensate.  Visually, this movie is incredible.  They (obviously) spend millions building big, beautiful sets and it comes through.  The sequence at the carnival is an eye popper.  However the most incredible is near the beginning where the husband is seduced by the evil other woman in a swamp with a big beautiful moon overhead.  Hard to believe this was a box office failure.  Anyways, if you haven't seen it, see it!  You won't be disappointed!  Great date movie.


                
Without any talking in the movie, I finished watching the movie fluently. The story is simple. The man tried to kill his wife in order to go to the town with his mistress. But in the later he gave up the plan. His wife forgave him and they had a happy day in the town. But on their way to home, they met the rainstorm. Their boat was overturned. Luckily they both survived.The interaction between the man and his wife was the most interesting part. From hostile to close, everything was reflected clearly through their lively action and expression. Sometimes I worried about them. Sometimes I felt happy for them. As the story unfolded step by step, I was attracted deeply into it.No doubt it was George O'brien and Janet Gaynor made the film so successful and unforgettable. The roles they played will be unfading. It is the first silence movie I watched. It seems like that I should watch more of them.A silence movie classic. 8/10
Sunrise with director F.W. Murnau is a fun and exciting film that has so many elements of thrilling drama. The Cinematography is fantastic and can not go without appreciation. Such an original story line and it intrigues the audience in a way that allows people to call this film a beautiful Master piece. The story portrays corruption as well as redemption and the message it gives to the audience is simply magnificent. I rated this film an 8 out of 10 because if fell that such an old movie still pulled off great effects and great energy. Janet Gaynor and George O'Brian are brilliant in this film!. I would most definitely recommend this film to anyone and buying this classic would only add to a great collection.


                
The year 1927 was historic and monumental not only for silent cinema but for cinema as an entity. Metropolis and Sunshine were released that year and it changed the way movies were made. Both had German directors. Sunrise is not only a revolutionary movie but it is also an emotional ride of love, lust, jealousy and redemption.The technical advancements in this movie are huge. For example, the scene where the woman from the city shows the village man dreams about the city. The super-imposed shot of the city over the village river was unique. Another example is the ghostly image of the city girl over the man's body to show that she has the influence on him was also pretty breath-taking. Another good thing about the movie was that the actors refrained from too much melodrama and over the top reactions which was the norm of the day. They were pretty normal and reacted as a normal person would react. That was another thing which makes this movie unique.Rating : 8/10


                
Directed by F. W. Murnau, this silent classic is a visual marvel, even the dialogue pages are artistically done! It's the story of a farmer (George O'Brien) who's tempted by a city woman (Margaret Livingston), who meets him on her vacation and has an affair with him, to attempt to murder his sweet wife (Janet Gaynor), with whom he has a young child. The film won an Academy Award for Best Picture, Unique and Artistic Production, and helped Ms. Gaynor (along with 7th Heaven (1927) and Street Angel (1928)) earn Best Actress honors the very first year that such awards were given. Charles Rosher and Karl Struss, who would go on to receive 8 more nominations, including Rosher's win for The Yearling (1946), between them, took home the Cinematography award for their work on this film. Rochus Gliese's Art Direction was also nominated.Things are not going well for a young farming family; the man (O'Brien) is sneaking out at night to have an affair with a vacationing city woman (Livingston) while his wife (Gaynor) stays at home with their infant and creditors slowly take the assets from their farm. The neighbors gossip about his downfall and their ruin. After one particularly passionate night, when the city woman describes the wonders of the city to the man, she uses her influence over him to convince him to murder his wife. She even tells him how to do it, by drowning her. He returns home with plans to do so then, after a night's sleep, asks her to take a trip with him across the lake. She is thrilled, and dances with their maid (Bodil Rosing) who will care for the child during their absence, because she assumes he's finally come to his senses and returned to her.Once they are out on the lake, though he can't go through with it, she has read his intentions. She cries uncontrollably and then flees him when they get to the other side. She seeks refuge on a trolley car which he's barely able to catch, having chased her through the woods apologizing. Though he insists he won't harm her, once the trolley stops in the city, she exits without him and wanders across the busy street seemingly not caring if she's killed in its traffic. He catches up to her and ushers her safely across the street. Finally they end up in a church, where a wedding is taking place. When he hears the wedding vows, he begs her forgiveness and cries as she comforts his head on her lap. They leave the church oblivious to all else, walking blissfully across the street as if they're in a beautiful field back home. Of course they are not, and the honking, stopped traffic brings them back to the present.The couple then experiences the wonders of the city together, visiting a barber (Ralph Sipperly), a photographer (J. Farrell MacDonald), who catches them "on paper" in an embrace, and dancing together. Each is gently "tempted" by another, he by a manicure girl (Jane Winton), she by an obnoxious man (Arthur Housman), but both of these characters serve only to show each's concern for the other. They return home by moonlight, sailing across the very same lake together, when a storm causes interrupts their journey and capsizes their boat. Has fate conspired to make the earlier, evil plans a reality?Of course not! No, this one's not spoiled by such a tragedy. Though the man leads the townspeople on a desperate search for his wife, coming to believe that she perished in the lake, a wise seaman (Eddie Boland) from the community saves her. But, not before the mourning man is approached by the city woman and nearly strangles her in anger. The sunrises over the small farming community to find the man and the woman happily together, with their child, in wedded bliss once again.
