Well I like the pilot to this show, it was awesome! It had everything I wanted... a giant corporation of evil masterminds, waking up to find out your Dad is an evil scientist, going on a mission to save your lover from dying and chasing down a madmen bent on dissolving peoples flesh... to top it off the boss is a real jerk.I thought I was going to be hooked on this for sure! Then the second episode came on and the formula began. Son hates crazy father, woman not sure of what she wants, conspiracy at hand, investigations like CSI. It's all boring formula, something jaw dropping happens, they slowly figure it out in the most boring ways. The bigger story? Not going anywhere... at all... 3 episodes in and we're going blind.Every show seems to be doomed to the lead actress getting picked on by her boss, missing her lover and getting information from the big corporation while the smart son and the crazy evil scientist dad meddle around with theories. Way to reel us in and chop our heads off.This show sucks to the CORE
This show is Rip-off of many shows together which includes LOST, X-files, Twin peaks , Twilight zones and the OMEGA factor First of all to be HONEST i respect JJ Abrams he created many classic shows like " LOST " (And i think he should stick with that) and " Alias " another good show , the reason this two shows rocked was creativity and originality of the Concept on the other hand Fringe was build upon FAKE science , no creativity , BAD acting and WritingANNA Torv who is suppose to be the leading actress of the show has given the terrible performance one could ever imagine, She is always acts WOODEN and her Weird expressions as if she is Constipating all the time adds upto the misery of the show , The only saving Grace of the show that i consider is the Mad scientist and his son played by JOSHUA JACKSON (which always reminds me of Mighty ducks) their acting is upto the mark and their characters are well writtenThe main problem of this show is in the Writing department the stories are very weak and seems to be Far fetchedi would recommend Viewers to watch the Best and Classic show ever to deal with Paranormal stuff " The X-files " from the scratch or if your looking for new Material.... i would recommend " Supernatural ' another great show
I've bent over backwards and given the show 3 weeks to suck me in. I can do bad TV as long as it's not too stupid, or the characters intrigue me. I've stuck with "Prison Break," because of the characters, although I'm hanging on by a thread. I've stuck with "24" because it moves so fast and furiously and throws in so many curves I don't have time to suspend disbelief.Now I've had it with the "Fringe." There's only one character I like and that's the main guy, and he has no business in the show. His only reason for being there is to act as a balance for his crazy father, and yet they have him acting like Torv's FBI partner. He has no discernible professional reason for being part of the group. His humor is the best thing in the show.Then there's the cute FBI agent in the lab, who has no science skills, and who seems to be there to look cute. Then there's the crazy scientist whose crazy as a loon, until he's focused on doing some sci-fi magic, thanks to a bunch of machinery that's been rusting away in a lab for 3 decades, but now seems to be just right for every wacky project that comes their way.The sci fi is ludicrous! It doesn't have to be accurate, obviously - it's fiction - but it has to be believable.It has to be semi rational. In the last show a guy gets on a bus, puts on a gas mask, gases the entire bus, then waits for the bus driver to crash so he can get off with something he's stolen. Excuse me? You're going to risk your life on a careening bus? They love to show people with bulging veins, a la "scanners," who then survive what would certainly result in a brain hemmorhage.Worst show ever
the most hyped show of the new season aired on FOX: "Fringe". Its pilot is the second most expensive TV pilot ever that cost $10 million ("Lost" is first with well over $10 million). "Fringe" is primarily a detective story with parapsychology and sci-fi elements, and a background story arc. It is, as you have heard, similar to "X-Files" in many ways.Unfortunately, the good things end here. I felt almost no connection with the main character, as except knowing who her lover was, we know or feel nothing for her. Then, the whole story felt out of place. From one side you have some X-Files-like science that is acceptable (as it's part of what you expect on a series like this), and from the other one you are shown a Terminator-like robotic arm <U+0097> a robotic arm that's not questioned by the lead character when she sees it in front of her. If Scully was to see this robotic arm she would say "this is impossible, we don't have the technology for this yet". And yet, the lead character just looks at it, and then she just goes away like nothing happened. This scene in itself shows that the show is not taking itself seriously. It is not making the unbelievable "fringe science", believable to us.And then, finding some gross excuse to have the lead character take off her clothes, or the stupidity of having the FBI not be able to visit a mental hospital patient with a warrant. Both excuses are shallow, and especially the second one, that serves as a plot device, is underestimating our intelligence.All in all, "Fringe" is an expensive production, it feels bad ass at first look, but it doesn't leave you with a feeling of wanting to shout: "Awesome!".In all honesty, "Fringe" is a bad show. It's just an expensive TV series and it looks like one, made (possibly) for less intelligent people (e.g. FOX executives). If I was a FOX share holder I would feel ripped off. It definitely is no "Lost", and it won't enjoy not even the moderate success of " LOST ", let alone " THE X-FILES " Cult like mania that took over the Whole World.
This has to be the worst science fiction show of all time, JJ abrams has tried to use a concept which has already been applied and tested The X-files, Twillight zones, Twin Peaks this show is a lame attempt of Old Classics !! I am an admirer of jj abrams work since he created a classic show like LOST which i would recommend all users to watch it The acting totally sucks especially the leading lady ANNA Torv much better actress could have been casted in her place because she simply doesn't know how to Act !! Fringe falls flat in all departments including Writing , directing and acting , i wasted 45 minutes of my life watching this Awful show hopefully this show will Fade into Oblivion more sooner than we think because it simply lacks potential , it is a lame attempt to recapture the X-files phenomenon i would recommend people to Watch X-files
Fringe has to be one of the worst shows on T.V. I was very surprise that J.J. Abrams was behind it.The show is not in any way original. The script: is full of silly boring over used clichés. The best thing to do with this unimaginative garbage is to pull the plug on it and burn all the recordings. Pretend it never existed.The Acting is absolutely terrible from all the leads. John Noble/Walter Bishop: is doing a terrible 'Vincent Price' imitation that is really and truly annoying. Josh Jackson/Peter Bishop: is a very annoying 1 dimensional character. He spouts silly comments, that are supposed to be sarcastic and funny but are not. He is a worn out cliché. The father/son relationship idea has been done to death over the years. Can any of these over-paid writers think of anything more original ???? Anna Torv/Olivia Dunham: is weak and unbelievable. The casting director has a lot to answer for. There is a serious lack of acting talent. Some of the secondary actors are actually better than the lead actors.This would be better if it was a spoof/comic series. It so lame, stupid and laughable it's almost half way there anyway. It's like X-files/Police Squad. Sadly though they are trying to be serious.
Yeah. So I watched the Pilot, I was quite impressed. Good twist in the end, good suspense decent acting.After giving it 5 more weeks, with 5 more poor episodes I've given up watching Fringe.The acting does not improve after the pilot. The writing is poor and foreseeable. The characters are stereotypical and seriously not interesting at all. JJ tries to get us invested in the lead actress, but it doesn't work. Her acting is poor. Her looks don't make up for her acting either.The main problem with Fringe however is that there is no 'GRAND' plot at the moment. None of the episodes really intertwine or affect each other.Another problem is... THAT THERE IS TOO MUCH MYSTERY AND NOT ENOUGH PROGRESSION.We all like LOST because the characters are likable and we can relate to them. That is why we have invested in LOST although there is so much mystery in it that it is FRUSTRATING it has very likable characters with a decent amount of progression.Overall, I don't recommend Fringe to anyone, SCI-FI or JJ fans will not be happy with this one.
Fringe is yet another bad J.J. Abrams show. Like Alias it has the bad acting and the plot holes. Like Lost it has the ridiculous story lines and the plot holes. Like Cloverfield, it has the really bad directing and it is a complete waste of time.Anna Torv deserves special mention as she is not only a monument in bad acting, but Fox is trying to push her as if she had star potential, which she clearly does not (at least not until she takes a lot more acting lessons!) Overall, it's really a shame that the networks waste their money on shows from producers like J.J. Abrams. It's even more of a shame as Fox has had a great idea about lowering the number of ads, but it is testing it on a really awful show.


                
I didn't expect much from Fringe... I wasn't disappointed.Sadly, this is yet another J.J. Abrams exercise in hyping a show that is lacking both in gravitas and in entertainment value.Boring is just not what the doctor ordered, not that anyone really needed a new version of X-Files, but if you're going to do one, the least that should be expected is good acting and some life to the proceedings. But of course, we're talking about a show from the producer that gave us the emptiness that is Cloverfield.Perhaps it'd be good for networks in the future to think a little more about producing interesting shows than about how to hype bad ones.


                
I love The X-Files. I knew that nothing could replace The X-Files and I wasn't expecting Fringe to do this. But, I was expecting at least basic plausibility, decent writing, and at least someone that could act. I got none of these. Well, I should say, John Noble (Dr. Walter Bishop) does a good job. Other than that--good lord these characters are flat! Anna Torv's acting is a flat as her character.One thing that made The X-Files addictive was that Chris Carter mixed up the episodes--a series of myth-arc/conspiracy episodes and then a series of single, self-contained episodes. Fringe tries for constant conspiracy tension all the time, which is simply...tiring and predictable. It's hard to get excited about something that is being constantly shoved in your face all of the time--and in the most obvious manner. Nothing is left unexplained. Like Astrid's character--she's only there to move the plot along. She's always asking the most obvious, simple-minded questions. This way another character can lay everything out for you just in case a person in a vegetative coma is watching and is having trouble keeping the plot straight. As for plausibility--why in the world is Joshua Jackson's character allowed to be in any of the FBI protected crime scenes he gets into without any questions? Oh, and they bring a former mental patient along too! Who also gets to have a lab--no questions asked--at Harvard where they can do very illegal medical procedures and experiments.Blech blech blech.I tried. I watched for weeks. But no more. I couldn't take it any longer. Don't wait for it to get better, because it won't.


                
Now, I've seen many bad movies, bad shows, but this one..... blows away everything.It starts with cool 2 hour premiere, with car explosion that cost millions, you get involved in something called 'the pattern'.....And then beautifully, the show transforms from mildly interesting, to utter crap. EVERY cliché, and I am not exaggerating, you have ever seen in Sci-fi, it's in this thing they call TV show.The story of each episode goes like this: there are evil guys who do bad stuff in the begging, whit some technology made from 'fringe' science. Then, you get fight scenes, horrible, HORRIBLE acting from Anna Torv, and some endless chatter between the main guy and his mad scientist type father. Then, the mad scientist somewhere about 5-7 minutes before the end of the said episode finds out that he's been working on the SAME thing bad guys use, and he fights them with his counter weapon. That's it. That actually might be 'the pattern'. :)) If you are reading this, and say, that's not bad, believe me, after watching 15 episodes (that's how much i got myself to watch before i reconsidered the value of my life) of that same crap, you'll definitely change your mind.Another thing that pisses me off, is the guys comparing this to X-Files. Don't, please. I want it to be back to, I'm great fan of it, I love Moulder and Scully, but PLEASE, don't draw parallels between a legendary series and this junk...It says here the lowest is 1... shame....
I just finished episode 5 of the first season. Just to put my opinion in perspective, let me say I've gone through Star Trek and all its spin-offs, Stargate SG-1, Time Tunnel, Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea, Lost, X-Files, Babylon 5, both Battlestar Galacticas, the original V, The 4400, Heroes, Captain Scarlet, Thunderbirds Are Go, Supercar, Gilligan's Island and both Love Boats. My point is I think I'm really easy to please. But so far, Fringe is the worst of the worst I've ever seen. Overexplained, overacted, clichéd, and if it's in the fringe, it is not of science, but of fantasy on the side of incoherence. Suspension of disbelief is an unavoidable requirement while watching any sci-fi or fantasy show, but what Fringe asks for is suspension of thought. The fantastic phenomena feel like X-Files first season's rejects. The plot is transparent, the overbearing overmisterious boss is nerve-grating, the (literally) mad scientist asking for onion soup in the midst of corpses with exploded eyes and heads gets old the second time, the dead-meat love story with the alfa male who was not the main character was unforgivably predictable, the betrayed surviving female agent with his always tortured look is annoying, and the mad's scientist rogue son with the secret past who is always about to go away but stays because he read the script and so knows he'll get his affair with the agent is OK, but just because he stole Dawson's Creek from James Van Der Beek. I expected much more from JJ Abrams after Lost, but where Lost insinuates weirdness and conflict, Fringe tries to shove it in with all the subtlety of Robert de Niro with a baseball bat. And fails miserably. I intend to keep plodding on and see if it somehow picks itself up, as X-Files eventually did, or it's just that JJ has began to franchise his name around.
Here's the basic premise of the show: the smartest man in the history of the world, a combination of Einstein Cubed/Scott from Star Trek, is left to rot for 17 years in a mental institution, even after he has worked on super duper top secret government experiments. An FBI agent decides she needs him to save her partner/lover and so she walks into the mental institution and he is released on the signature of his son and becomes part of her team, along with his son.Almost every episode, at least in the first season, then involves this scientist "remembering" some experiment or invention he worked on 17 or 20 years previously which is being used in the present for some nefarious intent.His son, meanwhile, in almost every episode, says things like, "it's just a dream," "that can't be happening," "think of what your saying," etc. etc.One episode, late in Season 1, when you would hope the show would be reaching it's potential, will serve as an example. A group of animal lovers break into a lab to free animals used to test shampoo, etc. One of them sees a mysterious "door." He picks the lock on the door, and finds a, unlocked, second, big metal door, which he opens. That big mental door has a big, really big, genetically mutated monster behind it, which is released. The rest of the show is the team hunting down the CGI monster so as to save the human race and also another FBI agent who's been stung and implanted with monster offspring. Very stupid episode.It all just becomes annoying and stupid.
This show is total garbage. It's almost -- almost -- unbelievable how bad it is. But add the Fox Network with J.J. Abrams, and it's not too hard to believe after all.Fox: The Network that is willing to take crap material, develop a show and air it, regardless of whether that show is any good or not. Why isn't this show on ABC, NBC, or CBS since it's created by Abrams? Because this show is a piece of crap those 3 networks wouldn't touch.Abrams: I though his second show, "Alias," was excellent. Well-produced, good stories, good actors. I know a lot of people loved "Lost," but it was essentially a nighttime soap opera, disguised in a action-adventure/mystery story, and I hated it. His recent movie, "Cloverfield," is a total piece of sh*t. (He's been around working for quite a few years... "Alias" isn't his first TV show, and "Cloverfield" isn't the first movie he's produced.)His latest show he's exec produced, "Fringe," suffers from horrendously bad writing and poor acting. (How can the casting director and creative team hire Olivia Dunham as the lead???? She simply can't pull it off and is not ready for this level of acting.)And amidst the bad writing? Bad story lines, bad character logic, dumb situations, fake science, and on and on. Horrible show, not worth your time.


                
I watched first two episodes, and if that first (pilot) should amaze me. Oh boy did it fail. I saw couple of comments here about X-Files but decided to give it a shot.Why did I bother since nice concerning people here wrote it was a peace of s**t. Well, dunno. But now I can write a review.The pilot was not indicating it had nothing to do with X-Files but, at the end the TRUTH CAME FROM OUT THERE. The Joshua Jackson is a good actor in my book, I like the way he delivers. But... The script/story. Just plain stupid. Very JJ Abrams like stuff.All the characters are forced in with some stupid "I ASK DUMB QUESTION THAT I CAN FIND ANSWER ON MY OWN - AND YOU REPLY". That doctor, that was pal with Einstein? LOL How stupid do they expect audience to be? If its not Einstein than it does not exist on the pop-culture map.I mean, what can you expect from the two people that wrote Transformers movies (was that crap fest) and StarTrek XI (I don't even want to go there). And from the guy who created Alias and LOST. Lost is very popular show, I hate it, but I give credit where credit is due. Its popular, and out of my radar.Anyway in the second episode it all comes to pattern and we get everything we had in X-Files but at much lesser quality.A message to JJ Abrams, a his two henchman that created this P.O.S. - YOU WILL NEVER OUT SHADOW X-Files. First because you have no idea how to do it. Secondly, true SciFi fans and people that have a brain cell intact can see what this is and just pass.I still remember Abrams as a little wining brat from Six Degrees of Separation.


                
Terrible. Absolutely terrible.The idea is an interesting one with the whole fringe science concept (even if implausible) but what really lets this show down are the actors, apart from John Noble who puts in a sterling effort.1.) Anna Torv - She couldn't be more wooden unless she was an actual tree. She cannot convey emotion at all, substituting it for a smug look on her face and a massive dose of self righteousness which is completely unfounded. There are times when you just want to punch her in the face, her arrogance is that bad. Now all you fringe-addicts will say that this is just part of her character etc etc but the truth is, it's not. She simply does not have the presence to hold the screen and is a weak actress at the best of times. I cannot understand why she was cast when she has come from nowhere, with good reason. I predict that her future career is going to look bleak because she can't act to save her life so anyone who is thinking of casting her beware, it'll end in ruin.2.) Joshua Jackson - A walking cliché. All he does is come up with unfunny digs at his father and again plays the self-righteous card which becomes tedious after two seconds. I think if I was blind and deaf I could have seen his relationship with Olivia happening as well, complimenting the predictability of the characters.3.) jasika Nicole? - An irrelevant character for which I have no understanding of what she is even doing in the show, she's just Walter Bishop's lab rat. Nothing More. I won't waste anymore time on this poor excuse for an actress.Overall the plot is boring, illogical, flat, misinformed and predictable, while the characters are pure and utter rubbish. Why people cannot see this is more down to the name of the producer (J.J Abrams) than the quality of the show. His reputation is what gives the shows high scores, nothing else.
how the hell does you creative process works? lay off the KRAK !!! you take what start as a good story line, and you, in a very amazing way i must add, turn it in to a royal crap, its like Douglas Adams improbable button, only with must SUCK added value..dude, what the hell is wrong with you, i stop watching lost after the second session as it got so bad, i laughed on people who watched that show... there is a limit on how you can take even science fiction, DUDE seriously now, you had thousands of ways out of each one of your CRAPPY shows and you always go for the worst possible option... fringe was good until you had a thought... thanks for ruining a good show... i didn't check the Spoiler check box as you have very well done that yourself !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
Horribly cheesy, baseless assumptions, may get better from mid season 1 as others say but is very painful to bare it even till then. I watched till episode 8, and no story buildup just random sci-fi stunts thrown here and there, lead actress has same facial expression all the time. Doesn't suit her to act serious at all. Just feels like they are trying to act as if they are important but are actually failing miserably in doing so. Peter is just uselessly thrown in. He should have rather been introduced when he had some important role to deliver later if he ever has one. Then it would give some weight to the character. Little is done to convince the viewers on agreeable/assumable grounds on which a science fiction fact is created.


                
This show's plot requires you to shutdown most of your brain. The way in which characters solve problems is just too ridiculous along with the overall plot. Story is mostly episodic which was a turn off for me tho forced myself to watch the whole first season. Anyway I can't understand why this show is rated so highly when It's shallow, ridiculous and characters are dull af. A production for uncritical teenagers, a true pop cultural poop, a kitsch.


                
I watched first two episodes and decided not to watch more. Each episode had nothing to do with sci-fi but fantasy, the rediculous thing is for example the first episode they manage to connect a man's brain in coma with his lover and they communicate with each other like in real world, they kiss and share information etc. -which should be the most amazing discovery of all times - but the second episode nobody cares what they had amazingly discovered a mind blowing thing. And the second episode a similar thing happens, they take images from the eye retina of a dead women to find her killer. Shortly, lots of BS if you want to watch.
I loved fringe, a new version of x-files. But, they f'd it up with alternate time-lines, multiple dimensions, albino's in hats, etc. What happened to Walter writing a mysterious dogma in season one? This show was great ( was, no longer for two seasons ), and now it can't end soon enough.Who's brilliance was it to destroy this potential with a time travel / alternate future plot?I stopped watching this, without fast-forwarding through it, two seasons ago. I didn't even bother after the latest season had a future-full-grown-child as a main character. People loved x-files because it was new and fun. I loved Walter, and his rampant use of psychedelics.
