Just finished the show, and wiping the tears, and I have got to say that this IS one of THE BEST shows of all-time. AND you don't have to be a sci-fi fan to appreciate it. I am not a Trekkie or a Star Wars fanatic, but I do appreciate a good story, and this definitely has that. This show has it all; Adventure, Horror, Drama, Action, Comedy, Mystery, Fantasy, and Romance. I'm sad that it's ended, as with the recently finished Breaking Bad, but I know that there is so much more to be discovered. Give this show a chance and stick it out and you will be rewarded. Originally I did not think that I would like it because of Joshua Jackson, being that he is from Dawson's Creek, but he won me over as did James Van Der Beek in The Rules Of Attraction, and he does a great job. The whole cast is great, but no one more than John Noble who plays the mad but brilliant scientist and experimenter of hallucinogenics, Walter Bishop. There are lots of episodes where he trips and the best one is in one of the last episodes where he has a Monty Python-esque hallucination.If you are a Trekkie, you'll want to see this show for the great Leonard Nimoy, who plays a very important role on the show. It's been nice to have been introduced to Anna Torv, Jasika Nicole and Georgina Haig all three are great and all i've since fallen in love with. Lance Reddick, Blair Brown, Michael Cerveris and Eugene Lipinski(one helluva frightening performance) are definitely worth mentioning being great in their respected roles as well. Other great actors worth mentioning that appear are Jared Harris(Happiness), Martha Plimpton(Parenthood), William Sadler, Peter Weller, Brad Dourif, Christopher Lloyd and Theresa Russell(in one helluva sexy performance). All in all it's just a great show so watch it damn it!
I had started watching Fringe when it aired in my country, and at first, I didn't really find it particularly interesting. However, I decided to persevere with it, and I'm very glad I did. This show is not perfect, but it's definitely not as bad as all these reviews tend to make out. With each episode (so far), I find myself more deeply immersed in the plot, more involved with the characters, and I can't wait until the next one airs. A lot of these other reviews say it's worse than 'Lost' - which isn't true. I tried watching Lost, for the entire first season, but I found myself completely bored, with no real plot line to follow. The opposite is true with Fringe. Each episode has two plots - One, the overall plot of the series, and two, the plot of the individual episode, such as the investigation. This is common practice, but Fringe makes it.. fresher.All in all, don't make any decisions on whether to watch this or not based off reviews on here. There's a lot of controversy - some hate it, some love it - just watch it for a while and judge it for yourself. I personally don't like the first 10 or so episodes, so I recommend you at least for a bit after that. They honestly do get better. 9/10


                
Been watching the reviews for the show for some time now and I have to say that most people are confused. Confused on how a series is reviewed. When we speak about a sitcom comedy, by just watching one or two episodes it is fairly easy to judge the quality. But when trying to analyze a series like X-Files, Lost, Fringe and so many other, one has to watch the whole bunch of arc episodes in order to have an objective opinion. yes the science portrayed every week may be a little too much but... X-Files (which I also loved) was about aliens.... So....we believe in aliens but cannot comprehend that there may be science beyond our imagination???? As for the characters, and especially for Anna Torv.......her acting (the way see looks in the first episodes - like cold and aloof) it's just the way things should be in the beginning......then she is a cold-hearted FBI agent and that is what she shows us.......everyone who cared enough to watch all the episodes till now will see how she has changed as a character (and how well acted that character is by Anna Torv - I had never seen her before). Most of the reviews here are based on the first 3 or 4 episodes.....well.....it's a whole story that has to be said.....go through the first season and see then what your reactions will be... Yet the series is not without problems, but it will get better and better. Most of the arc episodes are thrilling and most of the rest episodes are full of mad science (got to love it). The production values are sky-high...So always keep in mind what you're judging and give it the appropriate time...


                
I have only two words for you, John Noble, John Noble and yes you guessed it, John Noble.Many people will tell you "its X-files without out the X" but these same people will also say "Lost- why would I watch a show about people on an island".Fringe brings great story together along with an entertaining cast, John Noble really brings his A-Game and shines through the eccentric and senile Walter Bishop. I would go so far as to say to watch Fringe if only to witness his superb portrayal of the character.The characters will keep you entertained, the story will keep you on your toes and scientific experiments will blow you away.This is a show not to be missed!


                
I've noticed that most of the horrible reviews here are those that didn't get past the first four episodes. Granted, these were not the most exciting and well-written story lines presented to viewers, but afterwards, the ball really gets rolling.Anna Torv is AMAZING as Olivia Dunham. She's tough, but vulnerable. She's pretty, but not overly attractive. She has real responses and emotions to the stresses in her life. And (this is the big one for me, because TV always seems to speed up romance), it doesn't take her 5 episodes to fall in love. It takes a couple seasons.All the other characters add so much dimension to this show, but arguably, the most fun is Dr. Walter Bishop. He's zany, likable, high most of the time, and absolutely freakin' brilliant.I can't get into the storyline too much without ruining it, but I don't think I've ever watched a show with such amazingly crafted plot twists. Fringe is one show that I want to keep on watching, hour after hour.Heads up, it's on Netflix now, steaming four seasons! Go watch it! Like, NOW!
I watch this show every week. If I can't be home I make sure it is DVR'd. I love the character Walter Bishop (John Noble). He is my favorite part of the show. I mainly watch it for him. I too didn't like it much in the beginning but then I got to know the characters and now I am addicted. It's the type of show that can keep you interested because every week it is something new but still with the ongoing storyline. (make sense?)I like all the characters and I have to disagree with other reviewers who say that these people can't act. Joshua is a very good and talented actor, he was on another hit TV show for many years (Dawson's Creek), so he's got to be doing something right. As for Anna Torv I think she is a good actress, I think that her storyline and character is why people think she is a bad actor. I don't like all the reality stuff on TV these days. I like being taken somewhere else and leaving reality behind for an hour a week. I have enough reality with my job and life and they are just coming up with dumb and dumber shows all the time. This show is good entertainment, which is what TV is suppose to be.


                
I started watching the show just when the first season was heading towards its end, and frankly I was taken aback. It was the perfect show for me, a heavenly combination of drama, action, thrills, science, fiction and characters that you can so easily relate to. You don't even notice how fond you grow of them. I've stuck with the show until the very end, and yes, there are some twists here and there that could've been dealt differently but the show ha maintained it's quality. It's not easy to watch and it's definitely not that easy to keep track of all the cases or events that come to happening but the complex nature of the show is very unique. And in a way beautiful.


                
I first watched this show when it started airing on TV in the Netherlands. I instantly really liked it, watched it every week, until I lost track of it. A few years later, I came across some GIFs of the show and thought hey.. I know that show. That show is excellent. So I watched all of it, and then a third time with my boyfriend last year. Even after seeing it several times, it's still an excellent show. It's clever, the acting is great (gets better throughout the seasons), it has a very distinct science-theme, and after a while I found myself really becoming attached to the characters. I LOVE Anna Torv (who plays Olivia). She's a wonderful actress, and even when wearing a long, shapeless, black trench coat and hat she still somehow manages to be sexy. John Noble is of course brilliant as Walter, a character that provided me with a lot of chuckles and some very useful information (such as; eat eggs when you've been drinking, it sucks up some of the alcohol and makes you feel less drunk, and hungover the next day). There's plenty of other actors that deserve mention, but that would take forever. Suffice it to say; they're all excellent. This show is one of my favorites of all time. It's mentally stimulating in a way that I haven't experienced with any other show to date, and you're missing out if you haven't watched it. If you are, however, the type of person that wants dumb mindless action all the time and isn't up for some brain gymnastics (more so in the later seasons), this isn't for you. That doesn't make it a bad show, it just makes you a dumb-ass. Go watch some 24 or something.


                
I search for crack-addiction type of shows like "Lost". A few years ago, I saw one of the standalone episodes of "Fringe" and I just didn't understand how this mad scientist had these weird answers to everything. It just seemed far fetched and something a little "out there".Wow, was I just completely wrong. Big time. This show has replaced my "Lost" and "24" crack addiction to TV.A few months ago, the Science Channel or the like put Fringe on one night, and I decided I'd give it a shot from the beginning. It changed everything to see it from the start, and potentially why people like myself couldn't really pick it up to start.I have spent 10 hours straight clearing my DVR of "Fringe" at times, I'm sad to admit. Then, there was a long hiatus on the Science Channel and just recently it came back on, where I quickly devoured all of season 3 in a few days from my DVR. I am frantically searching now how to find season 4. I thought the production would continue on the Science Channel, but it now seems like it was just going there for syndication.This show I never watched, and is by far one of the greatest shows of my life. I'd like to thank Fox for producing it, but also in the same breath get miffed at them for not packaging this better or putting it on during great time slots, which ultimately can lead to a show's ending...the Friday evening death slot.Incredible character development, great mystery, high production value, terrific writing...with today's consumer dynamic going towards cheaply produced reality TV, I'm scared that this may be the best, and last, crack addicting show of my lifetime. Great job everyone who put this together, you have a TV junkie here who is grateful for having this art as part of his life.


                
To be honest my feelings about this show were very meh after watching the pilot episode. Technically well done with good production values, but the story seemed drawn out and derivative and the characters didn't really grab me, especially the female lead (played by Anna Torv). But there was enough there that was intriguing to make me watch another episode, then another, then another. It took a while to get going, but a little over halfway through Season 1 I realized I was becoming eager to view each successive episode. Yes, at first there were many similarities to other genre shows (after all, they all draw water from the same well) but by the end of Season 1, Fringe was successfully carving out its place among the greats. It really hit its stride in Season 2 which picked up the pace with some very skillful and effective writing. There were still some momentum shifts while toggling between episodic and serialized storytelling, but the characters had come into their own and the intensity increased significantly. And Season 3? Absolutely Blew. My. Mind. So much so that I'm really stoked to see how they're going to top it.The show has consistently delivered incredible production values, but it is the depth of the storytelling and the characters that are the meat and potatoes. There is real emotional resonance here with themes on trust, intimacy, sacrifice, and family. Something I find lacking in a lot television programs these days. And, yes, there is also plenty of mystery and suspense. The cast (and *guest* casting, good god!) is indescribably fantastic. And I've done a complete 180 on Anna Torv and the character she plays. The actress is phenomenal and there are reasons why her character is the way she is. I've grown to really love her.This is long-view storytelling at its best and attentive viewing can be very rewarding. You get lots of breadcrumbs pertaining to the overarching "mythology" spread throughout the series, starting with the very first episode and the payoffs are huge. If you are a fan of intricate well told science fiction (with an emphasis on FICTION; some of the actual science can require fanwankery at times) or just a fan of really great character based drama and suspense, then you should definitely give this series a try. Be forewarned however that the series can get pretty bloody gruesome at times (if you care about that sort of thing).All and all, I'm really glad I stuck with this one or I would definitely be missing out. It has turned into must-see TV for me. I just hope the suits don't kill it before its time.


                
I had trouble working out what this show was all about at first. The first four or five episodes seemed to be disconnected and confusing, and I wasn't really sure if I was interested enough to keep watching. However I really loved the character of Walter Bishop, so I thought I would hang in there for the first season at least, and see if it went anywhere. Boy am I glad I did =) The show is essentially about an FBI agent, Olivia Dunham, who with the help of Walter Bishop, a scientist, deals with crimes and events that have paranormal overtones, predominately dealing with a branch of scientific research known as fringe science.I later discovered that the reason it is so disjointed in the beginning is that Fox requires all its new shows to have at least 4 stand alone episodes at the start of a new series so that they can pull the plug without having irate viewers who were sucked into the storyline send them 20 tonnes of nuts when they pull the plug on their favourite show in the middle of a cliffhanger - a la Jericho (which was CBS but I think all the studios learned a very valuable lesson).This is a REALLY great show, and is well worth enduring the first few episodes for. I found that at the end of each episode, I was hanging out for the next one, and I was constantly playing the scenes over in my head trying to work things out and make connections. Sure, the characters are not absolutely brilliant, but I believe that the characters will get better in the seasons to come, and the little glimpses into their lives that has been provided so far certainly make them more interesting (watch the last few episodes and you'll see what I mean).Walter is definitely the most endearing character, and he provides welcome hilarity in the most tense scenes.
This show is great, it always has a very good story and the acting is top notch it always leaves me wanting to find out what will happen next.I have to say it is the best thing since the X-FILES and the short lived THE BURNING ZONE Even though i think this show is in a league of its own.I really hope it proves to all the haters that its hear for the long run because i really think it deserves it, this is all dependent on the writers and them not killing the momentum of the show because it a solid story with great acting. The show also in my view is in a category of its own it should not be compared to X-FILES and LOST theirs more going on here in my view.It can also be taken in all sorts of directions as long as they don't lead to far from the original story and it is not turned into a mess. Really enjoying this show about time something good came along.


                
When I first started watching this series I wasn't taking it seriously, I confess. It was fun and all watching all the fringe science in the first episodes but they were not really leading to a particular direction. But, as the series progressed my mind was blown! I have a tendency to be pleased and overwhelmed when a bigger pictures shows up, something that transcends our day-to-day life, something that transcends us as humans and, oh boy, that's exactly what Fringe does. The plot rushed to find its way and, somehow, the first "unguided" episodes started to make sense: the characters did not know what was happening so why the hell should we know? It just piled up an enormous mountain of curiosity and anxiousness in me. There are so many things happening simultaneously, so many little details that are presented to us in every episode...the whole show is a feast to our eyes and, yes, also our intellect. Due to my endeavors as an interested science student, I know that a great deal of the fantastic-near-supernatural things that happen in the show are not supernatural at all, indeed, they can really happen and some of them are amongst some of the most respected theories in science. They have but one problem: those theories,they push our mind (and even the mind of those who study them) to the limit of our intuitive perception. To someone who's not interested about those things, that has never read nothing about it, all of the things that happen in Fringe my seem a pile of nonsense just to build a series and have some success. My advice is that, whenever something happens that seems too much "impossible", just go check the basis of the principle they speak about and then form your opinion. Understanding the science terms they use surely adds so much brightness to the series! And of course, again, their aim to achieve and talk about goals so much higher than humanity, they simply dazzle and amaze me. All mixed up, the science of the series, the excellent acting (John Noble and Anna Torv are amazing!) of everyone involved, the high goals they successfully try to achieve, the beautiful visuals of the series, the addictive and melodic intro theme, the overwhelming and brilliantly written plot...all add up to a 10 out of 10!


                
Let's say i don't have a particular genre. I started my show obsession with Girls, Breaking Bad, moved on to Game of thrones, then Orphan Black, and the rest was history. I was never fan of sci- fi/adventure/fantasy but that genre slowly grew on me with GoT and OB. I am always searching IMDb and trying to find new shows to watch, and i somehow always overlooked Fringe for some reason. Read the synopsis many times and didn't even try to watch the pilot because the trailer didn't do it for me. And then one day, out of a boredom, after i watched everything i thought was good i decided i should give this show a chance. I instantly fell in love with it. Mostly in the characters and their connection. I LOVED the unconventional family they all made. Their dedication as characters was flawless, and the acting ability of the cast was always top- notch. Why haven't i given this show a chance earlier? Now i think of re-watching it because i am invested and that rarely happens. If there is a show that is worth watching feel free to contact me!! :)


                
I could not disagree with most of you more. I sincerely believe this is the best show on television within the drama category. The characters on the show are perfect, and the acting is even better. To all the Anna Torv haters out there, you are crazy!!! She is nothing short of mesmerizing as Agent Olivia Dunham, along with being a very convincing government agent. Fringe easily surpasses CSI, which in the last couple of years has turned into a crime soap opera, focusing more on the characters personal lives, and less on actual forensics investigations. I've never been a fan of the X-Files, and when I heard that this show was coming on TV, I didn't want it to be "just like the X-Files." This show simply delivers week after week with pulse pounding excitement. One of the best parts about the show is that there are limited commercials, or at least they give you fair warning of how long you have to wait. I absolutely can not wait for the new season to start in January. I will definitely be tuned in absolutely every week (or at least DVRing it). Keep up the good work J.J.!


                
This series is amazing. Well done, and chapter to chapter go ahead each time up to the next point.Greats performances, excellent script, I wait anxiously each week for watch the next chapter.Anna Torv is a revelation as protagonist. And Joshua Jackson play an unforgettable role, for the applause in each chapter.Open the minds.Great action, suspense and well used the last science developments.Highly Recommended.


                
The stories, the characters - especially Walter Bishop! No spoilers here, just watch it and be drawn into an amazing world! 10/10 the best!


                
It's been just over two years since this ended, and I have been remiss in not writing this review sooner. To avoid spoilers, one can obviously not be too specific about plot. Certainly, it had a bit of the same feel as X-Files (in its better years), but Fringe was (IMHO) a far more complex offering. Fringe had several (at least three, and some might argue even more) major plots lines that that were initiated in the earliest episodes, and then drove the story line right through to the last minutes of the finale. Certainly, it was episodic in its story telling (something new, interesting, and bizarre, most weeks), but all of that was stitched together as part of those key, often interwoven, plot lines. And lying beneath all of that, there was a tight-knit cast, whose character's lives, relationships, and emotions (and sometimes extremely raw emotions) were the foundation for the entire series.Aside from the cohesive story, some of the other things that made the show special, include:Some of the episodic science fit the show's name, but some of it (including one of the key plot points) was drawn straight from modern, theoretical physics. But even (the former) "fringe science" could be rationalized to the degree that it was always semi-believable, and always engaging."Walter Bishop". Again, avoiding spoilers, suffice it to say that having to wait, week to week, to hear the next crazy thing that would come out of this character's mouth, was always a difficult wait. Walter was the glue (or maybe, more appropriately, the "crazy glue") that stitched the characters together, in the same way that those full-series arcs, stitched the episodes together.And then, there was an intentional nod to the problem/puzzle-solvers ("think outside of the box") audience that the producers expected to be drawn to the series. The sort of folks that would already be drawn to the SciFi nature of the series. Again, vagueness intended, to avoid spoilers, but if you haven't seen the series, and do dive into it, then it shouldn't take you long to catch on.Suffice it to say that I was deeply disappointed when the series came to an end, but its final season (which the writers/producers were fully aware of) was one of its best, and certainly the most moving (emotionally), and was a satisfying conclusion to a fantastic series.If you missed out the first time, then buy the full series blu-rays, or find a way to binge watch your way through it. It's an enjoyable ride.


                
Fringe is the best show on TV for Scifi fans. It mixes real science with science fiction in a way that really works. Each episode gives you just a little bit more of the puzzle that fits perfectly together in a story that will keep you guessing. It is a refreshing change from the same old boring TV series that loses you after the first three or four episodes. The main characters shine in their own way and their stories grow and change on each episode to make you feel like you know them. I hope the next season will prove to be just as exciting and refreshing as the first season and does not crash and burn like Heroes did. I have a feeling that Fringe will be around for many years to come.


                
Maybe I am in the minority but I think that this is an excellent series and along with 24, Lost and Heroes is among very few series that I will watch. As a big fan of the X-files I was far from disappointed. And the casting has been particularly impressive, especially for the Walter Bishop Character.It is clever, contains enough action, suspense and humour to make it a winner with me.From reading many other comments, it appears that many people rate this as a very weak series. Personally I just don't see that. I think that if you watch it with a clear mind and without any X-file/Lost hangups then you will actually value it far more for exactly what it is. Fringe. Not Lost or the X-Files etc etc.Why not give it a go...you may just like it!


                
The series started out somewhat confusing, but interesting. It really made me think, which is nice for a change. They key to this show is seeing all the episodes. Otherwise the viewer won't understand a thing. What I really like about this show is that it is building upon itself. Now in its tenth or so episode, questions I had from episodes a few weeks ago are being answered, but leaving some things still to wonder. It is a show that is really making me look forward to seeing next weeks episode. The only issue of major concern to me is how a second (or third etc.) will work after the Pattern is explained.In regards to the complaints of being scientifically ridiculous. Well OK yes, the science involved is rather far fetched. Rather being the key word. Some of the theories explained, though clearly not plausible, are not entirely impossible. (Time travel, OK maybe not.) Bottom line is, if you enjoy thinking, then you will like this show. If you're one of those viewers who wants to sit on a couch your entire life having entertainment spoon-fed to you, then maybe this show isn't for you
This show is a keeper, if Fox plays it right. It's a little like X-Files but more streamlined for the 21st century with a top notch cast. Anna Torv is great a the cool cucumber agent investigating what starts out as a normal incident and elevates into a whole slew of seemingly unexplainable stuff as the story lines progress (good find on casting this relatively unknown actress). Joshua Jackson is another good choice as the sardonic, somewhat bitter and estranged son of the mad-scientist played expertly by John Noble. There are enough twists and turns in this show to keep you watching and wondering and it's certainly not "dumbed down" the way some TV shows have been lately (making me wonder if the networks and other types REALLY think the public is SO ignorant that they can't follow the premise laid out for them without obvious hooks). This show rocks and I hope people give it a chance and stick around for it. Watch it for the cool story lines and watch it for the top-notch cast.


                
The writing on Fringe is fresh and original. I have always been a fan of JJ Abrams since Alias, Star Trek and Lost. Great ideas and great execution on those ideas. I look forward to many more twists and turns as he leads us through the mysteries of Fringe science! The casting is also well done. From the quirky scientist to the talented detectives to the mysterious supporting roles, Fringe keeps me captivated from start to finish. I look forward to each new episode as I know it will provide some answers with many more questions. If you loved X-files you're gonna love Fringe.Give it a chance. You won't be disappointed.


                
A very diverse group of actors have come together to make a very interesting cast that have amazing chemistry on screen and make you care about them and care about what happens to them - and that is what makes you keep coming back for more. Even a high school science student would have to suspend his/her disbelief at the fantasy they try to pass off as science, but it has enough truth in it to make that not too difficult. Each actor has been chosen perfectly to play that specific role. The best thing, however, is not the action or the suspense - but the small things. Little moments in the show that set it apart from the rest - that make you go, hmmm, that was unexpected. Give it a shot - it really sucks you in by the 3rd or 4th episode - after that, you are hooked!


                
This is exactly what i wanted... A show beyond the reality. Action, Romance, Lies, Deception...The writers doing an amazing job and the actors are total pro's. I am expecting season 2. I wanna see the next step. The alternate reality... Sounds like the alter ego people are looking for...Can you imagine the love of the father??? Having his son back from an alternate reality??? Can you imagine the son facing the truth? He is dead for our world!!!! *AMAZING* Yet he is here.I said before about romance. Romance between Peter and Olivia. Romance with an alien??? I mean Peter, he's handsome and all, but he is from another reality!! Is he human? Can he die in this reality?? Relax on your couch and enjoy... Kisses from Greece
