I've watched all the episodes aired so far, the idea of the show sounded like it could be fun but it's delivery is just poor. I guess I been watching it in the hope it'd get better but frankly, it just gets worse.The plots are paper thin at best, the series continues to string you along with the ongoing investigation into "The Pattern" (a bunch of weird scientific events that happen all over the world). The lead character Olivia Dunham (Anna Torv) is horribly delivered, she must have gone to the Steven Segal school of acting because she nearly always looks annoyed or angry. Her character she spends, what feels like, most of the time moping over her boyfriend/partner. The end result is a fairly grating experience to watch.The only two good characters are Peter and Walter Bishop (Joshua Jackson & John Noble) but they struggle to make any real presence with the awful scripts handed to them. Walter Bishop's quirky character elevates some of the pain but then his mental health issue tends to get over used in each script. (they're the only reason for the extra star in the rating) The bad guys are ridiculously one dimensional, when caught or cornered they'll purposely get themselves killed - like they're fanatics. It's more a cheap get-out-of-supply-answers mechanic used by lazy writers. They're made out to be extremely cunning, going to any selfless lengths to reach their goal. It just doesn't wash, especially given the nature of the show.If you watch the episode "The Arrival" you'll get a good scope on just how weak and stupid the show is able to get. The rest aren't much better.I'd be very surprised if this makes it to a second series, it sure doesn't deserve it, far better programmes have sunk for less. If you enjoy thin-stupid plots, no tangible answers, awful lead character and a lot of melodrama then you'll like this."Someone is experimenting and the whole world is their lab" - yes, someone is experimenting with rubbish television.
We live in a strange era."Science-Fiction" shows are aplenty, but yet there's nothing to watch for Science-Fiction fans.Fringe is yet another example of this depressing trend. It is boring, tedious and marred with awful performances. Whomever thought Anna Torv could hold the screen for more than a split second and hired her as a lead in a TV show needs to get glasses or something.Fringe also suffers from J.J. Abrams disease, meaning that its scripts are sub-par and marred with endless plot holes.All in all, it's yet another major disappointment that will do nothing for the cause of good Science-Fiction on TV (or for Fox's ratings as it looks like this show already bombed out).


                
I had hopes for this show. I watched about 6 or 7 episodes so far, the rest are Tivoed and I'll probably catch up with them. I love the intro's, and the concepts are very cool, but how they deal with them are so lame it is amazing. For instance, the "Frankenstein" doctor, ALWAYS has the answer, he always gives it about 40 minutes in, and it ALWAYS has to do with either some project he worked on 20 years ago- and someone he worked with taking it over. This is bad enough, but he always pulls all the answers out of his butt, and it makes for lousy television. The only reason for the 2 stars is that his character IS funny, and the laughs he brings are one of the only things in the show to make me smile. The actress just seems off. I don't think she's necessarily bad, but just not good for this show.I love Lost, and although it took about 8 episodes of Alias to get good, that show turned good. I am looking forward to this show turning around, and getting a bit less predictable. You damn sure couldn't get more predictable.


                
Fringe is everything that is wrong about today's network television all rolled into one.First, it comes from an over-hyped but under-achieving team of producers. After all, except for one season of Lost, J.J. Abrams has a consistently losing track record making boring TV shows, and his cohorts on this endeavor come from Alias, another hyped-up show that languished with mediocre ratings for years.Then there's the now seemingly obligatory blonde woman who can't act (to the point where it's difficult to call her an actress, even if she carries the union card). Anna Torv is the flavor of the week on this show and if she ever took acting classes, you wouldn't be able to tell by the fixed rigidity and exaggerated expressions her face constantly displays.Finally, there's the incoherent stories. Apparently, it's becomes hip and edgy to have stories that make no sense. Plot holes are sold to the public as "surprises"....Is it all that surprising then if the public stays away from shows like Fringe?


                
Cringe is what I do whenever Anna Torv comes on screen. Rarely has an actress brought so little to the screen.Anna Torv's performances in Fringe are made mostly of annoying grimaces and of course mugging for the camera (a J.J. Abrams hallmark).Speaking of J.J. Abrams, can someone tell me why he is supposed to be a great producer? I mean Fringe is just unbelievably boring, just in the same way as Alias was boring and fake.Fringe is the epitome of what is befalling TV drama these days: shows without a soul made to order to fill out some demographic ill-conceived plan.Fox used to do so much better in the past. Its Fridays were full of SF-tinged shows with heart (and good acting). Now, it's all about the hype and J.J. Abrams is the hype-master.


                
It's so disturbing when people talking idiotic unscientific crap are supposed to be super-intelligent professors or genius villains... a lot of stereotype cuddly characters are fighting against something so mysterious you can be sure it will never really explained... it's almost creepy how incredibly smart some X-Files episodes are compared to this nonsense.Many bad actors doing a great job being impossible to believe, made-up characters.How can u possibly work for the FBI while being this stupid? It just doesn't make sense... it might be that the story is just full of these brainless plot-holes so that they can make the old boring story seem new. Please don't watch this.


                
FRINGE has a special FBI group exploring unexplained phenomena. It is shot tin New York, which is a plus. But the acting is terrible and the plots are often rehashes of other shows like THE X FILES and Millennium. There is an effort to make the lead characters quirky and interesting, a sort of sci-fi version of NCIS. At least they're trying. The lead female is a really bad actress who should stick to shampoo commercials. Her costar used to be on DAWSON'S CREEK and isn't any better. An actor who plays an aging scientist sports an odd accent and tries to seem eccentric, with little success. One hopes the show will be gone soon, if it isn't already. You won't believe for one minute anything going on here.


                
First of all I would like to say that I watch everything. I work at home so this forces me to have television shows playing while I work. This show came to me because I'm simply running out of things to watch.This show makes me angry with each episode. I just finished season 1 and although I want to quit, I don't have anything else to watch I can't imagine the second season being worse.That said here are the positives and negatives of the show....Positives The show is watchable. The bad guys are innovative, smart, and very capable even though they are regularly marginalized. I can't give it the lowest rating possible only because I can actually stomach most episodes.Negatives The acting is bad (terrible in fact). The only acting that is convincing and acceptable is that of the mad scientist and the bald boss.The humor is pathetically cliché.The star agent (Dunham) is unreasonably invincible. This is what angers me the most from the show. Her character is as worse than Dr. House as a boss, kills more people than Vic Mackey, and violates more civil rights than Jack Bauer. What is worse is that she does these things completely without consequence to herself. She's not even knowledgeable about any of these cases yet she commands so much even from superior officers with no repercussions.The gimp character (Astrid) is completely useless and is part of the show by affirmative action or something because she looks "ethnic". She has no scientific knowledge and no agent uses. She is just there to buy the groceries which is then doubly insulting that she's there for the slave work.The bad guys are regularly eliminated even though they drive the interesting parts of the show. The double agent whose wife was executed in her own home by agent Dunham and pistol whipped in front of many officers while surrendering was doing amazing things like walking through walls and teleporting people. His character was immediately eliminated and we went back to stories of monsters. What is more important is that the bad guys are much more powerful and intelligent yet they always lose to a team of three whose smartest person has research 20 years old at least which brings me to another problem.The boss (bald black guy, probably my favorite actor in the show) went from repeatedly relegating the stupidity and emotions of Dunham to giving her any and everything she wants (including many illegal searches, interrogations, etc.) in a span of a few episodes.The science of these things are much worse than normal and the analogies given are quite pathetic. However if I were critical about this, I couldn't watch the show.Scientific advancement in this show is so slow that apparently a scientist who has not even touched a microscope in decades has the equipment necessary to solve the current problems.Finally, the scientist's son is pathetic. His IQ is supposedly 180 according to the first episode. Why then is he relegated to being nothing more than comic relief for the show and a connection to strange criminals.
I won't bother with a long review; others here have already pointed out the bad acting, the endless stream of clichés, etc.. I'll just quote a couple of lines from episode two (note that this is a DIRECT quote from the show, I'm not paraphrasing or exaggerating in any way):"The only way that we could see what she saw, even in theory, is if we could recover the electric impulses that were traveling along her optic nerve, which we can't.""Ah! But we're in luck! This woman was given a muscle relaxant. The drug would have frozen her neural pathways at the moment of death, and the last images she saw with it."If you don't have a problem with the above (namely the fact that muscles and nerves are different things, that nerve impulses are electricity and can't be "frozen", that the optic nerve doesn't actually carry images, etc.) or with the fact that this kind of voodoo basically replaces all investigation or deduction in Fringe, then you might enjoy the series. It has plenty of explosions and car chases, and an impressive body count. For some people, that's all that matters.If you prefer a narrative where the characters actually need to investigate, outsmart suspects, etc. (instead of using voodoo pseudoscience to magically get out of every conceivable plot hole the writer dug himself into), then you'll probably find Fringe quite shallow. And if you have at least a highschool-level understanding of physics, biology and chemistry, or if you have any respect for rational thought and scientific procedures, you'll probably find Fringe offensive. The level of scientific illiteracy in a country can probably be measured by how popular "Fringe" is over there.This isn't science fiction or even "mad science", it's just a random collection of slightly scientific-sounding words thrown together to patch the holes in a very weak plot.I give it a second star because Dr. Bishop has some funny one-liners.
There's a lot to like here - Anna Torv delivers a convincing and compelling lead performance, the show doesn't mind splashing a bit of blood and guts around and there's a fair amount of interesting and well thought out back story to her character.Unfortunately there is rather a lot to not like.Within a few episodes the show had settled into a formula. Six episodes in it was in a rut. And the supporting characters are so crudely drawn as to be risible. This is especially true of cartoon "mad scientist" type Walter who invariably does something "amusing" (a weekly crude parody of mental illness) then "has a theory" (blah blah dark matter blah blah telepathy blah blah secret research project). This character detracts enormously from the otherwise dark tone of the show. If he was played 10% more seriously and with 99% less idiotic and inaccurate pseudoscience then the show would be ten times better.As it is, the whole thing comes across like a daytime TV version of the X Files. Samey plots and stupid attempts at quirky characters prevent the series from living up to the considerable promise of the pilot episode.


                
OK 1st thing is im not one of those who doesn't give a show a chance. I gave fringe 10 episodes. Seen as TV is aimed at the young & watched by the old these days, we shouldn't have to accept this nonsense, while other better shows get cancelled.The lead character in this remake of xfiles (notice the hand in opening credits, same as xfiles) is actually dull and flat, found myself hoping she would be killed off to reinvent the show. There are even a few of the other characters who have no reason for being there. Some of the stories as well are straight out of xfiles.The show lacks any of the chemistry Mulder and Scully had and the writing doesn't even come close. This is up there with how bad the remake of V was. I love scifi but this was a waste of time.I've since been told that end of season 2 onwards is fantastic, but im sorry a show should not take 2 seasons to be watchable. Only reason network continued with it, was because it cost a fortune. Some of the eps are just daft as well, and it is all leading to a big secret that all this is something called the pattern but you find yourself just not caring one bit.Do yourself a favour, but this away, dig up your old VHS or DVD xfiles and although almost 20 years old, you will see better stories, better acting, characters, writing, and believe it or not special fx.
I've watched episode after episode in trying to see the attraction of this show, but what I said in the title of this review stands.
#1) A crowd of ordinary people are dissolved and turned into disgusting corpses on an airplane. #2) A crowd of people are killed on a bus like flies trapped in gelatin amber. #3) Person after person is gruesomely "exploded" by a radioactive human "experiment." #4) Person after person is murdered for a piece of their brain, and we are "treated" to the ugly pictures. #5) Many people die after a man is transformed into an unknowing human electric chair.
I have almost certainly mixed up some of the numbers, but you get the general idea by now...This show tends to be just as much about bizarre ways to mutilate the human body as anything else, and I have zero interest in that.As for "science," the idea that LSD introduces the lead doctor to a parallel universe, like most things in this show, is too absurd to suspend my disbelief, though Star Trek and The Twilight Zone made that easy.Unless something radical changed in later seasons, I fail to understand why anyone would like this.
