Where to begin ? I've watched the "pilot" and the second episode to be sure it was not "bad luck"."Fringe" is an insufferable show.Its "pseudo-science" is so dumb, so clueless, so 1-bit IQ that it alone could cause a class-action law-suit for brain-cell genocide.Electric signal frozen in the body by the usage of a sleeping drug ?Rapid-growth/aging of a complex organism ? Where did the matter come from ? Void ?Let's forget adults who can turn their brain off and accept this (to each his own). What will stop children that could still be saved to watch that nonsense ?The reasoning in the investigations are nuts, stupid shortcuts.An orange gel is found in the room where a dead woman (dead while giving birth, not murdered) The bed sheets have been changed. Immediate conclusion from the main investigator : it's a murderer that was killing women by removing a piece of their brains 5 years ago, and that was not arrested. Why that bold assumption ? He was using an orange drug to numb them and used to change the sheets to remove all traces of his passage.First : a murderer who wants to remove all his traces makes the room and leave the sheets with his DNA in a desk in the room. He also leaves a fluorescent orange numbing drug on top a white sink. Not a genius obviously. And what could be said about an agent unable to find that criminal mastermind ? Come on : the writer(s) didn't saw that one when they were writing it ?Next : there are lots of people using an orange gel for their hair that sometimes put their bedsheets in a box before cleaning. And most or them do not kill women by taking part of their brain out through their nose.The link between that woman dead at the hospital and a series of horrible murder : orange paste and a bed ? In what plane of reality ? I just cannot believe somebody though it was an acceptable script.Actually it's so stupid that the "genius" with the investigator asks "why such a conclusion" or something of this effect. But the writer's lantern does not cover planetary-sized plot-holes.Do I have to tell anything about the acting going from bad to acceptable ?Don't waste your precious time with the Fringe. There are better thing to do instead. Breaking your leg in a car accident maybe ? Granted it would be a minor improvement but its a start.
Show presents itself as an updated X-Files , even the opening credits are very similar , the story lines to date could just as easily have been X-Files episodes , sadly thats where the similarity ends.Some of the poorest scripts you could hope to see , riddled with cliché's and massive plot holes. The acting is passable , but only just , but then when they have to deliver that quality of script , you must have some sympathy.This must be one of the flashiest shows ever made , special effects and flourishes in every scene , its just painful to watch , the actors & storyline take a back seat to allow the fancy effects to dominate the screen.I really can't think of anything positive to say about the show , the storyline as I mentioned above are interesting enough, but when they are laced with shockingly poor scripts , and wrapped up with flashy effects, they are lost.I suppose its early doors for this show , but will it get better? I would'nt hold my breath


                
Well, I have just watched the pilot. I won't be tuning in again. The programme was nothing but a pale imitation of the X Files, right down to the sceptic and the believer angle, except with gender swap. The plot was unconvincing, and the characters were terribly clichéd. The stylised touches served no purpose (X-rays of leaves, apples and butterflies? Why?) The main female lead is a wooden actress with no charisma, and Joshua jJckson, as well as every other cast member was lumbered with an unengrossing script.How the pilot got picked up for a full season is truly beyond my understanding.


                
Some people go overboard with their critiques. When they don't like a show they will go on to say that everything about it was bad and that is simply not true. While I didn't like this show, I'd like to give a non-exaggerated opinion on it here.Just like everybody else, I expected to get the same experience from Fringe that I got from the X-Files 15 years ago and I trusted J J Abrams was the man to deliver it. I wanted to like it, in some sense, I tried to force myself into liking it, just to prove to myself I wasn't too old for this kind of story, but it didn't happen.Most of the people involved in the making of this show did everything to make it happen. The production was generous, the camera work and special effects were excellent, the directors tried their best to infuse the scenes with the right atmosphere but all of this in vain because of terrible writing. Some reviewers put blame on the actors, but I don't see what else they could have done with the script they were given. What a shame. I never cease to wonder how producers are ready to put so much money into every aspect of a show/film but fail to pay for a decent writer.1st problem - the paranormal: Yes, the phenomena you'll see in the show are ludicrous. They are nowhere near 'fringe' science - they are well outside of it. While this fact severely reduces the sense of mystery in the stories, I don't think that's the biggest problem. It's the reactions of the characters to the phenomena that nail the show. There is no voice of reason, no doubters - no Scully - anywhere in the couple of episodes I saw. There is no ambiguity, no confusion. FBI agents believe the most outrageous claims with little or no resistance. The things the characters see in the show should shatter their world-views but instead their reactions are a mild surprise at most. Can't relate to any of those people.2nd problem - the normal: The golden rule of science fiction writing is that it's alright to write about something that is impossible, but it's bad to put in something that is improbable. I'm OK with the translucent skin and recovering images from the optical nerves and what not but I can't accept the main character coming out of LSD trance completely lucid and everybody believing what she's saying. I can't believe her boss refused to get her a court order to speak with an incarcerated scientist but he let her fly to Iraq to get the scientist's son so she could do the same... and on and on...I'm afraid in this case J J Abrams lost his sense of judgment about plots. I hope he recovers.
First of let me say, that I like sci-fi and mystery movies and series in general and have an open minded approach when i start watching a new series.I see Fringe as having to worlds. The classic ordinary world which we can relate to and understand. The second world is the mystery sci-fi world which we don't understand and are exciting to watch.Good part The sci-fi world is okay written. The mad scientist is funny and well written. And the sci-fi stuff that happens... well thats okay written to.Bad part The classic world is so flawed I almost cried. I could only watch to season 1 episode 7. Its like they hired a retarded person to write that part of the show. Logic and common sense just went out the window. I understand that it's a sci-fi show and the writers have freedom to write and make up stuff for the show. But the show tries to look into the fringe world from a real world point of view. So the stuff in the real world should be real and logic with common sense.For example. A important person is kidnapped and the location is unknown. The main character (FBI agent) finds out where the bad guy is. The bad guy is in the woods at night with the kidnapped person. The bad guy toke down half a swat team earlier that day without breaking a sweat. So the FBI agent drives out to the woods alone. And thats straight from FBI headquarters without backup. Thats just so incredibly stupid and badly written that i want to claw out my eyes and that part of my brain where common sense resides.Another example. All the strange things that happen are part of "The Pattern" as its called. So the FBI agent is supposed to investigate the strange cases that arise and the "The Pattern". The FBI agent's new boss know a lot about "The Pattern", but don't want to share any information. Only very little information. The boss basically don't want to share this information, because he thinks it makes Olivia the FBI agent perform better. Would'en she be a better agent if she had all the information available and did'nt have to spend time in the field to find out what the boss already knows???!!!??? Im clawing again ;)And the list goes on.Well I hope you understood my bad English :)


                
A friend recently recommended this show to me. On that high recommendation, I purchased the first season.What a mistake! I made it to episode 12 before I finally gave up. This show is clichéd, poorly written, poorly acted and poorly executed.One thing I demand of any sci-fi show is plausibility, regardless of the story line.So we seem to have a mismatched band of characters that are saving the city or world every episode.We have Olivia, who is supposedly an ex-marine but there is nothing about her bearing that remotely resembles military... except her amazing ability to dodge every single bullet that is shot at her... some point blank.We have a 150+ IQ genius that has next to no bearing on any outcome in the stories.And we have the brilliant genius that has been in legal isolation for 17 years, but somehow has been able solve EVERY SINGLE problem without help outside the core group, using his 1970's era equipment. How is that possible? Imprisoned in isolation for 17 years, but is somehow current on latest advances and techniques and is orders of magnitude better than any other scientist on the planet? And how is he a scientist of everything. So far he has been a scientist in Biology, Biochemistry, Medicine, Pharmacology, Epidemiology, Veterinary, Chemical Engineering, Physics- Theoretical and Applied etc. Scientists devote themselves to one or two fields in a lifetime, and most never achieve high status, yet this scientist is expert in dozens of fields.As an example of the twisted logic used in this show. The scientist was in legal isolation with a court order stating that only immediate family could visit. So we are supposed to believe that the CIA, NSA, FBI and DoHS could not organise a visit to the scientist. But, and this is the ludicrous part of it, the son could have the scientist released into his custody! So nobody could visit him, but we can have him released to visit the world!! And why is it that every problem that has occurred has happened before? And why are the perpetrators of these crimes somehow always connected to these three people?Not enjoyable and very frustrating to watch. Another show that uses the "solved just in time" story telling technique.
This show has a great storyline. Alternate universes, shape shifters are coming to our universe to start a war. For some reason, however, this show has more "standalone" episodes than actual storyline episodes. The writers/producers/directors/JJ Abrams have taken a great show and turned it into CSI meets The Outer Limits or Murder, She Wrote meets The Twilight Zone. Those of us who have been dedicated viewers and supports are getting shat upon because the Abrams knows that we will keep watching, so he has dumbed the show down for the people that can't be bothered to watch every week.Abrams should be ashamed of this product. Hopefully, it will either have a change of format, or get canceled next season.I would not waste my time on this show.


                
I gave this show a good long chance, having gone through several seasons recently on netflix, and was interested at first. While the episodic nature of the show was an irritant, and the formula of 'strange murders, Walter either remembers something from the past or leaps to a ridiculous conclusion, generally turns out he's right' got old right-fast, the story seemed somewhat intriguing. The longer I watched however, the more I came to realize that that's all the story is: intriguing. It lacks all actual substance, and it's increasingly clear it's not the product of a preconceived notion of where things are headed, but a series of writer-panel decisions that frequently overlook or disregard the efforts of previous panels. Point after point in the broader plot they've supposedly been building has been abandoned when a narrative whim took them in another direction, what was vitally important to characters in one episode utterly forgotten for the rest of the series, never to be recalled. Much like Lost, it begins with a compelling mystery, but rather than try to resolve that mystery (as a resolution had never actually been though of) a series of newer, 'bigger' mysteries emerge to take the characters on another convoluted journey to no real answers and even bigger mysteries. Just as it was with Lost, I seriously doubt this show will even try to adequately conclude itself. If the story's ever getting to a point where something actually has to be resolved, they'll just toss in more Universes or something, or end it as this all being an institutionalized Olivia's dream.Also, for a girl with relationship issues who spends the whole series on the verge of but never really dating anyone, agent Dunham sure seems to insist on tossing flirty glances and coy smiles at every single warm male body in the show.


                
On the basis of the very high IMDb rating, I went ahead with this. Should have known better. Am I being unfair by basing my opinion on only the first episode? No; it is common for them to put everything they've got into the first one, because it will influence a lot of people in their decision to continue or not.The most glaringly obvious thing is that agent Dunham seems to have complete freedom to pursue whatever she wants in this investigation, but she's not investigating anything at all, she's just trying to get someone to save her boyfriend. Is this how the FBI really works? I didn't think so. Now, have you ever seen the CDC burn a plane on the tarmac? I didn't think so. Is this strategy in their rule book? I kinda doubt it. This episode is so full of implausible crap like that, that it's impossible to just sit there and let it unfold without internally screaming. And there's 5 seasons of this? Uhh... no. I thought I was going to be treated to some rollicking Twilight Zoney kind of stuff, or even X- Files-ish sort of thing. No. Fraid not. Watch some Star Trek reruns instead.


                
After reading so much positive commentary on sites like IMDb, I thought I was in for a real treat with Fringe. Unfortunately, I was quite disappointed after watching a season of it. It's definitely not the same writing caliber as shows like House, X Files, Downton Abbey or West Wing. It falls flat, is overly simplistic and predictable and Anna's acting does little to raise the bar for the show. The character Walter and Anna's boss do save the show a bit with depth and convincing performances, but otherwise it just isn't enough to make me want to stick with it. Writing writing writing. Acting acting acting. You build upon the basics just about anything will fly, but without those two as your foundation -- not worth my time.


                
The acting is great - I will give it that.I admit, I have only seen about 7 episodes but that was enough to make me not care to watch it anymore. At first, I thought it would be an interesting series like the x-files. I quickly learned it was worse. I loved the x-files when every show had it's own plot. I stopped watching x-files after everything turned to a conspiracy. I think it was the fourth episode in fringe that made me not care if I didn't see another episode. There was already too many subplots but then episode 4 made no sense. There was no theory, no hypothesis but there were answers to questions that we weren't even asking.Yes, yes, I know...many fringe lovers say that it gets better and maybe it does. But really, am I going to keep watching a show because someone says it may get better even though it sucks right now? Think of a book - it is judged by it's cover, the review but most importantly, by it's first couple of pages. If I can't get through even the first couple of pages (episodes) then what makes you think I am going to hang on to see if it gets better? It has it's entertaining moments, but I don't want to watch a show where EVERYONE is against each other with their own agendas.
