I've had high hopes for this show, and while it's not terrible, it doesn't grab me as I hoped it would.I am not bothered by the preposterous 'science' of this show -- I just accept that it's happening in some kind of a parallel universe where this kind of science is possible. Nor do I share other viewers' aversion to the floating letters (they're just letters, people, get over it!).It is fashionable to make comparisons between X-Files and Fringe. Fringe is made on a much higher budget and cute as he might be Fox Mulder with his unconvincing tenor was not a match to Joshua Jackson's charismatic character. I also never found X-Files' 'aliens abducted my sister' storyline particularly sexy. But unfortunately, The Patterns are just as tepid.Where X-Files was far superior, was in its ability to build suspense. Mulder and Scully were constantly put in the way of danger, where the phenomena were after them, not after some girls off the street. This approach allowed to build up tension and suspense and, as a result, make the viewers invest in the characters, two mavericks who were constantly hunted by monsters and bullied by government agencies.Fringe, on the other hand, is more of a procedural with a crazy old man (best character on the show) solving the problem, and then Olivia Dunham swooping in on a location with her SWAP team. It's just a little too... CSI-like for me.I had hoped Fringe would be one of these shows I'd want to eventually own on DVD. Not so much. Gooey corpses notwithstanding, it's too bland to truly excite.
Just saw the pilot and din't see any comments here. Technically the episode was sound. Good Camera-work. Sharp editing. And a commendable background score though it mostly will be altered for the actual series premiere. The story on the other hand is fairly interesting even if the science involved borders on the ridiculous. As with 'Lost', some scheme of a grand scale is hinted at leaving the writers good room to manoeuver in. The characters, each with his or her own dilemmas and troubles, are likable but the casting looks weak. Anna Trov (a watered down version of Naomi Watts imo) looks more like a lost mother than an FBI agent under stress and Joshua Jackson looks nothing like the eccentric genius he's supposed to be (and I don't mean he should be wearing thick glasses and sport a weird hairdo). All in all Fringe was good but the knockout punch that a series premiere is supposed to deliver (think Prison Break, The Black Donnellys, Life et al) was somehow missing.
Just seen the first two episodes in a row and, as a Lost fan, I was expecting more I suppose.The good news: The direction is tight, the lead character is very convincing, lots of money being spent for a TV show and this shows. Some unexpected twists exist. Could even get 9/10 if it weren't for the bad news:The bad: The overall binding story seems (to now) extremely weak. "Strange events occur in the world as a part of some experiment blah blah blah" - WHY MAKE UP SOMETHING LIKE THAT. The first two episodes could as well be two successful stand-alone episodes of X-files. In addition Blair Brown and the Nutty Professor is out of place for such a show, could greatly do without them.Will continue watching - skipping the global conspiracy theory unless it starts to make sense.This show can EASILY improve - to now 7/10


                
When the previews for this show came out, I was pretty excited since JJ Abrams gave us the excellent "Lost" but I felt a little disappointed in the pilot episode since it felt a little cliché and pretentious. The main characters are clones of Mulder and Scully and I really didn't find anything that sets them apart but father and son relationship with the male character was fun to watch although the father's role as a lost-marbles scientist is still cliché along with the head honcho who carries out assignments for the main leads. The opening scene was great and pretty gruesome as well until the final act which was juicy with a sense of intrigue and dread; the only part of the show that made me hungry for more. Though this show isn't as blazing as Abram's other works but I think it will improve with future episodes. Abrams is known for his great work in Lost and "Fringe" looks to be another hit IF it can set itself apart from the X-Files.


                
I'm pretty forgiving when it comes to sci-fi oriented shows. I don't mind low budgets or even cheesy effects - as long as there's something to hook into.I've watched the series with an open mind because with new shows you never know how it's going to go. In this case, it didn't go too well with the initial set of episodes... but we're seeing some noticeable improvement.Initially, the show's creators looked like they were trying too hard and too many things seem "off". For example, it was hard to connect with the lead character because she seemed kind of androgynous and bland. She was tough, but not especially interesting (or even provocative) in any particular area. As for the other main characters - they were just the opposite: a little too over the top. Early in the series, there were too many references to "Harvard" and high intelligence. Eventually, they just end up looking like bizarre people that no one would want to be around.The story in the pilot was kind of representative of the first slew of subsequent episodes. It was too ambitious and not very compelling. It's hard to botch an opening with a 747 in trouble ... but somehow they zapped all of the tension out of it. IMPROVEMENT: Well, the story lines are getting pretty good and that's becoming the strength of the show. The characters are also more socially 'acceptable' and less irritating. All in all, I'm glad there are signs of improvement. The filmmakers have improved the quality of the storytelling with the newer shows. Now I can finally say - if you like sci-fi oriented shows, it's worth checking out.


                
It was obvious a comparison to the X files because this ones shares some common aspects: rare phenomenons, unexplained deaths, conspiracy theory and a FBI agent teamed up with a classic ''unstable''scientist and his son (also with an IQ above average....).If you remembers XF (specially the first season), Fringe doesn't stand a chance. But if you manage to see it with a fresh and open mind, you'll enjoy a good pilot episode, with a great (not extraordinary but really good) acting in the leading female role; and special effects that serves to the purpose of telling a story (and not to replace it).Keep in mind that is a loosely science-based series (teleportation, etc) but this pilot accomplished the first objective: to give a shred of credibility to the story. We will see if the writers manage to sustain this or fells in ridiculous premises like some other science based series.I recommended this one, let's see how good or bad goes the first season.


                
I've seen all kinds of up and down reviews on here so clearly not everyone likes it or didn't give it a good chance.I suggest watching the entire show before making a decision. My own thoughts are it's quite a decent show, though the beginning of season 4 I was a bit bored, but wanted to give it a chance and later in the season I was getting interested and can't wait for the final series which, unlike supernatural, they are going to put this to rest at season 5.I got sucked into it quite easily by being a lover of sci-fi and the paranormal. Plus I love the ideas of an alternate universe and seeing how people changed in the other world where Fring Division is a popular and well known military unit where in our reality it is a undercover FBI unit. You see the dopplegangers of the other reality and how they have a completely different personality due to possible things that may have happened in the past. The "path not taken" if you will.Plus the man known as Willian Bell is hinted at most of the season and when he appears, it's Leonard Nimoy (Spock from Star Trek's original series) so it's awesome to geek out at scenes he appears in. John Noble's character, Dr Walter Bishop is a man with mental problems, caused by having pieces of his brain taken out and trapped in a institution for years. The character evolves over the series with the presence of his son, Peter who puts up with his father's Eccentricities but also as the show goes on their bond grows stronger and Walter becomes more relaxed in public environments.The science I enjoy too. I'm no expert so I'm not certain on how accurate some of the science is, but at the same time I'm willing to have a suspension of disbelief as it's not like they don't bother to explain these things. Best to just watch and enjoy it. Afterall, this is escapism and doesn't need to be grounded in reality.
I am an X-files fan and although I don't think Fringe has come close to the high point of that series, it has definitely beat the beginning of it. Although X-Files is a great show, the first season is always a bit of an embarrassment when I show it to someone new. I mean come on... the pilot, Space, Ghost in the Machine...Was it really that great? If you are an X-Phile you will know what I'm talking about. Fringe has by far been much better in it's fledgling season.I honestly think this show has had a good start and it will just keep improving. Characters are memorable, the plots are getting more clever, the mytharc is developing well. If Lost is any indicator, Abrams is a good, solid story teller and I trust him to keep his show well planned and executed.Yes The first few episodes were a bit stiff and forgettable, but the subjects and the characters keep getting more intriguing as things have been moving along.Overall I think this is a good show with a lot of potential in the future. I'm watching and I'll be watching for as long as the show lasts (and I hope it will be awhile).


                
I have read several reviews about this show and most of them have been unfairly negative.Science Fiction, as a genre, is notoriously hard to 'get right', as often you are trying to appeal to a bunch of 'comic-book-reading', know-it-alls, who only want to see the same corny, regurgitated storyline over-and-over again. This show is more of a tongue-in-cheek version of 'X-Files'.Whilst the main character of Agent Olivia Dunham (Anna Torv) is a little underdeveloped, and has failed to evolve much over the first season, the supporting characters are excellent, in particularly Walter Bishop, played by the wonderful John Noble.This show is light entertainment and should be enjoyed with pop-corn and a beer, not a notepad and pen, ready to jot down every misplaced twitch from the lead actors. 'Fringe' is a well produced and well made show and, providing you don't have a stick up your rectum (or a lightsaber), you will enjoy it! Bring on the second Season!


                
The only real compliment that can be given to Fringe, the newest creation from J.J. Abrahms, is that it's a little different. There are so many, "cookie-cutter" shows on the tele these days that having something this weird, and unrealistic is a welcome relief. No one should ever sit down to watch an episode of Fringe, and expect anything that is believable.The acting on Fringe is a lousy, Josh Jackson and Anna Torv have the constant and annoying habit of pausing achingly long when they aren't sure what their lines are. However, aside for that flaw, this show is sheer entertainment and with the extraordinary John Noble, playing the Dr. Walter Bishop roll, it really is. Leave it the insane-genius of J.J. Abrahms to cast two horrible actors as Josh Jackson and Anna Torv and then cast a well versed, and experienced Shakespearian-stage actor in John Noble.All in all, I like the show and my fiancé and I, watch the show every week.


                
Obviously, this show is filling the gap left with the disappearance of agents Mulder & Scully (I know they're back but, please, quit interrupt me). Same recipe : Characters interacting with multiple layers of personality, weird phenomenons, scientific experiments (gone wrong), plot riddles, breathtaking ambiance.And it goes on : Secretive government agencies, cover-ups & conspiracies, mad scientists, subplots are the ingredients of this nth TV jigsaw, supposedly addictive, definitely nerve-wrecking. Or maybe was the editing making it appeared too long / slow ?Will we have enough patience for another dose of mystery ? Shall we even give a damn after 9 years of X Files, 4 seasons of Lost ? (or pick your favorite : Nowhere Man, Supernatural, Twin Peaks, Millennium, 24 ...)The cast is decent : - The story revolves around a female FBI agent, lovely, young but stubborn, showing undies halfway through the pilot episode (geek screenwriters...) - It's the great return on the little screen of George Clooney... sorry, I meant Joshua Jackson, as the underrated yet sexy "comic" relief. - FBI boss is played by JJ Abrams new joker card Lance Reddick, so dark, so mysterious, so bad ass, so full of s..ecrets, yet so willing to share.We might be heading toward the new up-and-coming television frenzy. My system is already overloading on this kind of drug. Let's just hope that writers know where they 're going or it's gonna be a veeery long ride and I wouldn't like to puke on the leather seat.
I'm at 12th episode right now (1st season) and all I have to say is that the show got really interesting after episode 8. Still, it does have X-Files clichés and one cannot help but notice the many, many similarities between the 2 shows, but I think step by step Fringe is building its own character.The actors get interestingly better and better, and almost every episode's last scene is a cliff hanger, which makes you want more and more.I still need to watch some more episodes to keep up with the current ones, and I hope that the show will keep progressing forwards with less clichés, less funny moments, and less confusing mythology-story, cause Fringe is a really nice try.


                
The world is a lab, and we are the guinea pigs, here to be poked, prodded and needled on by greedy and sociopathic scientists who have abandoned their ethics in search of more results, more power, and -- maybe -- more fear. What starts for FBI Agent Olivia Dunham (the main heroine in this series) as a freakish and alarming case of an entire plane crew dead of a nasty flesh-eating/liquefying bacteria flips her world inside out. The world is just a giant testing ground, and every single bizarre occurrence of science is just a continuation of what is ominously known as "the Pattern" -- with that terrifying capital 'p.' With the help of the unruly son of the brilliant (yet more than slightly insane) Walter Bishop, the crazy-man herself and the Agency behind her, Olivia must take on a force that even she is not sure can really be stopped. I admit. At first glance, it sounded ridiculous. I watched the pilot and found myself irritated and unimpressed. The character of Dunham, played by a Ms. Anna Torv, was harsh, stale and brittle; her compatriots, and her lover (who we find out rather quickly is a double agent working with the ominous 'Pattern') were predictable, unremarkable in their secrets and relatively unspectacular in their acting. Everything felt like something I'd heard or seen before.But, as curious and bored people do, I decided to watch another episode. And another. And then maybe a third, just for good measure. I'm not saying that 'Fringe' is perfect -- by all means, it still has a lot of ground to cover and a lot to prove -- but I am saying that everyone should lower their upturned noses for the briefest of moments and actually sit down and watch a few episodes. The concepts are interesting. Out there? Yes. Mildly absurd? Duh. But that is what has made this show so amusing and -- dare I say it -- somewhat engrossing. Plot holes exist. Enormous, utterly embarrassing character dunders that make me cringe at the lack of common sense are there. But beyond that, beyond the mistakes that everyone has been quick to point the triumphant and imperious finger at, I see the makings of a pretty good show. The dialog has become smoother. The characters, more intriguing and -- more importantly -- real. The plots, while varying in their outlandish degrees, have kept me curious. More backstory, more flashbacks, more eerie occurrences...they're happening. And they're making this show (which started in my eyes as a sad little failure) something I really want to sit down and watch. Pilots,unfortunately, have the tendency to be clunky and pathetic and this killed a lot of the interest in the show rather quickly.But try to sit down and watch it again. Like most of Abram's work (like it or leave it) every little piece is a part of a bigger puzzle. While this can get frustrating as hell for a lot of people, it works for me in "Fringe." WHY are these things happening? What has compelled brilliant people to turn on their fellow men and women and use them like toys? Can anything be done to stop it? We learn bits and we learn pieces and yeah, it's irritating not to have everything laid out for you, but it also keeps your interest and makes you think. I like "Fringe."But it took a few episodes for me to get that way.
Just finished watching the two hour pilot. I thought it was pretty good with some promising characters, well paced, good special effects without overuse and a decent enough story.The comparison with X-file is obvious but I don't see that as a negative thing. I don't understand why that has become a stick to beat the show with. When people first watched NYPD Blue it was not instantly great and was clearly not as good as Hillstreet Blues. Star Trek: NG was poured with scorn as an abomination and an insult to the original series at first but that changed.Surely there is room for more than one supernatural detective series. Give it a chance. I will. I know it took me a couple of goes to get in to Lost, three attempts at The Wire and a while before I got the Sopranos yet they are all shows I cannot miss at any cost and now lament the passing of The Wire and The Sopranos.


                
I like Fringe as it has all the ingredients of a show that one wants to watch every episode of. I believe the characters are amiable and most of all, watchable. Joshua Jackson being the pick of them followed by Anna Torv and the supporting cast is great. Comparisons to X - files is meaningless to me as I've never really watched it and I feel more appreciative of Fringe because it's actually interesting. Every episode I have watched has kept me glued to my seat. The eccentricity of Mr. Noble, the mystery of Peter and the unresolved issues of Agent Dunham make for interesting watching.Watch it and you'll see what I'm talking about.Enjoy


                
Review of Pilot only Whilst I find some of the criticism directed at this TV show justifiable, as a frustrated viewer of Prison Break (a show which is ludicrous but enjoyable) and Heroes (aimless, contradictory and convoluted but enjoyable) I feel this show has the potential to be one of the better ones out there.Firstly though, its weaknesses. The plot is in some places disjointed: the link between Arab men spotted at the storage facility and the experimental labs that are found is unclear. The decision of Agent Scott to alert Dunham to the presence of Steig is odd if Scott himself is dirty. Why not chase him alone and if he gets away, pretend it didn't happen. Capturing Steig will surely only lead to his name coming up. There is also, in my opinion, an extreme plot hole at the end when Scott dies in Dunham's arms unable to convey a dying message. Given that Dr Bishop has already told Dunham he can communicate with corpses in the first six hours after death, why not ensure his body goes to the lab rather than into the hands of the supposedly evil corporation? Character-wise, I felt Dr Bishop was poorly written, although this may just be because they want him to be crazy. His character veers from making inane, trivial small talk in the mental asylum when pressed by Dunham, to speaking almost perfectly lucidly once released. Who knew beards held such power? Despite this, there are many positives. The show has an intriguing premise and one of the best opening scenes in recent memory to a TV show. Those who criticise it for being X-Files-lite are being overly harsh, this is an original story that shouldn't be dismissed, just because it is sci-fi. The show even plays on the audience's initial pre-conceptions, introducing a Muldy and Sculler style couple right from the get-go (whose love scenes and dialogue seem so forced, you just know one of them is going to get blown up), but then catching the audience out with the revelation that Scott isn't a "good guy". In terms of acting, Reddick is superb, as he was in The Wire, Jackson surprises but is helped by being given some of the sharper dialogue and John Noble plays the mad scientist to just the right level so as to be believable. Torv as Dunham does seem occasionally wooden, but the same could be said of Matthew Fox in LOST and that show doesn't suffer for it.Stylistically and visually, this show manages to create its own look and feel, which I was impressed by as it could so easily have been LOST v.2 (a thought that was nearly confirmed by beginning the show on a plane flying through turbulence). The music provided by Giacchino fits seamlessly into the show, although there are the occasional echoes of the discordant tones of LOST, which is not necessarily a bad thing.Overall, this show has the ability to improve on a solid first episode and deserves credit for being able to intrigue the viewer as much as it does. It will be interesting if the show can build on this momentum as the season progresses.
Like some of the other reviewers have already mentioned, this series starts off very slow. I was underwhelmed by the pilot. But by the fourth episode things have really picked up. You get more of a back story of some of the characters and the storyline gets more intriguing. Just like in Lost, the mysteries keep you coming back for more. If you were not impressed with the first few episodes, give it another try. Unlike one of the previous reviewers I think Lost and Alias were two of the best TV shows of the past decade, and although Fringe is not quite as good as either of these, it is still a very good show. If you are a fan of J.J. Abrams, The X-Files or even Twin Peaks, I think you will like this series.


                
In its league Fringe is definitely a good show and even somewhat addictive, but nevertheless Fringe also has a few problems, that they can't seem to fix. My biggest problem of the show seems unattended in reviews: it's the likability or believability of some of the actors/characters. For instance: Olivia Dunham always seems to struggle with scenes where acting skills really come into place: her alter ego in the other world is not really authentic and in more emotional scenes she definitely struggles how to deliver that believable. Good for her is that Olivia is likable. Something that can not be said of the new Lincoln character and before him Charlie Francis. There just flat characters and both aren't really believable. Not in their acting and not in their storyline.Also some of the characters are likable but just don't have any storyline other then doing their job. Astrid for example is very likable but there is just no storyline for her to play, that gives more depth to her character. That's a pity.And for our Dawsons Creek Joshua Jackson (Peter Bishop in the series), he definitely is likable, but he also struggles with the more emotional scenes. It kinda makes you wonder if it is a problem with the actors, or maybe it's a problem in the series direction and writing. Are they being directed to underplay the emotions to get the effect of a detached, cold world? It sometimes looks that way.But then again Walter Bisshop (John Noble) is acting brilliantly. He is definitely not underplaying. He makes the series so much fun and gives it its heart. So, that keeps me wondering where the problem lies exactly.I think the producers of Fringe are good in making action and sf. And a big plus: special effects really rock in this series. But the team doesn't seem to have an eye for the value of good acting. And a think adding an acting-expert -weather in the form of a director or writer or both- would make Fringe top of the bill. Just needed to be said. Other then that: fringe is still a 7 out of ten. But i bet it could be a 9.
script : every episode is different but, at the same time, make the main story progress. The characters are interesting but sometimes a bit thin, you have to wait a very long time to know more about them. It's very similar to X-Files, structuraly speaking. it's not as good as X-files though, for one reason : X-files was believable, the science and paranormal stuff, most of the time, was logically explained in a believable way. That's what makes good science fiction : its believable. Here you will find yourself wandering all the time if the writer got any clue about science. It's like he is 16 years old and anybody with basic common sense or education will be disappointed by the stupidity of some "fringe science" in this show... X-files was a much smarter show than this, more serious and well thought. Still, it's entertaining and every episode shows you something totally new or new elements about the characters and it gets you hooked easily.acting : even though the script does not give them a lot of interesting stuff to say about themselves, the actors are doing a good job. It's nothing stellar but it's not bad either. I especially enjoyed seeing john noble as the old crazy genius of the show, and Joshua Jackson, Blair Brown and Lance Reddick have done a good work also. Anna Torv is not bad but doesn't succeed to make her character into something interesting (the shallow script might be the main reason behind that though)visuals : the special effects are well done and on par with others series. Nothing to criticize here, they have done a good job.sound : musically, nothing much to say, it won't take your breath away but it's what we are expecting it to be.bottom line : not a very intelligent show but it's fun to watch, the characters, even though they are shallow, get you hooked after a few episodes. If you enjoy supernatural investigations (or, as a girl, Joshua Jackson :p), it's worth a look and you will probably enjoy it if you can shutdown your brain.


                
Just finished watching the whole show. And had real difficulties to rate it. I guess it would be a solid 9 for the first three seasons, then 7-8 for the forth season, and a REALLY disappointing final season! (p.s. sorry for writing mistakes, if there are such, i'm not a native English speaker)(Spoilers from this point) The first three seasons were interesting, intriguing, and thought provoking. Yes there were plenty of holes in the plot, but that is expected when tempering with such complex ideas and paradoxes as time-space continuum and parallel universes. I believe they dealt with them rather well, at least when they did make mistakes it did not ruin my viewing. Plus a very good casting. Walter is hilarious, Olivia is really pleasant to watch, Astrid and Broyles make fine secondary roles. The guy who plays Peter is a poor choice, in my opinion he's just a bad actor. The forth season started ruining it for me. Not horribly, but i felt like the writers went out of ideas, like they did not have a solid story line, or perhaps they've already finished it and just started improvising/ reusing old episodes. The reactions of the characters to situations stopped being believable, and i started fast forwarding some of the dialogues since those became boring and contributed nothing to the story.Fifth, and final season was horrible!!! Well if it was some other mediocre show, i wouldn't be so disappointed, but here.. It is as if I ate a delicious apple just to find out that it is rotten inside! The whole season was a huge plot hole. They completely lost control over the time continuum ideas. The all knowing and super advanced "observers" could not simply jump in time to correct damage that is being done by the resistance? They can adjust and foresee history 600 years into the future, but can not expect and prevent actions done by the pathetic resistance? The "observers" can jump from point to point in space, but choose to take the elevator, while the good guy is waiting for them on the other side of it with a gun? And the finale of the show... The fringe team changes the future to prevent from the "observers" to ever exist, thus causing September not to exist, meaning that he couldn't have disturbed Walter-nate to invent the cure for Peter, thus deleting the existence of the whole story line we watched through for five seasons, and not just "resetting time" to 2015... So disappointing.In conclusion. I would recommend to watch the first three seasons, which are great. But not 4-5, as they will just ruin the experience for you. It is if the writers were replaced by "shape shifters" after season 3, causing a horrible change in the quality of the show :)
I liked the show, beginning to end.
I did find myself, eventually, wondering what happened to that whole conspiracy thing that was the whole point of season one?
I'm pretty sure I don't remember it being resolved, I think it was just dropped after season one, but I haven't seen it for a long time.
The show reminds me a lot of X-files. If only it came before X-files, I believe people would appreciate it more. But now, this kind of theme is not so original anymore. My appreciation to the show, however, is because it comes from JJ Abrams, the same guy creating Lost. While Lost is, like, the best TV show I ever saw, I'm expecting that Fringe could come near to that quality of Lost very soon. The idea of a grand mastermind behind the pattern, the observer and something at an apocalyptic level that awaits -- they are actually pretty cool to start with. Fringe also has interesting 'odd couple' characters (Peter and his father) that spice up the show with fresh humor amidst its dark and violence nature. I think, given enough time this show would turn out great eventually.


                
I have watched all five seasons of fringe what I found out was that the first two seasons are much more interesting and easy to follow unlike the last three seasons which I think there are many loopholes or rather I say they many parts don't link. In "reality" bombastic scientific terms are utilized to describe and explain theories about phenomenon, that alone would certainly confuse particularly viewers without any sort of scientific background knowledge. However, this television show have put adequate effort to ensure that the show allows every viewer to gain a deeper insight in the science world through the use of brief & concise practical example to manifest the abstract ideas thus I commend it. As the terms are clear and logically comprehended it is therefore easy to ascertain that when the machine that hold the two earths together for restoration purposes and acted as a portal was shutdown Peter was suppose to return to his original time line which most people longed to see how Peter will handle the relationship between him with Olive (mother of his son) from Earth2 while he was with Olive from earth1. This is why, firstly the energy that kept him from being erased was gone,secondly Olive was the only one who regained memories from the original time line introduced in season 1 and 2 after she is being injected with high dosage of a drug that activated her abilities. There no connection to how Olive was able to regain memories from previous time line, my own view is that they were trying to make Peter's character more noticeable just like in the previous time line where all his colleagues gave him that sense of belonging and recognition especially with Olive who grounded him because he was a guy who could not stay in one place.In the last season the war between resistance and observers who were first deemed as travelers in and out of time took it tall when they invaded the earth in order to ensure their own survival because in the future they had destroyed the planets ecosystem and resources. In last episode when Walter1 resets time by going to the future where the first observers where engineered. The main couple of the story is shown in the park(earth1 second time line )with their daughter who in 20 years in the future was killed by an observer. This is probably done to make a happy ending or else if restarted from the point of origin the story would never end.I think this should have happened in end or something closely related: 1. original time restored Walter2 would have find a cure to heal his son Peter with no observer to disturb him 2. Peter would have spend his entire life in one earth instead of the two perhaps become a scientist like Walter2 3. Probability of the Him having a child with Olive2 will be very slim because they would not be working togetherAll-in-all, the show is much more entertaining than Lost, X-files which are some the top viewed series in the world. I did not get bored while watching actually I enjoyed getting lost in although some events do not connect. I'm sure to those who 're perceptive they will find a fundamental life lessons concerning forming/ stabilizing relationships particularly with ones parents no matter what atrocities they have done in the past, their treatment and approach with patience and passion suitable for their mental or physical condition.


                
I really liked it in the early seasons! And, in my opinion, they have set the (quality) bar a bit too high for the latter seasons! I'm just gonna write a few words about the last 2 seasons (4 and 5). I'm still not done watching Season 5 but I already get the impression that the producers just wanted to finish the Series "somehow" but they have not given it the same effort and attention to detail as in the beginning. -They tried to borrow a lot from "Lost", and the sound effects are almost identical. The writing has a lot of holes and they made it too <U+0085> "simple"! (hope it gets better by the end!) It"s kinda starting to "insult my intelligence" and I'm just watching it because its the last Season.But for the sake of the early Seasons I'm gonna give it 7.
This show is not bad, don't get me wrong, it's just a compilation of everything in the genre we've seen before (in other form of presentation). I simply perceived this as a homage to good ideas and shows made before, not just a bunch of references. Here we have Star Trek (all series, especially DS9), Iron Man, Joss Whedon, Frankenstein, X Files, Millennium, H.G Wells, Homicide - Life on the Streets, cavalry that always arrives on time, good music from 70's and 80's, Pinocchio, Lost etc. All kinds of schemes with "mad scientists" and classic good and bad guys, new faces and old ones, as guests, flaws and successes. Nothing new or revolutionary except John Noble - that man is one hell of an actor. Truly capable to make really something of literally nothing. Series is fun to watch but only one episode after another, as a recorded show, after all episodes have been aired, in sequence and in relatively short period of time (most of the episodes are sequential and interconnected and you'll lost thread by skipping any of them, or waiting for a week or so for the next one). Then it's worth watching and mildly entertaining. That's it, basically. Good compilation of good stuff from other shows. And John Noble, of course.


                
