This is a great show with talented actors and great storyline. You have to see every episode to know whats going on. Nothing for viewers who watches a episode every other week. The people who calls the storyline bad doesn't get it. It's very smart and like "Lost" you have to use your mind to find out the secrets revealed throughout the show. JJ Abrams is a brilliant writer and the cast is perfect. I strongly recommend you who haven't seen this show to have a look. -FROM THE BEGINNING- otherwise you will not understand a thing.Best regards joura-2More reviews are coming soon.....


                
OK first things first...... you people can't just watch the first two episodes and say that this show isn't good. the first few episodes of any show are bound to be a little slower than the latter. And how can you not dig the strange things that take place in this show. I think it is an excillent, fresh, new idea and has a lot of potential. It's kind of like CSI meets the x-files with some weird science in the mix. Overall i think this series has great potential if you saw the first two episodes and gave up on the show your an idiot. Myself being a huge fan of Lost was a little skeptical about Fringe and was even a little bit disappointed with the first few episodes. Keep watching and like me you will be pleasantly surprised!


                
Great story and really good acting. The opening scene really grabbed my attention and soon I felt it was the first time I had seen a good successor to the X Files. Whilst it is a little too slick to have the atmosphere of XF and the main characters don't quite have the same chemistry as Mulder and Scully, I still thought it was on the right track. Reddick and Acevedo were excellent - guess they had my attention from when they were in Oz together. But best of all was John Noble - mad scientist of the finest genre! Jackson was a little lightweight but grew on me as the show went on. My favourite aspects of the show was the interesting camera work and special effects - oh that and a great sense of humour: "Let's make some LSD". I was really surprised and I can highly recommend it to everyone. No spoilers - just watch it!


                
I am a big fan of scifi, so I am rating this show based on primarily a scifi point of view. I have watched every episode of Star Gate SG1, Atlantis, and Universe, all of BSG, Firefly, and everything Star Trek, and I can honestly say Fringe is my favourite.The seemingly ridiculous science in Fringe is presented and explained in a such a way, it really seems possible. AFter watching 4 seasons of this show I walk around the real world feeling like I'm in some sort of dream because my mind is so blown from this awesome show.The acting is top notch, and Walter (John Noble) totally makes the show what it is. John Noble's portrayal of Walter is simply amazing.Most of the complains of "lack of continuity" are actually just a result of either not watching every episode from the beginning, or just having forgotten what happened in a long past episode. This is the type of show where you really need to watch each episode one after the other. Even waiting a week between them can cause confusion at times. Buying the box set after the show is finished and watching as many episodes as you have time for per day, would be by far the best way to watch this show.The only negative thing I can think of, is that this great show will come to an end after only 5 seasons. I guess all great things come to an end.


                
I have approached the show with a quite loud note of skepticism while having read the reviews on the IMDb page. But being bored in a cold winter evening I went for it and believe me no regrets from that day on. The pilot kick starts with huge dose of mystery science which reminded me a bit of the old classic X-Files at some moments. You got the mystery, a big chunk of science and what is most important to me really mesmerizing characters. Each of the protagonists has a dim past behind them which is being reviled throughout the episodes in small addictive pills. While watching you can venture some wild guesses about what may happen but frankly speaking your chances of getting it right are pretty dim as the plot has a wild twist almost at every corner. Dr Bishop (John Noble) is adding the flavor to the whole thing in one moment a brilliant scientist and a blink of eye later a five year old boy trapped in an old man's body. Mr Noble is giving a great performance in his role and it is worth seeing.To wrap it up I think that it's a good show to watch and that everybody will find something interesting for himself. You don't have to fully understand the plot to enjoy it and get addicted.


                
Just caught the pilot episode tonight. It was pretty good for a scifi/drama.The acting was decent, the direction was top-notch and the special effect were pretty good. I was really caught up in the story line and on the edge of my seat for MOST of the show... however, there are few scenes that could have done with a bit of editing and some of the dialog was straight from the "how-to write a script, for dummies" hand book! Overall the suspense and mystery carried the story along and I'm looking forward to seeing more episodes this fall. The audience for this show won't be on the fringe for long! Cheers, Betty


                
Considering the fact that I am not usually that into most mainstream TV, movies, or music, I am a bit surprised to say that Fringe strikes me as a pretty decent series. I also find it surprising that so many people at IMDb seem to dislike the show.Fringe, so named for the "fringe science" that it even seems to go beyond, is not to be taken as a wholly realistic show. That is not necessarily a bad thing as so many series these days are either "reality shows" or try to be realistic when a break from reality is something we sometimes need.Anna Torv does a decent job as Olivia Dunham, but to me the real star is John Noble as Dr. Walter Bishop. His portrayal of the somewhat confused "mad scientist" gives a bit of a bizarre twist on standard sci-fi, keeping things interesting.


                
At first it didn't sound like it would be a very good show, more like an updated X-Files, but when I actually watched it? I was very pleased with what I saw. Unlike with the X-Files, I could really connect with the characters, and the show has a good humor balance to make this show not only exciting, but amusing as well.Anna Torv's character brings a lot of drama, and passion to the show, while Joshua Jackson's and John Noble's characters bring the humor to counterbalance the drama, but also add drama of their own for a very realistic show that I would recommend to anyone that liked X-Files, or the Twilight Zone.


                
I really enjoyed this movie.Yeath, I've seen all these bad responses on this film. Some blame Anna for poor acting. Actually, I cant't say th same. The main idea of agents of some sort discovering paranormal is very old. But as far as I remember, all the main plots are implemented in movies and all tones and harmonies used in music, all what is left is arrangement. At this point the movie is very good has enough good jokes, some nice acting and a very good plot with all this mystic stuff, government, double agents, crazy scientist, etc perfectly mixed together.I give 9


                
A must see show.One of the most captivating series created by JJ.When i actually saw the pilot, i thought "What a crap performance from Anna Torv", but after a few episodes i realized that the acting isn't that bad at all.I like the character of Walter Bishop at most. It's always refreshing to hear his twisted desires.And of course his son Peter. Simply amazing acting! I highly recommend this show to all SiFi and Mystery lovers. A must see. I hope it will make it to a second series.


                
While watching the episodes of Fringe I noticed that the storyline was working towards the rift in time and space. Maybe it is just me, but I suddenly figured Rose Tyler appearing in present day Earth. But she uses the rift in time and space in Cardiff. The way Fringe worked it way towards that same subject gave me the idea that the authors maybe just took a small peek at the Torchwood series, the spin-off of Doctor Who. Parallel universes are at abundance in those BBC-series. But with regard what I have watched until now I have to admit that I liked it. The acting and the stories grow on you. This show has real potential and I am looking forward for the 2nd series.


                
If I only would have rated single seasons the rating would have been either a bit higher or quite a bit lower. The very first season almost made me stop watching before I began. The characters weren't engaging enough, but more importantly, I felt I was being treated worse than Walter in an institution! This being a weekly show, I understand that you have to have a "previously on" segment (which you can turn off for the first season at least), but to have the show repeat whole passages/pages of a book is really annoying at best.Of course Season 2 and 3 pick up and the different sci-fi elements really do the trick. The fourth season could have been written by a Dallas (read soap Opera) scribe with a passion for Science Fiction. Though as a table discussion did clear up, this isn't science fiction, more like an expansion on known science (so some things might be in the realm of actually being possible/achievable).Whatever the case, it is very obvious that the fourth season was supposed to be the final one. But before the season ran out, I guess they got green-lit for another (shorter) Season 5. Which defies any laws and mixes many things together. Technically the whole show is done on an extremely high level. There are just too many things that don't quite work out, as the writers intended. Strands are left unexplored (Peters past just being one of them) and many convenient things happening (again defying logic and everything else).What makes it all work? It's the human interaction, the actors in particular. Even more amazing, when you listen to some of them speak "freely" (not in character) and hear their accent (Anna Torv and John Noble). That is another level of difficulty to act and talk in another way that you are used to. And while I think Season 1 started off weak, it had the best cliffhanger of the series. So while there are a lot of flaws, this is still very engaging and even if Season 5 is only a bonus (with less logic) I defy anyone to not be emotionally touched after the journey they took with those characters.


                
I'll admit, at the beginning of the show I saw a promising concept that yielded minimal satisfaction, but the character of Walter, played to perfection by John Noble, kept me interested long enough for this show to finally start to reach its potential.Sure, it's a storyline that's been done frequently what with the X-Files and other similar but less lucrative series, but Fringe has a lot going for it. The show has a good cast that sometimes displays a bit of wooden acting here and there and the protagonist Olivia started out seemingly frigid and more bland than rice and beige combined, but as the season carried on, everything started to improve episode by episode.There are twists and turns at every corner, a lot of cast members to keep things fresh and chemistry between leads Olivia and Peter that is played to perfection so as to offer the obligatory but not overwhelming will they/won't they angle that most crime shows feel the somewhat unnecessary need to touch upon. But at least thus far the show has been successful in keeping the possibility as a background afterthought and have only made efforts to develop their friendship, which is a safe bet so early in the series.While in the beginning the show took itself too seriously, the writers and producers seem to have finally decided to go with what works, especially evidenced in the blossoming of Olivia Dunham. And while she won't be a fan favorite any time soon, she has become increasingly more likable and easier to relate to.Only time will tell if Fringe will age like fine and well-cared for wine or simply turn vinegary from neglect, but the twists, turns, the increasingly bizarre story lines and Walter's presence are enough to make a sci-fi fan or crime show buff want to tune in.


                
Seems like I am in the minority of the people posting here, but I really enjoy this show. Some of the scenes are delightfully creepy, particularly in the lab of the "on the edge of sane" scientist.Last night's show was particularly fun (episode that aired on 2/3) --- loved when the guy on the plane mutated into a giant porcupine and went ballistic.I think the show is well written and well directed (and I teach film history and editing classes). The characters all play these scenes for real and there is enough of a level of plausibility to make watching this series enjoyable.Just my two cents.
The beginning of season one was rather slow. Some of the episodes were good and others were just there to set the stage for later episodes. By the end of the season I found myself craving more episodes and more explanations. Fringe combines the paranormal world of the X-files with a more spontaneous cast. Not that Fox and Scully weren't fun to watch, but Walter makes you laugh even when looking at dead bodies. This show does lack a serious minded Scully to keep the audience grounded, but she is replaced with a hot Peter Bishop that keeps reminding us that Walter's invention bend the rules of science and shouldn't work... even if that's exactly what they do. Definitely check this show out!
Fringe is one of those difficult shows to classify.The show generally focuses on Olivia Dunham (Anna Torv) as she investigates strange cases. She is assisted by Dr. Walter Bishop (John Noble) who is fresh out of the mental institute, thanks to being released into the custody of his son, Peter Bishop (Josh Jackson). The two have agreed to help Olivia solve her cases.It offers the "Monster of the Week" mystery like many sci-fi shows before it, along with the usual behind the scenes conspiracies linking events together.There are equal parts action and "lab time", the latter of which is usually spent with the scientists dumbing things down for the rest of us. Normally I would find this rather insipid, however the cast makes it worthwhile.John Noble basically steals every scene he's in, switching modes in an instant from stern lecturing scientist to eccentric old man, babbling happily away on some tangent.Josh Jackson doesn't have a whole lot to do other than quip sarcastically and bemoan his situation. Hopefully they find him a nice groove.This being a JJ Abrams endeavor, there are a lot of hidden easter eggs, foreshadowing, characters crossing paths at various points, there's always more to something than it seems at a glance. If you're the kind who loves to look for clues and speculate endlessly with your friends, this is the show for you.Unfortunately, people desperate for another "Lost" my be disappointed, there are some pacing issues, it's relatively gory at times, and there are fewer characters getting a lot of screen time. That being said, it's an enjoyable and interesting show, and I can't wait to see where they take it.


                
I have just discovered fringe being advertised on my cable on demand service. I thought I'd take a look and have watched 9 episodes already (I'm on holiday from work!!) I love it, the mad story lines and the characters, especially Walter, he's hilarious. Olivia is a strong woman but shows her vulnerability so she is not one dimensional and Peter is cute. I want to know more about him and what he was up to before. Only one gripe. There are a few episodes which left me wanting to know more and thought I might find out in the next one, but didn't. Hopefully, as the series moves on all will be revealed but I wont let that spoil it for me as I'm thoroughly enjoying it and can't wait for the second series.


                
Fringe, a gripping thriller brimming with ideas and inspiration shares some similarities with the classic X Files but ultimately has charted its own course with appealing characters and an intriguing story arc that continues to evolve as the series progresses. The trio of main characters have developed into a cohesive ,albeit eccentric group of explorers in all things arcane. John Noble, as the uber weird Walter Bishop continues to impress, with Joshua Jackson and Anna Torv providing the at times understated but always worthwhile interplay that makes me want to continue to tune in week after week. Like any memorable TV drama, Fringe rewards an audience willing to invest with well written, well acted, intelligent stories.


                
***SPOILERS AHEAD***I think there is room to improve. But if you go back and watch the first X Files, you will see they had similar trouble at the start.The good: Graphics and Special Effects were excellent. Horror factor and what they allowed on TV was great. Attractive cast. Wide range of plot ideas introduced early (like Eureka). Great sense of humor in general and comic timing in dialog. Good SciFi! There is sex in this show! Smart bad guys and smarter good girls. Something bigger going on - bad and good or perhaps the same entity. Excellent homage to X-Files with "The Truth . . ." The Bad: No Chemistry between the leads. Not enough humor. Dark but too slick (as one other commenter noted). The first Indiana Jones used the same horror scene with the face melting. To much the average viewer had to fill in. Pacing was not consistent throughout. Chase scene was wasteful in viewer time and as a plot device. Poor choice of plot devices in general (perhaps I am just jaded). Sex in the pilot may leave us wanting more but perhaps not in a good way if there is no more for a while. And wanting a sexual relationship between the leads is a TIRED plot device for this genre - (Saving Grace is a nice contrast). The dramatic dialog felt stale and very direct. Needed to steal some dialog styles from X-Files (Cryptic) and Millennium (Prophetic).I will watch the next one!
First off let me say that I am a big fan of JJ Abrams I have watched all of Alias and the only reason i have yet to watch lost is the fact that it used to run against my schedule so like most of his work you had to watch Lost from the beginning and I was unable to. As stated before this like Alias before it and Lost that is running with it is a show that you have to be mindful of, it is not like the majority of popular shows out there that are self contained episode after self contained episode, which while i do watch things of the like i prefer more episodic adventures where you have to invest yourself and your mind and go for the ride along with the cast of characters This show is much like a JJ Abrams take on the X files with the main two characters being much like a double dose of Dana Scully, which is needed for this type of adventure, the story revolves around 'The Pattern' which is a series of scientific events that are seemingly unrelated but somehow connected. Just how these are connected has not been revealed yet, lead investigator for the Department of Homeland Security Olivia "Liv" Dunham is whisked into the world of the Pattern after her fiancé and partner at the time John Scott is infected with a biological agent to which only Dr. Walter Bishop holds the key to the only problem is, Bishop is considered clinically dangerous and can only help if she finds his son Peter Bishop, who has the only right to see him in the mental institution which he is confined to, as the three go along they realize that things are not as they seem and what seems like an unfortunate accident actually is part of a larger web of events which are strangely linked to the company Massive Dynamic, the how and the why have not yet been revealed This series like a lot of JJ Abrams work is a sweeping arc of a show, and if you do not have the patience to pay attention to small details you will get vastly lost and frustrated so no this show is not for every one. The cast is a strong set of actors/actresses whom to many fans/viewers are annoying I think this is another ploy by JJ Abrams to keep us from not getting to close to the characters as with a lot of them we do not know where their allegiances lie. If you have time and patience and have not started watching this show yet I suggest finding a legal website where you can watch the episodes, or waiting til the DVD release of the first season which i'm sure will be sometime in the foreseeable future
Fringe is another creation by j.j.Abrams which isn't all that bad. I'll admit, at times the story seems 'far-from-reality' but then again it's a TV show, not suppose to be in the line of realism. (especially when the creator is j.j. Abrams.) Personally, i think the show is fresh with some originality where a mad scientist is on the 'good-guy-team' and the well-dressed nice folks are the 'evil-mastermind'. Seriously, i know the show can be weird sometimes, but weird in a good sense. The monsters, mysteries, and action seems pretty cool and entertaining. If you're planning on watching this show to compare it to 'X-files', or even the reality of life, don't even bother. Watch the show knowing it's pure fantasy with a HINT of realism. nothing more, nothing less. the show scores a 8/10 because thus far, it's having me want to see what happens next with some raised eyebrow on the episode plots as well as the story in general. Good enough to watch? my opinion, yes it is.
Anyone who has seen The X-Files will no doubt see a great deal of similarities, and they wouldn't be wrong. The question really, is whether or not this is a bad thing? After numerous similar shows over the years, none of them have recaptured that enigmatic 'something' that made the X-Files work. (Itself hardly the most original concept, which can trace it's origins back to earlier shows).To give Fringe its due credit, its similarities are more blatantly on the surface, but it is so-far staying away from supernatural story lines, and (With the exception of one episode that leaves questions of the possibility) has steered away from aliens. Those aren't bad story paths, but they have been done so much in the past on other shows, it's nice to see Fringe at the very least not centring on them. Since the X- Files is no more, and hasn't been for some time, I think there's room for an enjoyable series of this nature, and Fringe has taken a good stab.The most fascinating character is without a doubt, John Noble as Walter Bishop. His portrayal of the absent minded genius professor with questionable sanity, and occasionally dubious morality, is a brilliantly written and excellently played part. He really is the core of the show, without whom it would lack a great deal of what makes it enjoyable and interesting to watch. Joshua Jackson's role as his son is suitably interesting, and well played. Unfortunately the most disappointing and unsure character is the lead, Agent Dunham, played by Anna Torv. She's serviceable in the role, but you can't help wondering whether she's been miscast. Though admittedly, she also has very little to work with, (character-wise) at this point. Among Fringe's other positives, are its (apparent) plot progression. (We can only hope this is actually going somewhere, and not one of those situations where it's made to look that way, but just becomes dragged out interminably without any conclusion.) So far it feels like each story provides a satisfying conclusion and plot, while also adding to another larger arc. Fringe also has a much more 'adult' atmosphere to it than some similar shows have had in the past.All-in-all, it's shaping up to be an excellent series, that if it carries on as well as it has started, will continue to make for compelling and satisfying viewing. I only hope they can improve Agent Dunham in some way, and make her a more compelling character, while dragging more than one expression out of Anna Torv.
I absolutely love this show. It's a fantastic remix of all of the shows I am used to watching, and in an awesome format.I'm tired of 45 minute shows. bring on more 85 minute ones! :)I particularly enjoyed the time taken for character development. Lost (and other shows like it) feel like the character development is forced, this show does not. I also was fond of the way the titles are integrated into the landscape, it looked a bit like a Cinepaint effect."Get him a cow" was great.Bring on the fringe!
Remember, how always, when an episode of "The Outer Limits" was ending, you wanted more? Well, this is that more. Each episode is separate and somehow they are all connected. New strange weird things happen in each of them and there's something behind it connecting them all. You can watch one or you can watch them all but you will have a great time anyway.I like this show for two reasons - I always felt like each episode of The Outer Limits deserved "to be continued" and in this show I'm getting that. The second reason is Joshua Jackson. I'm glad that someone finally spotted him and gave him a chance to prove that he has more in himself. He was the best from all of them at Dawson's Creek. He's not the best here, but he has his ways and fits in.8 of 10 for too simple solutions - sometimes the mysteries are not resolved because the writers didn't know how...


                
