When I first saw Fringe, I was immediately reminded of firstly The 4400 and secondly the X-files. Each show is similar in that supernatural incidents occur, and that only a specialized task force is capable of dealing with them. In the x-files we mostly followed the story of agents Skully and Mulder and their investigation in cases that revolved around aliens, religion and metaphysics. In 4400 it were agents Skouris and Baldwin who investigated incidents relating a group of "special" people. In Fringe, it's all about science. An investigation team researches cases where high tech inventions that border on the supernatural are being used to commit crimes, show off, or even unexplained purposes. While some cases seem to be uncomfortably similar to what we already experience in daily life, other cases are more fantastical.There are many things to like about Fringe. The show is very professionally put together. Every episode shows a consistent progress in the storyline as the mystery unfolds. You never get the full sense of really what's going on, just as the persons in the show don't. But at the same time, you get clues and hints to what is happening, and every episode reveales a new lead that evolves the story.The ambient music adds a thickness to scenes that would normally be tense already, and now become completely chilling. The cast is varied and interesting enough for each viewer to have their personal favorite. Some of us will relate to the meticulous and sensible detective, while others will develop a bond with the brilliant but troubled and sometimes mad scientist. I found the acting to be very strong on all accounts, except perhaps for a few awkward interrogation scenes. At times, so many scientific terms are being used back-to-back, that I felt like watching a Startrek Voyager episode. With Fringe though, everything is based on facts and in the rare events that things just don't make sense, the scientists in the show will assure us that they have no clue to what is going on.


                
I first started following the series at launch, viewing the first 3 episodes. Then i completely forgot about it. I just recently started viewing this again and i have to say, there's more to it than the first couple of episodes let you see. The plot deepens as episodes go by, the role of the "mad scientist" becomes clearer and everything slowly ties in together like a perfect puzzle. The story is not one of the most original you'll find, but it is told in a most beautiful way, a way that will keep you hooked until the end. The characters are strong and so are the actors/actresses that bring them to life. The effects are top notch. An overall great TV show with that classical X Files feel to it but with a twist, a twist that i personally enjoy and one that made me anxiously await the second installment in the TV series. Highly recommended to all you X Files fans and also for anyone that enjoys a conspiracy plot that has some substance. An easy 9 out of 10.


                
Yes the show has to grow, but they have done a terrific job on it. If anyone wants more insight into the show please go to youtube and look for the ComicCon footage. I am one of the lucky few who go to go to the Q&A for Fringe. They were an awesome group. As to the people who are saying it is a Rip off of X-Files get a life. X-Files was not even original, hello Kolchek, the Night Stalker. Even though it wasn't the FBI it was very much an early X-Files.One person at the Con asked where the writers got their ideas and they said things like Scientific America and other scientific magazines and publications. Also, they have a neuro-scientist consultant on the show as well as consulting with JPL, CERN, MIT and other science organizations. They are really trying to be smart about the show. For the person who complained about John Nobles accent, well he has a really thick New Zealand accent and he was trying to go for that Professor type accent from when he was in college. Also, JJ Abrams has not had anything to do with Lost since season 1. He is only on the credits as creator. Anyway, go see the footage from the Comic-Con and you may get a better understanding of the actors and the show in general.


                
I gotta say I didn't had too much hopes for this show on it's first two episodes, but while watching it every since until now, i can honestly say how mistaken i was. The second season particularly is very amusing and it caught me after every episode. You could say this is somehow the "X Files" young sister. Not to mention the special effects are really great and convincing (something sometimes really hard to find in a TV show). On what comes to the performances, Anna Torv could do a little better as the FBI Agent Oliva Dunham, but i believe her performance has even become more convincing during this second season as well. Joshua Jackson really surprised me with his smart yet stubborn Peter Bishop, when i realized "hey, this guy can truly act" i mean i was afraid it was gonna be some sort of older Pacey Witter (the role his always known for, from his previous TV show hit "Dawson's Creek") and i must say he proved me wrong, cause this role is nothing like it and, as an actress myself, i was really shocked by the way he putted the Pacey alter-ego aside to play this other role. On what comes to Walter Bishop and Agent Astrid Farsworth, i must say just how much i love them. They're this magnificent endearing duet, which is hard to find on Sci-Fi/drama TV series. John Noble is already known as a very versatile actor and i love the way he imagined this character was supposed to be and then again, they way he plays it. Jasika Nicole is, or at least her character, somebody i could be friends with that is, at the same time smart, and fits great on the Fringe Division team. I still have my doubts about characters like Nina Sharp and Agent Broyles, but still are part of an amazing cast.


                
If we look at the news every day, we see that this world has less and less sense. And if our world has no logic, we can't pretend that have logic a television series that can do with it a worthy entertainment. Fringe takes subjects that have always been present among us: conspiracy theories, weird scientific experiments, parallel universes; and takes us on a walk in surprising situations. Fringe discovered something? No. We can find in the show, elements of many other new and old series, but is that because there is almost nothing to invent, then the important thing is how to combine those things, how to give new twists and new viewpoints. Fringe does so with good pace and interesting characters. Dr. Bishop, brilliantly played by John Noble, who gives the show the mystery, wisdom and a touch of humor fabulous. His son Peter, played by Joshua Jackson, one of those young actors that deserve more and better attention. Finally, the FBI agent Olivia Dunham, played by Anna Torv. And here I pause a moment. After reading a few reviews, I wonder why these comments so upset about her accent? Almost no one notices the Australian accent and if so, what is the problem? There are many ways to talk like people in the world. Her work is impeccable. Nor can I understand those who say it's a bad actress, based on her hard gestures and that almost she no laughs in the series. Hello! Had not realized that she plays a character? We know that Anna Torv is adorable off-screen, but in Fringe, she "must" play a very different woman. In real life many people are expressive and cheerful, and there are also people who are not. Why all the characters have to be happy? Olivia Dunham is hard and very dedicated to her work. That's the character. I can't understand how some people still can't separate the artist from a character. And it bothers me more, people who claim that all the actresses should look like dolls in the series. Thanks to that we have to see and bear all the time, to women without talent, posing for the photo and talking nonsense to get attention. And they say they are actresses. I saw Anna Torv in British series "Mistresses", before convening for Fringe. Also seen in some previous work (Young Lions, McLeod's Daughters, The Book of Revelation); even heard her sing. So I have no problem in saying ¡Wake up America! This Australian girl is SERIOUSLY TALENTED. Has a remarkable presence and her acting range is striking. Anna Torv also has experience in theater, something many fashionable actresses on TV, can't say. Definitely, regardless of what happens with Fringe, I will follow her in its future work.Thanks to the "logic of the illogical", Fringe has a huge range of possibilities to create stories and interesting twists. If that happens or not is not the responsibility of the actors, but the genius of JJ Abrams and screenwriters (hard to believe they are the same as Transformers). Fringe is fresh, with good pace, intrigue, hooks and interesting secondary characters. It is by far one of the most entertaining television program which is offered recently. I wonder how long it will last the series (considering how bad some television networks are watching their products), but until now, is the only series that after seeing a chapter, makes me want to see the following immediately. Strangely, the ratings do not accompany the show in USA. They seem to prefer TV series boring and linear. Or just settle for such series as Beverly Hills 90210 (again), Gossip Girl and the unbearable teenage vampires. That is a Fringe moment.


                
... and with no disrespect to the other reviewers, who I think have already made the following points: 1. This is a JJ Abrams opus, which implies a certain level of quality at all levels of production. Check.2. The series owes a lot of X-Files and indeed one of the scripts specifically uses the two terms in the same sentence, so the viewer "gets" that X-Files and Fringe Science mean the same thing. Check.3. The premise is really clever, adding a father and son consultant team where the two have been estranged and the father is recently released from a mental institution, and likes cows. Check OK. OK. All that has already been covered. But as I write this review in the dead of the winter of 2015, I want to underscore two things about Anna Torv in particular; 1. One of the best American accents EVER, for an Aussie. Wow.2. While every actress in the entertainment biz lives or dies on her looks -- Duh, this is Hollywood -- Torv may possibly have the most photogenic face in the history of the medium. I do not say this lightly and I am will state upfront I am not taking any medications or other substances which may affect my ability to review. The dictionary definition of "photogenic" includes "aesthetic" qualities which, in turn, are not capable of definition, creating circular reasoning. In any case, as the series progresses, as good as it was (and it was GREAT!) I found myself continually drawn to Torv's face, often to the exclusion of the rest of the scene. On a hunch, I googled "ANNA TORV's FACE" (sic) and sure enough I was not the only one who was hooked. Check it out yourself. Nobody can quite figure out what exactly the reason -- her features on their own remind one of one the smaller characters in Lord of the Rings -- but the draw is almost magnetic.


                
It was a little slow to start with but as we moved on and learn more about Joshua Jacksons character as well as Walter's history it is getting intriguing. I am looking forward to seeing where it goes in season 2 as I have only watched season one. If they can get some more humour and a bit tighter script in future seasons and answer a few questions as well as bringing up more then I will enjoy it even more. I think this series can be saved from all those who are disappointed in it if JJ can just bring it up a notch, I am afraid that since ALIAS he has gone over his 'peak'. LOST was good, for the first 2 seasons then started to get too weird and the clues even more annoying so I stopped watching it. If he can avoid making this filled with too much intrigue and not enough answers over the episodes then I shall continue to enjoy watching it. Plus I love the off handed humour comments that Peter and Walter's characters come out with occasionally!


                
Fringe is destined to be a cult classic sci-fi series. Those who have watched from beginning to end know already that the series is one of few that truly creates and builds it's own world(s), it's own mythology - all of the great things that make a sci-fi a true sci-fi, you can find it here.There are so many wonderful things to enjoy about Fringe, it can be truly mind-numbing as you're taken on a trip that traverses alternate universes, travels through time, this show will take you from a mellow "Brown Betty" high to edge-of-your-seat fear. There are so many things to love but Fringe is able to separate itself from other sci-fi series because of it's characters.Walter Bishop... what an amazing character. A man you empathize with for the suffering he's undergone, a man you despise for the decisions he's made, a man you grow to understand - someone you hope finds the redemption he so dearly seeks. John Noble, the actor behind Walter, deserves high praise - I don't know how he did it, but he elicits emotions more than most characters on TV these days. When Walter is happy, I'm happy. When he's heartbroken, I'm heartbroken. When he's lost in the world, you feel lost with him, and you just hope he can find his way back. AMAZING performance by Noble.While Noble is the clear highlight of the show for me, the dynamic between Walter's son Peter (played by Joshua Jackson) and Olive (played by Ana Torv) is very heartfelt. There are some frustrating hiccups along the way, but all and all - the show doesn't toy with you much here. I cannot say enough about the mythology of Fringe. I won't dive in too much so as to spoil the show - but just know going in that you're in for some truly original "history" and some wonderful origin stories.NOTE FOR THOSE WHO WANT TO DIP PRIOR TO SEASON 2:Know this - Fringe clearly didn't know exactly what kind of show it was until about Season 1 Episode 13 or 14. It seemed to kick off as a procedural show, as the agents in Fringe Division would seem to deal with a new case each episode. Do yourself a favor - allow yourself to watch through season 2, then make up your mind before ceasing to watch... the storyline become more developed and linear, the characters really sink into themselves... and I guarantee you will fall in love with at LEAST one of them.I give the show a 9 out of 10. I just finished it recently and I only wished I could have more - it's one of those rare occasions I took a very long time to finish the show because I knew I would be sad to see it end.


                
Fringe reminds me of The Prisoner or Lost in that you have an underlying plot that carries throughout all the episodes. Also in the way you know that there is a conspiracy at the heart of the show. You will have to wait until the series is finished and has it's finale to find out what exactly is going on in some regards.The show deals with the government investigating incidents thru good old fashion detective work and scientific work that is on the outer bounds of science, or on the fringe of it. If you enjoy a good conspiracy or find things like the details of the governments MK ULTRA experiments interesting, then you should like this show. It's like Lost, CSI, and the X Files all rolled up into one.....so far, so very very good


                
I don't remember any other Sci-Fi TV series other than X-Files that had this kind of extremely interesting story line. I just love every part of it . Watch every episode of it and , if you are a SCI-FI fan you bet you won't be disappointed. The cast is just perfect , just like the 2 agents in X Files , here you have 2 agents and much more , a bunch of people including a extremely brilliant scientist and many other agents and geniuses. Every episode has its special part along with the story line that continues all along since the first episode and the concept embedded , is a little mind-boggling at first if you haven't much much of science fiction.But all in all - Just amazing . Cant wait to watch the next episode . CHEERS!
I enjoy this show. I think Walter Bishop, ("the mad scientist") is an awesome character. He is quirky and random, and the interactions b/w him and his son are fun to watch. I like how the show is revealing the mysteries little by little. I don't think it would be as exciting or as interesting if they told you everything right away. I'm a fan of LOST, and I think this show is similar in that sense. In the process of solving all these strange crimes, they reveal more and more about Olivia and Walter Bishop's connection to these occurrences. I find it intriguing and it keeps me watching week to week. I also think the acting is pretty good.


                
Many people are comparing this to X-Files. I'm a big fan of XFiles and I think Fringe is something quite different. This is not so much about supernatural but rather what they call "fringe" science. All the tricks happen here in labs or big corporations. The cast helps to make the show very energetic and fast, plus John Noble brings a nice touch of humor. The plot unveils itself a little bit more at each episode, this is unlike other shows where each episode has a life of its own. You have to be patient or wait for the whole season to understand how all the elements work in a puzzle.The characters and story are original, it's fast paced, has nice fx and humor, it's a great show.


                
This series is a lot more than it first appears. Fringe ties complicated multiple episode plots together into a unique package. I recommend too properly watch this series & understand it, get the Season 1 DVD set to start. The build up all season to the last scene is well worth the trip & the only way to really put it together is to watch the shows in order. It is called Fringe because it's plots are involved with Science on the edge of our learning to solve the crimes that have been committed or to reveal reasons why some odd thing has happened. It is well produced and engages the viewer.There is a plot tie in which now that I am in the Second Season is quite engaging. It seems a parallel world is trying to destroy this one. In the other world, the World Trade Towers in New York still exist which makes you wonder what else is different? As each show goes along, like the skins on an onion, more & more of them are peeled away. I am not sure where this will all lead, & that is the fun to this show. Walter is an eccentric Scientist whose son pulls him out of a mental institution. His lab is at Harvard University and he has long ago paid his tuition which is a good thing @ todays prices. The real center of the plot often is some piece of work Walter has done but can't remember what exactly he did because of the time since he did it or the missing memory from the faded corners of his mind. The father Walter (John Noble) &-son Peter Bishop (Joshua Bishop) tension is a very positive add to the string of related plots of the program. Anna Torv is agent Olivia Dunham and she is a deceptively good looking but nails tough FBI agent. Olivia is presented as an amazing woman who can do it all & suffer through extreme conditions. A welcome add in the first 2 seasons - Leonard Nimoy. Lance Reddig (Agent Philip Broyles) is a strong actor as Olivias boss, along with Blair Brown as Nina Sharpas both actors add depth & talents to make this a good cast.These folks are bringing it off real well. This is High Powered Drama honed to a fine edge with lots of strange things building up in this drama.
Hi There,I am looking forward every week to be ale to see a new episode of Fringe. Everybody can have his own opinion but the only thing I can say that it as a great series.It is well made, the actors are great and the story lines (yes more then one) do a really good job of crossing each other.I am a big fan of everything scifi (eureka, supernatural, star-trek, x-files, you name it) and I really can tell you you should watch. Not everybody will like this but if you liked X-files, you will also like this. It is a bit more in here instead of out there ;-)So watch a episode and I will guarantee you that you want to see the rest.


                
I love this show. I find it very funny, especially the non-sequitors from the brilliant, crazy scientist. I am at a loss to understand why the user comments are so uniformly negative. I think perhaps you either get it or you don't. For example, I think it is really funny that the evil company is called "Massive Dynamic", a generic, user-tested, comic book sounding name. I like the fact that the main character is an intense, intelligent young woman who isn't just sitting around waiting for her nails to dry or a man to call. The role reversal between the child-like father and the babysitter son is great. I don't know how this show is doing ratings-wise but I hope people will give it a chance.


                
I think that Fringe is pretty good. It's not as bad as described in some reviews. It maybe copied a bit from here and there, yet it is pretty unique and watchable. You are going to enjoy watching this.The aspects of science covered here may be, unrealistic, but then again, Fringe has its own magics and it is really enjoyable. Stuffs about parallel universe and stuff makes you wonder, WOAH! That's kinda freaky. It's really worth a try! Just don't watch 1 episode and jump to a conclusion. At least watch 5-7 episodes and then judge it.I'd recommend you to TOTALLY GO FOR IT! :D
I loved the pilot of this show, and have been watching ever since. True, some of the shows have been stronger than others, but that's to be expected. There have been genuine surprises in the plot, as well as more obvious plot conclusions, but I like the over-all premise of the show. The special effects are great, and John Noble does a wonderful job playing Walter, the lovable "mad scientist".I can't really compare this to any of JJ Abrams other shows (as I've never watched them), but Fringe does have a bit of a revamped X-files feel, with more science, less aliens. Sure, some of the science may not make sense, but I don't think it's supposed to. That's why they're calling it "fringe" science. It's just on the edge of our understanding. I also find it interesting that a lot of the problems on the show can only be resolved using Walters old lab equipment, and not new, more tech-savvy stuff. Either that's a continuity error, or a comment on how we've become to reliant on our "newer, better" technology. Either way, it works in the context of the show.I'm glad Fox picked it up for a second season.
Fringe is the type of show, that whatever the episode, within the first ten minutes, it WILL have you with your jaw hanging open. (Quite literally, with the pilot.) Now, whether this sudden scenario has you dieing to see the ending, or just so repulsed that you shut it off, well thats up to you.Fringe brings its own version of Sci-Fi to the screen with a bang! The rest of the episode can sometimes be just as much as a thrill ride, while other episodes have been known to dip down to dull minutes later. It's a show thats trying to get the viewers attention, things like re-occurring hidden images, mysterious characters that are in the background of every episode, and connections that we have in the real world are just some examples.Fringe chose the actors very carefully, that much is sure, and while some may frown upon the lead character, played by the Australian Anna Torv, so far, all the acting done by her has been superb to the role she has been given. Joshua Jackson, probably the most known actor on the show, has a less useful role, which can be a large disappointment to many. Hopefully, he'll get a bigger role than the quirky lines he's been stuck with.Follow the pattern as the characters learn for themselves just how far technology has come along with the help of Massive Dynamic, and find out just how hidden civilization is from whats really going on in the world of Fringe. Give Fringe a try, and if you can't stand it, well thats just your opinion, and if you love it, your in luck because with the ratings its been getting, its clear that Fringe is here to stay for quite a while.


                
Unlike most of the reviewers I liked the show a lot and I thought the acting and the stories were just great. Although the stories are perhaps a bit over the top, I just couldn't wait to watch the next episode. Anna Torv looks great and plays her part perfect and convincing. Joshua Jackson should have had a bigger part in the show I think. He basically does the same thing each episode, which is a waist of talent. John Noble steals the show. He is doing a great job! Overall, a great exciting show!! Go watch it! I can only hope there will be a season two as well. Now I have to write more lines to this comment because the above isn't enough. So here are another great movies of Joshua Jackson shutter cursed the skulls and of course urban legend.


                
Here in the UK amongst my circle of friends (Film crew, Actors, media types) we all agree that the pace of "Fringe" makes a refreshing change. The mix of humour, science fiction and intrigue serves as a strong vehicle to carry the audience on a journey of discovery alongside the character of Olivia Dunham.Some reviewers have criticised the slow development of the story lines and while I acknowledge that, in a mini series or film, a certain degree of expediency is required with character development and delivery of "answers" - let's not forget that The X-Files ran for nine seasons and two (to date) films with barely a single solid conclusion drawn.In my opinion we are becoming too accustomed to the quick fix, "tell me now" information bursts of modern formulaic television. We seem to have forgotten the pleasure of slowly immersing our imaginations in a gradually unfolding narrative such as "Fringe" and I for one hope that the show continues for a long and successful run.


                
I'm really starting to believe people give negative criticism simply to see how high their high horse can go, and so I've given this a 9 instead of the 7 I originally planned.While not a stellar piece of thought-provoking art, Fringe is a competent and humorous thriller drama. The twists and labyrinthine conspiracies reek of J.J. Abrams, and the sci-fi elements are reminiscent of one of my all time favorites, X-Files. While most turn up their already up-turned noses at this, calling it a rip-off, I tend to see it as more of an homage (and a good one at that). The plots of each episode, while fantastical, are somewhat believable, as the sci-fi elements are not too far flung from reality.The show is not without it's flaws. The scripting can border on downright cheesy at times, and the actors sometimes seem like they are physically distressed with being on set. However, these are gripes which usually get ironed out as the show evolves. Unfortunately, as this is a Fox show, I doubt we will ever see this happen, due to inevitable cancellation.


                
After having read about Fringe in the local magazines I was not to well disposed towards it but decided to give it a chance and I tried to be as unbiased as possible. Well, I didn't believe that a series about "fringe science" and agencies solving unnatural cases could be any good after the X-Files and Millennium. I was, however, pleasantly surprised.First of all I liked the characters, even though I hadn't expected it after seeing the first scenes, and especially after Peter had been recruited. Then I liked the series of twists the first episode was loaded with. And from one episode to another I like the way they develop the "mainstream plot" together with decent mystery stories in each episode. All right, the main plot is "Lostish" the way it's convoluted, but this is what I like in both series. I genuinely love the X-Files but at the end of it I was just a bit fed up with aliens popping up from everywhere. I also think that unlike Prison Break which lost all appeal when it turned into the mysterious and fringe science just as well (quite inappropriate in a series whose main advantage was the surgical precision and "realism" of every move) Fringe is doing well with the crazy explanations for the phenomena presented.But what I like the best about this series is that nothing should be taken at face value, and we can never be sure whether the most apparent good guy doesn't turn bad in the next scene, let alone next season.Acting is decent - better than many shows. Surely, Desperate Housewives and 24 are much better in this aspect, but then Prison Break (to mention only the prime time successes) is not.


                
I am the type of viewer that loves a good story no matter what form of media I am watching. My main Problem with American TV series is that almost all of them start of with a vague idea of a plot introduce the characters and pretty much try to win you on the chemistry and tone of the show. Then you spend years watching the shows as the main plot continues to wander all over the place and the characters get thrown through drama that may either increase your attachment to them or end up running the show to the ground.Fringe is a new trend in TV shows. Have a plot..... stick to plot. So far every element of the series seems to work around the mystery of the pattern. And I am enjoying this right now. The characters are unique but human, and somewhat readable, which makes the little curves the story throws at you, in terms of character background, more enjoyable.As long as I feel the story is being paid attention to, this series has my interest. Please don't fall into the X-files trap of having episodes that do not add to story. I think the term coined for it was "monster of the week". As long as Fringe avoids that trap then it will mean solid viewing for all those interested.


                
The Show has its moments and its weak points. But in the end it depends on you -the viewer- how critically you take what there is presented. Sometimes I get feelings that things go too far, or that major theories have been presented here without any proper introduction to the area.But... the main plot is very interesting, the characters are being built alongside the plot very skillfully, and so far the show hasn't shown any side effects of a series that is turning sour, viz. the show hasn't dipped into the drama side of the main characters at all.We have gone 14 shows so far, and we are just now starting to get a feeling of the scale of the conspiracy theories in here. There definitely is stuff for at least 30-40 shows for excellent stuff before it will turn flat sour. But hey - I rather take 30 shows of excellence than 150 shows of drama where your emotions are being abused over and over again (referring to series like The office or Californication).If you are a sceptic then the show is definitely for you, but if you liked X-files this show is definitely for you. This show just tries to explain the abnormal with science where in X-files everything was just taken as it is which makes this show special in its right as well. Playing with LSD - well not even the sceptics can say anything about this since you cant infer sensible solutions from reality that isn't what it seems to be.


                
This show is everything I'd hoped for in in the Sci-Fi shows Battleship Galactica and Heroes, both of which shows failed to deliver. Ursula LeGuin and Frank Herbert are met by their match with Abrams, Kurtzman and Orci. What amazing vision and writing. The heroes are far more complicated than anything Matt Damon ever played, and I love and appreciate his films. This season totally captures that fine tortured and suspenseful edge. If you can, watch the last two episodes of Season 1, and you'll have the background to appreciate Season 2. Start watching today!! Anna Tory and Joshua Jackson are brilliantly cast, and do not disappoint!


                
