I know there are plenty of people that really enjoy this type of movie. But I really don't get it myself.


                
Last night I watched this film. Just before the credits rolled, one of my cats got up, gave a disdainful sniff, walked into the bathroom and into his box, and delivered his own large and malodorous comment.I have to go with my cat on this one. My immediate reaction to this film when it ended was, very simply, "Great looking, but the dumbest story I have seen in a long, long time." I have to admit to a few criteria here. I am not an animation fan. For me, animation pretty much begins and ends with Warner Brothers and Chuck Jones, who taught us all that pretty pictures and trembling leaves and water droplets always get trumped by a great script. Jones's best work, combining a linear and somewhat abstract style with high and low comedy, is the best. Disney--let's face it--is gooey. And many other recent animation hits have been 15 minute shorts exploded into features, like "The Triplets of Bellville," which would have been far better if it had stopped after the first 15 minutes. (Okay, okay, I did like "Toy Story". And "Fantasia.") "Princess Mononoke" gets points for two things. First, it looks good and often looks wonderful. Second, it does sustain itself for close to two hours. And credit is due for trying to be serious, while still catering to the core kid demographic. However, Miyazaki's script is, to put it charitably, a mess. Its civilization vs. nature theme is very, very tired, and most of the time it just does not make any sense. A single example: Forest Spirit's head is removed. FS turns into a Japanese version of the blob and destroying the forest. FS gets head back--dies and crushes Irontown--and the forest grows again. Someone please convince me that this can make any sense whatsoever. If you are going to the trouble of creating a film for adults with capital-S Significance, you ought at least to make your case persuasively. You can call it ecological consciousness; you can call it Shinto animism; I call it pretentious, ill-digested crap.This has been touted as one of the great films of our time. Sorry, this reviewer will generally agree with his cat's tribute. Seek it out if you are an animation junkie and enthralled with the techniques. I certainly cannot recommend it as a film.
I was watching this the other day on TV and it just proves that anime just isn't right for me. My friends love this stuff, so I thought I would give this one a try since they loved it more than the others. I've seen some others and thought they were ok, but overrated. I thought Princess Mononoke was way overrated.After seeing the American cast, I was going to give this movie a shot. I did and was just bored. The dialogue just felt so stale. The action scenes didn't do it for me either. I wouldn't recommend this unless you enjoy anime.


                
A badly translated script that leads to the voice talent jabbering most of the time, the usual array of characters who's personalities are blindingly apparent from their portrayals (wide mouthed buffoon, sinister moustachioed dwarf, icy bitch, spunky hero, spunkier heroine), and a plot that could be synopsised as "Two legs bad, four legs good".  Oh, and tentacles.  Tentacles everywhere.Fans of anime will lap it up.  Everyone else should avoid, because it's just the same old garbage, warmed up and seasoned with a few B list USian actors.


                
I still don't understand why Studio Ghibli's movies are such a big hit, perhaps I never will. I swear the Japanese culture loses something in translation: the characters are so annoying. The Japanese probably like their young male characters to be all mopey, melancholic, effeminate, Emo's, and the young female characters to be clingy, whiny, immature brats! However, Princess Mononoke isn't quite as bad Howl's Moving Castle, Spirited Away, Ponyo, Tales of Earthsea etc, but it's still pretty bad. At least this one has something that remotely resembles a story and characters that (sort of) make sense (but they're still annoying as hell!) - heck, there's even a subtext!


                
How this made it to #71 of the top 250 is beyond me. I don't have anything against any kind of animation. I don't dislike Japan. I don't dislike any of the voice overs. I don't think I had ever heard of it until I saw it in the top 250 list the other day. I thought it was going to be mind blowing given all the accolades and rating. In the great words of Ron White: "I was wrong!". It was the most pathetically average thing ever. Boooring story. Waay to long. Average animation. It has all the stereotypical characters one would expect to find in a much older American cartoon making fun of Japanese stories... right down to Japanese sambo. Completely predictable. Not something you'd want your kids to see, and something your adult friends would scoff at. DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME. A 30 minute Family Guy remake would put this to shame. I would have given it a 3; but feel it is my civic duty to make the rating less misleading.


                
Let me start off by informing you of my prejudice against anime.  I don't have any conceptual or philosophical differences with it, it just grates on my nerves.  Nonetheless, I felt compelled to watch this movie, given the rave reviews by critics, its acclaim by the film students I know, its notable American voiceover stars, and the fact that my stoner friends popped it in the DVD player so it was either watch it or leave.Well, several root-canal painful hours later I felt I could hate anime in a whole new light.  I came away thinking that the movie did indeed have impressive animation that I still find obnoxious and tackled some environmental issues in a heavy handed way.  I thought that if American drawn characters could have been put onto the lusciously drawn backgrounds and the shrill jeremiads the characters were always launching into replaced with more subtle dialogue then I could at least give it a 5 out of 10 for not completely p***ing me off.But lo and behold I was wrong.  Or so I was informed by some pretentious anime fan.  Apparently all the environmental subject matter is really just a Western construct being super-imposed onto the movie by audiences who don't understand Shinto mythology.  Well Lah-dee-frickin-dah.  You mean I didn't even understand it?  Excuse me for not having a degree in Asian studies, but I don't think that should be a requirement to see friggin cartoon.  Am I uneducated and insensitive to Japanese film making?  Have I misunderstood Kurosawa's movies all these years?  Was I suckered in by the lack of constant yelling and screaming?  Was I merely projecting Western values onto his characters?  Or was he really a genuinely good director who could make movies about people from another place and time that transcend seemingly disparate cultures?Luckily, I don't think this film will ever supersede cult status so the rest of us who are too "mainstream" won't have to suffer through it again. Call me crazy, but I like the Coen Brothers, Coppola, Levinson, Whit Stillman, and of course Kurosawa.


                
I just cannot believe this one got so many names. Billy Bob Thornton? Gillian Anderson? Minnie Driver? Were they all arrested for driving while intoxicated and had to do this as their community service?Seriously, the story and the characters are flawed. A demon that is the War God, surrounded by worm-like creatures that give it its power. While I am all about culture and learning, this made me less inclined to want to know Japanese mythology.I just had a bad time watching it. The promise of action quickly fell to the wayside and nothing of entertainment value happened. That Roger Ebert likes this movie just confirms that he has to be the worst movie critic of all time. Avoid this movie. "F"


                
It was terrible, and we only watched the first ten minutes! We couldn't take it!! I mean, who the heck likes demon worms possessing a demon pig, pig skeletons, and arrows chopping arms off?!? Not us!! Think all you want about us, I'm glad I got my parents to try it with me, or else I would have been having nightmares!! There are PLENTY of good Anime shows out there, so do yourselves a favor and AVOID THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS! Lousy lousy lousy! Miyazaki did much better movies, like Castle in the Sky! Even if you hate me for dissing this movie, give Castle in the Sky a try, you'll like it!! Princess Mononoke is a big no no! I can't believe it's rated PG-13, it should be rated R!! Do yourself and your family a favor, put this back on the shelf and step away from the display! It sucks! Don't watch it! On a scale of ten being the highest and one being the lowest, I give it one!!
