Tom Hulce as Mozart basically ruins the film with his relentless mugging; he was only chosen because of his cackling laugh.The movie has lavish set designs and costumes, but the underlying hatred of Italians makes the film mean-spirited. In fact, ask yourself why the film-makers wanted to disrespect the Italians so vehemently. Other mistakes include the casting of Lez Berridge, who annoyingly refers to 'Wolfgang Mozart' as "Volfie", her Brooklyn accent in tow-- make that her Coney Island accent.Worth tuning in to see a perfect performance by Murry Abrahum playing the Italian musical genius, Antonio Salieri.


                
God, why do so many people like this movie?  I mean, I thought it was cool when I was a little kid and I saw it, but other than some cool performances from Hulce and Abraham, what has this movie got to offer?  Excerpts from Mozart's most popular stuff you could buy for $2 on any discount classics CD?  It's got director Forman's usual overuse of head shots and quick reaction shots, his usual reliance on audience reactions to carry the supposed impact of a star's performance (as seen also in his lackluster 90s bioflick, Man on the Moon), plus you've got a whopping case of historical falsification.  The whole thing about Salieri murdering Mozart is ridiculous historical fable that's been passed around by people for years, and has less validity than your average second gunner JFK story.  But viewers of this movie will, unfortunately, probably walk away from it thinking that Salieri was a bad, bad man indeed.  This is unfair to his life and his music, but the producers of this hero-worshipping (though also hero-deflating, in the modern ambigously "realist" style) flick couldn't care less.  I guess they just didn't see any other possibility for drama in the tale of the spoiled, brilliant musician and instead of concentrating on his professional laxitude and his obsession with sex (which did get an airing), they came up with the whole Salieri murder thing.  Bad idea, bad movie.


                
I cannot believe this won the best picture oscar.  Abraham is of course superb, but as for the rest of the cast I can only say that this is one of the worst acted films I have ever seen.  While Mozart was impulsive, frivolous, and certainly not a saint, I was dismayed to find Hulce playing him like a total idiot.  Hulce never reveals to us the intelligence beneath the mask of silliness.  Great artists may sometimes be silly or half-crazy, but none of them are such complete morons.  Add to this mix some really bad dialogue and the result is a scandalously overrated film.


                
It is my understanding that, according to a many music historians and musicologists, Antonio Salieri did conspire against Mozart. And while this may be worhty of some interest as a footnote or even a few paragraphs in a Mozart biography, it is not a justification for the bloated treatment rendered in "Amadeus." Lacking a good enough slant for a powerful dramatic depiction, the writer latched on to this gimmick to propel the story to a wider audience. While we can be grateful for an opportunity to hear this great music and thrill to the recreation of some of the period settings, we cannot be happy about this distorted approach to biography. Nor can we feel elated over the decision to make the character of Mozart a cackling, show-off buffoon. There is a great deal missing from this composer biography, and it is saddening to think that this may be considered a definitive depiction of the life of this great composer. There comes a point when historical accuracy and integrity must override purely commercial motives.


                
I re-watched AMADEUS recently for the first time in over twenty years and, I must say, it is pretty terrible. The characters have about as much depth as those found in Coen brothers' films; the whole Mozart-Salieri is nearly totally fictional; the sordid, soap-operish (no pun intended) relationships between virtually every character are pure Hollywood pap but most importantly (and offensively), there is NO historical basis on which to portray Mozart as an over-sexed, philandering drunkard who took nothing seriously other than his own fame. Yes, I know a couple of pornographic-songs-as-bad-jokes were found in Mozart's notebooks but, beyond that, all evidence points to the fact ol' Wolfgang was ever the faithful husband (not to mention a deeply devout Christian, as well). And where did the writer come up with this idea that Mozart hated and was rebelling against Italian opera? If it weren't so prominent in the film I wouldn't take issue with it but, once again, it is completely historically inaccurate. Mozart idolized and emulated Italian opera composers and his sense of melody is equally rooted in that genre as in the German masters of his youth. In other words, the Mozart in the movie isn't even a caricature but, rather, a complete invention. Historic bone-picking aside, even if this tale were completely fictional and there was no historical figure called "Mozart", the movie is just awful. The corny make-up of the aging Salieri, the acting of virtually every character other than Tom Hulce's Wolfie (which is not to contradict myself, it is admittedly a good performance), the cardboard cut-out characters and melodramatic direction all add up to create a near total artistic failure.What's that sound I hear... oh yes... it's old Wolfgang turning in his grave.


                
We thought this movie absolutely stunk! The plot was terrible; it is narrated by some old, suicidal guy, I don't trust him. Amadeus was one of the worst movies my eyes have ever witnessed. I thought the way they portrayed Wolfgang as a self centered, obnoxious, barbarian was atrocious. There are so many historical inaccuracies. We even had an assignment to prove these unacceptable embellishments.As for the acting, It was OK a little dramatic at times. Also the costume design was hideous. I read online from a trusted source that Wolfgang very rarely wore wigs; in the movie he wore elaborate colored wigs. I also thought that Salieri was a jerk, Well at least he was in the movie...


                
