Very good adaptation about the intense confrontation among composers , including impressive soundtrack , gorgeous sets , glamorous billowy gowns , with magnificent scenario for the 18th century Europe . The film is an intense drama added with historic elements and formidable performances . The incredible story of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 18th Century Vienna , told by his peer and secret rival Antonio Salieri - now confined to an insane asylum . They have a clash of wills , as Mozart is a vulgar , immature , licentious composer with a hyena laugh , and Salieri , the composer of court Jose II of Austria , Jeffrey Jones , schemes his tormentor's destruction . F.Murray Abraham's Salieri is a mediocre composer who desires greatness but is tortured himself by jealous , sorrow and envy , though admiring the greatest composer he has ever heard . His worst attacks of angst happen when he comes into contact with Tom Hulce's Mozart . Mozart is so awful , so much crass vulgarian who , despite his gifts remains unaffected and delighted by the beauty he composes while irking the hell out of everyone around him . Several real , or at least apocryphal, events from Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's life were incorporated into the screenplay, including the interlude between the child Mozart and Marie Antionette . We are very interested in following developments and alternatively to their horrifying ending . It's a stunning film full of superb music , literate , wit and an immensely dramatic fire . The picture contains some striking visual images , lavish setting with enormous production design by Patrizia Von Brandenstein , terrific period piece with realistic scenario for the XVIII century filmed on location in Prague, besides nifty brilliant costumes . In fact , Prague , Milos Forman's native city, was ideal as a stand-in for Vienna , as modern television antennas, plastic and asphalt had rarely been introduced under Communist rule . This is an agreeable rendition by playwright Peter Shaffer of his play about the dramatic rivalry among two great composers . Tom Hulce delivers a stunning portrayal, a boorish musician kissed with genius , sometimes a little bit exaggerated, of the popular composer whose music is become immortal. Hulce expresses musical genius and a first class finger-matching . Tom Hulce practiced four hours a day at the piano to appear convincing . Salieri is performed in masterly style throughout by F. Murray Abraham , winning deservedly one of the movie's Oscars , conveying inner feeling by looks , movements and gestures .Evocative and colorful cinematography by Miroslav Ondricek . Entire film was shot with natural light , in order to get the proper diffusion of light for some scenes, it was covered windows from the outside with tracing paper . Terrific musical score by John Strauss with orchestra directed by Neville Marriner , as musical conductor of Mozart's music has a glorious sweep ; there are played the followings Mozart's plays : Concert nº 27 for pianoforte and orchestra in Flat Major , Ave Verum Corpus , Concert for clarinet and orchestra number 39 , number 40 and number 41 , Requiem ; furthermore , opera representations : Figaro's weddings , The magic flute , Don Giovanni ; in fact , the performance of "Don Giovanni" in the movie was filmed on the same stage where the opera first appeared . Sets and costumes for the operatic productions were based on sketches of the original costumes and sets used when the operas premiered . The motion picture was lavishly produced by Saul Zaentz and excellently directed by Milos Forman (Valmont, Ragtime ,Hair , Someone flow the Cucko nest , Larry Flint) ; it won eight Adamy Award as main actor , adapted screenplay , art direction , set decoration , make-up , costume , director and picture . In addition , it achieved several prizes , such as : Golden Globes , L.A. Films Critics , and French Cesar , among others . Devotees of the music will appeal this film which is a fine tribute to classical music .


                
After not having seen "Amadeus" for many years, I impulsively bought the director's cut edition which was on sale at the local wholesale club. It is everything I remember about it.First the good...The score is wonderful! As noted in the bonus materials, the music - all Mozart's and not adapted - actually becomes another character in the movie. It's glorious! Milos Forman also made the conscious decision to use a variety of Mozart's music and not just a few familiar pieces and it adds immeasurably to the enjoyment of the movie. Of course, the other can work well as well - e.g. "Elvira Madigan", where Mozart's 21st piano concerto became "the Elvira Madigan theme".The direction and cinematography are gorgeous and impeccable. This is a beautifully-crafted film which invokes a great sense of time and place.Now for the bad...The myth of Salieri's murder or attempted murder has been around since the time of Mozart. It's the sort of juicy story that just develops a life of its own, despite all evidence to the contrary. It's unfortunate that it has been perpetuated by so many - from Mozart's time to Pushkin to Shaffer. The
Mozart's portrayal as childish and vulgar is inaccurate. He had a sense of humor and fun. Sometimes his sense of humor was vulgar in interaction with those closest to him, but he certainly knew how to conduct himself as a professional in public. In the movie, he is depicted as both immoral and an alcoholic toward the end of his life. Affairs have been speculated, but almost anyone who draws public attention has to endure such speculation, true or not. In Mozart's case, there is no serious evidence to back up the gossip. Certainly, he was not a drunkard! Also, although he was certainly not wise in his handling of his financial affairs, he was just as surely not without students and lived quite comfortably for most of his adult life.Salieri's portrayal as a mediocre composer is also wrong. Salieri was certainly in the shadow of Mozart, but he was a talented composer of mostly operas (unlike Mozart, Salieri rarely composed instrumental music). Had Mozart not lived at the same time, Salieri would certainly have been better known, but then the same could be said of almost every contemporary composer. It's worth noting that Salieri's students included Beethoven and Liszt.Costanze's portrayal is closer to the truth, but still misses the mark. By all accounts, she was a devoted wife and Mozart was devoted to her. She certainly did not leave for "the spa" when he was sick. The backstory of her as the daughter of Mozart's landlady ignores the fact that she was the younger sister of a girl Mozart had wanted to marry when he and his mother were in Paris. The older sister eventually became famous as a prima donna and spurned him. Mozart remained in good terms with the family and was boarding with them in Vienna when he and Costantze developed into a couple. Leopold Mozart was opposed to the marriage mostly because the family had a reputation for what we would call a Bohemian lifestyle.Leopold Mozart's portrayal is more accurate, but then his isn't a fleshed-out character in the show. Leopold's relationship with his son was complex and, after the death of Mozart's mother, increasingly strained. The motives imputed to him by the script are not only wrong, but over-simplified. One thing we do know for sure is that it was not Salieri that commissioned the requiem mass. Count Walsegg-Stuppach was the mysterious "man in gray" who intended to pass the work off as his own.While I enjoyed the movie enough to give it an 8 rating, it's unconscionable to think that many people may accept its slanders as truth.


                
There's no denying that this 1984 biopic, directed by Milo<U+009A> Forman and written by Peter Shaffer, is a great film. It's a story about the old adage -- life is unfair. In fact, just to demonstrate how unfair, it probably should have been entitled "Salieri", rather than "Amadeus", because its really the story of Salieri and his bitterness over the success of his contemporary. But, the average person is somewhat familiar with Mozart, so let's be commercial about entitling the film.If you are "into" classical music, there will be little to dislike about this film. You'll find a great story and lots of the music in which you revel. If you are not really into classical music, but are watching for the story, you may find the film a bit long with some sections highlighting the music (opera scenes) a bit lengthy. I'm the latter, but still, this film maintains your interest.One interesting aspect of the film is that Salieri tells the story of his rivalry with Mozart as a sort of confession to a priest, after the court composer has been placed in a lunatic asylum for attempting suicide. And, though brief, the scenes in the asylum are chilling. I think the technique of flashbacks in films is overused, but is perfect for the telling of this story, because it allows Salieri (Abraham) to narrate the story effectively, thus aiding in understanding his feelings and motives. It may be a little difficult for us to understand that Salieri supposedly saw his musical talents as a product of his devotion to God -- a different time, to be sure. Mozart's irreverent and lewd general behavior surprised me, and in the light reading I did after viewing the film, appears to be accurately portrayed. Hence the source of Salieri's bitterness -- God appears to have graced the rude and obnoxious Mozart with the talent, while nearly bypassing the serious efforts of the pious Salieri. I did find Mozart's childish squeal of a laugh quite entertaining. Salieri comes to believe that God is using Mozart's genius to cruelly laugh at Salieri. Hence, Salieri's plot to kill Mozart, though the latter actually dies from exhaustion (?) -- the film not clear at all about the actual reason for death (and does not make obvious the many medical struggles Mozart has through his life). Particularly considering the length of the film, I would have liked a couple of minutes more dialog by Salieri describing Mozart's funeral and burial...just to put it all in more understandable perspective -- why the anonymous burial in a mass grave -- common at that time? What's interesting is that both Tom Hulce and F. Murray Abraham were nominated for Academy Awards (the latter won), but neither went on to luminous careers in film. The film won 8 Oscars in all, and deservedly so.


                
hahahahahaha! That's a good sum of this movie. There's some pretty dramatic sequences that suck you in... only to be distorted by this weird high pitched laugh "Wolfie" bellows out every 10 minutes.I don't know if I'm complaining or not. It's pretty fitting for such a wacky guy... I don't know. There's some scenes where he's dealing with the uptight German nobility that get pretty tense, but then there's almost a laugh-track that happens at every pivotal moment. The laugh track being Mozart's high pitched awfulness.Vienna looked awesome, and the costumes/sets were very very believable. I didn't think I'd enjoy a movie like this.I knew about halfway through the film that It was gonna be a movie that stuck with me forever. There's this awesome scene where Mozart ends this song with an epic fart. He even flips up his jacket-tail to give more umph to the experience.Annoying laugh, great flick.
1. The Movie Making You Want More 2. When I heard about the film Amadeus, I was not very thrilled about seeing it. I didn't think I would be very interested or even like the movie in the end. As I watched the film I started liking it more and more. I feel this film deserved all the Academy Awards that it won. 3. Amadeus is a film about Mozart's life while in Vienna. Antonio Salieri is out to kill him because he is jealous of his success. The film starts out with Salieri in an insane institution looking back and telling a priest the whole story of Mozart. Mozart starts out in Salzburg, but soon gets kicked out of the town and decides to move to Vienna to further his career. With the help of the emperor of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, Mozart is composing many various operas and writing symphonies. Mozart meets the love of his life Constanze and they have a child together. She is by his side the whole time, supporting him and praising him for the work he is doing. Mozart thinks that Salieri is actually trying to help him and one of his friends, but little does he know that Salieri is hoping that he dies. In the end, Constanze leaves him to decide and take some time away because Mozart has a very bad drinking problem. She eventually comes back, but doesn't come back to find the happiest thing. 4. I really enjoyed the film because of all the colors and settings. The settings were very broad and stood out. All the costumes and makeup were bright and catching of the eye. The scenery really used big props and had spectacular visual effects. The music was another big factor. The sound was enhanced to keep the viewer interested and wanting more from the film. When something bad was about the happen the music got really loud and the opposite when something good was about to happen. The transitions in the movie were very smooth. The movie didn't switch scenes really fast without warning. 5. I didn't really like how the film wasn't fully portrayed to the fullest. There were a couple things missing and things turned around to make the film more interesting. In real life, Mozart and Constanze actually had four kids. Salieri was not actually jealous of Mozart and he was famous at the time in composing his music. I didn't really like how the movie portrayed Mozart as being a bad person because he went out and partied all the time. This was what kept him going and focused on his music. It also wasn't portrayed well that his wife was nagging him all the time. 6. I really liked all the characters. The actors were all selected very well for playing the characters in this movie. I don't think anyone could have played Mozart better than Tom Hulce. He had the serious times when it was needed and he had a sense of humor. I think certain audience members would be able to relate to certain characters. 7. I would love to see this film again and would recommend it to anyone. I didn't want the movie to end. I thought there was more to come and it just ended. You don't have to appreciate music to see this film. It has much more to offer and is a lot more interesting than someone would think. You also want to see this film to find out what happens at the end. This film is a must see. I would give this movie 8 stars.


                
"Amadeus" was a historical biography about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The movie opens with an old man in a wheelchair, whispering Italian. This man, Saleri, plays a key character. Saleri plays as the narrator for some parts in which he is telling about his past and being with Mozart. He then has flashbacks of when he was a court composer and Mozart was just in his youth. Saleri was in love with the music that came from Mozart and was somehow always around Mozart when he had come up with new music. Saleri, himself, being so intrigued with the music and melodies, came up with his own composure's to try and please the Emperor. The Emperor is pleased, however, has Amadeus play it and while doing so, he changes a few keys here and there. This made Saleri upset because Amadeus did this quite often and leads us to believe that Saleri should've been the "real celebrity." A lot of Mozarts ideas are inspired by Saleri but with no credit given to him. Amadeus is married and has four children but the movie only portrayed one. He is quite the drunk, he spent all his time writing material and the moment he got paid for it, he spends it all on going out and getting drunk. He has the nice house and all, but his only happiness is coming up with music for everyone to hear. Even though this film is historical, I enjoyed the plot. Describing someone's life is definitely not easy, but Peter Shaffer did a great job with coming up with the plots and screen work. And showing the inside drama within each of the leading characters (Amadeus and Saleri) was interesting and led you into each of their lifes. The acting and music was great, I liked that they actually used his own works and used them correctly. The dramatics between roles were extreme but not the point where it was too much. And having Amadeus have a ridiculous laugh made it more enjoyable and more humorous. Some things I think the director should've pushed more for would be a better German accent. These characters seemed to have more of an English talk. The way they made Amadeus seem like nothing more than a drunk, turned me away. In many scenes in which he was coming up with plays, he always had some sort of drink in his hands, making it seem like it was his only getaway. They made Saleri seem more of like the jealous type and that the only thing he was living for was to get revenge on Amadeus, when in fact Saleri was quite the composer himself and is well-known. With the time transition, they should've made the characters age as years went on. Amadeus looked just about the same the whole movie. The choice of the cast was great, to me there were no actors that are too well-known and would be more favorable than others just because of their acting experience. They made acting seem effortless Amadeus is obviously a story about Wolfgang Mozart and his life. its factual, yet comical. The acting is great and holds drama you don't want to miss. If your into music, biographies, good humor, and a man's jealousy, this movie is definitely worth your time. I would rate "Amadeus," by Milos Forman 8 out of 10. Great movie with a killer laugh!!


                
The film Amadeus conveys the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, an extremely talented child prodigy who matures into a famous composer. Incidents arise when Salieri, an Italian composer, becomes jealous of Mozart's brilliant work. Amadeus is a brilliant movie which captures the entire essence of music at its best. Mozart's scores are naturally uplifting, and therefore draws a person into the movie with each powerful note. The attire throughout the film provided a very realistic window into Mozart's time period. The beautiful detailed textiles of aristocratic men and women's clothing were brought to life on the big screen. On the flip side, the only negative aspects of the move can be found in the long, drawn out scenes concentrated on Mozart and his opera plays. The scenes could have been cut down into shorter time spans. The film has great comedic relief; however they could have dealt less with crude childish humor (such as when Mozart bent over to relieve flatulence). Casting roles also played an imperative part, making this movie worthy of all its Academy Awards. I quickly fell in love with Tom Hulce playing the part of Mozart. His overall cheery disposition and conceited attitude lightened the mood for what would be a rather dry movie if everything was absent. Frank Murray Abraham's roll as Salieri captured the character's lust to be the ultimate superior to Mozart. His character's script speaks with great use of dramatic detailed imagery. Overall, Amadeus is a terrific movie filled with great costumes, characters, and music. The casting roles fit every character to a tee. I would recommend this movie to a person who adores Mozart's great musical talent. My Rating: 4 out of 5.
For all intents and purposes, I have split this review/comment into two portions, namely the subjective and the objective.Let's begin with the subjective: I personally don't like musicals on the Silver Screen; they just don't work for me (I said the same thing about CHICAGO). And while I agree that this is not a musical per se, it does feature a lot of overly dramatic operatic pieces/plays, which brings me to my second point: I don't like opera. Maybe it's just me, but I just can't get into it no matter how hard I try. Thirdly, I'm not necessarily fond of period pieces, and have only liked a handful of movies of this type (most notably BARRY LYNDON and ATONEMENT). As such, I really did not appreciate this movie as much as I probably should have.Now onto the objective: The acting by F. Murray Abraham and Tom Hulce is simply extraordinary. Abraham (as Salieri) presents a character who is conflicted and troubled upon meeting Mozart, not necessarily because he hates him, but because he believes that God is teasing or mocking him by placing such musical genius into the hands of a disrespectful, idle, and roguish youth, while seemingly giving the pious Salieri nothing more than mediocrity. As such, Salieri is decidedly presented as the 'reluctant' villain whose guilt and jealousy and sense of divine betrayal constantly eat away at his conscience. The conflict faced by Abraham's character is evident in every scene in which he appears. Tom Hulce presents the prodigy Mozart as somewhat of a modern day 'rock star', living a reckless and carefree existence. It is a bit unfortunate that he had to contend with Abraham for the Best Actor nod, since it was a battle that he was never going to win.Biopics about artists are generally long and boring and do not succeed in connecting with the audience. This is where AMADEUS proves itself to be exceptional; it is not really a biopic and is in fact more of a story than a documentary, as Milos Forman and Frank Shaffer took some liberties with the storyline, resulting in a quite compelling story.Then there's the Music. I mentioned earlier that I am not a fan of musicals, but that doesn't mean that I am opposed to Music in Motion Pictures. On the contrary. I was quite curious to see how Mozart's music would fit into this film, and the end result was simply breathtaking. The musical pieces are not inserted at random in the film as I feared; instead each featured piece succeeds brilliantly in capturing and enhancing the overall mood evoked, and it is evident that much forethought went into the music selection.A final note about the title 'AMADEUS': this film could have been called 'MOZART' or 'WOLFGANG' or anything else that would indicate that the film is indeed about the legendary composer (as not many people knew that Amadeus was his middle name). Any student of language will know that 'Amadeus' loosely translates to 'Loved by God', and it is this concept that drives the film, as Salieri believes that God has forsaken him by blessing Mozart with the musical talents which Salieri believes he himself should have had. It is the resulting bitterness and jealousy that propel the story.This is a great movie overall, and a wonderful character study. It deserved the Best Picture and Best Director (a second for Forman after ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST) Oscars in a relatively weak field that year (1984). Nonetheless, it is just not my type of movie and I find it difficult to give this movie more that 8/10 since it would seem that I am bending to the will of other critics, influenced by the 'popular' vote rather than my own. I give this film 3.5 stars (out of 4) since I believe that as an Oscar winner it should be seen and studied. This film will garner a spot on my 'Honourable Mentions' list due to the superb acting, direction, storyline, and music, rather than to the overdone and seemingly never-ending operatic segments. Highly recommended.


                
***Spoilers*** Well, I must admit- when I watch this movie, I have to watch it backwards (ie the 2nd part first, then the 1st part) cause it's so sad. I mean, as much as I loathed Mozart's character in this movie, he more or less brought it onto himself. He drank, he barely slept, he didn't seem to have a normal, consistent diet, he blew through his money. The pplz back then had a low life-expectancy then, my goodness. He certainly didn't do himself any favors Lol :-P I still sympathized with him. But anywhoo, this movie is quite brilliant. I wanna know whose idea it was for Tom Hulce's "giggle"- that insane, despicable lil giggle. I wanna strangle them, and shake their hand at the same time, if that makes any sense Lmao :-P It really was the icing on the cake in depicting how unique of a personality Mozart was (or more appropriately, Wolfgang).The acting- was all superb. F. Murray Abraham played the perfect old & tortured, guilt-ridden Salieri. The first couple of scenes when the priest first enters the room, he's describing who he is/was and what he is/was- an instrument of God. And he was a good lil church boy, good lil Christian boy. That is-until he meets his nemesis, which turns out to be Tom Hulce's character, Mozart. Now Tom Hulce, who is probably more known for his "off-the-beaten-path" characters, does miracles with this. This pompous, childish, irresponsible "creature," who was inexplicably in love with "Stanzy" (and who wouldn't with those breasts staring at you everyday? hahahahahaha :-P)- he played it to a tee. I think Elizabeth Berridge had her moments, most very good, some others another actress than herself could've done.Muscially- the operas and the plays were astounding. However, whoever chose the choir which was used for "Requiem" in the movie- needs to go back to music school. This was my favorite piece, and I was highly disappointed. I have a much better recording for this, dunno who the choir is (copied it from my choir teacher's CD hee-hee).My rating is 8/10... for messing up Requiem, and cause it dragged a lil bit.Take care, Jess :-D
I would like to make some short comments. 1. Acting - a. F. Murray Abraham - there wasn't much for him to do except brood. Flashes of intensity, but for the most part, he seems swept through the action by happenstance. b. Tom Hulce - over-the-top performance still made believable by the restraint of the script. Especially convincing is Mozart dictating to Salieri. c. Elizabeth Berridge - unconvincing, underplayed to a fault. Relying on script and costuming is a poor way to make a living as an actress. d. Jeffrey Jones - made an impact on me as a catalyst and not a flunky of the circumstances. Leopold's brief interactions are nonetheless very important to the storyline. 2. Writing - the plot line is pretty cool: a little bit of Hitchcock straining at the leash, but mainly we're treated to a chronology of Mozart's works, albeit truncated and jumpy. The subplots concerning Mozart's father and Wolfie's wife are thin, and to me don't add any substance to the transitions nor the ending. What stands out is the God-given talent of Mozart, which is brilliantly displayed in both the context and the acting. Hulce brings to life the torture of genius. What it feels like to be blessed by God, which can also be a curse. He has all the music in his head, and the rest is just "scribbling and bibbling." To say that Mozart worked himself to death wouldn't be outlandish, even knowing that his alcoholism contributed mightily. But which was the killer? Was it the strain of dealing with all the music that wanted to be released, or was it liver and/or kidney failure? The ambiguities here and in Salieri's story are riveting, if ultimately unsatisfying. One moral I came away with: be happy for what you DO have, for jealousy will drive you mad as surely as ambition will drive you into the earth. 3. Design - costuming was heroic, and the settings were impeccable. The extras were very believable, and the atmosphere reeked of baroque. A little more definition of Vienna was perhaps needed just to reel you in a little deeper, but I'm being trifling here. 4. Music - I'm not crazy for Mozart, but I walked away with a greater appreciation for the prodigy and his vocation. I've always looked on Wolfgang Amadeus, the composer, as very pompous in his assumptions concerning the listener, and this was pointed out in the film as well. Nevertheless, the pieces are short enough to placate my A.D.D. and yet long enough to satisfy my curiosity. 5. Objectionable Material - concerning sexual content, there is no nudity, but there is some adult speech. No violence.
AMADEUS lives up to its wholesome beauty by paying tribute to classic musicals that are all but gone. Milos Foreman must have survived this massive undertaking in earning another batch of golden Oscars. The sound of classical music is rich and lively enough to consider this true to art. Seriously, folks, it does come up a wee short from being an authentic masterpiece, but it does translate as a satisfying and amusing stage play filled with lavish sets and costumes. It's only the movies, really.Leonard Maltin's Movie & Video Guide described this as "fatally overlong". If you're casual enough to belong in the martini crowd or just like going out to see operas, then chances are your time is going to be spent perfectly well. And yes, even the entire family will like this one, despite getting a little crude on occasion. Unlike THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION (that one was great, but it just seemed too long), it is fully satisfying and the talented stage performances make this one to appreciate. We should also examine Mozart's life and love of music, which bodes strongly for a lengthy picture. The film's total magic is in the directing talents of Milos Foreman.AMADEUS is a wondrous spectacle of harmony and ambition from centuries ago, and like I said before, it isn't an all-out cinematic masterpiece. While not for those who lack interest in classical music, it is a hungry feast for some. Hey, I may not be a fan of public television, so why waste some pledge money when this movie sticks to your mind in years to come.


                
Shaffer adapts his play into film, which chronicles composer Antonio Salieri (Abraham) and his plot to ruin Amadeus Mozart (Hulce). Historically inaccurate, but then again<U+0085> it's not a biography. Even though Salieri knows Mozart is a genius, his jealousy craves the ranting towards Mozart's music, such as the Emporer's (Jones) criticism of one of Mozart's pieces having "too many notes". It appears Forman and Shaffer should have taken their own advice, as the film starts to drag significantly during the second half, mainly due to drawn out opera scenes. As the film comes to an end, the viewer can't help but feel satisfied by, not only a well-told story, but also (and more importantly) the brilliance of music contained in the film. Hulce was extremely critical about playing music, with musical scholars complimenting that every note of music matches that seen on screen, which is both a film and musical triumph!***½ (out of four)


                
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is one of the most famous musicians ever to walk the Earth, making some of the greatest pieces of music you will ever hear. He lived a tragic life, being taught to play and write music at a young age, living a life where music was the most important thing of his life, lived for most of his life in debt and died young. So a bio-pic of one of Austria's greatest sons seems like a great subject.Amadeus is based on a play by Peter Shaffer, and directed by Milo<U+009A> Forman who did excellent work with another play conversion, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (please note it was also a novel). The focus of this film is on the Italian composer Antonio Salieri (F. Murray Abraham), who was Emperor Joseph II (Jeffrey Jones) of Austria's court composer. Salieri was a man who wanted to know Mozart (Tom Hulce) because of his talent, but dishearted to discovery he was really no more then a man-child. Mozart is rude, volga, insulting and loves nothing but to drink and party. He seems like he doesn't have to try to make great music and insults Salieri's efforts. Salieri sets himself a mission to destroy Mozart, making him lost favour within the court, make such he can't get money and drive him insane.Let's start out of the good points. They is great music, there is no denying it. They are great pieces by Mozart and Salieri throughout the film. Even if you don't know classical music that well you properly heard some of Mozart's pieces. This film is Milo<U+009A> Forman's best performance as a director. I love One Flow Over the Cuckoo's Nest, but that was more an actor's film then one that show's a director's talent. With Amadeus Forman keeps the story going, focusing on the characters, the themes and uses the music to great affect. They are a number of good scenes throughout the film and he deserves a best director nod. He uses the music very effectively, such as when Salieri looks at Mozart's pieces on paper. They is wonderful art direction, getting the piece and the way the court look right. The Stanley Kubrick film Barry Lyndon must have been an influence. The script is well structured, going back and forth from the framing device. F. Murray Abraham offers an excellent performance as Salieri, being both a hero and a villain at the same possible. He deserved his Oscar as well. The film also looks at the themes of mass-produced music, whether it is better to produce music for the elites or the masses, the theme of envy and how it could affect a man to explore his dark side and the fact that Mozart's talent is both his gift and his curse; how it ended up destroying him.But this film is not perfect. I did not like the casting of Tom Hulce, except for the scene of Mozart dying I thought his performance was weak. He has a very annoying laugh and just seems too focused on making the character look at something from the Frat Pack. Kenneth Branngh would was originally casted would have been a lot better. I also did not like the script using modern language and the use of profanity. I think this was done to dumb down the film and appeal to Americans ready then for artistic merit. The film is also historically inaccurate; normally it would drop points with me but they are strengths and I love the music. I dislike how Mozart was portrayed, being so immature and so volger. In real they was mutual respect between Mozart and Salieri. At times you couldn't feel sympathy for Mozart.If you enjoy Mozart's music you will like this film. It is a good drama, but worthy of top 250? Doubtful. But it's worth watching.
The way the tag-line is written, the movie sounds like some Disney film. Amadeus. The man. The music. The magic. The madness. The murder. The mystery. The motion picture. Anyway, this movie is very great. The acting is great, the music is great, the scenery is great. It is just one of those lovable classic films.So I guess from just the title of the movie, you can assume that this film is based on the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. A biography if you may say. However, this movie is NOT a strict biography of Mozart's life. The movie is not a musical biography like Walk the Line or Ray. So if you were planning to learn all of the small details of Mozart's life, you ain't getting that in this movie. In fact, the background of the movie is based a lot on superstition and creative thinking with the relationship between Mozart and Salieri. We start off with Mozart's life in the movie with him proposing to Constanze, who is later known to be his wife and only wife. Before Mozart got married, there was so much more to his life as a child with the abuse of his father and having to travel all over Europe that could have supplemented his movie. Because in this movie, we learn that Mozart was not exactly a nice guy to be with. He was a social misfit, all because of a childhood he never had which was replaced by his father making him tour over Europe and showing off his musical abilities.The main premise in this movie is about Salieri and the whole idea that he might have killed Mozart. Salieri tells the story from his perspective to a priest in an asylum about Mozart. Salieri was the most famous composer in all of England, but once Mozart came about, Salieri became a has-been. This got Salieri angry and the growing jealously of Salieri got him to the point where he dedicated his whole life to destroying Mozart. And like I said before, we do not know if this is true that Salieri did kill Mozart.But enough with the negativity. I thought the acting was brilliant. Tom Hulce acts well as the unattractive and rowdy Mozart. F. Murray Abraham being Salieri was also just as great if not greater than Hulce. I mean they were both persuasive with their acting and used the material they were given for their characters and played it well. Also, there were scenes in the movie that you can tell required a lot of hard work to create because they either had a lot of men and women in the scene or because there was a great amount of sound editing going on. The director's cut clocks at three hours, but I guarantee you that you will be spell bounded for those three hours. Because although the movie does not have a fast pace, it still keeps you locked in.I would say that the movie did have some scenes were it felt kind of 80s such as Mozart's antics and sexual insinuation that was placed in the movie. But none the less, this is a great story and I am glad that it was not a strict biography, because to tell you the truth, after watching this film, I would prefer this film over a strict biography. The creativeness that Forman and Shaffer add to it makes the movie only more special.Low eight.


                
i just rented it, i thought it was awesome, tom hulce's performance was great, and so was f. murray abraham and one of my favorite actors, jeffrey jones, and so was the rest of the excellent cast, at time though f. murray overacted as an old man, but still good, like right after i watched it i put it on my top 101 favorite movie list, and i think it deserved all the academy awards and any other awards, because everything was amazing in the film, and if you haven't seen this movie, i strongly recommend you go out and rent it and watch, i don't now how anyone couldn't like it,unless they like hate classical music, which i don't really like, but loved the movie, its a masterpiece!!
This is a love or hate situation.I've had friends hate this film, mainly for the historical inaccuracies, and I've had people hate it because Mozart annoyed them. Personally, I am enthralled every time I see it.The original stage play script offers a few vignettes that are missing in the film, but the heart of why Amedeus was as grand a film as a theatre experience is in the details.The scenery alone makes this film gorgeous. Ditto the costumes and the interior sets.Not a few talents were in high form as well; first and foremost F. Murray Abraham. His work here will seal him forever as one of the cinema's finest dramatic actors.Tom Hulce is also a treat, but perhaps too-often overlooked is Jeffrey Jones as Emperor Joseph II. His simple and charming performance is delicate and intentional.Much could be said, but perhaps the most important advice for viewers of this film is to take it for what it is: a rare morality play from master film makers. This is a film to think about long after it's over.


                
The bet of making a movie about not exactly the life of Mozart but the conflict between himself and a less talented composer, Salieri was well won. This isn't just a theory, it's also backed up by good researches and studies.This movie also shows the ultimate contrast between supremacy and mediocrity.The setting of Prague and Montemerano, Italy, give this movie a very realistic look and add dept to the dramatic-ism of the scenes in the movies.Pure genius, pure genius indeed. This movie not only deserves a look but also two thumbs up.


                
This film of Peter Shaffer's play is fairly successful once you get past the clunky opening scenes where Mozart and his intended frolic under the tables and swap indecent puns with each other.From a very tight stage production, Shaffer opens out the action to include real-life scenes and scenarios rather than the theatrics of the dukes in the chorus. Salieri is the key character here, the title of the film notwithstanding, and is gloriously played by Oscar-winner F. Murray Abraham. Curious that Abraham didn't go on to get the meaty roles that should have been there for him.As Mozart, Tom Hulce is - in the early scenes - an irritating hyena, an overactive child. By the time of the Requiem and the closing scenes his acting talent truly comes to the fore, doing justice to the story and to the wonderful music. Elizabeth Berridge plays his wife Constance very well, while Roy Dotrice is a memorable Leopold (father of Wolfgang Amadeus). Jeffrey Jones is a twitchy Emperor ("too many notes!") and Simon Callow, Charles Kay, and Martin Cavina make their mark in smaller roles.The true star of this film though, is the music, and you get to hear lots of it, thanks to Sir Neville Marriner and a team of great musicians.


                
You have to hand it to Milos Forman, he really knows how to thrash out human experience on screen. With wonderful movies such as One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, The People Vs. Larry Flynt and Man On The Moon under his belt he truly is one of cinema's finest biographers. Amadeus is a curious movie, for a multiple oscar winner its rarely mentioned among peoples 'top lists'. Stanger still is the fact that its leading actors F. Murray Abraham(Salieri) and Tom Hulce(Mozart) never really achieved much in Hollywood following the success of Amadeus. A shame really as those who've watched it will know:Amadeus takes an objective view of the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart by having Viennese Court Composer, Antonio Salieri narrate the tale. Salieri reveals his part in Mozart's demise and illustrates his legendary hatred for Mozart throughout the film. Yet underneath Salieri's hatred lies an admiration for Mozart's talent that stretches to adoration for Mozart's music. These conflicting emotions cause Salieri to conjure a fascinating portrayal of Mozart and his talent for the audience - Criticisms of the movie mainly revolve around the historical inaccuracies and the portrayal of Mozart himself....to these people I  say that all history is open to interpretation and that the movie itself is told from the perspective of Salieri(of whom little is actually known) who, for the purposes of the movie, resented the success and lifestyle enjoyed by Mozart - F. Murray Abraham's performance as Salieri was majestic, with his awe-stricken voice retaining an authoritative weight throughout the picture. Hulce is well cast as the giggling, and often arrogant young Mozart. Set largly in decorative opera halls and Royal Courts the sets are among the most lavish to hit film and are accompanied on screen by (inevitably) a glorious classical score(so make sure to turn up the volume) giving the audience a wonderful cinematic experience, both visually and aurally. Worth a look.


                
Was Amadeus a hippie, a hedonist, a proto rock-star, a rebel, or is Forman just portraying him as such to fit the patterns of his continuing cinematic exegesis of historical figures?  Forman was raised under two dire dictatorships, the Nazi and then later the Stalinist.  No doubt that such a background fostered in his heart a dislike for all formal authority, for legalistic structures, and inspired in his mind a love for that archetypical rebel figure, the one who does not so much fight authority, because he despises it, but through virtue of higher alligence, to his own personal vision or inspiration, simply comports his life as though authority did not exist.     Mozart as presented by Forman fits this mold, and is a spiritual brother to Andy Kaufman, Larry Flint, and Randle Mc Murphy in Man on the Moon, the People vs. Larry Flint, and One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest respectively.  He is giving us the same character over and over again, and telling us the same story at different times and places throughout the ages. This is fair enough if Forman sees this as the essential struggle occurring within the confines of the cosmos, but does his vision also encompass the masses or is he giving us the anti- Tolstoy an view that history is driven only by the actions of a few isolated great men, visionaries and revolutionaries? Yes, I like this movie, but it does not give us the sweep and grandeur that would properly reflect the music of it's subject.  Ultimately it tells us more about it's author then it does about its main character.  Is this a case of the cannibalism of history in order to support a director's personal vision, or simple appropriation of powerful `symbolic' personalities in order to present a Manichean view of the universe? I cannot pretend to know.     I know this, the film is energetic and amusing, like all of Forman's work that I have seen, and leaves the audience with a stronger feeling of connection with the misunderstood individualist visionary then it does with the gray world which is bent on crushing him, here represented by rival composer Salieri.  The best thing it can do is inspire an audience member to take the first few tottering steps out of hypnotic TV created reality and try to create a world of his own.  Why Forman hasn't gotten around to filming the life of Vincent Van Gogh is a mystery that remains unsolved.8/10


                
What's so wonderful about this movie is its ability to get you into the mind of the composer Salieri. Through Salieri's distorted POV we come to love Mozart and are in awe of his genius, but at the same time are blown away by his apparent lack of understanding of his own genius. We can empathize to a certain extent with Salieri, but pity him as much for his own lack of understanding of his own talent and his obsessive jealousy. Forman's movie is captivating, exciting, dramatic, funny, educational and most of all incredibly sad and beautiful. It's a classic.


                
This is one of my all-time favorite movies. The movie is visually stunning and the music is great of course. F. Murray Abraham's performance was certainly of Oscar Caliber. I have given the move a rating of "9". I would have given this movie a "10" except for the inaccuracies and, in particular, the injustice to the character of Salieri. Salieri was not the court composer when Mozart arrived in Vienna; Gluck held that post. Salieri was the conductor of the opera. When Gluck died Mozart replaced him (Gluck) as court composer. Salieri's chief "fault" was his own self-deprecation. He often bemoaned his own limitations as a composer. It seems that if you claim to being a failure, people are willing to believe it to be a fact. Western Society likes "winners". In fact Salieri was a better composer than he thought himself, if not as great as Mozart, and was an outstanding musical teacher who's pupils included Beethoven, Liszt and Schubert.


                
This movie is mesmerizing from start to finish. The fact that it isn't historically accurate makes no difference to me. Truly deserved Best Picture.


                
Ahahahha quite funny and I like it
(How do I review films?!)


                
Amadeus was neither the first nor the last great motion picture crafted by gifted director Milos Forman. Nine years earlier he made One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest. 12 years later, his The People vs. Larry Flynt became the darling of the critics. Yet, of all the projects Forman has been involved with, none has striven for and achieved as much as Amadeus. No matter how many additional great movies he makes, he is unlikely to surpass this one. Whether you choose the original 1984 theatrical version or the extended Director's Cut, you won't find a better motion picture depiction of genius, art, and the artist. Not only is Amadeus a fascinating character study, but it also features a tragedy of Shakespearean proportions in the twisted triangle of Mozart, Salieri, and God. No movie before or since has so effectively woven music into the tapestry of the motion picture.


                
