I respect and admire this movie, even though (and perhaps because) it is complex, occasionally irritating and often very hard to take.  Frankly, I avoided seeing it for a long time, but now am glad I did.  To complain that the film fails as a realistic portrayal of addiction is, I think, to miss the point.  Far from being the mere depiction of a collective downward spiral fueled by drugs, the movie is in fact a meditation on loneliness, greed, corruption, desperation, and the pervasiveness/banality of media, among many other things.The subtleties of the text are communicated, first and foremost, by superb acting.  The performances of Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly, and Marlon Wayans are all revelatory.  In particular, I was knocked out by Burstyn, who is almost comically pathetic in the beginning, but who manages by the end to convey her character's utter devastation in the truest, most heartbreaking manner imaginable.  The others are absolutely perfect as well; I was simply astonished by Leto and especially Wayans (may he eschew "scary movies" forevermore).  Connelly has perhaps the most difficult role in the film, with opportunity and motivation galore to go over the top, and she delivers not a single false note throughout.My only real quibbles with the movie have to do with certain instances of the split-screen and jump-cut techniques, which struck me as somewhat gimmicky and repetitious, respectively.  That being said, overall the style of the film is impressive and appropriate.   The cinematography is beautifully conceived and executed, and the score is every bit as haunting as the performances (thanks largely to the work of the Kronos Quartet).In sum, regardless of whether or not the subject matter itself shocks you, this movie will put the viewer through the proverbial wringer.  Give it a chance, and you will connect with the characters and then witness their destruction (spiritual and otherwise).  It is a punishing but unforgettable experience.  I'm not sure whether I'd necessarily recommend it or not; it all depends on your personal tolerance level with regard to an unflinching portrayal of human nature and behavior at their most extreme and, ultimately, tragic.  For my part, while I don't expect to watch this film very often in the future, I'm sure glad it'll be on the shelf.


                
After watching this for first time, I thought to myself, "Wow, with some appropriate editing, this ought to be required viewing for high school students as it's probably one of the best "anti-drug" presentations one could ever see.Young filmmaker Darren Aronofsky takes a depressing subject and makes it fun to watch, if that's possible. However, I'm speaking in general terms because - warning - a couple of scenes are anything but fun to view. Aronofsky uses stop- action/fast forward techniques, sound effects, hallucination scenes, etc. all to make this a good movie for the senses.Ellen Burstyn is outstanding in this film and many people who viewed this thought she should have won an Academy Award for her performance. Boy, if she doesn't scare you away from taking diet pills, nobody can. She's the only one in this film that is actually fun to watch. Jennifer Connelly can be one easily ogled by us guys but she plays so many sleazy, unlikeble roles, it's tough to warm up to her.Jared Leto, meanwhile, does his best to show us the horrors of what could happen when you hooked on junk which involves needles. In the last 30 minutes there are a few horrifying parts as Leto's infected arm gets worse and worse. People who have seen this film know what I'm talking about, It is grim, very grim but maybe that's what all of us need to see once in awhile.To watch Bursteyn and Leto slowly disintegrate is unforgettable and for Aronofsky to make this watchable was quite a feat. But for the grace of God, as it is said, one of these characters could be us.


                
"Requiem for a Dream" is not a pretty movie, most of us cannot identify with the main characters, it does not allow you to feel good at any point, except maybe to think, "I'm glad I never got mixed up with drugs." 
I require the title of every movie to make sense, so examining this one I come up with, "A musical service for the repose of the dead (requiem)" for "something of beauty or charm associated with dreams rather than reality." And that perfectly describes the film.SPOILERS... There are lots of people in this film, but it is the story of only four of them - Sara (Ellen Burstyn), who gets scammed into sending an application (with money, no doubt) for a TV appearance, then needing to lose weight, getting in with a shady diet doctor, eventually getting hooked on pills and turning into this monster of a person who no longer can relate to the world.Harry (Jared Leto), her son, along with Marion (Jennifer Connelly), his girlfriend, and Tyrone (Marlon Wayans), his friend, all get caught up in the drug culture.  He repeatedly steals Sara's TV set, wheels it down to pawn for drug cash, she goes behind him and pays to get it out of pawn. "But he's my only son", she pines when asked why she doesn't call the police.They get wise, buy some good stuff, cut it, make a good profit, repeat the cycle, eventually hoping to get rich. But their "habit" clouds their judgement, they get screwed, they drive towards Florida to get more stuff, are arrested at a hospital stop 600 miles south of NYC, Harry has his arm surgically removed because of use-induced infection, Tyrone ends up in prison, Marion has to prostitute herself to get drug money, Sara has shock treatment and is never herself again. Each tragedy, each shattered "dream", a result of drug use. And the whole film is the "requiem" for those dreams.I'm sure some of all these things happen some time, but in all I found this to be just a bit of a caricature of how the drug culture ends the functional lives, sooner or later, of all who get mixed up in it. Thus the title of the film.Jennifer Connelly has always been beautiful, but as she matures is also turning into one of our finest female actors. Although Burstyn received the Oscar nomination, I think Connelly's performance was the best in this film. Like most of the "mature" voters, I rate it "8" of 10, unlike all those "under-30" voters who rated it "9" and "10" because of the "gee-whiz" factor, or maybe they could identify with the characters more than I can. I didn't always care for the strange way the movie was filmed, although much of it was necessary for telling this story. The first time I saw Tyrone running in the alley with the camera somehow attached to him, I thought that was neat and unique. However, as they used it for several other scenes, I began to focus on the camera technique rather than the story.I saw the DVD. It has one of the most irritating menu presentations possible, using a test pattern raster with interference. Cute, but I soon found myself avoiding use of the menu.  However, the picture and sound of the movie itself, in Digital Dolby 5.1, are really first rate.
My Rating : 8/10The film is a parallel story. It jumps between Harry's (Jared Leto) story about trying to score enough heroin with his buddy Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) and girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly) to live out happy lives, and his mother Sara's (Ellen Burstyn) story about her desperate attempts to get onto television. The film chronicles these four individuals, and their ups and downs through the course of three seasons of a year.Excellent performances, stylish camera work and quintessential Generation X film along with Fight Club. It is a visual treasure, and a true thought provoker.


                
Requiem For A Dream is one of the most depressing films I've ever seen in my life. These poor people from two generations are a lot like Anthony Quinn in Requiem For A Heavyweight. As a boxer Quinn in that film saw his career at an end and faced a very unpromising future. These people have no future at all. I certainly recognized the Coney Island/Brighton Beach area of Brooklyn, an area of projects and an amusement area that has seen better days. Like Atlantic City, some in Coney Island eventually see casino gambling as the gimmick for a rebirth. If you see Requiem For A Dream, imagine it in that kind of Las Vegas type setting.At one time Brighton Beach was a template for a working class Jewish paradise of sort with families housed in apartments that partially built with the backing of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Back when I was doing senior citizens crime claims at New York State Crime Victims Board, I can't tell you the number of claims from men and women who listed a small ILGWU pension as part of their income from that area. Such a woman is Ellyn Burstyn playing Sara Goldfarb.Things haven't gone right for her. As the neighborhood decayed, so did her life and family. Her one son Jared Leto, a promising kid at one time is now a hopeless addict with an addict girlfriend in Jennifer Connelly and an addict best friend in Marlon Wayans.I've known a few junkies in my time also. After a while they only have one thing on their mind, their particular addiction of choice and how to service it. Even if they want to rise in the dope trade business, they haven't got a head for business any longer.Which in a nutshell is the position of Leto and Wayans with Connelly in support figuring her own habit can be taken care of by following their lead. Of course its disaster all around.As for Ellyn Burstyn she gained Requiem For A Dream's only Academy Award recognition with a nomination for Best Actress. She's not just clueless about her son, she's caught up in her own chemical dependency. She dreams of her 10 minutes of fame on some daytime quiz show and gets herself nicely hooked on diet pills. Unlike her son, she does have some memories of better days and talks about them with her peers on the benches outside the apartments.I recognized a lot of the Brighton Beach/Coney Island area of Brooklyn where this was all shot on location. Requiem For A Dream is a sad film about sad people, definitely one to bring you down from any kind of high you might be on.


                
This movie is out of this world. That's the only way to describe it. It was incredible, yet I felt like I wanted to kill myself afterward. It really goes into the depths of some really twisted lives. The cinematography is absolutely unbeatable and really adds to an otherwise seemingly boring movie. I have nothing but good things to say about this flick except that you should really only see it if you need feelings of depression to compliment your already low-on-life attitude. Jared Leto actually did a wonderful job as the lead, and of course Ellen Burstyn stole the show. As a first time viewer of the movie with a friend of mine, my friend commented that she thought it was such a great movie, but could never watch it again. It's understandable. People that own this movie should really be questioned as border-line depressed or addicts. This movie can really be used in different contexts.


                
This was probably one of the most depressing movies I've ever seen. It reminded me of the first time I watched "Christiana F.". That movie made me very clear that drugs is a big no no for me.Although I gave this movie an 8 out of 10 I never want to see it again. The 8 is for the high quality acting, especially Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly impressed me. And also the big impact this film had on me. Iwanted to see this movie because I was curious about the director after seeing "Pi". Now I can say with certainty that the work of Darren Aronofsky is not my thing.If you still think that a needle is cool after watching this movie...


                
A chronicle of four people (Jared Leto, Marlon Wayans, Jennifer Connolly and Ellen Burstyn) and their drug addictions and what it does to their lives. Starts off OK but becomes darker and more disturbing as it goes along. It ends with a montage showing what happens to all four of them--this sequence contains some of the most harrowing imagery I've ever seen in a film. Honestly, I don't think I'll ever see it again--it's that graphic! Still, see the film. Leto is OK; Wayans is (surprisingly) pretty good; Connolly is excellent--I've never liked her until now; and Burstyn is simply superb--a sure Oscar winner if I ever saw one. Well, worth seeing but very disturbing. Unfortunately, this film has an NC-17 rating. That's too bad--it should have an R rating so high school kids could see it. This would turn them off drugs for good!


                
"Requiem for a Dream" is an American 100-minute film from 2000 and probably still the most known work by director Darren Aronofsky, who also worked on adapting Hubert Selby Jr.'s novel for the screen here, actually with the late Selby himself. The cast includes Ellen Burstyn, already an Oscar winner at that point, the super stunning Jennifer Connelly, briefly before her Oscar win, and Jared Leto, a recent Oscar winner, so acting talent is certainly enough in here. Still this is a film that is really a lot more about the story and the overall picture than about individual performances really, even if Burstyn managed to get nominated again, which was her most recent nomination at the Oscars, maybe even her final. I find it pretty shocking though that the movie did not get any nominations for other cast members (Leto and Connelly would not have been undeserving), for the direction, for the script, also for the make-up and for the truly memorable soundtrack. It is without a doubt one of the very best films from the first year of the new millennium and besides Gladiator it is also probably the most known from that year.There are so many excellent aspects about the film it's tough to decide with which to start first. Maybe Burstyn's performance, who is certainly one of the best portrayals of loneliness and delusion I have ever seen. The whole red-dress story-line is extremely heartbreaking and her one scene with Leto is a definite contender for best-acted scene of the year and probably also the main reason why she was nominated for an Oscar. I'd be honestly very surprised if I end up liking Roberts (the winner) more than Burstyn. The main theme is a piece of brilliance and not only utterly catchy, but also very fitting to the story in terms of the contents. I just used the word "heartbreaking" and this is pretty much what can be used to describe the fate of each and every character in here. Their addiction to whatever they are addicted to is destroying their lives. The four central characters lose their dignity, their limbs, their sanity, their friends, their businesses, their freedom and a lot more because of how they cannot get away from their drugs. So they lose basically everything except their lives eventually. All the final shots from the characters in their moments of biggest agony are really memorable of course, but I like to mention the one with Connelly's character especially as we see her lying down after this fateful night and we see that it's not Leto's character in her arms, but that all her love is for her drug now which is the movie at its most depressing. And if you see the very final scene with the television appearance and mother and son being reunited as something positive only because Burstyn's character does and she is somewhat happy in her own fictitious right, that's up to you of course.All in all, I think no matter from which perspective you see this film, it is a true piece of art. I also think it is a really important film because honestly I could not think of a better anti-drug and anti-addiction film than this one here. is there anything wrong with it? One needs to dig very deep to find flaws here. Maybe Wayans' character is a bit of a filler to be honest as his story was basically a poor man's version of Leto's character's story and did not add too much. But it's not bad either and maybe just forgettable because everything else about this film is so outstandingly memorable. A bit on the filler side perhaps. Anyway, if there are still people out there who have not yet seen these slightly over 1.5 hours more than 1.5 decades after they came out, then it's high time. This movie is a must-see and it has aged brilliantly in a way where you really don't want to miss out. That is if you don't mind the very graphic aspect in here when it comes to violence, drug abuse and other stuff that is not too beautiful to watch like vomiting scenes. But it belongs to this film like everything else and just results in more realistic elements overall, which is definitely another reason to give it a thumbs-up. Nothing about this film is for the sake of it. Highly highly recommended. Aronofsky was only around the age of 30 when he made this, his second full feature film and what an achievement for such a young director.
Too many films dealing with alcohol and addiction are in the "28 Days" camp. They glamorize use and recovery rather than take on the reality. "Requiem" does not fall into that trap. It accurately portrays what it is like from the perspective of the addict and from the outside. The emotional grip this left me with was similar to "Leaving Las Vegas". What that movie did to present the life on alcoholic is what this does for addiction. Unfortunately its rating might prevent those who might most benefit from ever seeing it. Recovery rhetoric says the only possible outcomes of continued addiction are jails, institutions or death. That cliché is aptly captured in the paths these characters follow.
Requiem for a Dream is a mesmerizing and ultimately startling look at the horrors of addiction. Its visual electricity and propulsive dramatic decent make you feel like you're on a roller coaster that's going up and down at the same time.This film covers three seasons in the lives of four people. Sara Goldfarb (Ellen Burstyn) is an old Jewish widow living in a Brighton Beach apartment. The story begins in summer, as Sara's junkie son Harry (Jared Leto) takes her old TV for the umpteenth time to pawn it for drug money. Sara has become terribly afraid of her son, but Harry is too wrapped up in himself to recognize his mother's fear or his own awful behavior. Harry uses the money from pawning the TV to get high with his best friend Tyrone (Marlon Wayans) and his girlfriend Marion (Jennifer Connelly), while Sara sits in her apartment watching the same weight loss infomercial over and over and over.Then two things happen to send the already unfortunate lives of these four people down a dark and vicious path. Sara gets a call that she's been selected to be on a game show and Harry and Tyrone decide to become drug dealers in addition to junkies. Sara becomes obsessed with showing up on TV looking exactly like she did in Harry's high school graduation photo, so she dyes her hair and goes to a quack doctor for "diet pills" that will let her fit into the red dress she was wearing in the photo. Meanwhile, Harry and Tyrone start selling heroin on the street and are so wildly successful that Harry makes enough money for Marion and him to start a clothing store.But as summer turns to fall turns to winter, things go from bad to worse to horrific. Sara becomes addicted to the "diet pills", gulping down more and more and being battered by mood swings and disturbing hallucinations. Tyrone gets caught up in the middle of a drug killing, forcing Harry to use most of their money to bail him out. That puts them in a hole they're never able to crawl their way out of. As madness chews up Sara's mind, Harry, Tyrone and Marion are forced to consider and then do more and more awful things to get the drugs and money they're convinced will fix their lives. When the end finally comes, Sara and Harry fly completely apart while Tyrone and Marion keep grinding away through their torturous lives<U+0085>and it's not clear which are worse off.Requiem of a Dream is based on a book of the same name. The author, Hubert Selby Jr., helped co-writer/director Darren Aronofsky create this film. But most movies adapted from books face the same challenge. Motion pictures are, by their very nature, all about motion and things happening. That makes them very sensitive to plot. A lot of very good books, however, don't have very good plots and emphasize other aspects of storytelling. When you take the story from the book and try to make it a film, those poor plots usually become much more prominent and the story suffers for it.Aronofsky faces that threatening obstacle here. The plot of Requiem for a Dream is no more complicated or involved than this - "A woman, her son and his friends get caught up in drugs and progressively more and more terrible crap happens to them". That's not a lot to sustain a 102 minute long movie. Aronofsky confronts that problem head on by using a dizzying array of visual techniques to substitute mental and emotional movement for physical action. He uses split screens, extreme close ups, slow motion, fast motion, stop motion, montages, special effects and blends and divides the images of this film in just about every way you can imagine. Instead of it being about what the characters are doing, it becomes about the imagery is showing us how the characters are experiencing their own increasingly sad and sordid lives.Requiem of a Dream is about how addiction, and not only to drugs, takes a hold of those who turn to it as a respite from their own unhappiness. Not only does the respite turn out to be brief, but the addiction ends up magnifying and intensifying everything that made you unhappy in the first place.Aronofsky's superb direction is complimented by some very good acting from the cast, particularly from Ellen Burstyn. She got an Academy Award nomination for this role and it's as deserved a nomination as any actress has ever received. Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly and Marlon Wayans are no slouches, either. There's a deep vein of desperation running through each of their characters and they show you how each character's nature deals with that desperation in different ways.Now, watching 4 human beings destroy themselves in rather gruesome detail is not everyone's cup of tea. This movie is definitely NOT casual entertainment. If you're looking for something that explores human darkness without wallowing in it, while dazzling you with virtuoso filmmaking, Requiem for a Dream is a must-see.
With cinematography done by Matthew Libatique and soundtrack by Clint Mansell I feel as if this was a well composed depiction of downward spirals caused by intense drug abuse. The camera angles and editing techniques made this movie stand out in my mind. The original soundtrack adds an intensity that mirrors the events throughout the whole movie. I feel this movie had aspects that could have boosted its popularity among popular culture and increased ticket sales at the theaters. More advertisement prior to its release would have aided ticket sales in my mind. Over all this movie is one of my favorites for so many reasons that lie deeper than actor and actresses performances. The tone and demeanor of the movie captivates you in the spiral the actors endure and put themselves through in the Requiem for a Dream.
This is NOT a movie you should watch while eating popcorn, on a date, or before going to bed. I watched once, and that was enough. After viewing the film, I felt depressed and disturbed. The images of what these drugs can do to you is haunting. The final scenes are burned into your memory forever. I also knew I would never try heroine or speed after seeing this movie. It's not a feel good movie, but it is not a bad movie. It is well directed and the cinematography is great. The actors do a fantastic job of portraying drug addicts. Anyone thinking about experimenting with hard drugs should first watch this movie. I guarantee they will change their mind.


                
The last fifteen minutes of this film was some of the most horrifying yet gripping scenes I have ever seen.  As the credits rolled I sat there motionless with my mouth agape.  Everybody must see this movie.  I wanted to look away so bad but yet I couldn't stop watching.  Mesmerizing.


                
After seeing that movie i was like -who the hell made that movie ! The message is so powerful and the director darren aronofsky creativity was so ahead of his time .


                
This simply the stunning and disturbing film but at the same time very interesting to watch...


                
I have never seen a movie in here get so much of a reaction from so many people. I just saw his current film, The Garden, yesterday and my reaction was almost the same. I definitely came away feeling like I just had an out of body experience or something transcendental happen to me. I am now compelled by all of your comments to go get Requiem...I'll write back after I see it.Aronofsky as a film maker is along the line of Kubrick as far as the surrealism that seems to split your skull as his messages seeps in and fills your head with his thoughts.Thanx, Michael James


                
A very good movie about three friends and one of their lonely mothers and how drugs, addiction and obsession ruined their dreams of having a good life. The three friends were hoping to make it out of their poor lives by selling drugs and making enough money to move out of their very poor neighborhood. The lonely lady hod no one in her life and developed an obsession for being on television. She was too overweight to be on the television show, so she adopted a detrimental diet regime. The acting, plot and characters were very well played. The message is very strong, and the movie was overall very touching. A excellent portrayal of the consequences of drug addictions and obsession. The theme song well correlated with the "depressing" theme of the movie.


                
Requiem for a Dream is not a film I will be watching again.  Not because I didn't find it absoloutely stunning, both visually and psychologically.  I did.  It's because of those reasons that I will not be watching it again. 
Some films touch you in a way that the standard Hollywood blockbuster yawn-fests can't.  They ground you, force you to take a look at your life, and the lives of others around you.  They show you what is going on in the world, a world which many of us have been protected from all our lives. Requiem for a Dream is one of these rare movies.  From the claustrophobic opening sequence, to the horrific finale, the film takes you on a journey that you will never completely recover from.  It shows us the lives of four addicts who want to become something better, but merely become shadows of their former selves.The acting is simply breathtaking.  At times, it feels like you are watching a documentary because of the impressive casts realistic performances.  Jared Leto is fast becoming one of my favourite actors, taking roles which fight against the ordinary.  His Hollywood good looks (thankfully hidden in this film) mean that he could become the new Leo Dicaprio or (God Forbid) Ben Affleck if he wanted to, but his roles in Fight Club, American Psycho and now this show his true acting abilities.Ellen Burstyn is the real revelation, though.  She is absoloutely astounding the gameshow-obsessed mother who wants nothing more than to fit into a little red dress for a TV appearence.  Her scenes with Jared Leto brought a tear to my eye everytime - the two had a real connection. 
If I have one gripe about this film, it's Aronofsky's complex and much-heralded use of camera angles.  There is no denying that this man is a technical genius, and there are times when these camera shots are genuinely effective.  But most of the time they distract from his amazing cast.  The film works much better when he simply takes a break and lets the superb acting take precedence.Like I said at the start of this review, I will not be watching Requiem for a Dream again.  My one viewing of it is enough to last me a life time.  But everyone from fifteen upwards should be forced to watch this film once, if only to highlight the awful price of addiction.


                
I saw this film with high expectations and didn't know what to think at the end.The film is very graphic and very disturbing.You either love it or you hate it and i must admit i hate it.However there were a few good scenes but they became weird.The soundtrack for the film is great it goes with the film.Obviously your gonna wanna watch this film if you haven't seen it and you'v read all the good reviews and comments but try to forget them and watch it with no expectations and when your really in the mood.This film is as weird as eternal sunshine of the spotless mind which in my mind makes them both missable films and not to be bought or rented.I RECENTLY WATCHED THE FILM AGAIN AND I LIKED IT, MARLON WAYANS WAS BRILLIANT AND ALL THE OTHER CAST WERE GOOD AS USUAL !!


                
I've only just recently seen this film but i was gripped from start to finish. Its got the title of the most nightmarish film ive ever seen. Will be re watching.


                
When I first saw "Requiem for a Dream" I watched it with a company, so I've probably seen it in its entirety, but, since I was extremely bored, ask God where my thoughts were. A couple of years later I reprised it and it was so boring that I gave up before the end. When one of the movie groups on Facebook became like second home to me, I noticed that this film is quite popular among its members and that many even rank it among the favorite films, so I decided to give it one more chance. It bored me to the extent that I was not able to analyze it, and I only assessed my subjective impression by rating it three out of ten. This caused general bashing after yours truly. For this reason, for the first time in my life, I did not just reprise, but for the fourth time I watched a film that I did not like. This time I was mentally prepared to be fully focused from start to finish and be as objective as possible.I must admit that the movie is visually really masterfully filmed. It contains a lot of unforgettable scenes that are, each for itself, striking artwork of photography. The camera work, the use of colors, editing and music perfectly conjures up the psychic and emotional states of the characters and effectively insert the viewer into it. The acting is flawless, and particularly strong impression leaves Ellen Burstyn, who deservedly picked up a bunch of awards and nominations. Still, despite all this, I simply do not like "Requiem". I don't enjoy it, it's boring to me, and despite all efforts, I just couldn't force myself to watch it whole at once. I have often paused, checking how much is left to the end, and dragged it through the entire day. Although I can not disprove its artistic value or essential power, I simply can not stand this film and I'm through with it once and for all.8/10 (subjectively, it's still 3/10)


                
Don't expect to feel happy when the movie is over. It's a classic by now and an insight into addiction of all kinds. Very good movie but also leaves you carrying a heavy weight


                
For some strange reason, my new year began with me wanting to catch up with movies/music/tv shows that came out when I was a student but I never had time (or a tv) to watch. So obviously, Aronofsky's much talked about movie was on the list.How I wish someone had warned me about how positively disturbing and gut wrenching this movie is <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0096> At the surface, it seems like a movie on drug abuse, but it really is about the abuse of power. Respectable people like doctors, shrinks, cops and execs are shown to be highly manipulative, exerting their power and getting away with it. And our characters feel the constant need to escape this gritty world of power abuse through their choice of drug (heroin or television), and sadly, become victims of their choices.Barring the mother, I felt the movie lacked character sketches. Backstories were simply skimmed over for the others. Or maybe Aronofsky intentionally kept it that way to add to the heightened sense of disturbance, and nothing is more disturbing than a lack of closure.I positively disliked Black Swan, but this movie was something else.
Everyone must watch it, for it's entertainment value, and more importantly, it's educational value. But it leaves chills down your spine for it's honesty and unforgiving lessons.


                
