A few of the one-star reviews here say they gave up after 2 episodes, Dull acting, silly plot etc etc. Well, I did give up too. I concurred, and thought it was hopeless. Damn, though, my niece, son and a friend said it was the best TV series they had seen. Respecting their views based on previous recommendations, I persevered out of respect only, and recommenced watching the series with great reluctance and bemusement that they could be so misinformed. At some point, and certainly into Season 2 I became aware that I was watching the best TV series I had seen. Firefly used to be may fav, but this has swept past. The architecture is spectacular and importantly grounded. Not the fantasy (apologies to fans) that is served up in Star Wars but a grounded realism that hooks one to the possibility. It's just awesome, truely, I'm mesmerised. What ever you do, stick with it to Season 2 and I promise you wont be disappointed. If you are, then my profuse apologies for making a promise that I thought could not possibly be compromised.


                
The Expanse is not an easy series to start. The first couple of episodes are slower because there are a lot of world building to do and character to present. That can threw off a lot of people, but if you keep watching, the series shows everything one can hope in a Sci-fi and space opera series. I also realized that the first slowest episodes are much better in a re watch when you know the characters and what is going on.The first season is a more paused space opera, but in the 2nd season the brakes are off, the stakes are higher and its being an even more awesome show. The 5th chapter of 2nd season "Home" is one of the best chapters in the history of sci-fi without a doubt.The series follow several mayor characters across the solar system:Miller, a burn out cop searching for a missing girl in Ceres in the asteroid belt, Avasarala, a ruthless Earther politician who wants to stop a possible war between Earth and Mars, Holden, the 2nd officer in an Ice hauler who sees himself in a situation he never saw coming...Later more characters join the plot with the same level of importance like Bobbie the Martian Marine, Fred Johnson, Tycho station head project and one of the OPA leaders and a lot of other complex characters.The plot and characters at first feel disconnected and random, but when the series develops, you realize they they fit incredibly well.The special effects are top notch with some incredible gorgeous shots, and and incredible attention to detail. That shows in how smartly they use real physics in a way that is almost a character and plot in itself.The acting is great for the most part. Specially Thomas Jane, who simply nails it in a way that makes Miller one of the most compelling and charismatic characters in TV in a long time.So to summarize:Great plotGreat CharactersStuning Special EffectsGreat use of real physicsHard to follow at the beginning, but with a great payoff laterGreat re watch valueThe series is gonna be a CULT SERIES, mark my words-


                
This is possibly (probably) the best television or even cinematic experience I have ever seen (particularly in the sci-fi realm). I am very stingy when it comes to TV shows since I feel that often they are inconsistently realized. I created an IMDB account just to drop a review for this one. I just finished an episode in season 2 that made me cry and just stare at the credits for 2 minutes, motionless. No other show has ever so consistently provided the following for me:
Non-stop realistic character development and expositionemotional gravity and consequences; every action has a reaction and every single second of seemingly unimportant exposure or backstory is relevant to building character and stakes in the story. No fluff here. a real and believable world with new thoughts and a reason for everythingdelivered creative, thoughtful, new ideas and plot points which make me question the nature of life and humanitygreat acting from all levels of characterThis series reminds a lot of the video game series Mass Effect but with even more consistency and thoughtful execution. Don't miss this, very much underrated in my opinion.


                
Starts a little slow but builds a whole believable universe. And WHAT a universe it is. Rarely does one come across characters and worlds with so much depth. Cannot recommend this show enough.


                
I'm a very lazy person when it comes to reviews, basically it is my first one. But I just really want to support this show as much as I can!I've never seen any space opera TV show with the same attention to details, high quality graphics, mind blowing storytelling. Gosh, even costumes are superb! Usually I like to search for some holes in the story or illogical stuff, but here everything comes together just precisely like it should. The show combines everything that I love in TV shows - politics, intrigues, technology, controversial but solid characters, multiple "worlds" etc. And I really didn't expect that level of bad-ass production from SyFy, great job guys! I'm looking forward to the next episode and really hope there will be more seasons to come.


                
This show makes other Sci-Fi shows seem bad. I can't get into Dark Matter, which otherwise would be a decent show, but after watching the Expanse, it pales in comparison. I don't have issues with the accents. I like that the Belters have unique accents. The accent sounds a bit Afrikaans but it is distinctly unique. I think it adds to the realism. Of course after years apart, people will have new accents. This is the only show I watch where I can't be doing anything but watching the show. I often multitask while watching programs (I am actually watching an episode of Dark Matter while I type this), but The Expanse has too much going on. I must devote all of my attention to it. I always had Babylon 5 (well the first 4 years at least) up on a pedestal as my favorite Sci-Fi of all time. The Expanse isn't there yet, but it is getting close. My only complaint is why aren't Earthers so much stronger than Martians and Belters. I understand that Martian Marines train in 1G, but Earth Marines live, breathe and sleep in 1G. Earthers should be far, far, stronger than any Belter. (Am I wrong in my thinking here?)It sucks having to wait 9 months for season 3.


                
I was so tired of new sci-fi shows until this started. Luckily I had whole 1st season. Show starts little bit slow, but getting better and better every passing episode. Excellent story and casting. Very refreshing. The best science fiction series in last decade. I highly recommend you to watch with English subtitles on.


                
Gobsmacked at the news that this show has been cancelled after only three seasons!Currently, if a series doesn't have social messages central to every plot, they won't be supported, and abandoned.With imbecilic agenda shows like Arrow/Flash/Legends/Supergirl continuing to survive in an era where the wrong people are making these propaganda decisions, it's obvious that there won't be much chance for another high caliber show as this one to make an appearance any time soon.***For fans of The Expanse, fortunately, there's an option. There are a stack of books available to continue the saga! (Unfortunately, it will upset you even more when you see how awesome future seasons of this series was going to be, once you read where the incredible story was taking us!)
They are all also in audible book form. No CGI can duplicate your imagination.


                
Highly recommended. I have never written reviews, although I've had an IMDb account for a long time. I give all the new sci fi shows a try, but I end up not following most. So I have a good idea of what's out there for fans. Most new sci fi is ... unscientific, to put it kindly, or just techy stage furniture with soap-opera dialogue and character development. Like most fans, what I want to watch is a great sci fi story that seriously takes into consideration the effect of technology on the world around us, and intelligently explores the possible futures of humanity. I'm also interested by stories that consider the social issues of an alternative world shaped by different forces -- what would happen if, say, people lived on different planets, or if water was scarce, or if you had to live in 0g all your life. I know no sci fi will ever rise to the standards of physics PhDs, but it would be nice if writers occasionally paid attention to one.This review is based solely on one episode so hopefully this was not a fluke, but the quality and writing are outstanding (better than most good high budget movies). Just based on this, and the fact that it is genuinely science fiction done with care, which shows great attention to detail and love for the project, I think this show should get the best word of mouth it can get. I warmly recommend it to everyone.


                
Most distressing part of being a fan of the "sci-fi" genre, is that on the one hand we have an embarrassment of riches in a continuous flow of excellent literary works from which to choose; and on the other hand, a sputtering supply of embarrassingly bad movies and lackluster TV. Adding insult to injury, the fates seem to seek and destroy the few high-quality TV series that do emerge from the pack (Firefly, Dark Matter).As another reviewer well said, the Expanse is an "island in television." Not since Battlestar Galactica have we been treated to motion-picture art so well-conceived in the sci-fi genre. Hollywood seems to believe that "sci fi" fans are easy to please with superficial stories, predictable characters, and eye candy special effects. NOT TRUE. Although the "production value" of The Expanse seems near unprecedented, it is NOT why there are so many 9-10 star reviews on this forum.Rather, the reason is good story-telling. Not too much reveal too fast... but enough to keep big, interesting questions smoldering. And mercifully, the writers spare us long passages of explanatory dialog. Instead we're invited to use our imagination, and even watch episodes repeatedly.If you've read the SA Corey books, you'l delight at the manner in which they are here brought to life. If you haven't, you'll be seriously entertained, and perhaps inspired to do so.With all the high-quality literary works in the genre, Hollywood has no excuse that something as good as The Expanse is so rare, as there is certainly no shortage of deep, multi-layered, captivating universerses. Why it is so rare, I can't say. I can say however, that I'm damn glad the people behind the production The Expanse care so much about their creation, and that they are being supported by the industry. Here's to 10 more seasons!!


                
Well this will be one obsolete review as by now pretty much everyone agrees this is probably the best sci-fi TV show of today, and the ratings seem to prove it. I'm also a few years late. However, I've had like a sip of wine and it just crossed my mind once again how awesome this show is, and how happy I am in general to witness the amazing sci-fi television achievements of today, with film technology finally catching up with the awe-inspiring ideas this genre has been giving us since its conception. I. Am. Happy. Have been miserable approx. ever since Battlestar Galactica ended, whining how there hasn't been any decent space sci fi on television for ages, and all of a sudden I got this, and several other decent shows followed - for crying out loud, we have like TWO Treks going on right now!So anyway. I have no idea what happened to Syfy channel, who got fired or hired, or whatever, but something changed there a few years ago, and for the better. They actually invested money in televising a contemporary, groundbreaking sci-fi story, and they did it WELL. I haven't read the books, bought a few of them of course, but read? Nay. However, the story shown on the TV series is intelligent, complex, and more than anything, DIFFERENT, in the best way possible. Season two finale left me baffled, amazed, excited - and happy. And that's what this scheisse is all about.Thank you everyone who participated in writing this and bringing it to small screens for all us lazy bastards to see. We are forever grateful. Thank you. Thank you!!Cheers!


                
I cant get enough of this show , Bingeworthy edge of your seat Sci-fi that ticks all the boxes whilst scaling space travel down to to the confines of our galaxy and i solid dose of reality which when i comes to space based dog fights is just brilliant.Cannot recommend enough for any sci-fi fan.Great actors, great acting, rivetting story and a janky ass south african/irish/god knows what belter dialect that i cant get enough of.


                
As many of the more recent reviews have written "The Expanse" takes several episodes to actually get going, but I promise you once you get towards the end of season 1 you will be glad you perservered. By season 2 you will well and truly be rating this show a 9 or 10. The characters are unique and everyone will find 1 or 2 that they absolutely love, my favourites are Amos, Alex and detective Miller. Once I started on season 3, I couldnt get enough of it. By the end of season 3 I was googling to see if a season 4 would be made. I really, really recommended no matter how much you dont like the first 5 or 6 episodes you just push thru, you will thank me.


                
To start with, I have read the first three books of the Expanse series by James Corey, and I am a huge fan. I got to the books, after George RR Martin's recommendation.Moving to the series, I expected another cheesy show Syfy has been known for lately, and dreaded that they are doing a TV Series for one of the best sci-fi books I have read in some time. I did not even watch the trailers, somehow curiosity got me to watch the pilot episode. I was pleasantly surprised by the production quality. Syfy is clearly putting a lot of resources (and a big bet), that the series will be the winning horse. The actors so far are sticking to the characters James Corey sketched out, but some of the main characters personality is yet missing (Naomi comes to mind the first).The actors are too early to comment, but Holden (Steven Strait) seems promising, a little younger than what Corey sketched. Detective Miller is a very crucial character, and Corey had given him a fantastic gray, sarcastic humor (hope Thomas Jane can pull it off). But thats the beauty of a series based on a brilliant book, the story-line and the universe the author has built is so good, that it will be able to mask some mediocre actors too. Unlike the TV shows at present who have a rudimentary story line but rely more on script and acting to pull it off.The pilot episode largely sticks to book (a huge relief), in fact the producers have even stuck to what sort of background music is playing. I really hope this show receives the positive feedback, the sci-fi fans need it, sci-fi is so much more than comic books.I do hope viewers appreciate the intricacies of the story line, the politics between Earth, Mars, and the Belter region. The relatively more accurate space physics. The attention to smaller details (on why just having a normal Earth pressure, is a grievous torture for someone who has been born on null or lower gravity etc). The changes in lingo between various regions, there is a lot of Belter lingo in the dialogues etc. In the end Sci-fi fans, you have to watch this to support the genre. This is actual old school Sci-fi.


                
... and cliché/boring season 2 (later half). The Expanse has 3 seasons, the first one is a mixture of noire and sci-fi, the 2nd one of political drama/sci-fi and the 3rd one is adventure/sci-fi with some plitical drama. This is much better than BSG (2/5). While the books try to get about 1/2 of the science right, the series gets about 1/3 of it right - that's reasonably enough. Be prepared for some serious sound quality issues in season 1 and some seriously boring and dumb episodes in season 2 (later half) - where the creators for some nonsense reason decided to expand a 5-episode book into 13 episodes + some material into the 3rd season /they'd need 15 seasons to finish the books at this rate/. Season 3 is extremely good, so don't throw it away due to the bad episodes in season 2 - as I nearly did.


                
This show is somewhat strangely compelling to watch. I think it might be the great acting skills of all the central characters, along with a great script combined with fantastic action and visuals. There are sooooo many mediocre TV shows lately. Why on earth would anyone cancel this amazing show is beyond me. So sad. Can some big shot media executive with half a brain step up and renew this awesome show and bring everyone some joy!! Save the Expanse. Please.


                
Simply phenomenal sci-fi show. Fantastic world building; a brilliant ever evolving story of conspiracy, politics, war, and mystery; excellent characters, excellent writing, amazing space battles, and to top it all off superb VFX. Personally I have loved this show from the very first episode, but I can understand why for some it may take a few episods for it to click as there is such alot of information and world building done in the first three or four episodes of season one, you really have to pay attention. We are now well into season three and the beautiful thing about this show is it just keeps upping the bar, and getting better and better. One of only two television shows I have ever given a 10/10 for on IMDB, the other being Game Of Thrones.


                
So you heard the hype about The Expanse and decided to give it a try. You watched the first few episodes of season 1 and thought, "this really is nothing special". I promise you if you stick with the next couple you'll be thrilled. Yes-it starts a bit slow. And it takes a bit for the actors to find their characters which is why the acting is stiff att first. I'm just like you-I would've seen those scattered low reviews and ran for the hills. Do yourself a favor and ignore them. I just LOVE this show. Thank goodness it was saved by Besos. And I know you're suspicious of this review thinking I must work for The Expanse people. But I'm just a long time SciFi fan gushing about my favorite show. And in case you don't trust my taste here's a sampling of my Best TV drama list in no particular order: Game of Thrones, Mr. Robot, Legion, Westworld, Dexter, Breaking Bad, Star Trek TNG, Outlander, The West Wing, Better Call Saul, Downton Abbey, Sherlock.


                
I found out about the show when it first started but made the mistake of watching just the first 2 episodes fairly passively while doing other things and it didn't really leave an impression at first. I then forgot about the show for 2 years. Recently after I heard its being cancelled it reminded me of it again and on one cold Sunday I binge watched season 1, properly this time. WOW, what a series, I haven't felt this way about any show since FireFly! I recommend to anyone who is remotely interested in sci-fi, mystery thrillers, story driven shows gives this a shot. Pay attention though to whats happening, this is not something you chuck on TV while cleaning your house if you watching it for the first time. I really hope another network will pick this up so there will be more then 3 season.


                
I have been watching 'The Expanse' since Season 1, and it just keeps getting better and better. It is intelligent storytelling combined with accurate science/physics portrayal, great acting and stunning visual effects.
Definitely supporting the campaign to save it!! 'The Expanse' must go on!!


                
I was hooked almost immediately. The story is great so far, acting is above average, and it has a high production value considering the network. Finally some true science fiction! This is the second show from SyFy that they have produced in the last year that I am impressed with (12 Monkeys being the other)...that is impressive since they basically have had only one really good show to their credit since they came on the air. Judging by the production value, I would say that SyFy is attempting to finally get into TV's golden age...even non- science fiction lovers should get into this one. Good stuff so far. I'll definitely be watching!


                
To make it short. Is the best scifi series i have seen in the last 20 years
THe expanse is complex, well written, well done, and extremely entertaining.I think it is not famous because 2 aspects:
1st. It doesnt have "big heroes", the main cast are just simple guys, like you and me, so there is no one big to admire. Yeah, this could be a mistake in terms of rating, but it makes it really interesting too.2nd. The first episodes are some kind weak, but, it keeps growing and growing like hell.Recommended 10!.


                
Based on a series of books so you know the plot is mapped out for many seasons, the more realistic take on sci-fi puts modern films like Star Trek and Star Wars to shame. From epic space battles to dialog to character development, its all there. A more futurist vision of space where teraformed planets are possible, and the vast expanse of the belt is colonized, a dash of mystery and drama make for a compelling watch. This is world building done right. 
Watch Isaac Arthur on youtube to see the concepts explained in detail.And of course the poz is kept to a minimum, which is a nice change from the propaganda infecting so much media entertainment.


                
Im very much in love with this show. 10/10 Brilliant story.. characters, action, realism. Best thing in a while. Skyfy are nuts to cancel this show. Please petition for Netflix/Amazon to save this amazing masterpiece.


                
Fantastic series! Great story, outstanding special effects and very well acted. Each episode leaves you wanting more.
Tell your friends. You're not going to want to miss this series!!


                
