Seriously, this would have been an awesome series if not every scene between individuals was a cockfight or another way to show how stubborn they are. I'm halfway in season two and I yet have to see a something to be a result of a reasonable dialogue, somehow someone always seem to have to prove a point towards someone else either be it by verbal aggression, violence or just feeling the only that has a point.
Other than that, very enjoyable storyline.


                
I hear the books are great, but the show has some challenges. As a scifi fan, I was willing to sit through 4 episodes while the story lines developed, but it would be hard to recommend it to my non-scifi friends - it's too slow for non-genre viewers. They won't be won over by the incredible cinematography or big story themes.I think part of the problem is the amount of time spent with Thomas Jane's (the detective) storyline - it's just too drawn out. Maybe it flows better in written / book form, but here just drags on and on. Jane is a good actor, but his low-key style does better when playing against high-energy actors.On the other hand, the developments of the space crew are tense, well-paced and immersive --- this is the strength of the show. Wish this got more screen time.I do hope things pick up -- these episodes are probably very expensive and the series will need to expand its viewership if it is to thrive.


                
The characters in the show are 100% serious all the time. Never joke around with each other, never smile, and over dramatize everything. The personality shift is a complete 180 from the book. When you picture the cast of the show after reading the book, you envision a more Firefly type cast that has chemistry, enjoys what they do, and cracks jokes with one another. If you liked the book for the way the crew interacted, you'll find yourself deeply disappointed with the series. That being said, everything else is done really well. It's worth the watch, but I find myself annoyed every episode with how the crew is so damn serious all the time. P.S. roger and affirmative aren't interchangeable


                
I was very excited for this show to debut given the lack of really good SCI-FI space opera's out there.The visuals are fantastic, the environment reminds me of Blade Runner. In fact, many aspects of the series remind me of BR.The problem I have with the series is the cast...no one stands out to me. Thomas Jane...cannot stand him as an actor, cannot stand him in this role.Everyone else seems to be average, nothing spectacular.The premise of the show is great and easy to understand but it's hard to "get into" for me right now.The very bleak and dark visuals that I like so much will eventually get old if the acting does not offer an alternative.This shows environmental atmosphere are gritty and realistic and sets are better than Babylon 5, Deep Space 9 and Fire Fly...but unlike those three shows, they lack the characters we want to latch onto. I do not care about these characters at all...not yet anyway.I am disappointed, but hopeful this will eventually grow on me.


                
Very solid new Sci-Fi series.Set 200 years in the future, we have old earth, an independent mars and a split up asteroid belt. This premise, although somewhat limited in space terms, is convincing and offers a nice field for the story. Series 1 slowly builds up giving space to some character development, background and details on the various factions. Not too hasty, sometimes a bit stretched maybe, but still with a thoughtful script, culminating finally in the perception at its end, that a new alien life form is present. Series 2 still can held up the level, I was pleasantly surprised.And hey! The mormons are still "in mission", Italian descendants made it into the solar system, and FedEx offers extended freighting now!Interiors and settings, command IT etc. are very decent and elaborate, CGI/visuals are also nicely done and convincing. An important basic point IMO for every Sci-Fi. From the scientific point of view also most of the scripting looks plausible in terms of fiction, the series avoids to fall into incredible gadgets, tools and capacities. A solid script, overall, so far.Weakest point is maybe the acting. Some of the younger protagonists are a bit flat IMO, the speech acts are often overacted or lack of gravity IMO. Still potential to do better. In fact, the German synchronization IMO is more convincing than the English original. But fortunately the older main actors can save the overall acting level. Coleman and Harris are to point out, Tipper is promising.Really good first two series, can recommend it to all sci-fi aficionados. I pray they won't fu*k it up and ruin it in the coming series.


                
I got introduced to Corey's books, read Leviathan Wakes and was delighted at the vastness of the world, the mix of gritty and majestic, believable characters and interesting plot. Learning that there is a TV show out there, I was very cautious at first. There aren't many *modern* good TV shows about space. To the point where I can't think of anything worthwhile other than, of course, Firefly. Anything else happens in a sterile and sketchy world full of dummies and blatant logic failures. I was pleasantly surprised. I loved that show presents a world which is not sterile. Humanity's expansion to the Solar System is not smooth. It's full of conflict, gray areas, and bad blood. Not as complex as Song of Ice and Fire/GoT (if you didn't know, the writer of Expanse was helping George R.R. Martin a lot), but still pretty damn believable. Things in space are functional, frugal, lived-in and make sense. One of the themes that run through the first book is the debate on access to information, very relevant to the present-day world. It is shown through likable, but completely opposite characters of Holden and Miller. One is a strong-willed idealist, believing that information should be free and having equal access to it will level the playing field, allowing for transparent and informed decisions by those in power (think Robb Stark). The other one is a beaten cynic, your classic noir cop, who had seen the ugly of the human nature and does not hold any illusions regarding the morality of those in power (Tyrion Lannister from space). Both views are equally believable and arguments are made either way. In retrospective, going through the book, the author tries to stay impartial, showing how Holden's actions cause dire things to happen as well as showing how Miller's cynical pragmaticism leads to dismay. This moral debate obviously holds much value to the author. And here my biggest gripe with the series so far. The show pretty much nails Miller - acting and writing is good. And at the same time, the show completely botches Holden's character. It's not even the casting (although Steven Strait plays the space playboy much more than he should to my liking), it's the weak and unimaginative writing. I am not sure what happened there, but writers decided to get rid of a few key plot elements that speak to Holden's character. On top of that, they focus so hard on showing how a ragtag team of space cowboys comes together, that Holden's character keeps getting shoved into the background. He hardly ever makes any decisions - any important decision is made with the crew or by someone else. From watching the series it's completely unclear how and why someone like that could ever be in command of anyone. And this, of course, kills the entire freedom-of-information thread completely. It's that and the failure to film an awesome action sequence from the perfect material of *SPOILER ALERT* the Eros escape *// SPOILER ALERT* that has me rate this show 7/10. If you liked the book, you might enjoy it despite the shortcomings. If you like space fiction, you should take have a look as well. If you're searching for "GoT in space", keep on searching and (re-)watch Firefly while you're at it.


                
I am generally enjoying this show, and really liked the first two seasons. There is, however, something I don't like about the casting of Elizabeth Mitchell. It kind of reminds me of Laura Dern's role in The Last Jedi. Just seeing her makes me leave their universe and wind up back on my couch watching a soap opera or possibly a CW show. I think it's because the rest of the characters are so amazing.


                
S 1&2 have a very high beat tempo, great story, good script, balanced roles across an ensemble cast. 10/10 for me, superb sci-fi. S3 just feels like a different show, not for the better, frankly. Several of the new characters don't work despite renowned actors. It's a very different style, might work for you, less so for me.


                
Started great , but as time passed it become to complicated to watch and understand. It seems like story was simple and then EXPANDED to much in every direction. I dont know anymore what is main story here.
(Written 2018 , still more seasons to come, who knows?)


                
I really enjoyed the first season, but toward the end of the first and the beginning of second the wheels started to come off. By the end of the second and start of the third some really lame stuff happens, and scenes stretch and get filled with tripe dialogue. Some really hair-pulling scenes in third season. People keep raving about it, but it was a significant downhill trend from the middle of the first season. Not a scifi buff/nerd/geek myself, enjoyed a lot, but crappy writing and awful acting hinders ANY genre.


                
... and should be laid to rest with some dignity intact. I am constantly searching for a new SciFi series that works but, alas, no one seems capable of producing one that isn't a bland extension of life here on earth in the 90s. Perhaps science fact has ruined it but the main problem I have is that the plots are really boring, unnecessarily complicated or simply confused. There is little entertainment in any new SciFi output. I'm disappointed in the loss of this genre.


                
To me, Syfy shows are mostly garbage. Honestly, 9 out of 10 shows don't deserve neither financing nor broadcast. I'm including Battlestar Galactica to that list. That show only was successful due to the bad taste of horny nerds with reference to Sackhoff and Helfer. Interestingly it has a 8.7 rating, which is ridiculous. OK, back to The Expanse. Things I liked about the show so far (6 episodes):The cast: Jane, Agdashloo and especially Jared Harris (who I was surprised to see doing anything related to the Syfy channel). Like the accent he's doing. Sounds African. - The story: I haven't read the book series and I'm not about to, but from what I've heard and read up until now, it's supposed to be great. It probably is, otherwise this series would suck. It doesn't. Not at all. - No predictability. None at all. Which is great. I'm guessing it's difficult to say what's going to happen next while reading the book too. Things I disliked: The obvious parallels, Martians (seemingly bad militant Communists), the UN (being the good guys here, which is bull, in the show as in real life), but I suppose it's in the book. - The Mormons of course. Mormons having any impact on humanity's fate is ridiculous. Now or deep in the future. That's probably also part of the book.One more thing. The average rating for this show (as for most shows) is way too high. For it to be that high or even higher (as some must have rated it), the special effects and CGI would have had to be Oscar-worthy. I'm talking freaking Avatar. 7.1/10
***may contain spoilers******warning - reviewed by a analytical mind. if logic means nothing to you this review might not be helpful. (yes, sometimes it is OK to suspend logic such as core elements like super heroes or space/time travel but the basics?)***edit 01/31/2017:after skimming other user reviews have to add comparisons to Firefly are ludicrous also. it is nothing like Firefly (which by it's creator very accurately described as cowboys in space which is second to Star Trek being the original cowboys in space or rather Space Western deemed by its creator) coincidentally they borrowed at least one actor from a Star Trek series but that doesn't make it so. ..........I will continually blast ALL shows that make the claim of being in the same league as GoT's. (Game of Thrones for those who don't know the letters) there is NO OTHER SHOW in this league. especially NO basic cable commercial supported series. if you have not seen GoT's rest assured you are missing out and it is NOT like this show.two scenes in the first season had a pale semblance, other than this it is a ridiculous claim just to try and get viewers.that said, the first season was good and had some interesting stories going on but overall I'd say it tried to keep too much in the dark as to who was doing what to who (for this reviewer's taste). had some flaws but I've already flushed those out of my memory so can't site any examples. either way there is far worse out there on TV rest assured.as quite a few other shows on TV these days it has some great visuals and fantastic effects.edit 02/11/2017: (the following applies to the beginning episodes of season 2)really want to take a star or two away for the simply dumbness in physics, sound in space? really? and you're trying to claim how great this show is? and why did the dude who got air-locked fall "down"? and not up? or left? or right? or better yet, just float in the vacuum? *smh*however the fact that one of the main characters actually reacted realistically to a situation, which is beyond rare, and shot a bad dude instead of letting him drone on and on and stick around to cause trouble for episodes to come it's a wash, a draw.still though this show has yet to prove itself as it has plenty of other typical dumb let's not follow anything realistically characters floating around or perhaps not floating? as there seemed to be gravity in space? and WHY is neither side blaming the other side OPENLY? give me a break? no way two WHOLE factions keep things on the scale of this show secret from each other as the show would lead us to believe. there would be so much espionage going on not to mention satellites tracking things or being used to spy or signals being tapped it wouldn't be funny. not to mention how advanced the technology to do such things would be. how they expect a reasonable, logical person to buy this I don't know. I'm already suspending belief, physics, and logic for space travel and environmental suits with guided mini-missiles.
The first season was uber good. I enjoyed it more than any other show I had seen that year. I didn't want to spend any money on the second season because Amazon has a problem of cancelling shows which are doing good. I also didn't want to risk having a good show suddenly become crappy which is on par for writers these days.The show moved very quickly with a lot of action and suspense. The first season though, and then the second season had a mix of good action but very little suspense. It was slow and boring in many episodes so I watched it at work so I could not have to pay attention to it.The second season started use deus ex machina too much. The show would have been just fine with out it. There was also a lot predictable scenes. I also didn't care much for the slow down, which had some character development, but people who had nothing to do with the core of the story.The third season was a return to the first season for quality, but it has a mix of predictable scenes, deus ex machina and slow of the script. However, the third season was uber better than the second season. I thought that even though I had already figured out the ending, I thoroughly enjoyed it.I do not find this a better series than Firefly. I rank it near Firefly on quality, but lower in script. There are too many characters in the story and there is too much character development for characters who are either going to die or that have nothing to do with the script.Overall I highly recommend the show. I am looking forward to the possibility of a new series with different characters but with the show taking a new direction. If it doesn't continue, then I'll be happy with the ending as it stands.


                
