Is it possible that the Syfy channel finally produced a space drama that isn't complete garbage? It sure looks like they indeed finally made a good science fiction show that doesn't rhyme with sharknado.The Expanse has acceptable acting, a great story that appears well scripted for TV and a well deserved budget for special effects. The original book material gives a lot to work with for the TV script. It has been awhile since something close to Battlestar Galactica quality has aired.I'm really looking forward to continuing this show..and I will keep my fingers crossed that the first two episodes were not a fluke.


                
I don't understand why so many people feel they can review a series after watching one (or part of one) episode. I agree that the first episode was hard-to-follow, but the whole point is that the remaining episodes *explain* what happens in that first episode. Overall the show is engrossing and worth checking out if you're a fan of science fiction. I wouldn't say it's anywhere near as good as Firefly (although I hear season 02 is even better than season 01), though, despite the fact that the two seem to often be compared. The plot of season one was, in the end, tight and well-executed.I wrote this review primarily to voice my frustration with all the recent reviews of this show written by those who only watched one episode.


                
So many science fiction series fail because they can not breach the gap between reality as it is and reality as it could be. The Expanse succeeds in large part because its very believable. There's a real world on offer, with a developed and plausible political and social structure. Intrigue, power games, corruption, inequality and the fight for resources, all the things we see everyday populate this world. People don't really change.Alongside the human drama sit some rather well thought out technological developments which in turn influence the evolution/devolution of humanity. Some humans, for example, live off world in artificial environments. The off worlders are sustained by technology but, at the same time, also constrained by it. They have evolved to suit low gravity environments and can no longer live on the planet their ancestors left to work in space.Its the attention to detail and consideration of where existing and fledgling technologies can lead and the key social and political implications of these technological changes that makes this series work. Is there a downside? I'd say the presentation of future earth is overly optimistic. Given the current degree of pollution and environmental damage presenting a relatively pristine Earth with only a hint of a raised sea level, is, to say the least, laughable. I'd be surprised too to see the United Nations still in business, by this time. Its already showing what a divisive failure it is, I can not imagine it would last this long. If you can look beyond this series minor shortcomings, in most respects, this is still an above average science fiction drama that's worth your time. Eight out of ten from me.


                
When I found "The Expanse" it was already at the end of the first season, and I had not heard about it prior to finding it. Nor did I know that the series was based on books, which apparently are driven more by the characters, as to what is seen in the series.Regardless, I sat down to watch "The Expanse", although my sci-fi needs are usually met by "Star Wars" and "Star Wars" alone. So I was more than genuinely and positively surprised with how exciting, thrilling and entertaining this series turned out to be.The story in "The Expanse" was interesting and compelling. It was a story that quickly found root in the audience and stayed fresh and interesting throughout the entire first season. And I have been told that it kicks up a notch in season two. Which is impressive, because I was really impressed with the first season.And they had cast some really great names for the various roles, and I was more than impressed with Thomas Jane in the lead role, because he really carried the character quite well. Just took a while to get accustomed to his hair."The Expanse" is heavily laden with special effects, and the special effects team really pull off the effects quite nicely, which really adds a great flavor to the series. And as a sci-fi series, then having believable and convincing CGI effects is a make-or-break deal.The entire series is taking place in our own solar system, which is interesting, because it is easier to relate to it, since it is so close to home - relatively speaking, of course. And the entire atmosphere is good and makes for a vibrant universe.And it is a great way that the different story lines are interwoven and connect to each other in different ways. There are times when you think "what is going on here?" only to find enlightenment at a later point in the episode or a later episode. And that way of connecting everything together is great.I am definitely looking forward to starting on season 2 and believe that this is a series that I will follow to the very end. It is a great sci-fi show, and if you are not already familiar with this series, and you like sci-fi, then get into gear and start watching.


                
Since Gravity landed on cinema screen a few years back, there's an increased interest on futuristic theme. However, television series of such kind hasn't had much improvement even though there are some niche shows like Killjoy or Dark Matter. The Expanse is without a doubt the most ambitious project from Syfy in a long time. Its graphical prowess and meticulous design is light year beyond others, and with great cast of multifaceted characters, this is primed to be a modern marvel.It's evident from the first five minutes that the visual is the caliber of high tier cinema or video game. Many scenes offer incredibly detailed vistas while the view of interstellar bodies is presented with high clarity. The interior also oozes sophisticated design, although some areas like the slums are shown as rugged settlement than the green lust housings of more elite inhabitants. This is presentation level not seen in Syfy series for a very long time.Story follows a futuristic world where three races live in less than perfect harmony. Earth and Mars have made progress on prosperity and military, respectively. Meanwhile there are Belters, who are born and work in asteroids, making their bodies different in more deformed kind of way. They are tall and with much less endurance than ordinary humans.This sets up a great political as well as social undertone. The leads are people with grey morale, Holden (Steven Strait) is the first mate of a cargo ship who has more compassion than he's willing to show, meanwhile Miller (Patrick Jane) is a corrupt detective with a sense of justice, albeit misguided. Other supporting characters have enough memorable traits without being dressed too outlandishly,.Their selfishness might be a product of judgmental nature, although they are more engaging in this way since the world is not kind. There are many subplots or terrorism and social prejudice that can be delve further in as a refined allegory of future issues. It's a good hook since the series can slowly introduce other parties while establishing what seems to be a very ambitious universe, even providing an angle of mystery along the way.With impeccable visual and engaging characters under its belt, The Expanse marks a revived quality on sci-fi from its stasis nature.
Only four episodes in, but wow! This has re-energised my love of sci-fi and has been the best output from SyFy since Farscape and BSG.Thematically, this will appeal to those that loved BSG in the early days. It reminds me of Babylon 5 quite a bit too.It's sprawling sci-fi space opera... within just a few episodes I feel there are so many doors I'd love to open, to peek inside, to know everything from how the doors work to who is behind them... all the stuff that entertains proper sci-fi geeks like me.The cast is interesting, varied... doesn't feel like it has any heavy hitters (yet) but I love that it's not all white American. It adds to the feeling that we're looking at Earth etc. rather than countries.So much promise... I do hope it now goes the distance.


                
The first few episodes I struggled with the plot and it was not very catchy. But later on, particularly season 2 it really picked up.I found the plot hard to follow because: - bad pronounciation of the actors. Sometimes mumbling. - all the totally unnessesary accents and slangs. After so many generations in space it is very unlikely there will still be so many English-based accents like Scottish, Irish, Indian etc. Thats just laughablely unrealistic. But makes it hard to follow.


                
If you find the first few episodes a bit 'meh' and some of the characters dull (especially the detective), take my advice and keep watching. I was so-so about it until midway through S1. The storyline and the characters deepen and become more interesting. Now at the start of S3, it is the best sci-fi on TV by a long shot. Nothing else comes close.The fact that it's hard sci-fi a la Firefly and BSG is just icing on the cake. Great job, Syfy!


                
The Syfy Channel has become more ambitious, lately, in the creation of sci-fi dramas. As viewers, we are the beneficiaries of their efforts, though some offerings could have been stronger.The first four episodes of "The Expanse" have proved its strength, with impressive sets, an engaging story, and solid special effects.In a 23rd century solar system, Earth is governed by the U.N., and on the decline. Mars is an independent military power, populated by dreamers and achievers intent on building a future. The asteroid belt supplies Earth and Mars with its rich mining resources, excavated and transported by those who perform dirty, dangerous jobs and feel they are exploited.Tensions are high. The threat of war is a constant. Each faction is on alert and watchful of its interests. On Ceres, the main settlement in the Belt, Detective Joe Miller (Thomas Jane) tries to keep instigators in line. He is a return to the noir enforcer. As he says, there are "No laws on Ceres, just cops." Tasked with an "off book" case, he is also gathering clues regarding the disappearance of a wealthy family's daughter.Meanwhile, the ice trawler Canterbury is diverted from its standard trip delivering cargo to Ceres. Its second officer, Jim Holden (Steven Strait), finds himself an integral part of the dangerous drama that follows.The show tracks both the lives of individuals and the big-picture happenings of the entire inter-world system.The early episodes do a good job of giving "the lay of the land" and profiling the major players. There are parallels to situations in the 21st century and scenarios that show the results of actions from this era, making the story more relevant and believable. The creators of the show promise that the series is "about a transformative moment in human history", so viewers can expect big things.Update 2/10/16: The first season has ended and I am happy with my grade of "8" for this show. I will say that my interest in the show grew in the last three episodes, when the disparate stories started to converge. One part is a space noir, one part is a cold space drama, and the third part is a political intrigue. By season's end, the viewer begins to see the larger arc that binds the three sections together. Season two feels very promising.
To be honest, I thought the series started out a little thin (acting wise), but as the actors settled into their respective parts it all comes together very nicely. The plot is well structured and believable, the acting is solid and consistent, the sets are convincing and the special effects are really quite impressive. Then to top it off, there's the ever present factional malcontent, political back stabbing, and power plays to keep you guessing what will happen next. If that wasn't enough, there's also the ever present mysterious alien proto-molecule to keep you guessing about. Having said all that, If you are remotely a Sci-Fi buff and I'm guessing you are, or you wouldn't be reading this, you need to start watching this series right away, it really is a gem and you're going to love it. This series gets a 9/10 from me.


                
The series is actually very good after you watch a couple of episodes. Second season where, I think, the budget is way bigger than the previous is actually a tier one hard sci-fi novel. Settings and writers work in amazing.


                
I started watching this on Netflix, I didn't know anything about it and I was pleasantly surprised. I love sci-fi and the mystery element really works well with the series. I thought it was slightly confusing at first because there are quite a few main characters thrown in straight away but it doesn't take long to figure them out and get back into the story. I also really liked how this version of the future was presented, with incredibly stark contrasts between The Belt and Earth. The Expanse has a very interesting plot that keeps you engaged, the costumes and sets are really well designed. (My only issue is that they have see-through phones, why on Earth people think we'll have see through phones in the future is beyond me, why would you want everyone to be able to see what you're reading/looking at? It's a sci-fi pet peeve of mine) Even though there are quite a few main characters, the episodes don't seem rushed. We don't know much about them but we know enough to keep the plot going. It's definitely worth a watch!


                
Space Adventure not Soap Opera. SiFi that doesn't suck. If you haven't seen Star Trek "Discovery" be thankful. Hopefully we will see another season of The Expanse soon?


                
This is one of the best sci-fi television shows I've seen in a long time. If it continues along its current trajectory, I might end up calling this one of the best sci-fi television shows ever.The Expanse offers us a glimpse of life in our solar system in the somewhat-distant future. Humans have colonized Mars, various moons and asteroid belts. A somewhat fragile political state exists between the three major "factions" of the solar system: Earth (money / power / culture), Mars (military) and The Belts (natural resources). Against this backdrop, we have our three factions moving towards war.... a missing girl.... and the possibility of a mysterious alien presence.What this show does so well, IMO, is really an emphasis on the basics. We have a compelling setting, interesting characters, competent writing / directing, and an intriguing mystery to unravel. I also appreciate that the show has somewhat of a noir-ish / Blade Runner vibe to it, and the science -- while certainly not 100% accurate -- is definitely plausible. I also really enjoy the refreshing paucity of "aliens with strange foreheads" and "futuristic techno-babble" (which seems to dominate nearly every other science fiction show).This review was written after watching S1E8 and, as of now, I'm calling it one of the best shows I watched in 2015. What has me worried though, given that I really like this show, is that it's doomed to be canceled prematurely. I really hope SyFy gives this show enough time to capture the audience it deserves.I rate it a provisional 8/10.
I'll say this as simply and honestly as I can: I decided to watch this show based on ONE FREAKING STILL SHOT!!! When I saw the shuttle/rescue crew from the Canterbury surveying their monitoring screens over...whatever...I was taken back to my initial viewing of the Fire Fly pilot(yes,I came late to that party,bought the DVD and watched the series in its proper order). I immediately...as in put my tablet down and on-demanded the show immediately...watched "Dulcinea",the pilot. Not letting this one slip away,spreading the signal on this one. Sooo many Easter Eggs too;from Dead Space visual references to sets that look like they were directly pulled from Halo development sketches. The politics hearken back to BABYLON 5,and only in the good way(no aliens...as of yet). Very very excited about this show.
I think this was pretty good TV grade sci fi. The detective angle was good too but then there is a lot of sci fi out there like that. The sets and effects were definitely B grade for some things pretty good for others. TV feel about it. Fans of TV Trek or the sci fi channel shows will like it, I think.


                
My husband and I give it an 8 because we only know about what is on TV. We never read the book or even heard about it until the show. Promising show, good story line except we do not know anything about it. The episodes are slow. We are used to action in the first few episodes rather like Defiance or Killjoys. We watch mostly syfy shows, but what we watch has a ton of action. This is slow show that builds a little each time. I was falling asleep on one episode because it was so slow. Talk, talk, talk... I understand the characters need to be built up because people may not know the story, but include much action. When TWD came on, we thought it was slow also for the 1st season, but in the 2 season, it picked up greatly. We were about to give up on it. I could not stop watching and I will give the Expanse more time or another season to pick up.


                
I was quite pleasantly surprised to find a sci-fi series to be original for a change, with having almost everything just right what makes a good series:
original conceptcredible actors (although a bit cynically unrealistic at times, such as a slightly overweight Marine or escaping a minor Armageddon via neat tricks)quality visuals and camera worka plot that does not bore me after 3 seasons but keeps me wanting more.I hope the series continues for a long time.


                
It's just great. It's also great that it will not continue to be on SYFY, which is the place where all good sci-fi series usually die.
I recommend this series to all who like to think while watching a show.
I do not recommend it to all who like to just watch.


                
Holden is fierce in his threat to protect the ship full of refugees.
The Expanse Season OneThis review contains spoilers.The Expanse takes place in the near future where humanity has colonized the stars. It follows the story of an ice mining crew as they become involved in a conspiracy. In the meantime, a police detective on board a space station unravels a mystery.The Expanse season one sets up the world. The solar system is split into inner plane,ts composed of Earth and Mars, and the Belt. Coincidetally this also represents the main powers in the solar system. Each of the three factions has a unique background that the first season explains. Earth has become a united government that must deal with its large population taking hand outs. Mars is an independent power aiming to terraform the planet. The belters are the workhorse of both inner planets by providing resources to them. In addition to the setting, the series tells personal tales across multiple perspectives. The main arc is the search for the bioweapon and the conspirators. During the resolution of this arc, the conflict between Mars and Earth heats up.The first season of the Expanse is great overall. The cast does a good job with acting, and the directing and editing are competent. The highlight here is the writing. The unique setting with well fleshed out characters makes the world feel lived in and real. Although this show takes place in the near future, the setting and charcaters are fully realized. The show is highly immersive in its use of technology being logical and consistent with the story. The only downsides to the show is perhaps its low budget. The CGI can look incredibly fake at times. If the viewer can look past this, the show can be highly engaging.I would recommend the Expanse season one.The Expanse Season TwoThis review contains spoilers.The Expanse season two picks up where the first season leaves off. Eros stations has been exposed to the bioweapon found in the first season. The crew of the Rocinante immediately leave and try to find those responsible for the protomolecule.The second season expands upon the universe of The Expanse even further. The second season adds a new arc and character in the Martian sergeant. The culture and power of the belt is seen fully with Fred Johnson and Tycho station. The continuing mystery of the protomolecule is continued here with the conspirators coming into the forefront. Although the universe is expanded, the more self-contained stories have been dropped. The main arcs are prioritized. Fans of the first season will find much to appreciate here. Many arcs that were started in the first season are satisfyingly resolved. Anyone looking for more background and world building will be happy to find it in the second season. The show has also received a higher budget from the first season and it definitely shows here.I highly recommend the second season of The Expanse.The Expanse season threeThis review contains spoilers for the third season of The Expanse.The third season of The Expanse picks up where the second season leaves off. The crew of the Rocinante are cleaning up the ship after the protomolecule hybrid had boarded it. The conflict between the inner planets of Earth and Mars comes to a head as Errinwright pushes Earth to war. Avasarala, Bobbie, and Cotyar are on Jules Pierre Mao's ship as they are declared traitors.The third season continues to expand on The Expanse's universe as well as resolve the long-standing story arcs. The season features the conflict between Earth and Mars heavily with recurring characters having more of an appearance and the introduction of new characters such as Doctor Annushka Volovodov played by Elizabeth Mitchell.The third season has a much higher budget and this is shown with more space battles. The Rocinante is shown in more combat roles, and characters are more exposed to the vastness of space. The third season uses its budget to also show the viewer its unique worlds. This is a great adjustment from the more restrictive first season.The main draw of The Expanse's third season is the continuation and resolution of its story arcs. The Jules Pierre Mao story arc is continued to its resolution here. The resolution is incredibly satisfying to see as the two seasons of build-up are rewarded as Holden finally confronts Jules Pierre Mao. The crew of the Rocinante finally have the resolution they needed since the start of their journey on the Canterbury.The war between Earth and Mars is in play in the third season. This war was hinted at since the first season. The second season setup the characters and faces of the people that would be involved with the war. Finally the third season would execute on the promise. I enjoyed the execution of the war between Earth and Mars as Errinwright finally pushes the solar system to the brink. The war is not as clean as it should be and the human cost is born by Anna's character.After the resolutions of the story-lines, the season does slow down. It begins to focus on The Ring and world building with its existing characters. This is excusable as the second season had done the same thing with resolving Miller's story arc.I would recommend the third season of The Expanse to any fans of the series. The third season has the resolution to story arcs viewers were expecting since the first season.Three stars out of four stars.
When I saw that this show was on Syfy, I honestly didn't give it a second chance because I assumed that it had to be bad (can't fault me for that, they hadn't done anything worth watching in a long time). I was wrong. It takes a couple episodes to find its stride, but when it does this becomes some of the best sci-fi that has ever been on television. It has a very dystopian quality to it, but that is its thing and it isn't trying to be anything else or to copy other franchises. Can it be cheesy? Yes. Are there things that I feel could have been done better? Definitely. But the writing is good and the camera work and editing are quality stuff. The acting is decent for the most part, and the characters grow on you. They did a decent job on the special effects, although, some scenes definitely have their rough edges, especially where texture quality and detail are an issue with up close shots of certain things they put on screen. Still, they are better than a lot of other science fiction that has come out over the years and some of the best ever seen on Syfy. Some of the dialogue is an issue for me, especially in the first season, as it just comes across as BAD (I think some editing and acting choices may have contributed to the cheesy quality of some of those scenes), but this gets better as time goes on and the cheese of it improves. They also like to inject a bit of minor humor into the show at times, which is done well and manages not to kill the focus on drama, but when it falls flat I think it contributes to some of that cheesiness. Still, I think I would rather have it than not. There is a focus on the characters in this show, and each of them has their own well developed background, or mystery, that makes them intriguing. And unlike so much science fiction that has come out in the last few years, they manage to, mostly, not cross that line where all the characters seem juvenile, out of place, and their reactions to things childish and unrealistic. Also, they aren't afraid to utilize and discard characters, some of which I, personally, liked and wanted to see stay around longer. In some was this adds to the show, at other times it can be disappointing. But they have a story to tell and I don't mind being around for the ride.I like that the focus is on story above action, and that action is there to support the story rather than replace it. It makes for a better journey and keeps me watching. If you want some decent science fiction that is well above the average, especially right now, then I would definitely give this a shot.


                
Some people will hate me for the Firefly comparison. It's a tough sell if you loved that concept (as I did).I liked 'THE EXPANSE' from the very beginning, which is rare. The actors didn't take long to fit into their characters' skins, and the tight writing fit nicely with the raw and gritty atmosphere painted by the director. The feel was consistent throughout the series.The CGI is excellent and provides the occasional beautiful backdrop but the director does not rely on the CGI to tell the story. The intricate plot and believable dialogue is carried off by the abilities of well-chosen actors. Some of the sets were a little sparse but overall I was more or less convinced the actions were occurring in space/moon/artificial gravity.After I finished watching Season 1, I read through a few reviews and I'm amazed by the harshness of some opposing opinions, but that's humans for you. One of the complaint is that this series requires you to concentrate on the plot a little more than average. Those who just want to veg-out and let the action wash over them are indeed likely to get confused. There's a lot going on in the Solar System and you can miss a lot if you get up for a beer or toilet break without pausing the episode.If you like a bit of realism in your sci-fi then you'll probably enjoy 'THE EXPANSE'. It requires you to think a little, (not too much), and you'll need to make allowances for the poetic licence taken with some of the physics. There's really no time in an action sequence to shoot realistic space maneuvers.I think THE EXPANSE is an excellent addition to the genre.
It's been a while since there was a good arcing science fiction series on TV, and with The Expanse, it's about time. The background and story is captivating in my opinion. We get a real honest look at what Earth and the rest of the solar system might be like in the next century or two.The Earth has survived the environmental crisis now facing us and the United Nations evolved into a true world government. Great sea walls hold back the swollen oceans from the coastlines. This has saved New York City from certain destruction, which is now the Earth capital. Earth is all about pragmatism and entitlement; do what must be done to safeguard the UN and the ancestral home of Humanity. The moon has been heavily colonized by Earth, and is apparently a major hub for solar system shipping.Mars was colonized and declared independence from the UN. Mars technology appears advanced compared to Earth and the Martians toil endlessly to terraform their barren world into a garden. They have a very low opinion of Earth and Earthers.The UN and Martian cultures are locked in a cold war with each other. Stuck in the middle are the Belters, the lanky people who colonized the low-gravity worlds in the asteroid belt and the moons of the outer planets Jupiter and Saturn, used and abused by Earth and Mars who are yearning to stake their own claim in the solar system and drive off the 'dirtsiders'.And something is stirring out there in the outer planets...a mystery and a crisis unlike Human civilization has ever seen.I find the story gripping so far, and the characters well written and portrayed. Thomas Jane deserves special mention for really pulling out all the stops in his portrayal of Miller, the Belter detective trying to figure out the mystery at the heart of this story. He even cut his hair and apparently lost a lot of weight to be more in character as a Belter.


                
This is certainly best, what currently our 'beloved' SyFy offers. And according to some, it was planned to be cancelled, only Amazon saved it ... No words.
I will focus on season 3, we are now after episode 8. It started with some build-up, showing events which lead and are beginning of great conflict - Solar system civil war. And they were best 4 episodes of serial. I expected some resume, settle down in following e07, but instead it, they made big leap to some 8 months later. Instead closing properly previous great conflict, they started with building of new one. I don't know - maybe that's what some like - constant fight, but this should be not that type, really .
I see lot of ratings 10, but no way ... Acting and dialogs are not top. Effects look great, and even realistic, but it is now repetitive. 
The best parts: appearance of David Strathairn - great make up, great actor.
And that " I want to see the Ocean" (season 2) .
I give it 1 season more (4), after it miracle is needed, or that some other company take it over completely. Not because lack of quality.


                
