I'm not a big fan of anime and this kind of music that is played too. But this is such a great symbiosis of these two types. The story is also very funny. The two fighters want to kill each other but at least they always fighting together against the evil. It's very interesting which hints are given about the present in the Japanese historical fighting scene - the change from historical culture to modern lifestyle - however the style of "Samurai champloo" is very ancient. And I don't remember in such a good kind of end that makes you feel to watch the next episode and after that the next and the next... Well done! I don't know if there are better animes. Maybe. But this series makes you addicted. So to anybody who's sceptical about anime and hip-hop (south-american kind in this one I think)...********* go try and watch it!!! *********


                
I highly recommend watching Samurai Champloo for all anime and art fans. The story line is of a girl Fuu who meets Jin and Mugen. Jin is a disciplined and meditative character while his counter part Mugen is a reckless, wild, bastion who wields his sword and tongue like a hurricane wind. Fuu and the two samurai are on a path to find the samurai who smells of sunflowers, the series follows their journey. The artistry of the show is incredible, and as a full time artist (www.ecstaticexpression.org) I was drawn in and kept looking forward to watching the episodes. Fans of the orient, samurai's and art enjoy the stories of Fuu, Jin and Mugen.


                
This show is action-packed, hilarious, emotional, and unique. I recommend it to anyone who loves anime!


                
I have to say, I quite enjoyed the anime. It was really hilarious in a scene from episode 9 where the character Mugen was always bumping into the jogger (voiced by the great Vast the Stompade from Trigun,Johnny Yong Bosch) and my god that jogger made ya laugh xDLoved the action with the incredible fighting scenes, the characters and the gorgeous animation! I give this 8/10!
Samurai Champloo proves director Shinichiro Watanabe to be a fantastic anime creator and will be remembered as some of his best work. It's an easy series to watch (seeing as it's only 26 episodes) and is a must-watch for anyone that's a fan of great storytelling through Japanese animation.The series focuses on three characters: Fuu, Mugen, and Jin as they travel across Japan in search of samurai who smells of sunflowers. Each episode, for the most part, is a story in and of itself about a little piece of their journey. The word "Champloo" is an Okinawa-based word for "stir-fry" and my does it fit! The series is a wonderful "stir-fry" mixture of samurai/characters with great depth and style of its own.What makes Samurai Champloo a great series isn't just the variety of characters and stylistic story-telling. It's the compelling nature of the plots and the pure enjoyment a die-hard anime fan will have when watching these colorful characters interact and clash with each other. Each episode never fails to leave room for boredom and although some episodes don't dive deep into character's back stories/connect directly to the main story arc, it's unceasingly fascinating and enjoyable. The series also manages to not only successfully mix up a variety of characters, but also a variety of genres so beautifully and seamlessly. One moment the viewer could be on the edge of their seat with a thrilling action sequence, the next they could be laughing aloud to a joke a character told. The stories blend action, adventure, comedy, and drama beautifully while giving some seasonings of horror, fantasy, and maybe noir. While the show is fantastic it does have some arguable flaws that not everyone might agree on. For instance, from episode one, the viewer jumps right into the fun and action without knowing too much about our three main characters. Waiting for back story in future episodes, fans might be slightly let down by that promise being fulfilled. Adequate back story is indeed present but maybe not as much as some might be hungry for. Some episodes also feel out of place and could potentially not be necessary for the overall story arc. As state before however, these episodes are still always entertaining and very fun to rematch. Flaws one could see in this show might cause it to not arrive at the number one spot of every anime fan's favorites list but the series is still incredibly cool and worth watching (and probably owning) for any fan. It's never dull and it's a great series that comes highly recommended. Some of the best 650 minutes you'll eat up by watching this wonderfully animated series.


                
Well, this show had a second good run. Since I was stuck with either watching it on Netflix or Toonami, I decided to watch it on Toonami, because I have enough shows to watch on Netflix already. This would be my routine on Saturday nights.The story is basically your typical type where they travel around and we get some filler - and some of them were good and funny, except for the zombie one though (that one was like it was in its own universe).But I really enjoyed the story overall, and I really liked the characters.It was a joy to watch them interact with each other and it made me laugh every time I watched them.The art style is nice, but I noticed some weird animations at points.I liked the music but I'm not really into the hip-hop stuff, which was the opening.My final thoughts: Well, this was the first time I watched it and I'm glad that I decided to watch it on Toonami. Another great hilarious anime.
This is a really good series. At start, it might seem shallow, with one-dimensional characters (arrogant outlaw, quiet samurai, cheeky girl) but as it progresses, the subtle character development really shines. One starts to care about the heroes and wonder about their story. And it is quite a story, which comes to a very satisfying conclusion at the finale.The animation, especially of the fighting scenes, is outstanding. Some of the best action I've seen in anime. Music fits perfectly too, with some skillful changes in pace reminding of the Final Fantasy games.One thing I have to say though: please do yourself a favour and skip episodes 22 and 23. They seem written and directed by someone completely different than the rest and leave a very unpleasant aftertaste spoiling the overall great and coherent series. I wish someone had told me to skip them.


                
This is one of those animes that has me telling myself, "damn! Did I really already watch all of the best series?? Is there nothing else like__________?". I hope I'm wrong, but if you're looking for something that scratches your anime itches, here you are. Action? Traveling/Adventure? Samurai? Character development? Great 90's era hip-hop/R&B soundtrack? Comedy? Beat-boxing? Social satire, lamenting the bygone era of open sexuality in Edo-period Japan (think Ancient Greece), due to contact with the bizarre puritanical morals of Westerners? Check all of those off your anime list. Assuming your "anime requirements" list is like mine, which is wicked awesome. And watch it. It is becoming clear to me that the old adage, "they don't make 'em like they used to" is becoming sadly true of anime in the 21st century. The more I watch, the more that I realize how badly most series often suffer from formulae. In my own mind, I'd proclaimed anime to be the "Anti-Hollywood", where engaging plots were developed, engaging characters were developed, unique ideas were possible. It was everything American TV wasn't interested in being anymore. Samurai Champloo is one of the few series that still fit my idealized depiction of anime.


                
Oddball anime that should be plain annoying, but somehow manages to captivate. Fuu, a young girl, encounters two Samurai whilst in a small tea shop. They are as different as can be, and intent on killing one another, but Fuu manages to convince them to go on one last quest before slicing each other up. The mission? To find 'The Samurai who smells of sunflowers,' a figure Fuu is desperate to locate, for reasons that I don't want to spoil here. The characters are well crafted. Fuu: sweet, world-innocent yet precocious. Jin: a traditionalist, proud of his martial arts abilities and utterly focused. Mugen: a layabout who just happens to be gifted in the ways of Samurai swordplay, mainly due to his ultra-competitiveness. Their quest takes them the length of Japan and this reveals their adventures along the way. Mixing old world stylings with ultra-modern sensibilities this is an odd mix but, on the whole, it works, monks singing hip-hop notwithstanding. Classed as a comedy, at times this is laugh out loud funny, whilst at others the humour, for a Westerner at least, falls flat and simply irritates. Indeed, the episodes I rate as lowest are without exception the knockabout, zany episodes. Likable and charming, though not without a healthy dose of violence and bloodshed, I sense this is one only for the anime initiated. If just starting out on your anime adventure, I'd look elsewhere before sampling this curio.
