Well, I've been an anime fan for -say 10 yrs?- a long time. And none of the series got a hold on me like this one. All the characters in this anime are well-thought and placed. The animations are WONDROUS I might add, and you can see the characteristic "samurai ID" slip away into the hands of sensitive (altough never shows it) Jin and "'Nevermind'er" Mugen. These two guys (one a Ronin, the other a criminal) are the characters I added without a thought to my "best characters ever!" list. The anime contains both funny and sad scenes without disturbing the ambiance of it. And the last episodes are so dramatic and tense that they will keep you on your fingertips until the end. I'm telling you. You DEFINITELY should see this one.
Most people come into Samurai Champloo thinking it's going to be another Cowboy Bebop-esquire anime. But while it has many similar elements, the story line, character direction and over-all feel of the show are completely different from that of Shinichiro Watanabe's masterpiece.Samurai Champloo, despite its few serious tones, is fairly light-hearted and very comical. We follow Mugen, Jin and Fuu from Edo to Nagasaki, encountering several prominent figures not only from the Feudal Era of Japan, but also popular Japanese television (Episode 8, for instance). Unlike Cowboy Bebop, the show centers around the three main characters rather equally, and the episodes do not dwell so much on their individual histories so much as their progress.Perhaps the most stunning element of the series is their sometimes subtle and sometimes not so subtle incorporation of hip hop culture into the music and themes of each episode. From Mugen's break-dancing style of fighting to beat-boxing heralds to old-school tagging, it's not only comical but engaging to see something so culturally diverse blend seamlessly (and very, very humorously) with the Edo Period.All in all, the series is very enjoyable, kind of a joyride or breath of fresh air in its uniqueness and ingenuity. The characters are fun and energetic, the music...well, don't even get me started on the music, and the animation, like its cousin, is flawless. Highly recommended on this end. Nine out of ten.
What I liked about this anime is how it reflects modern day Japan. The main plot is simple. There are 3 main characters to this story. Fuu, Mugen and Jin. These 3 characters met by fate and they all agreed to journey together throughout the whole of Japan in search of 'the samurai who smells like sunflowers'. It is the characters that interest me the most, especially the 2 samurais Jin and Mugen. And it is them that are representation of modern Japan. Before I begin to describe the 2 characters you need to understand what Shinichiro Watanabe is trying to tell us. Modern Japan as you know it is now technologically advance. And Watanabe feels that it is because of this new change in era and society that is slowly replacing old traditional Japan. And this is what the 2 characters are here for.Jin represents the old traditional Japan where he behaves in an orderly fashion and speaks in a professional manner. He is the enigmatic type, quiet most of the time and thinks things through carefully and with fair judgement. In a way this is describing old Japan as a peaceful society. His fighting style also matches his image as he prefers sticking to the rules of combat. His knowledge of sword fighting is masterful knowing when and when not to attack. His actual appearance is very formal. He dresses normally and does not look out of place. He tries to avoid contact as much as possible. Mugen on the other hand is the exact opposite of him. He represents the new Japan, the modern day era where rules do not apply to him. In a way he is like one of those punks in Japan who do not give a damn about the laws and let things flow as they go along. His appearance looks much different from everybody else. Its as if he customised his own clothes. The way he talks is different as well and prefers to be laid back most of the time. He is rude to most people and is a womaniser. His fighting style reflects his image. He does not go by the traditional rules of combat engagement, instead his attacks are wild unlike Jin's. Some have said that his fighting style incorporates a bit of the Brazilian martial art Capoeira and break dancing. Its not only these 2 characters that actually show representation of Japan. In fact there are some episodes which shows how new Japan is replacing the old. For example Mugen takes Jin's swords as an entrance fee to a food eating competition. During that time it would have been disrespectful to take another Samurai's swords away from them. This shows how old Japan is deteriorating. The character Fuu does not really interest me as much as the other 2 characters does however she does play a pivotal role in this series and the main plot is actually based around her. Shes the bridge between the 2 samurai characters. It is because of her that these 2 samurais aren't killing each other. In a way she holds the group together. The title of the anime series 'Samurai Champloo' is called that for a reason. The word 'Champloo' means to mix or mixture and it perfectly describes this whole anime series. Throughout the episodes you will notice how things are out of place. Like an Anachronism. There are things that are there which shouldn't be. For example Mugen's arm motion. He spreads his arm out as if it were a plane and screams out 'Vooooommm'. Planes did not even exist at the time either (and we're talking about during the Edo period of Japan). Champloo is a fitting name for this series as it incorporates a lot of things that are new into the old. The music is also a representation of Japan. This is a change to music compared to Cowboy Bebop's Jazz theme, this incorporates a more hip hop theme and this actually bolds well with the theme of the story. It is easy to understand that hip hop is a new age kind of music so it is to no one's surprise that Watanabe would use it in this anime. The music is particularly well done even though hip hop is not my kind of music and it mixes well with the story.Animation-wise this has got to be the best looking anime around especially with the fight scenes. As the viewer you could literally see the fluid motions of the character's fighting style and their attack moves. Unlike many action oriented anime series where you see speed lines behind the characters, this actually shows us in depth fighting. Every part of their body actually moves accordingly. There is no long jumping and screaming, no repetitive speed lines as seen in DBZ. It actually shows them fighting properly, bit by bit and that is what impresses me the most. I've seen many other Samurai anime series and none of them come close to brilliance as this does in terms of animation. However I recently watched it again and noticed how their swords hardly collide with each other. Most of the time the fighting involves them avoiding each other's swords. So there was no real clash to it, nothing was really gritty about it. But in the end, if I was to compare this anime to another in terms of animation then this beats it easily. Overall this is a brilliant anime series with great animations. It doesn't have an intelligent plot, nothing that will keep you on the edge but the presentation is great. Characters are fantastic, it mixes comedy, drama, romance and action all into one. The music is also great as well. This is one of the best anime series around.
since hip-hop's beginnings, there has always been a deep respect within the rap community for Asian culture, specifically that of the samurai, this is evident in the music of The Wu Tang Clan, shows like Kung Faux, and films like Ghost Dog.now the table is turned with Shinichiro Watanabe's new venture, Samurai Champloo, this is a fine example of the mutual embrace of cultures between American hip-hop and Japanese samurai fiction.the plot is pretty basic and remarkably none-convoluted for an anime: a tea-shop worker named Fuu falls into the company of two warriors, a samurai named Jin, and a slacker named Mugen, they go on a journey to find someone known as "the samurai who smells of sunflowers." pretty standard fair, right? well not always true, for instance, these three are not necessarily friends, in fact Mugen and Jin are both determined to kill each other at some point. for samurai fiction, there's a lot of wink and nudge at the audience. this show never takes itself too seriously, but that doesn't stop us from caring about the characters and the events they are put in.like Watanabe's previous effort, Cowboy Bebop, the mood of the show is incredibly eclectic, one episode can contain moments of heart-wrenching drama and the next moment, pure hilarity.as previously mentioned, this show is an amalgamation of Japanese storytelling and American hip-hop, the shows theme song is a strange but very cool rap by Emcee Fat Jon, and the show itself features many scratch-instances, usually used to shift the plot in another direction for a moment. hip-hop also reigns as a pacer for many of the extremely cool fight-scenes. Jin's rote and clean shogun style is a great counterpart for Mugen's wild Capoera and break dancing moves, and all the battles are bloody, excessive, and a riot to watch. even the little text blurbs and notes that constantly pass across the screen are written in graffiti and often include ironic slang messages.the animation is reminiscent of Watanabe's work on Kill Bill, however it is less sketchy, more cleanly defined and colored.if you're looking for another Eva clone, with a deep and continuous plot, then you're sh*t out of luck here, however if you just want a good time, that is immediately palatable and easy to get into, then look no further.


                
Samurai Champloo is a fun and energetic series. The episodes feature a variety of different story lines. Some are comedic, some are filled with action, some are filled with thrills, some are a bit tragic, and there's even an x-files-ish one. They're all pulled off very well with some contemporary editing, direction, and a stylish score. The only drawback is some of the funk/hip-hop/rock editing/themes can get annoying when they overdo it, especially in the beginning. But they use it as a means to convey that, even though it's an adult series, it's clearly meant for younger/younger-at-heart adults. The ending didn't close as strongly as it could have, but it was worth watching just for the ride.


                
I just bought the series on Amazon last week, and i sat down and watched every episode this week. Great anime. Growing up with Cowboy bebop, and hearing my buddies saying Samurai Champloo is a better anime than bebop, I hated that. I didn't want to like Champloo but it's irresistible! This anime is full of charm, humor, kick-assery, , and i guess elegance is a good word too? Now, i don't like to compare this show to Cowboy Bebop, but most people do so when watching this. So from a biased point of view, I like Cowboy Bebop better than Samurai Champloo, but if you set aside your biased beliefs or childhood memories, Champloo is a more gripping anime. My face literally ripped off my head and blew up repeatedly while being beatin' in the head with a sledgehammer of Emerald while being mind raped by Satan because I ignored a facebook post that said that would happen to me if you didn't "Like" a status, and i ignored the status so that happened to me,and that's how I felt when i found out the Samurai who smells of sunflowers was! Anyway, fantastic work of anime.


                
Samurai Champloo (whatever a Champloo is I can't say) is one of those truly nifty late-night anime shows that pop up every now and again on Cartoon Network. It took a DVD viewing though, with four episodes back to back, to get a real taste of the storytelling panache that goes with the rugged saga of bad-ass samurai. The two main characters, one who is a little more scrawny but with enough power to kick a few heads in at once, and another who is more conventionally well-built but with a pair of glasses to assist in his travels, go through a series of events while on the search- by pay/bailing out/demand of a feisty girl- for the "Sunflower Samurai". While the revamp for American audiences includes a slightly annoying theme song (is it hardcore samurai anime or a basketball commercial?), there's always good voice-work going on, and an adherence to certain traditions that are a main-stay in samurai storytelling (the old samurai who feels his time is done and does seppuku after a card game; the ideal not to kill someone if there's no pay involved; grudges that come from the hot-headed never leading well; the feisty and strong-willed young girl meant to but doesn't quite match the guys). It's also a lot of fun; plenty of humor rests on moments that seem like they're meant in poor taste for laughs, like when the girl gets sacked- literally- by some guys who put her up to work as a slave/dancer in a bar. Or just in the attitudes of the main two samurai, who are ready at a moment's notice to fight one another, and begrudgingly stop because of hesitation or, of course, they get caught by some p-o'd warlord. It's a cool series overall, one of the best that's playing still from time to time on TV, and should be essential viewing for those that eat up action-filled anime like cotton candy at a good amusement park.


                
I've recently watched the anime in Japanese with subtitles. This anime has nice graphics (different than ordinary anime) and nice music. Some songs are in English but song by people who clearly don't speak English. The music was almost perfect.Jin, Mugen and Fuu are going to search for the samurai who smells like sunflowers. They don't know much about him. This search is a request from the girl called Fuu. A young, energetic and quite strong girl. She knows how to defend herself unlike a lot girls in anime.The three travel together even though they don't know a thing about each others background. One appears to be a wanted killer, the other a corrupt thief. You really get to know every character and his/her past. One their way they do rude and crazy things. That makes it very funny. You also get to know a lot about the Japanese history.Despite the fact that it only has 26 episodes, it had a filler. And it was too obvious that it was a filler that it annoyed me a lot.Except for that huge annoying filler, every episode was interesting and funny. Sometimes the were fillers disguised as episodes. There are quite a few sexual scenes. There also is a lot of blood in the series.Overall I really liked the anime. The intro is hip-hop music. And some scenes in the future appear in the anime thats about the year 1600. But you won't find it annoying. It's got is own brilliant mixed style. They made an anime with an ancient story finished with a modern touch.
When I first watched Samurai Champloo, I could not believe that such foul words would be used on an Anime show, and I certainly did not believe that such words were used so way far back in the early Edo Period in Japan. I also did not know that Vincent Van Gogh was known in Japan. Basically, a few times, all the show ever talked about was Western Europe. Was there really a war between Europe and Japan in those days? I suppose that also way far back, things such as slavery, violence, murder, prostitution, statutory rape, and robbery were never lawfully prohibited in that country. I also couldn't see how such a woman could keep her figure and youth after birthing about six children in that time period, and having such an unfaithful husband who would hit on another fifteen year old girl. What has the world come to? I suppose that all these things and the events that go on make this one absolutely hilarious anime show that I love so much! The more I hear all the foul-mouthed language used by Mugen, and all the hilarious things that go on between the three friends, makes me love this series all the more! Many of the people in that show are all so totally hilarious when either foolish or down-to-earth when it comes towards being in a crisis and making a decision. It all makes this show worth watching! HILARIOUS, Mugen, Jin and Fuu! Keep up the great comedy and have fun!
