I reviewed the pilot episode and gave it a high ranking. I looked forward to the next episode ... it was so-so. Waited for the next ... oh dear, what a dysfunctional mess. The main character, who 'seemed' so interesting in the pilot, has degenerated into little more than a shallow child and the other characters in the show are little more than window dressing and as undeveloped as the main character. A show with great potential sadly wasted on a clichéd hum-drum who cares anyway story. I am left wondering why, when there are so many interesting and stimulating places to which scriptwriters can take an audience, they choose depressing life-scenarios and self-obsessed pseudo-intellectual ghetto types as their subject of choice. Pointless and boring. Rated at 2 and I'm being kind.
I have watched it up to the third episode to find out why the IMDb rating is so goddamn high and I have still not found out why. I cannot go five minutes watching an episode without almost killing myself in frustration about how the writers cannot at least come up without a good dialogue. cinema blend's review of it as damn near perfect is what even pisses me off the most how can a series that terrible be rated so highly? I'm not much of a series person but the few that I watch are a lot better that this and their rating is not even as high. I'm talking about The Flash, Arrow and Silicon Valley. I mean, come on!, who names a series Mr Robot? In the third episode when the "Mr Robot" met Malek in the office, I was disappointed at how something like that could even happen. I mean, were there no other workers?, couldn't he have called security?, I mean, the guy just tried to kill you!. While watching the first episode, I was hoping that it would live up to the high rating because at the time, it was 9.5 which is pretty goddamn high for a new series, I was not happy at the end of that episode, i watched the second one with hopes that it would be better or at least, watch the rating drop substantially, I was disappointed at the end of that episode too. The third episode just killed me, I couldn't finish watching it because I could not stomach my frustration anymore and had to pour out my anger somewhere before it drives me to kill myself, or somebody. The absolute truth in a nutshell is that I'm disappointed.
I hung in there hoping Season 1 would become a truly gripping and insightful story about technology and it's big brother presence in our daily lives and how dangerous that is for both the public at large and the corporate structures that are so reliant on it. No dice. I watched the entire Season 1 episodes back-to-back and was flabbergasted at the shallowness of this series. First off, Malek's wooden performance is a dead giveaway early on to one of the weak surprise reveals. Second, the sub plots of the ghetto drug culture and homosexuality were blatantly obvious fillers to widen the demographic net, probably foisted on the writers by the network execs. None of it added to the story. The insidious perversity in this story really lies with the executive management goals of E Corp and that was barely examined as an encompassing and destructive aspect of current society. While we heard some very articulate - great writing here! - complaints with the inner monologues of the lead, not much time was devoted to the real impact of monopolies and their greed, data breaches, and the human disconnect that has electronic chatter replacing social engagement. Lastly, I'm not a techie so I can't comment on the technical accuracy, but I'm doubtful that the crash could have happened as shown here. If it's this easy to get into high security buildings, break through firewalls, enlist the Chinese, etc., etc., then we are ALL - not just corporations - in big trouble and this was not addressed at all. That's where the real story & suspense would be. My 2 stars are for the "attempt" at something meaningful, even though it failed. I don't understand all the high ratings - is it spoofing?
I have watched many shows and movies like this. Hackers and similar are presented always the same - somewhat misunderstood, depressive, very smart, antisocial and of course anxious with tendencies to suicide, drugs and other stimulants. (Ofcourse, Slater doesn't exist, if you asked for) And story about big "evil corp" and fight against it is also seen million times... but that's all OK, tolerably. Something much worse bothers me. Or to say - buggin' me? I am asking why pushing someone's sexual preference in all series for young people? I'm surprised that the Jews, who are usually producers of almost all TV series in USA and a very rigorous on issues of homosexuality pushed this shameless display of almost pornographic, homosexual acts. While many today are afraid to say this: me personally, I'm disgusted with that and I think it's wrong, it's not good to push constantly in all series. No more series where at least no bare butt, gay or lesbo sex, even unhidden vagina and penis, in full motion. What's next - open sexual acts at 5 pm in the program for young children? The producers of the series in the third episode of Mr.Robot are just a step away from pure gay pornography and so now I will stop watch this show and I would not recommend to anyone. But I know you Americans do not understand why we are against it, because you are brainwashed with thousands of similar gay-ish pictures through all media, for decades now. They started with soft-porn, just some legs and tits, and now in USA everything is just sex, sex, sex... Sex sale everything, to stupid masses. I don't care if you are homosexual or not, or whatever you are, just leave me and my children be. Thank you.


                
Review of Season One: The first episode of MR. ROBOT was cracking stuff. It promised a hacking-based conspiracy thriller with lots of corporate espionage, suspense, and anarchic plots to bring down capitalist society. It looked to be a show to make hacking both fun and suspenseful. Basically, it had potential in spades. So what happened? The second episode was only average by comparison, and by the third episode I wasn't really enjoying it anymore. And then the large and rather important plot twists started hitting, and I realised that MR. ROBOT wasn't original at all, and not even about hacking. Instead it's a cheap, generic, left-wing rip-off of similar movie fare like FIGHT CLUB and V FOR VENDETTA, a series more concerned with pushing a liberal agenda than telling a real story.THE PACIFIC's Rami Malek is a good choice for lead, all bug eyes and angst, but his acting begins to get more and more over the top as the series progresses. Christian Slater is always a welcome presence in either film or TV but is sorely underutilised. The rest of the cast is made up of unpleasant characters, from the airhead blonde would-be girlfriend to the dirty, unpleasant, and sullen fellow hackers who are so rude that you want them all to be erased from the screen. I was really disappointed by all the wasted potential here, and the way the writers go down all-too-familiar routes instead of creating something genuinely fresh and new. By the time MR. ROBOT finishes, it has become the most pretentious drivel ever, and exactly the type of show I hate.


                
I've been working in IT for 20+ years so I think I know a bit (just a bit) about that world. I couldn't even bear myself to even finish the first episode, is THAT bad.There are some references that looked like someone just searched "IT jokes" and decided to put them in the mouth of this guy.If you like/work in IT don't watch this... is horrible; is even worse than Nikita using IPs with octets over 2000.Oh! And the main character is supposed to be autistic or genius or something, whilst the only thing he shows is ignorance... again, those searches about "IT jokes" were done by the intern otherwise I don't understand it.


                
What is all this fuss about anti-capitalism shows these days. The pilot and the environment could have led to a great show but the more we advance into the story the worst it gets. The side story with Angela Moss is just dull and full of clichés. The only good side story is the one with Tyrell Wellick. Sure he's evil and there are lots of reasons to hate him but he's the only interesting character that I actually like. In brief this show is tremendously overrated on IMDb. I started watching it because of its ratings, but regretted it after the first episode. And it kept getting worst


                
I am so bored by season 2. Too much focus on seeing the world through his lens so we are constantly stuck inside Elliott's head. Very little light is shed on the world post fsociety apocalypse. Probably the show runner (looking at you Sam Esmail) is having a hell of a great time making sure that every detail is exactly as he envisioned it but for the viewer, it is at best, tolerable. I get that we are inside Elliott's not fully diagnosed mind but it is becoming unnecessarily claustrophobic and nothing ever happens (at least not in real life or TV life). Dear USA, don't pass the reins completely to one creative tyrant. you are suffocating the viewer!


                
OK, so the first and the second episode were really GOOD! Something new and refreshing, but as soon as we see that he's just a junkie- geek-looser it started to go down down down down into the trash can.How could the ruin a show with so much potential with the psychopath plot. Come on!? Couldn't you come up with something new, something original, so you gave us a psychopath/junkie?! Ahhh so mad at this! They are doing the same with FearTheWalking dead, like all the young people today are drug addicts... If they would stay with the computer and hacker side of the story this would be a 10/10 show, but it's only a 2/10 now...So sad...will probably not watch season2, unless they decide to leave this crap in the past and concentrate on the technology, plot twists, politics, economy etc...


                
Show had some problems from the first series, but they've gotten worse as it's progressed. Now, in series 3, it seems to be only short vignettes featuring characters from the current series and from past series doing inane things. I suppose the next one we'll see is the fake dad character goes to McDonalds, but the fry cook is one of the old hackers from series 1, then the fry cook gets his hand CAUGHT IN THE FRYER!!, and then the FBI agents arrive, there is a shoot out and then they are ALL PLAYING SKEE BALL TOGETHER on the pier. It's that disjointed. I tried to watch a few episodes of S3, but bailed.It's awful


                
After episode 10, I took a 3 month break from giving this show another attempt to finish the season. I finally tried to watch episode 11 last night. I turned it off 15 minutes before the ending. I've never seen anything start out so promising then crash and burn so badly. It seems the writers are writing it as they go. There's no direction. The entire cast seem bored by episode 8 or 9 wondering "Where is this all going?" They must be because the acting goes completely downhill by episode 11. I think they just want it all to be over with. It's pretty bad when the most unlikable characters are the protagonists and the most interesting are the sociopath Swedish couple. This show started off like a David Fincher film then careened off into M. Night Shyamalan territory. Huge disappointment!


                
don't get me wrong ,, i mean the show is watchable but it has ripped off so many elements and stuff from so many great movies and series. what this show has done in addition is that their main plot is all about hacking and anarchy and crap but the characters and scenes and execution is mostly ripped off from fight club. RAMI MALIK has done an awesome job ,all the other cast is not acting at all .its like they are clowns except RAMI MALEK and Terrell they both have done brilliant acting although Terrell's character is very similar to Christan bale in American psycho.And the last 2 episodes of season 1 are full of crap its like u are watching climax of fight club in very very very slow motion . the only complain of mine towards this show is that it doesn't feel original ,, its writers are to be blamed and the creator as well the creator has very smartly stolen a lot of movies and made this series.. If you wanna watch this show ,watch it for RAMI MALEK he has done an incredible acting.And at last the Portia Doubleday has done so bad acting that her scenes wanna make me throw up .. i wish she just dies before the shooting of season 2 so that they can replace her loll
The show started out with so much potential but slowly and steadily degenerated into more of the same sick and violent programming that we see everywhere else. Talk about taking a concept and trashing it for all it worth. Its overwhelmed with drugs and violence to the point of being the ultimate "bad trip" film series. This time with a psycho hacker backdrop. The cerebral aspects of the show could have been developed with modern day events providing a template such as those involving Edward Snowden and Kim Dotcom or those involved with the development of the crypto currency Bitcoin. As the show stands it should be renamed "the revenge of the drugged Apocalypse zombie hackers."


                
Just a depressive pile of nonsense, moving at a snail pace. Every time you think - here, something's finally happening, then - bam! - it stops again. Barely managed watching 4 episodes, convincing ourselves watching another one each time - maybe something will move there. Slater's career must be really in shambles.


                
I started watch Mr. ROBOT solely because of its good ratings. And to my most utter dismal this is the worst highest rated show I have watched. Such high ratings. I was prepared to get bound-struck but unfortunately I was disgusted. OKAY,the mood is good, pilot was also kind of good, but as soon as the show progressed it became boring. All they show is the junkie protagonist tripping and blabbing schmatzy philosophies. And the plot holes and impossible things are a lot. The characters are not all interesting,so dull. And why so much low light dude?? The main char speaks all kinds of pretentious craps. It's the same old,same old. I have seen better with lower ratings. This was out of the blue. But different people different choices so can try it out.


                
After watching the excellent and very thought provoking pilot I had high hopes for this series. However, episode 2 made me begin to think it was written exclusively for computer geeks and by episode 3 which was at best an Andy Warhol back drop to an acid induced flower power rock video and at worst a pretentious prick on a big budget, I had come to realise that it was no longer being written by the same people that wrote the first episode!! Surely not!! Or else they had suddenly realised they'd no idea where to go with their creation and dropped a bad tab in their desperation and forgot to write a story!!! Seriously, what on earth were they playing at. Sometimes in the past I've seen some excellent episodesr in series where characters had already been well developed, and where an entire episode is devoted to a dramatically justified extraordinary one off. But to do that in the third episode is stupid, pointless and lazy. Maybe the rest of the series got better, I couldn't care less. They lost me with their pretentious BS!!


                
Ok. Season 2. It is like watching a 17 year old doing improv after having read Crime & Punishment and paying for it.


                
The writing on this show is so bad it makes me laugh. If you are an Occupy Dolt Street goon, I'm sure it will play right into your "Freedom is the enemy" meme. Seriously, the name of the antagonist company is Evil Corp. That's not its nickname, that's the real name of the evil corporation where the evil white CEO beats up homeless people for his stress relief en lieu of a hand held smooshy face thing where the eyes bug out, I suppose. The author obviously feels logic is for chumps, and has his protagonists violating the very rules they condemn others for. The Characters are cliché and "dirtied up" for what passes for badass now in entertainment, and as usually happens in Hollywood, the wrong people are tagged as the bad guys, while the real bad guys are proposed as the solution. Some of the acting is decent, especially the lead, the tech specs are nice, but the foundation of the show, the story and the characters, are built on quicksand. Seriously, moral depravity and socio economic opinions aside, this show is filmed for adults, but written for junior high schoolers.


                
Oooo, has Christian Slater in it thinks me, maybe worth a look.Only 2 episodes have been released so far, yet it has a score of 9,4<U+0085>? Bit weird.So, I watched both them and have given it = 2/10 Yet another inflated score bumped up no doubt by the cast and editing staff.Yes just 2, what a weak drawn out mess in the 2 episodes. I must admit the first one virtually drew me in<U+0085>.. the second though<U+0085>..No<U+0085> A semi believable storyline with endless drawn-out side plots. Tedious in the extreme. Hate to say actors are weak and I am not one myself but<U+0085>.Why has this really got a score of 9.4<U+0085>? Honestly<U+0085>.?


                
I had high hopes after the first episode but it all started falling apart mid-season. There were still ways to save it up until the 9th episode where the most interesting possible plot twist I was hoping for was dismissed through confirmed mental issues of the character in question. I can't believe they threw away the opportunity.What I was expecting, and I can't stress enough how much of a spoiler this is, was for Tyrell to flip earlier in the series before going all murder happy. Elliot's father would have faked his own death through hacking and some elaborate means of covering the physical gap that leaves behind. The father and son team would've assimilated all important characters from the plot and brought a peaceful end to Evil corp at the end of the first season. Season 2 could've covered Evil corp rising from the ashes, but fortunately I don't care anymore.Instead we're left with anarchy, drug abuse and mental issues to milk the fan base for another season. I'm abandoning this series, I have lost all faith in the story.
Funny how after a stream of popular bad reviews there are a few lone ravers bigging up this excuse of a 'high tech' show.Guess the money must be made back after the kids have gone crazy with a jkrowling mess of a script.I wouldn't mind the political angle if it wasn't so blatantly one sided.So all of Elliot's problems would be nullified if Trump disappeared? Great, so let's assassinate him and turn the clock back to the days of Weinstein 'the god' film producer, 'hooks in my heart' Streep and 'I did not have sexual relations with that woman'.Where's my heroin?
the show is obviously trying to connect with friend-zoned nerds, who think they always know better than everyone else.like they are the only one who understand who's in control.with themes like Illuminati and programming it's obvious they are trying to attract those small minded ( though to them they are the only smart people and the rest are sheep), antisocial programmers who sit on their computer all day long stalking or playing sky-rim and never go out and interact with people and then complain that all of them are stupid, bigoted and intentionally ignorant.it's just too cheap.although the plot is kinda interesting.


                
I very rarely leave reviews but I felt in this case I just couldn't go with the flow.I really wanted to like this..I had read the reviews and I really love conspiracy theory, I knew I was bound to love this.Oh...so wrong. I have to say I found it really, really, tedious...it moves at an absolute snails pace. I really struggled to stay awake during the first couple of episodes..I'll watch a third and if it's no better then I'll go and do something less boring.


                
