I, like many others, thought the pilot was phenomenal. It showed a computer security software tech, Elliot, who wanted to make a revolutionary change in the world using hactivision and to take down an "evil" corporate empire. I was looking forward to a new fantastic show about how computers and technology —and the people in the field/hobby, can make a huge impact in the world.Immediately after the pilot —in the subsequent episodes, the show took an instant plummet. The plots became all about selfish self-loathing shallow characters in desperate and pathetic overly-dramatic situations. It became focused on excessive hardcore drug use, low-life lifestyles and ghetto drama, and intentional use of "shocking" topics such as homosexuality, beating up a homeless man for no reason other than to show someone is psycho, and cheating. These topics are COMPLETELY opposite to what is appealing to most people interested in computers and technology, so I'm confused as to who this show is trying to appeal to.The narration reminds me of Dexter, but what is said is mostly nonsense and not nearly as sophisticated. The audio is off on the show, the music is so loud that it overpowers the dialog. The actors sometimes mumble or talk too fast and it's difficult or impossible to hear what they say.The writing is all over the place, it's like they are trying to take what has worked from different shows and mesh it into this show, but it just doesn't work. I think it's pathetic when shows always try to have a "catch" right at the end of an episode, it becomes way too predictable and boring, and they have done lots of that so far.I do like the music and cinematography, those are great and highly appropriate.The "FSociety" group have been setting up shop in abandoned arcades, but the show has not shown anything about video games! It's like they're trying hard to make the show seem cool. If they stopped focusing on drug abuse and addiction and started focusing more on computers and video games and that lifestyle then the show would have a lot more appeal.But overall this show has quickly become a disappointment and is drifting away from what most have hoped for. It is not a show that is centered on technology, hacktivision, digital revolution, and the computer lifestyle that so many are craving, and instead is becoming just another mindless TV drama hoping to shock viewers with outlandish situations.
Like many others I started watching this show because of all the good reviews I had read. That and I have carried a massive girl crush for Christian Slater since the 90's.And also like so many others here I enjoyed the pilot, I thought it was unique, interesting and full of potential. And then the train plummeted off a cliff at a frightening speed.The main character went from being someone you felt for, like a small, lost child that needed your protection to a degenerate drug addict. His delusions went from quirky and thoughtful to manic & nonsensical. And this lack of relatability for the main character creates a real problem in that all the other characters (and there's far too many to keep anything straight) are completely unlikeable and in some cases downright depraved.Bottom line, I feel like I have to take a shower then view videos of kittens on YouTube after watching this.
I wish there was a way to rate this series by season. I started the series based on IMDB 8.8 rating. Here's how it should beSeason 1 : 9.5
Season 2 : 1
Season 3 : you are real brave to survive season 2. The season 1 started so great with gripping story line, strong characters and Screenplay. Season 1 left me thrilled and I wanted more so I started season 2. After s2ep3 and started to feel like elliot himself. "Am I crazy?","Is it a dream?". I swear to God, i started the series looking at the rating. So I cameback to IMDB to carefully read all the reviews. DO NOT watch season 2 and beyond. You'd be thankful that saved few valuable hours or your life. I think people prematurely rated the series without completely watching All the season. which bumped it up to 8+.


                
First of all - I am no billionaire and still no millionaire. Why I have to state this in a movie review!? Simply because I find it almost satirical that a billion dollar business like the Hollywood dream machine is nowadays filled with movies that criticize, well billion dollar industries and capitalism and what-else - the new socialist, the new Marxist or socialist living in a villa driving big cars and complaining about an unjust world... Am I the only one who sees the irony, the great satirical potential in this - a billion dollar business complaining always about business!?Anyway, Mr. Robot got all the typical p.c.-stuff, and imo Mr. Robot could have been (with reducing the propaganda) a good movie, but there is not enough story and characters etc. for a lasting TV-show. This show is in season 3 and long gone stale. Season 1 I would rate 6, Season 2 was much weaker, Season 3 I'm out.Last question: Wonder I do, if I dare to take your prayers serious, what kind of sinister plan you, Hollywood, have in store for us, as you are part of the big scale global business!? ;)


                
More liberal, Marxist, millennial appealing Hollywood crap.Everybody is gay, married men with children clearly fool around with other men in the ass according to the show, no biggie.Corporations and money is the root of all evil and 20 years old hipsters are society's salvation, it's all about some revolution, right folks?The world is unfair to me, we're all victims and must fight patriarchy oppression.Trump is literally Hitler.


                
The pilot centers around Elliot, 20-something guy who probably has a form of high-functioning autism, which isolates him from society, makes him withdraw into the world of computers, and he naturally becomes a genius hacker.There have been a number of shows and films about people who are not NT(neurotypical), like "Monk" and "Numbers" and "Beautiful Mind", and even the martial arts film "Chocolate" - however, they managed to portray their heroes as sympathetic. After all, if you don't sympathize with the hero, what's supposed to hold your interest? In this show, nothing does.This dude reads private Emails of people he "protects" (without their consent, of course). He has no life, at all, and therefore lives through controlling THEIRS, in textbook example of severe, long-neglected, codependence syndrome.He believes work is slavery and corporations are the slave owners. He wants "redistribution of wealth". The idea of erasing people's credit card debts makes him feel funny in the pants. Because it's not your responsibility to decide to borrow or manage your finances, no - it's the "corporation's fault".This show would've been welcomed with open arms in my former homeland - USSR - just as any show that bashed capitalism or showed the West in a bad light. We lived without toilet paper, but at least we were free of corporations who produce it!:|But I digress...The show portrays Elliot as some sort of righteous warrior, but really he's an overgrown child.We're supposed to sympathize with him not because of his personality - he has none - but because of his mental condition. The show does the autism spectrum no favors here by showing the hero as socially crippled, with minimal life skills, and drowning in angst.Instead of portraying autistics as "different", it shows him as "broken", with no real outstanding character qualities or insights to compensate for his flaws. Yes, he can hack. At society's expense.Not only is this show's "hero" a creepy simpleton, the overeager simplicity infects the entire show.His friend, who works with him at a CYBERSECURITY COMPANY, doesn't know what a ROOTKIT is. He has to explain it to her, because, apparently, she's stupid because... she's a woman? Really? The "enemy" in this show is the ambiguous, all-controlling "E CORP", which is constantly referenced verbally as "EvilCorp". Yes, really.The evil CTO of "EvilCorp" is MOST DEFINITELY evil because he talks rudely to the hero's friend.The hero goes to psychiatrist, who genuinely tries to help him. Instead, he, despite being chock-full of psychological issues, zones out during her visits and thinks about the photos he saw after hacking into her Facebook.So the hero hacks his psychiatrists' new date. The date is a BAD GUY, because he has a wife, history of cheating, and he pulled up his dog by the leash when the dog misbehaved.The dog trait was given to him to make him, you know, EVIL.The hero has to protect his psychiatrist from this "self-destructive dating pattern", while being completely oblivious just how messed up, creepy and delusional HE is.The show starts with by preaching about the "1% of the 1%"... i.e. "down with the bourgeoisie!", and it never really stops. It is aimed at the easily impressionable, the idealistic, the college students who don't understand work, or financial responsibility, and believe world history started when they were born.Down with the system! Down with the corporations!Of course, the show itself was made by a corporation and is aired thanks to a corporation, and it was made to make money from the same naive audience who applauds abolishing corporations.I give it 3 stars instead of 1, because it's filmed well, and it's trying to have a plot.Except that plot revolves around a codependent, isolated, angsty Peeping Tom with no understanding of history, politics or math.
When I watched the pilot I was excited. This show seemed very promising; a big eyed hacker hidden in a hoodie with a strange nervous tic confronted a person with his dubious behavior on the internet, while in the meantime showing the viewer how good of a hacker he is himself. It was slick, savvy, convincing, like a lone cowboy on the vast plains of the internet, riding his laptop whilst shooting firewalls to pieces.Already in the second episode I was getting a bit frustrated about the direction it was taking and this got worse as the show dragged on. Instead of focusing on what I thought was going to be the plot in the pilot (a hackers group similar to Anonymous taking on the big corporations), the plot focused on the hacker's personal problems, addictions and his love life. This could've been OK sub-stories, but as the main plot it couldn't hold it together at all.Result: missed chance on what could've been a great show.


                
I rated this show a solid 8 for the first two seasons.This season, it has gotten so very dark and very abstract weird, and I'm not enjoying it, anymore! It doesn't make sense.Elliot was the good guy, in the beginning - outing pedophiles to the police, to be specific. He was a hero, and was going to use his skills for good. What the hell has he turned into?! What a perverted mess, the show is now. There isn't *one* character in the series I find likable.I have to qualify that I think almost every actor is awesomely talented, it's the writing I'm disliking.I'm sorry, just too weird now.
Nice work by the main actor! Some wonderfully weird scenes. Among my favourites are those where an unlikely character suddenly starts to philosophise about the meaning of life, or shares his innermost feelings with Elliot while obliquely suggesting a rape-at-gunpoint agenda. Nice scene!I'm sure a couple of the people working on the show had good ideas and were burning. The off-angle shots mostly work for me. Although those beautiful static, symmetrical images go missing after a few episodes. A number of aspects of the main character's condition, sort of high-functioning autism, are represented in an imaginative, metaphorically true style. The morphine habit is completely plausible. If you prefer the main character to be a typical middle-class admirer of computers and technology (clueless), film yourself. Watch it with friends.By the way, there's no contradiction in Elliot not wanting to engage in uncalled-for touching and his having sex. Sex requires contact, you want it, fine.That said, someone remarked that there are only a handful of stories in existence, so it's just natural that Mr Robot should borrow from other films. But this conclusion is not entirely certain.Those archetypical "stories" are types of psychological dynamics, aspects of the human condition that appear again and again in drama. They've got to.On the other hand there are an infinite number of ways in which to recount and visualise those stories. Make them interesting and psychologically compelling. It's lazy to conceive your project as a succession of pieces from every other successful show and film of the past 20 years. Small chance to function, and it doesn't.In the end I couldn't be bothered much anymore to follow, skipped through the last two or three episodes.The producers seem to think it's necessary to spell out every little twist and turn to their obtuse viewers. Guess it's called maximising the audience."They probably won't get it at once that the two of them are the same person." "Yea, right, make sure to loop that clip of surveillance vid where he falls from the balustrade ten times so they understand." "We need some controversial sex." "Two blokes." "Two girls!" "Let's do both." "Don't forget to put a prop in the way of the action." "Remember that cool scene/storyline from Sopranos/Trainspotting/Fight Club/Breaking Bad/(name your favourite) ...?" "Throw it in." Mr Robot is lazily done, not just the big stuff, also details.Music and sound selection are, well, lazy. Character's supposed to be happy? Make it a waltz. "And we need more of more dramatic sounds. Will make everything, like, more dramatic."If characters in the film would say "fuck" as often as people actually do in real life the whole show would be a beep fest.A nerd like Elliot who has phones that swipe open. Any average nerd. Doesn't happen.E Corp being a big company won't do. It's gotta be "the most powerful conglomerate in the history of the planet". "Slip that line in at least once per episode." Did I mention the music? Could have been a great show. Ends up as a me-too.
I'll start with the good things: it accurately talks about cyber security, it has pretty okay drama, and pretty okay characterization. The actors do their best in playing the roles they've been given. Tyrell Wellick, who is basically Patrick Bateman from American Psycho, is enjoyable to watch.That's it.I've only seen the first season so far, because I enjoy seeing realistic hacking. I might continue watching for that reason, but I don't look forward to it.The bad things: the main character is a shallow know-it-all. I enjoy dark and gritty shows, I enjoy conspiracy thrillers, but this show's obvious attempt to look deep comes across as conceited and self-indulgent. The creator himself admitted he just steals from classic movies like Fight Club and The Matrix to write the show. All that Elliot does is make dumb choices because he's not mental issues and takes a lot of morphine. Even if they made him better, the outcome of Season 1 leaves a lot to be desired. Season 2 (no spoilers) has him preaching Voltaire, "I don't need God as my scapegoat", as if he's better than most people. He sits in therapy and all he ever thinks about is how he's better than 99% of the sheeple who buy so much stuff from the corporations, and how he's so stressed at how they're what's normal that he's alone.The main villains, E(vil) Corp, are made out to be so cartoonishly over-the-top evil, you can't really see it as something from the real world.They also preach a lot of Marxist ideas, like why they hate capitalism, debt, social media, food with GMOs, etc. It's preachy because they just say it outright, and then end the conversation there.This show...is not for anyone who wants originality. It's not for anyone who wants to see characters make choices that make sense. When the supporting cast is shown, they're mostly boring. His hot friend does do stuff herself, and that led to great character change. She was a good side story. She was the only one in the show who made good choices.And I say that knowing full well about Elliot and his team's desire to clear out all debt from the citizens. The problem with them hitting the reset button on debt actually would result in them helping the corporations that had a lot of debt. Corporations have debt more than anyone. Citizens will be readily royally screwed by them in a matter of months.Overall, this is a cartoon with no sense of humor, a lot of unnecessary edge, and a main protagonist -albeit smart- is so brain dead it makes him unwatchable. History will reference this as a show that's good at referencing the better movies it stole from.


                
As stated in the title, I'm only halfway through season 1, but why do I get the impression that this show (so far) is based off of three movies: Fight Club, American Psycho, and Hackers. I mean they even played a rendition of the Pixies song "Where is my Mind" on an episode.. I did laugh out loud and turned it off. Listen, I like all those movies, and I don't see this show as being original. It's some glorified hacker thing, which, if you are a hacker or some software developer you don't have the time to do a quarter of the things this guys does in the show. Regardless, this show just doesn't seem original and became boring real quick. I give it a 3.


                
I watched this series with great interest initially. It started off in episodes 1 and 2 with a good storyline, good acting and an interesting subject.However, once episode 3 and beyond hit it's a different matter. The thinly veiled propaganda is hidden behind a storyline of drug abuse of the main character and various 'dream' sequences.Out went the intelligent dialogue and in came a motive. Not of the characters but a motive of the writers and directors. It's to sell their view of the world and the 'evils of capitalism'.I may not agree with everything capitalism does but I don't need a political doctrine force fed to me hiding within a series which has lost its edge.oh, sorry, I forgot... it's all because he is tripping.
I have not seen more than 2 episodes, and I doubt I will waste my time on more. The show only makes sense if what we see are the wishful daydreaming of a young Asperger suffering geek. His fantasies are that young beautiful women are chasing after him to the point where he has to fend them of. Mega corporations try to headhunt him and offer million dollar positions in management. A secret "anonymous" type organisation try to recruit him for his superior hacking skills. And in his spare time he is an internet vigilante. So, basically the author of the series exploits young computer nerds who lack social skills, lack girls, lack authority over others, lack self esteem, lack purpose in life etc and fulfill their dreams in a TV show. And, it works. This is rated 9.2 when I write and the show really is not very good, not clever, it has nothing special at all. Except for the fact that it addresses a neglected audience of losers who want to see their fantasies become reality. A little like porn I guess. And had the writer mixed in more naked women, nerds are addicted to porn, I am confident the ratings would be even higher and maybe some school yard bullies getting beaten up. It is not super bad, I just don't see how this can appeal to others than the narrow target audience.


                
I was told to watch this due to it being quite quirky and dark, even the reviews (8.5 a while ago) built this up to be something amazing.First episode in and yes it' quirky and yes it could be quite dark, however the character Mr. Robot played by Christian Slater was OBVIOUS from the very start that he was not real and just a manifestation of his own mind, which I found quite annoying.As the series progressed the slow paced story was very grinding. I like a slow burner as they can really pull the viewer in to the world, but this is just poorly paced in almost every scene.This combined with the fact that almost EVERY scene and filming technique has been stolen from so many different films is depressing. The story is about bringing down the financial institutions to reset everything to zero - sound familiar? The main character has a friend manifested from his own imagination - sounding more familiar? - The main character narrates through the series about the story and his own personal thoughts - yes you've guessed it - Fight Club in a series!It is filmed in dark lighting with bleak colours almost verging on a pale sepia, just as Fight Club was. It also pulls from Existenz, 24 and The Matrix to name but a few.It's difficult to understand why something so unoriginal and poorly paced can have such a good rating. Maybe Hollywood and the public are looking for a hero in the proliferation of badly scripted and poorly produced series on the TV just now.
I tried to stick with this past the ludicrous casting (female "characters" in particular) but I've had to throw the towel in just recently.I'm a software developer of some years myself and even I can't follow what the plot here is supposed to be - there appears to be basically no narrative arc or anything else to hold my interest at all.What really throws this though is the utterly ludicrous female characters - these are supposed to be heavy techies or FBI agents etc and none of them look like they've eaten a solid meal in six months!Add in the equally comical "United Nations" casting of the original hacking group members and I, literally, held my hand to my mouth to stifle my laughter at times ... I didn't spot a left-handed, one- legged scuba diving transsexual in that group but there must have been one somewhere!If there are any female "hackers" out there in the real world, I can promise you they're going to be a size 16 instead of a size 0!Quite how anyone involved with this production could think that wheeling out one skull-faced girl after another, in what's supposed to be an underground and highly skilled environment, was appropriate or believable in any way, shape or form I do not know.If these girls were playing junkies then OK, I get it - emaciation etc is right on the money but otherwise, what the hell is wrong with them??Sorry to see Christian Slater cameoing in this by the way - he deserves better but I can't blame him for the writing or the casting.Dreadful.


                
Spoiler alert. MOst CHARACTERS Are DELUSIONS and many are drug induced FICTION. Waste of TIME. One episode is wasted on drug induced trip serves no purpose in the plot. Just when you get into a solid story, it turns out to be unreal. The end of the series will probably be the Elliot walk g up in the snow after his father pushed him out and be a dream that never happened
Mr Robot Season 1 & 2 has Proper Connected Storyline of Hacking & Best Directed Show by Director Sam Esmail.But Mr Robot Season 3 is getting Bored as there is meaningless story & script. No proper Direction. Story not well explained & Connected. Making audience to wait for every episode to get good knowledge of story. Valueless Story & script. Stretching episode by meaningless script. Season 3 is not with Big Bang. Even Actors are Overacting because of Fame, not serious actors.Hoping Mr Robot Season 4 to be Good#BoringMrRobotS3


                
Everybody steals - and I don't see the problem with this show being a Frankenstein of good ideas done in the past. "Fight Club/Kubrick/Shyamalan did it first!" doesn't matter to the new generations enjoying this, and I don't know why it should. Many movies have dated badly and are products of their time, and without permission to steal, all of their ideas and experimentation would remain in the past. But this series never succeeds in stringing these parts together, in order to achieve greatness - is simply a mess. I'm ashamed to say I secretly watched the entirety of the first season, and much of season two. Not because I liked the show, but because of Elliot Alderson, a person anyone with a family history of severe mental illnesses can relate to. I say "ashamed" because I actually hated the show in and of itself. So much of it makes me cringe, and I'm not just talking about the monologues. No, almost every plot twist was either incredibly easy to predict, or they threw me off because of how ridiculous they were. So many of them just sent the plot progression and character development back to square one, making it very clear that the time spent on leading you on was simply wasted. "Haha, she was his sister all along! Be confused and frustrated along with Elliot, because you just wasted hours of your life being lead on and thinking it would be something else entirely!"The acting ranges from bad to brilliant, but the script and plot are so ridiculous that you don't know who to blame. What exactly is Tyrell supposed to mean? What is his incompetence trying to get across? His kinky psycho wife?These references(American Psycho with Tyrell, Breaking Bad with Shayla, etc.) can all coexist in the same series, but they need to be coherent, and they need to either drive the plot, or stay subtly in the background. It is possible to do, but it requires better planning than what the show has, and it requires consistency and respect for the main storyline. You can't just play out the plot lines inspired by brilliance for the sake of it, and then drop them again, and expect people to think that this is greatness, this is art.Rami Malek sometimes has a problem with over acting, but because of the direction and the script, I don't blame him. In fact, I have no idea what this actor is doing on this show, because he acts and looks like exactly what he is supposed to be, all the time. I sometimes forgot that he wasn't real, because his realistic immaturity and frequent mistakes do not belong on a show like this, at all. I wish there wasn't so much explaining going on in his monologues("I am insane, do you get it? I'm a schizo! Now I feel this, and that - this is why I am scared right now!"). But then again, if the show wasn't trying so hard to make you "get it", I maybe wouldn't have realised why this character is so deplorably done.Many people have tried to play armchair psychologist, not realising that his suffering is only a cynical marketing ploy - he is not meant to be understood. While the narration of the protagonist would have you believe that he is so severely socially inept that he'll never understand the basic rules of social interaction, he comes across as merely shy and paranoid when shown actually talking to people. He also doesn't have any other autistic traits to speak of - safe for his fear of touch - yet the show keeps making you think "aspergers!", because that is the fashionable syndrome of the moment, and it knows that everyone likes to think they get it. The show also has fun with psychosis, multiple personality disorder and depression in the exact same way. This is "Mental Illnesses are Fascinating and Entertaining" - the show! It keeps throwing random disorders at you, not because it wants to give an accurate portrayal of what they are actually like, but to ensure one ridiculous twist after another. I hate this. I absolutely loathe it. Everyone is trying to analyse Elliot, but the show itself clearly couldn't care less about the illnesses they are exploiting for entertainment - Elliot was never created to be coherent or authentic, he is only there as a vessel to always feel bad in a way that creates the most tragedy-inducing situations possible. So very smart of the producers to hire a good psychologist in the creation of this character - he may not be completely authentic, but he is authentic enough. His personality traits and actions themselves always add up, and you believe everything about his stunted demeanour and the way he talks. But it is only to ensure you check in for the next episode, where you can marvel at him losing grip on reality once again.I find it hilarious that the most universally sympathetic trait of Elliot, is how much he wants to break free of these ridiculous twists and the stupid world he lives in. He alternates between looking confused, sad, exhausted and paranoid, which is exactly what you are going to feel watching Mr. Robot from beginning to end. You are also going to feel hope, because you suddenly see something incredibly well done, and then you are going to lose it and become jaded, because it never lasts or works out in the end. Like Elliot, staring psychotically ahead as he enters a new disaster, the only thing we can all know for sure, is how bad it is going to be.
I was fooled by some media article that said that this show had realistic technology for a change, but actually, the technology is just the same bullshit but with real software screenshots instead of purely made up, and from realism point of view is not much better than 24 was.The plot started off in some kind of direction and then just went off into character development of the uninteresting and unlikable characters.Seems as if each episode was written from scratch with no specific end point on the horizon. Remember when writers had an idea about what the story was about before they started writing ?I swore I wouldn't watch season 2 after the dismal season 1, but here I am on episode 3 of season 2, and I just finally have to switch it off. I don't think anyone touched a computer so far, Tyrell the most interesting character has vanished, and some of the other interesting actors have been replaced by far more annoying people.How this garbage made it to season 3 is beyond me. Can we all just please stop watching it, then it will go away and its budget could be used for more interesting stuff.
Unbelievably predictable and lame storyline.
No reason to create something that is half though th


                
While waiting to get my restless hands on the most recent Halt and Catch Fire, I made the terrible mistake of watching the pilot episode of Mr. Robot. During the first five minutes it had subtle tones of Rubicon, which is about the highest praise I can bestow upon a TV show. (By the way, if you're able to find the 12th episode of Rubicon, I will, without hesitation, pay you for it.) Unfortunately the similarities between Rubicon and Mr. Robot ends with the ascetics and a few shared characteristics of the protagonists.Mr. Robot doesn't bother to hide anything, least of all the low opinion it holds of its audience's intelligence. It bathes in every sin it purports to detest. "Hello, friend." The attempted manipulation of the audience begins in the first fraction of a second. I would have had more respect for the show if they just would have had the socially awkward protagonist rescue a kitten from a tree in the opening shot to let us know, "Yes, he is socially awkward, but he does the right thing, so love him, as we've instructed you to do."He does take down a giant child pornography ring in the first few moments of the show though. And, just in case you're a heartless bastard and aren't yet convinced that he is indeed the good guy, he does "save" a puppy near the end of the pilot. I wish I were kidding. By the end of the episode, I'm pretty sure the show is bordering on satire and just doesn't know it. Or would it be a parody? I can never tell.But instead of a kitty rescue we get a curiously self-aware hyper- angsty narrator lifelessly muttering the words "Hello, friend." Aaah, he wants to be our friend! (This opening could be redeeming if it turns out the narrator has been consciously deceiving the audience since the beginning, but that seems woefully unlikely. (Any deception that is taking place seems to be going on unbeknownst to our hero.)) I had never realized how very redundant it is to have a narrator address the audience for the sake of breaking the fourth wall. Now I will never be able to feel any way other than that.That wasn't what shook me out of the show though. No, that came around the 12 minute mark when suddenly the show took a terribly predictable turn. Shoehorned into the show, the valiant protagonist, who, lest we forget, brought down a child pornographer and is our friend, goes on an anti-commercialism diatribe. This sort of thing isn't new at all and it rarely causes me to audibly scoff or squint my eyes in incredulity, but this moment was a hefty lurch that the show seemed to believe in mightily, and it was far from over.Five minutes later, the protagonist shifts from bemoaning the awful commercial nature of modern society to explicitly identifying the source of his obsession; a giant, evil corporation simply titled E Corp. Nearly omnipotent, it seems, and made of pure evil. I'm sure the unending voice-over would have loved to give us more details about all the many ways E Corp is evil, but he was regrettably interrupted by a commercial break.And that is the big joke, and it's a pretty good one too, in my opinion. You see, Mr. Robot is produced by USA Network. I can't blame you if you aren't familiar with USA. It was one of those networks that ran Law & Order reruns 24/7 until its syndication pricing structure changed about five years ago. Anyhow, USA Network is one of the ponies in NBCUniversal's cable stable. And NBCUniversal is a subsidiary of Comcast.That's right, Mr. Robot is a show about a guy who has a keen loathing for a giant corporation, produced by the single most loathed corporation in America. (Many surveys regarding these sorts of things take place each year and it is considered a win for Comcast if they don't come away with the title of "Most Hated Corporation.") The show is possible in many ways because Comcast exists. Is this a case of self-reflection on Comcast's part? Are they seeking to fringe-ify their detractors? It seems unlikely. What they are doing, simply enough, is trying to capitalize on their unpopularity. It is a strange hall of mirrors where what people hate is projecting themselves hating that thing back at them. Thank goodness it's a simple feat to hate the mirror without hating the subject.This isn't at all to say that everything made or done by Comcast should be subject to disdain, but when, by many measures, the most loathed corporation produces a show using a loathed corporation as the antagonist, I believe a certain degree of scrutiny is justified. It is akin to Donald Trump producing a show about a wholesome country-boy running for president against a blowhard, cartoonishly- haired buffoon, and making money in the process. (Speaking of Trump, his actual TV show was under Comcast's umbrella, and I'm guessing this fictitious one would find a home there as well.)For as absurd as it was, the most unbearable part of watching the pilot episode were the moments the show wasn't actually on. Sitting through commercial breaks to get to the end made the whole expedition truly laughable. "Our TV show about a guy railing against commercialism, evil corporations, and an over-medicated society will be back right after this four-minute commercial break starting with an ad for Xanax followed by an ad for Keeping Up with the Kardashians. Stay tuned!"


                
Unnecessary graphic male penetration homosexual sex scenes. Drugs and sex seems to dominate the show. The actual hacking seems to be an afterthought. It makes it seem as if all of life is some dark dirty underworld. The whole show seems unrealistic.Characters are all dark and depressed. Does not represent reality in Any way. Too many drugs. Too much sex. Short on substance. Could have been so much better. What does IMDb want me to say about such a show? 10 lines? How much more can I express my disappointment? The plot seems to be done on the fly with the writers winging it. Did I mention the graphic homosexual scenes? Complete disappointment in this show.


                
There's simply no logic in these series, I've seen the entire first season without knowing well what's going on.The main character is too much dramatic, to the point his acting gets really unconfortable to watch.It does explore some modern themes, which I think is the reason why it became so popular, but I don't recommend it to anyone. Waste of time.


                
