Season 1 got me so hung up. The season was brilliant, original with great character and original story development. The themes treated were new and never seen on a general public TV series. Also it uncovers a world of hacking with great accuracy and inspiration. Elliot's story was completely unexpected and all the side stories were intriguing. Season 2 is just a disaster. I don't know what happened to the authors. I have already spent 6 hours of my life watching Elliot talking to himself trying to fight his other him with absolutely no purpose. Also the original story has been partially abandoned and it is moving forward without Elliot. I am sure they will connect them at some point but the current situation is that the series is NOT entertaining. Several times I find myself just checking my FB while watching those infinite pointless monologues which very poorly describe Elliot's mind and have nothing to do with what's going on around the world. Also most of the time they are shallow and repetitive with no main thread. What are they trying to describe? The mind of an autistic? A man's refusal of society? I still don't get it.The direction is becoming too pretentious. the movie is beautifully shot. Experimenting is great, photography is master but nothing makes sense without an interesting story to tell. This is not 8 1/2, it does not have the premises to be like that nor is what people are expecting to see. A TV series and a movie are two different things. I will keep on watching the whole season 2 and decide if to move forward with season 3....I hope the things improve.
I got caught up with the hype and decided to view this series. I was hooked after the superb opening ten minutes. However, the series didn't live up to these first ten minutes. The editing was irregular, too fast at times and too slow at others. I also felt that there were too many unexplained threads, it felt like reading the middle of a book without knowing what's come before. The reveal in episode 9 was too obvious and we'd already caught onto it by the end of the second episode and sure by the third episode. Also the big hack that the series finale was leading up to is not shown and we're just left seeing the aftermath, that was an absolute let down. I hope the second season is a little more clear and better edited.
Question: How Does a show halve its viewership in one fell swoop?Answer: Episode 03, Season 03, title "eps3.2_legacy.so" Synopsis: Yet another crop of writers for an American fiction-drama–thriller television series ... unnecessarily and shortsightedly ... decide to interject their absolutely irrelevant and ad-hominem-filled political opinion ... regarding America's current POTUS.And just like that, IMDb review ratings for Mr. Robot begin dropping ... as potentially hundreds of thousands of regular viewers say bye-bye to Mr. Sam Esmail's creation. (Oh well, the show was getting morbidly stale anyway).Basically, Mr. Robot pulled a 'George Clooney' (The Suburbicon box office belly flop).Congratulations Sammy! Job well done. By all means, as you were.
This TV show picked the 2nd most ambitious topic in the world (world order, how is it set in place, how and why it collapses and what happens after), but story and reasoning are so shallow, linear and naive. In short, show took basic concept of the Fight Club and made it moronic. Casting is very wrong. To begin with, Rami Malek (Eliot) is 9 years older than Charly Chaikin (Darlene), who should be his older sister. Why pick 35 years old (who looks as 35 years old) to act as if he is 28 and 24 years old girl acting as woman in early 30s?! That pretty much ruined the experience for me. Once again, there is nothing original in choice and development of characters. Best hacker in the world is Chinese transvestite (how original), 2nd best is crazy genius, schizophrenic, with split personality disorder and on morphine (in this universe, person like that would be able to carry on genius work, extremely dysfunctional and not able to survive outside of the hospital and certainly not somebody to manage regular job + secret organization including controlling EVERYTHING AND EVERYBODY in that organization and even figure out how to pull the plug from the establishment ruling the world). Furthermore, Fsociety is constituted of black man, Muslim woman, fat man and girl who looks like a porn star (so we have all "minorities" here), as opposed to "Evil Corp" represented with regular family type white men (THIS CONCEPT IS ACTUALLY OPPOSITE TO SMART AND ORIGINAL - THIS IS SO TRIVIAL THAT I WANT TO CRY!). Tyrell Wellick is supposed to be the anti-hero but he or it is basically just a bunch of clichés piled up with no reasoning or anything at all in the background. Naturlich, guy is European and Aryan - HOW ORIGINAL, bravo! Very ambitious and very rubbish TV show.


                
This TV series reminds me a lot of the movie called Algorithm (2014)IMDb: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3293462/You can watch the movie here: https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=6qpudAhYhpcYes, the story lines are different but the theme felt the same. Mr Robot ripped off this movie with the "talking in my mind" crap. And what is the deal with the homosexual garbage? Had nothing to do with the story. Unless the writers were telling us, that homosexuals have problems. Company issues, murder, and self-esteem problems. Maybe that was the message because I didn't see anything else.I suspected in eps four that Mr. Robot was off his med and then after eps 6 I figured it out. I give this show one more season.


                
Just finished the first season. I also happen to be a networking engineer, with a certificate and whatnot. I don't work in a cyber-security company, but I get as close to hacking as you can without being a hacker, so here's the opinion of someone who knows what they're talking about.I'm compelled to say the show was shite after seeing the final episode, but it really wasn't. It was mediocre, and just that. Stilted "techy" dialogue, ridiculous events that make no sense, blatant rip-offs of better films... and don't forget the pretentious dialogue.But hey, we've got Christian Slater! That's great!So, what've we got? Rami Malek plays Elliot, a hacker who works at a cyber-sec company and suffers from some undetermined mental illness pretending to be social anxiety disorder. (Really like Rami Malek - he does a great job of playing the character.)In the beginning, Elliot pretends to be a vigilante whilst imagining people in suits which are following him. He then gets laid a bunch of times, does drugs a lot, fights crime, commits crime, "hacks" things in a usually impossible fashion, and suffers from his mental disease. He also stares at people a lot with wide eye-pupils. Insert a load of subplots: Elliot's "best friend" and crush Angela and her goofy moronic boyfriend (my favourite character, can't stop laughing when he's on screen); a Swedish "villain" who is too idiotic to have gotten to his high post in the first place, and his kinky psycho wife; people serving the Chinese hacker group "Dark Army" (2spooky4me), and amongst them a guy named Cisco (As a Cisco Certified engineer I take great offence at that); the other hackers of Mr Robot's gang (which Elliot joins); other evil corporate people.Evil people? Yep, loads of 'em. And all of them like to ruin people's lives, like to get rich, like to laugh at people's misery. They love beating others up, killing them, destroying them. And they're as evil and as corporate as they can get. No character development anywhere there.The viewers are - usually a few times per episode - spoon-fed the blatantly obvious "ermahgerd corporations are evil and rich people are evil" message, along with some other bullshit that I was too bored to pay attention to.The plot has a very predictable twist, one "inspired" by (i.e. ripped off of) an iconic film (but I won't tell you what it is, for only the name will be enough for you to realise what this show's twist is), and the final episode of season 1 attempted to mimic the ending of "V for Vendetta" to an extent, failing dramatically in the process.In conclusion, I'm going to miss the pretentious dialogue, Angela's confused face, her goofy (ex-)boyfriend, and Rami Malek's perfect drug-addict impersonation. And the soundtrack is pretty good too. I like some of the "tenser" recurring themes associated with particular characters.6/10: Ain't that awful, but there's better media to be consumed.
This series is nothing but a mashup, a bad one, of Fight Club and V for Vendetta.Delusional hackers trying to bring down corporations. Making threatening videos, using masks, and claiming that they will free the world. What could be a 2 hours movie was extended to an endless ten episodes season.Besides that, what's is wrong with the cameraman and the directors? Why during every single dialogues do they put the characters on the very side of the screen facing out the TV? It's definitely NOT a nice style. It gives the impression that actors had to redo their lines alone on every scene and that there's no real interaction between them.After the first episodes you can't stop noticing it. Maybe they do that so you don't focus too much on the senseless dialogues.


                
The first chapter is a piece of art, one of the best chapters I have ever seen! It combines mystery with action and all brilliantly mixed in an stressful storyline with a great ending! I thought this would be the start of my favorite TV series!However, the following ones go in decline and become gradually worse. Soon enough (around chapter 4) the plot is completely nonsense. I hoped for it to be the typical half season slow down for a better end but it really does not get any better.I am terribly disappointed to see how an outstanding first chapter can become such a mediocre series... Save your time and do not watch further than chapter 1.


                
I honestly have to say that I am stunned by the review average here, and even more so by the Golden Globe awarded to the series itself, and especially to Christian Slater.But I suppose most of the reviews date back to the time of the pilot, and I wouldn't be surprised if the Hollywood Foreign Press didn't even bother to watch it past the first episode.Overall the series is just average at best in my opinion, here's why.Pros:the pilot is intriguing, and the general premise new and innovativethe show has a strong main character you can relate to and care about, brilliantly played by Rami Malek the show is authentic with respects to hacking and IT in general, which is refreshingCons:besides the main character, the other characters and their character development are just a mess, in fact you have to wonder why they are even there in the first place, why you should care about them, or why they even have to be in the story, in which they play no essential role whatsoeverThe whole Tyrell Wellick storyline for example is just a huge and very cheap rip-off of American Psycho mixed with a little bit of the Underwoods from House of Cards. Only that Tyrell Wellick is acting so stupid that you have to wonder why he even got his current job this way in the first place. If you wanna be CTO of a global company, and you are outrun by a competitor, just try to f*** his wife, that's the great plan? Jesus! And how was all of this relevant to the storyline?And Angela does exactly what? I mean even she doesn't know obviously, and I don't know why she is even there. I know they are trying to play this whole "I was fighting the good fight, but now I'm stuck with this evil company I was trying to fight, and I kinda like it" ambiguity, but come on! Would be more realistic if she didn't start out in some kind of middle management position at an IT-Company to begin with.realism: while the hacking stuff might be realistic, the rest for sure is not. No, no global company would hire someone that somehow managed to expose their darkest secrets and put many of their former members of the board in prison potentially. No, no global company would survive having caused (or being the starting point) of a global financial meltdown of that dimension. No you can't just walk into your IT-security company and get passed security with the ID of your coworker, then log in with that ID, and then plant a virus into the system, they would know it was you (cameras anyone?).-storyline: the storyline is basically one hack after the pilot. Whereas in the pilot we get to know the hacker Eliott and his view of the world, and the people he hacks, which is pretty exciting, all of that is kind of washed away by a drug/ psychic component combined with one great hack to change the world by a group clearly inspired by Anonymous in real life.-twists and ending of S1: the great twist of S1 is unfortunately and disappointingly a big rip-off of Fight Club, and the ending of S1 is neither the closure of a chapter of a storyline nor a cliffhanger, it's just confusing and makes you wonder if you really want to watch a S2.
TV has been on a hot streak over the past 5-10 years. The rise of cable and internet streaming are giving writers the freedom like never before to write shows that are thoughtful, challenging, and creative. In fact, almost 90% of the good shows anymore are on either cable or Netflix/Hulu/Amazon. Broadcast still gets the occasional gem like Modern Family or Last Man on Earth, but otherwise, most of the good stuff is cable/internet. I read about Mr. Robot and how good of a show it was by critics and viewers. I was ready to see something groundbreaking, somethng that would force me to binge watch. After three episodes, I stopped, and here's why.The show is nothing more than a rip off of Fight Club, The Matrix, and American Psycho thrown into a blender. Heck, every time Elliot narrates, I'm waiting for him to say "I'm Jack's this or that." It just felt free much "been there, done that" very early on, and watching the other episodes, it just seemed to continue down that road. Elliot is the typical anti-hero of this type of program: hates corporations, hates consumerism, hates "normal" life, has social anxiety and depression, has cute female friend he wants to date but is too shy to tell her and she dates losers, hates the media, thinks society is fake and screwed up, etc. He lives by himself in New York City, working as Tech Support for a security company by day and as a hacker vigilante at night, where he blackmails victims not for money, but instead to be honest to their family, friends, etc. about their vices and as a result, be better human beings. One day, on a train, he meets Mr. Robot, Christian Slater doing his best Tyler Durden, who invites him to join an underground team who's mission is to take down a corporation that looks strangely like Enron, one of those big "evil" corporations. Kind of like Project Mayhem...Sound familiar? That's the problem. This story has been told before in other media. Sure, it's been 15-20 years, but there was nothing in this show that got me glued and interested. All it did was remind me of parts of Fight Club, Matrix and American Psycho. I mean, the show even goes on the whole "Is Mr. Robot real or a fragment of his imagination?" just like Fight Club. We get it, society sucks and life is unfair. Yawn. Negative outlooks only bread negative results. Believe it or not, you can work hard and have a good life. Not everything is horrible.If you want to see this tale told better, rent Fight Club, Matrix and American Psycho.


                
The initial setup was nice. The first 3-4 episodes - perfectly watchable. But by episode 7 it dawned on me that this show was going nowhere. The writing is pretentious and overexposed. Elliott's inner monologues are a frustrating mambo jumbo of some new age truisms. The characters - annoying. There isn't a single character in this show to identify with or feel for. It doesn't help that characters don't get any development. They simply come and go, and why they went and whether they're going to be back - I don't care.So episode 7 was the last episode for me. I'm guessing I'm within the primary target audience for this show, but the truth is - it just couldn't make me care enough. An opportunity squandered.


                
Awesome and promising beginning of the series, but after just a few episodes turns into psychological/psychotic drama without making much sense. I continued to watch hoping for something making sense and becoming more engaging again, but the show just never delivered.


                
Wife and I started watching the first season. The first two episodes were good enough to capture our attention pretty well, but put me to sleep, or at least really tired and sleepy after watching them.The third episode disgusted me. I'm sorry but graphic male gay sex is NOT something I find in the least bit entertaining, I'm not even a guy who likes heterosexual sex scenes, call me a prude, but I don't find watching other people having sex entertaining...and I'm a pretty liberal guy, just never was a porn consumer. The third episode also introduces a pregnant woman requiring her man to perform S&M...tying her up, etc.. So, while I really don't have a problem with what people do behind closed doors between consenting adults, I really don't find it entertaining as television or movie watching.Throughout the first 5 episodes (we never watched any more), the main character deals with morphine addiction, I don't mind this, or the violence, etc..I told my wife after watching the third episode, that I was done with the show, the male gay sex scene was something I hoped I could drink out of my brain, but I said if she was still interested...and she was still mildly interested...we would continue. Well, after episode 4 and 5 she had enough. It just went in to a mentally bizarre mode with psychotic jumping around between visuals and scenes and is simply not good entertainment.I have to admit, this show is like a car wreck, you know its ugly but you cant take your eyes away from it, its riveting, but also really sick. We stopped after the 5th episode. This is not "entertainment" for us.
The thing most TV shows suffer from is that their pilots tend to be weaker than the rest of the show. It's understandable; the pilot is supposed to introduce us to the premise of the show and its characters, so that can easily become sort of tedious. It wasn't like that with Mr. Robot. Its first scene was great; I got a perfect sense of what the show was about (hacking) and who its main character was. By the time 'Mr. Robot' flashed out, I thought to myself "This is going to be an exciting show!"Oh, was I wrong.The thing with Mr. Robot is that it is so slow. I constantly felt like we're about to reach some destination, that something BIG was about to happen, but it never quite happened. I was in the middle of the first season and I still felt that the story had not yet quite taken off. The big revolution at the end felt lackluster. Even then I didn't feel like anything exciting was happening. That could be attributed to the fact that Mr. Robot is a more character-driven than plot-driven show, and boy, isn't Elliot a complicated character. We see a lot of the story from his point of view and most of the time he's confused AF as to what is going on around him. Actually, I've noticed that the... atmosphere of a scene is sort of clearer when Elliot isn't in it. Having said that it is obvious that Mr. Robot is not a poorly made show. It has some of the most stunning visuals when it comes to TV at the moment. For me, however, the most important aspect of a TV show is how entertaining it is and how invested it makes me to its story. Mr. Robot's story may be clever and well-written, but it is also slow and boring and that, for me, is unforgivable.
The pilot episode of this series shows great promise. At the risk of failing to appeal to the modern television viewer who has become accustomed to shows lacking true substance, it will most certainly captivate a core audience of viewers who feel alienated by the typical programming of the modern day. The narrative touches on topics like social and digital revolution through the thoughts of the protagonist as he narrates the episode. The status quo of modern social behavior, consumerism, and corporate greed prevailing by virtue of the complacency amongst the proletariat is a core issue that both the show and protagonist address with great disdain. It ironically begs the question that if our complacency with the quality of consumer items–– such as substandard television programming––is so entrenched in our society, when we are finally greeted with an oasis of the kind of talented artistic expression that this show offers devoid of being dumbed-down or hollowed out in effort to appeal to a wider audience, will we be able to transcend our usual tastes, or will the level of real, thought-provoking narratives lead a disinterest among the typical armchair audience and eventually the show's demise? Much like other successful programs such as "The Big Bang Theory" and "House", that received a large following despite some very technical aspects of the dialogue that tend go over-the-head of the majority of their viewers, Mr. Robot followed suit and still holds true to it's core audience by fact-checking its more technical content and preserving its validity. Most films or programs with a hacker or computer science theme tend to overplay the "coolness" of what is shown when it comes something as dry as computer code by representing the digital world as it it were a fantasy, in lieu of the more accurate yet bland, plain-text unix coding on a computer screen. I was surprised and also relieved to see the actual computer science portions of the episode be accurate representations of a real-life scenario down the very character. As with other successful programs with story lines derived from complex subject matter (like medicine or theoretical physics), the amount of technical dialogue is not so much that it will bore the majority of the audience who will not understand it, but just enough that it will captivate and perhaps even educate them slightly as they are offered a glimpse into a fascinating world whose power and influence they wouldn't otherwise comprehend. My hope is that USA––the network on which the show will air––will recognize that they have struck gold, and not run scared if viewership starts off slow. Most shows of this caliber do not take off will a large audience, but rather begin to amass a strong cult following and later become a huge hit. We saw this kind of skepticism among network executives with Breaking Bad. Much like the idea of a school teacher cooking meth to pay his medical bills, a computer nerd with a social disorder and possible schizophrenia working for a network security firm by day and playing social hacktivist by night is not something that immediately screams "blockbuster". It's my hope that the timing of this show will prove to be its greatest strength in light of recent events in the hacking and cybersecurity world involving Anonymous, Edward Snowden, Julian Assange, Ross Ulbricht, and Aaron Swartz. Viewers are educated now more than ever when it comes to hacking and the impact that individuals can make on society through their "hacktivist" work.The protagonist of Mr. Robot is similar in many ways to these individuals, and the plausibility of his disposition is validated by their individual plights. Where they have fallen short of their ultimate goals and failed to elude capture, the audience will root for their new favorite anti-hero since Walter White to incite a social revolution through his hacktivist work. Whether he succeeds or is met with the same demise is up to the writers who have crafted this brilliant first episode.


                
I know it's meant to be good, but it's pretty dull, so I stopped watching after a season... Or possibly just some of the first season. I forget either way, as the show made no impact or lasting impression on me.


                
Sorry but this is not for you if you are not totaly grounded, it centers around a guy who keeps going from 1 drug trip to another drug trip... with loads of psycological crap and mind twisters.... Including way to long psyco babble about what if this, what if that... To those who are already instable, this is not your show to watch!!If it was a show about a hacker group or a hacker who tried to battle the bad in the world, I would have loved it but al that psycho and drugs related psycho babble realy screwd it up for me....


                
