I am very interested to see where this show will go. The person who left a 1/10 rating must not like technology/hacking/etc themed stuff (why did they watch it in the first place then!). I loved it. Hints of fight club/conspiracy theory stuff, but not too over the top. Overall, I love the sense of mystery coupled with the tech stuff, and will definitely be watching this one religiously. If you are at all into technology, especially the underworld of technology ie hacking, you will like this. If you like stuff that underlines the insanity of our dollar-based culture, elite basking in money while the poor suffer etc, you will like this show. Just watch it. It's good.


                
**** SPOILERS *****The good: I loved season 1 and had high hopes for this TV series before season 2 came around. I instantly loved Elliot Alderson's character and how his monologues explain how people really are in society but no one ever talks about and he strips away the bullshit. The command line "hacking" is a small bonus and wish there was more of it to add the effect of realism.The bad: Season 2. It's fast pace and will confuse a lot of people. Season 2 took a quick dark turn which made me lose interest in the show. The things and character development that I enjoyed in season 1 are not on season 2.The ugly: I find that Darlene's character is annoying and I don't know if it's the actress or if the character was created to be this way. Gideon's ending was swift. Elliot's character in season 2 is dark and hacking isn't involved that much and he doesn't talk much. Darlene is taking stupid risks which doesn't make sense from a hacking lifestyle perspective.This show has the potential to be more than great but it'll most likely end up with a ridiculous Dexter'ish ending or. I doubt that the writers have a master plan - season 2 is like spaghetti code, especially with character development. I have not decided if I'll go past episode 4.
What in the Heck happened to Season 2?? The first season got me hooked... and now the writer has just taken us down one dark rabbit hole after another...It's not even the same show. I'm currently so annoyed by Season 2 that I'm writing a review about it instead of watching the new episode. I would have NEVER done that in first season. Boyfriend feels same... so I had to read what others on here had to say, and I find I'm not alone in my opinion. What the hell happened??? I'll still finish the season... because I'm committed like that. But not sure if I'll spend my time on Season 3.I feel like I learned quite a bit about the tech world in the first season, which I enjoyed being 'schooled' and having to Google terms to fully grasp all conversations between characters... but Season two is about nothing but convincing audience of the severity of Elliot's drug addiction and mental illness. I get it, I believe he's f*cked up, let's move on with a plot... it's like nothing is happening. Good characters got cut (i.e. Shayla and Gideon) and mediocre characters have more screen time... more new characters are coming in for no apparent connection... it just seems to me that the writer himself has a drug and mental illness problem and is projecting it into the show.
Based on the first episode only: The lead actor and his embrace of this character are the real strengths of this show.This is not the show for someone seeking action and special effects. A key tool used to tell the story is a running inner monologue of the main character and as such we could describe this episode as being more cerebral than many television shows but it is an approach to storytelling that some will not appreciate.There are tropes that appear - males blackmailed for porn/prostitution, childhood friendship unrealized as an adult romance, evil mega-corporations, and so on. Very little if anything truly novel about the elements of Mr. Robot, at least as far as the first episode.As for the production - obviously on a tight budget but a gritty feel is developed with liberal use of grey city scenes and green fluorescent indoor lighting, without becoming too melancholic.The writers have thrown in several terms into the dialogue - "rootkit", "DDOS", etc. - that strike me as too obviously placed, as a blatant attempt to identify with the target audience. The dialogues are nowhere as strong as the monologue and are short, somewhat awkward.Even with all those weaknesses, the first episode left us wanting more. Worth catching.
This is an exciting movie. It is not boring. It is kind of frightening to think how things could go down. It does take a negative approach to all people being thieves. It's just the reason you do things that justifies things. Hmm. The end justifies the means. It's very left. I get the feeling that once someone becomes a leader in the corporate world or even the owner of small business that that person is considered evil. I don't think it is that simple. It is a pessimistic view of the world. It does point out some things that need to be pointed out in the world, increasing student loan debts, etc. Getting an education is getting out of hand in some places with such debt being left to the individual student to pay. As I said earlier, the movie is exciting even if at points it seems a little slow. It captures your attention. Where will it go? Any other comments?


                
I didn't have any expectations for this show when it came out, as I had heard nothing about it; all I knew is that it was about a hacker. I watched the pilot when it came out, it was good. I've watched all the episodes and there's one thing that bothers me so much: THE MAIN CHARACTER. I cannot get into this show with how dull the main character is. I don't know if it's the writing or the actor, but something needs to change. I'm very much into weird, psychopathic characters (like Dexter), and the main character of Mr. Robot is weird...and also very boring. He's a crazy good hacker that we find out is insane, that sound SO interesting - why is he still so dull? I don't know, if you like him, good for you. That's my one grievance against the show. Overall, it's pretty educational if you'd like to know 'hacking 101'. I do recommend, as it's still sort of enjoyable
I enjoyed the clever season 1. Season 2 got a bit complicated but there were some twist in the plot that caught my atention. Season 3 I got completely lost and the preach against capitalism started to get really annoying.
The second season of Mr. Robot was either trying to do too little or too much; I heard an equal amount of complaints that it was moving too slowly and that way too much was happening.


                
I don't typically write reviews but on this show I don't feel the star rating justifies what I actually feel about this show. In the first season I absolutely loved it, I was watching episode to episode thinking how can they top last episode and EVERY single time they managed to defy my expectations, it was amazing. But then I moved onto Season 2, waiting for them to defy expectations or at least provide some more of what I already loved. The shows story hit its climax, the characters arc finished and there was nothing more to show. It seemed as if they were scrambling for anything to write about. Angela turned into this robot-like emotionless character I don't know if it was terrible writing or the actor didn't know how to act, I just wanted to shoot myself when her scene came on. We get it, you're f*cked up. The star of the show Elliot, he's now just going crazy and crazier? Is there nothing else to talk about this character but his insanity? I skipped his scenes because they were literally pointless, someone could have just put on the screen in big bold letters 'ELLIOT IS INSANE' and I could have got the point. You don't have to put me through the terrible... Dream sequence? Crazy dream sequence?I loved the first season, I wanted more and then the show couldn't do it. If they left the show as a mini-series it would have been perfect. Clearly there was a money motivator here.


                
I think the internal dialog of the main character is intriguing, (reminiscent of Dexter). I think there is fertile ground to develop this story far beyond the limited thinking of the previous critic. I also like slow character development in the series I watch. I just hope the writers are able to hold back their enthusiasm with the ideas that they having with this series. I hope they don't just give it all away in the second episode for ratings.(comment to the creators and writers. Everyone can see its Chrisitian Slater... He's a brilliant actor, but he hasn't changed his look in 20 years. He should really risk his image a little to give his own personal acting persona depth. a scar or a tattoo, or or a limp or something as a clue to something deeper, his motivation. Any way.... Just saying... I like the series very much.I think its got a 10 season feel to it, just hold it together.


                
Definitely one the best pilot episodes out there, but from the third ep. they lost it completely. Hack side of the story is not too bad, but they have had to make it more personal, not blend bunch of different stories into a complete mess. Making it more of a personal struggle within Elliot like in Pilot episode. "Saving the world from evil corporations" has become too lame to write about.My biggest objection about the TV show is quasi-hacktivist women, lame Hollywood love stories and really bad acting shown by Carly Chaikin and Portia Doubleday. Former mentioned bitchiness is so childish it makes me sick while watching scenes with her. "I am menace to the world!" What the f...? Her "relationship" with Cisco < lame, who is working with "Dark Army", lmao. Whole thing's just stepping over my threshold of stupidity.Latter mentioned simply doesn't fit the show. She acts and looks like she is in the Legally Blonde film.One more thing is really disturbing me, political correctness is overdone. What's with all the homosexuality, and all-races included thing. I really don't care if they're all white, black, Asian, Muslim, Christian or Hindu. Just tell the freakin' story well. Are we only interested in following the trends? Silicon Valley is at least fun to watch.


                
I started watching this show after hearing my friends raving about it. I will say that the premise itself is very exciting, and the show certainly does have its moments.What i like: I like it when the plot moves along and one of the characters gets on a terminal and hacks some stuff. I like some of the action sequences that make you feel like you're in a spy movie.What i don't like: Two seasons in and Elliot is still completely psychotic. I'm really annoyed by the whole mental illness aspect of this show because it has slowed the plot down to a crawl. I'm so sick of Elliot losing his mind and having no idea what is going on. They really need to fix this in season 3. Also, there is virtually no character development on this entire show. Maybe the only exception to this is Angela's character, but it's not really clear what her game is or what her motivations are. Elliot's imaginary father is just a terrible character. Im sure the actor playing him is doing the best he can, but literally all he does is argue with Elliot and literally you could copy and paste any scene whenever the two of them are together and it would make no difference to the plot. Also, Tyrell Wellick was the best character on the show and they made him disappear for the bulk of season 2.
Vigilante uberhacker Elliot (Rami Malek) takes on ruthless mutinational Evil Corp - who killed his father - while suffering from mental illness and morphine addiction.You know what Mr. Robot is? It's old-school science fiction, the kind that ends up with familiar streets full of people with placards, and anarchy going on, in order to make a point about human society in general. In this show, the alien invaders are the good guys, and they're the dark network of computer hackers.On a human level, the Mr. Robot series asks the question, 'Why would anyone write computer viruses?' and the answer for Elliot is twofold, and it isn't 'money': one, it's to get revenge on the multinational that gave his father leukemia and two, to be a nice guy doing bad things because the rest of the world are 'pr*cks' and they deserve it, as his father taught him.SPOILER: the character of 'Mr. Robot' played by Christian Slater is actually Elliot's dead father, in a twist from 'Fight Club' among others (Sixth Sense even), but unlike those, this isn't a major plot point. This is more the depiction of Elliot's illness from his own point of view, and it works. There is a lot of it, btw.Why the Breaking Bad reference? There are similarities in the hero trying to be the baddest SOB in the valley, and the whole drug'n'prison dealing-with-the-devil shtick and the well-maintained suspense. There's even a 'Bonfire Of The Vanities' subplot.Not perfect - for example the way Vera, the badass drug dealer simply skips off into nowhere is a bit weak (though he may return in series 2?); a quick glance at the 'hated it' reviews will, of course, destroy the authenticity of the hacking techniques, and the gay and bondage sex scenes are a little bit gratuitous in the way of 1980's soft pr0n videos, but if you enjoyed the subtexts of Breaking Bad and the like, Mr Robot will satisfy that hunger.
I love the premise for this show. The main character Elliot almost even seems to speak for me at times. Also, I am a fan of Christian Slater's work from the 1980s and early 1990s. So this show has a large potential for me. However, although I think Mr. Robot is basically well accomplished, its average review rating on IMDb makes me compare it to other shows with IMDb average review ratings near to it. And unfortunately, so far, I don't think Mr. Robot builds suspense quite as well as shows like Breaking Bad or True Detective have, nor is the over all performance of Mr. Robot's acting as high, and its scripts are not quite as strong.Mr. Robot is indeed a good show, but maybe its being done a slight disservice by some overzealous viewers. I think amateur reviewers have a tendency to overrate when they particularly enjoy the theme behind a particular movie or television show. Additionally, I think sometimes even professional reviewers will take a populist view and rate movies and television shows just based on whether they think most people will enjoy such rather than rate such according to what they feel are the actual technical and artistic merits of the piece in question. That all seems to be the case with Mr. Robot. So instead of being able to just write about how I enjoy Mr. Robot and to what extent here, I'm almost forced to say that although Mr. Robot is good, it is slightly overrated, and that is unfortunate.Of course, all is not said and done with Mr. Robot. This show is only six episodes into its first season. I predict that it could, ultimately, deserve a rating in the neighborhood of 9/10, and by "neighborhood," I mean a very strong 8/10, say an 8.8 or an 8.9. However, at the moment, I have it at about an 8.3 or 8.4 of ten, so I'm rounding to the nearest whole number in my rating and giving it eight stars. Every TV show that I've tried which was rated by other viewers at below 8.2/10 has eventually felt like a waste of time to me. So, my actual rating of 8.35/10 stands for a a bit above average or pretty good.


                
I have enjoyed Mr Robot for the most part, I think Remi Malek is superbly well cast as the main protagonist Elliot Alderson, he does such a good job of making the socially inadequate nerdy computer hacker come to life.The secondary characters are also very excellent indeed and can hold the show perfectly well on their own, as they have done in at least one episode where Elliot hardly appears.I would have given Mr Robot 9 out of 10 if it were not so much in debt to the Fight Club movie. I could easily accept taking the main character narrative style from Fight Club, that is not unique to Fight club, but the fact that Mr Robot takes other very significant elements from Fight club is disappointing.I've watched series one and two and I will watch series three when it comes out. Aside from my complaint about the debt to Fight Club, Mr Robot does contain much originality of its own which is why I give it a 7 out of 10.


                
Rami Malek's performance is absorbing.The pilot episode was so promising However I was disappointed in the way story progressed. The latter half of the season with all of its big reveals simply made me change the channel. I am stopping after watching the first season. Over used plot lines makes this show a waste of time.


                
It is a good story. The making is VERY good. If you have enough patience, you can give it a try. Here is a list of the negative aspects of this show. Of course these are my personal options and no one has to agree with me. 1. Way too much voice-over: The entire show is full of voice-over of the leading character Elliot. Sometimes it managed to get on my nerves. 2. Poor voice-over: Yes I know that the voice-over is supposed be like that (lifeless/depressing), but when you have to listen to that for that long, it has to be better. If Morgan Freeman gets 10 out of 10 for his style of narration, this dude will get something like .00001 or .00002. 3. Very slow paced: The pace of the show could have been a bit faster. It becomes a bit boring at times. 4. Not enough twists: Yes there are a lot of twists but not enough to keep you on the edge of your seat.Although this was not one of my favorite TV series, I have finished watching the 1st season because of the very high rating on IMDb. Hope the 2nd season will be better.
The first episode's plot turned on a "Personal IP Address".1) That doesn't exist -- People aren't assigned IP Addresses -- Devices you use will be assigned an IP address. -- Today, this is generally a dynamic address from a pool of available addresses. -- However, this assignment will also be logged, so it can associated with a specific device (specifically its MAC address). And then, the primary user of the device.2) There is no reason for Trojan-horse malware to be tied to anything personally identifiable. A more realistic approach would been to have compromise the target's computer first, and use it to plant the Trojan. FBI computer forensics could have then been called in to back-track to the the source of the hack. -- Could have commented on the amateurish approach of the CTO as evidenced by his getting caught. This would only bolster the likelihood of him being the culprit as a real hacker wouldn't get caught, or at least so easily. 3) Finally, most egregiously, if you are going to show an IP Address to demonstrate the show's "tech-savvyness"... It should be valid address.
9.1 rating on IMDb? Really?This show's pilot was very, very good.The acting throughout has been good. The production has been excellent. Unfortunately the story lost it's way after about episode 4. That is the writers and directors fault. It has quickly become as tedious as the second series of True Detective (Don't start me on that - I could follow the plot(just). But it was very, very dull in comparison to the excellent first series.)The 9.1 rating must be taking into account the people who voted(on the whole series) after watching one or two episodes. Its OK but we are rating this show alongside the Wire, Sopranos, House of Cards, Dexter, Justified and Boardwalk Empire. And they're just the American dramas!This review has admittedly turned into a moan about the IMDb ratings and not the actual show. Sorry about that but I do, in some part, plan my TV and movie viewing around the reviews on this site. That's the whole point isn't it? People shouldn't be voting on TV SERIES/SEASONS until they are a good way into the finished productThe show is OK to good. Definitely worth a look.But 9.1 ????


                
I'll confess I was intrigued by the premise of this show's storyline and after hearing from numerous people it was a great show, I decided to binge watch the 1st season. After having finished watching it I can honestly say the storyline starts out strong, it's compelling and sort of hooks you into wanting to watch the whole story unfold. Sadly, the episodes kind of go off the rails as the viewer is led down a rabbit hole with no way to get back to reality. I saw Remi Malek in the series Pacific, very strange actor, he played that role with a spaced out look too.... there's something about this guy, can't quite put my finger on it, but you honestly believe he's mentally out-of-it... guess that's the sign of a good actor.Having spent the majority of my career in IT, I can tell you a lot of the plot devices used in this story are unrealistic, plenty of technology plot holes you could drive a truck through but if you're not that familiar with tech, then you could buy most of what this series is selling from a "hacker's perspective".I thought the series could do less with the graphic depictions of gay sex, those scenes do nothing to advance the plot line and seem very out-of-place. I found it very hard to reconcile the age difference between Elliot and Mr. Robot. In real life, Remi Malex and Christian Slater don't come across as being that far apart in age, so needless to say that plot twist towards the end of the first season was hard to believe. One thing I can say is the filming style was very well done.... I found the odd off-centre depiction of most of the scenes to be strangely compelling.Season 2 will hopefully reconcile a lot of the gaping plot holes from season 1, I'll definitely check it out... but for everybody's who's hailing this series as a 10 out of 10, I suggest you watch Breaking Bad, that series really defined episodic television and set the bar very high, unfortunately this series doesn't hold a candle to the calibre of that show, maybe in Season 2 they'll pull out all the stops.... we'll see... 7 out of 10.... I already gave my 10 out of 10 to Breaking Bad
The whole plot seems to be inspired by delusional character of Edward Norton in fight club. From the very beginning i was sure that Mr. Robot is only an imagination of Elliot as Mr. Robot was getting in & out of every facility Elliot was present,without being noticed. As because the stakes for their mission was high,there weren't supposed to meet in public places or work place because there was already a surveillance of Evil Corp. behind Elliot's back. The whole show has now lost its charm after it was confirmed that Elliot is Mr. Robot.Now we have left with the main character of Elliot which is Intelligent but delusional & Tyler who may help Elliot to harm Evil Corp. for his personal vendetta only.
*Spoilers - first three episodes*I had high hopes for this series after the pilot. It promised an interesting protagonist and a clash of corporate vs hacker world. All of this collapses in the second and third episodes. The character development of the main protagonist is odd. He started out with an interesting life philosophy (the scene in the pilot with the psychiatrist) that since hasn't gone anywhere. There is just ad nauseam repetition of him being paranoid and awkward. I still have no idea who he is and what he wants, or what his problems really are. Other than sexual preference, there is also no character development for any of the other characters neither.All of this might have been overlooked if the story was interesting, but there again, nothing is happening. There's a group of hackers, an evil corp...and that's about it. The plot at this point (or how little of it there is) is getting buried under a mess of shallow scenes with no clear destination. It feels like the creators haven't fleshed out their characters and don't have enough material to make a compelling story.


                
Good stuff and some of the technical detail around computing and IT are actually accurate.But it does drive me nuts, the victim complex that the main character has. Americans are still free to go off the grid, be self sufficient, and to govern the relationship between themselves and the federal government and corporations. Emancipate your mind, I want to say to Elliott. :) I do like the acting, and the moral gray occupied by most of the characters seems realistic enough. Christian Slater is good. I always think of The Name of the Rose when I see him though. :)I have a feeling we'll be watching Rami in many roles for some time to come.


                
Sam Esmail has created a wonderfully constructed anti-social anti-authoritarian drama piece surrounding the hacking culture. This television show is as much about personal identity as it is about interpersonal relationships and how these individuals choose to interact with or against society.Unfortunately some executive at some level thought it wise to add a narration over the action which ruins the experience. Critical thinking is reduced as facts and feelings are spoon fed to the viewer. I want to watch Mr. Robot and follow alongside the characters and figure things out, not have a disembodied voice spelling things out step by step as they figure it out for themselves.Sam, you've got a hit on your hands. Don't underestimate your audience. Lose the narration. This isn't Idiocracy.


                
The series begins with an interesting premise (words about the control of the world), but quickly tries to show a "strong and bizarre" character as Dr House, Lie To Me, etc. But what it is really striking is that the images, procedures and words are overly ridiculous, and there are far from what a true hacker is. ¿IPs that begins with 400? Nobody knows about the existence of root-kits in a security company? You are a hacker because you uses KDE? Come on, it's absolutely ridiculous. I'll give him one more chapter of opportunity. PD: one more thing: if you knows something about internet and security and believes you are a hacker, don't put proofs about your crimes in dvds. Think about it.
Hello friend, "Mr. Robot" presents it self as show about depression, anxiety, social problems, and AMAZING HACKING SKILLS with just a few fast taps on a keyboard. The series shows a great perspective through the brand new IT and mobile world The main actor "Rami Malek" as "Elliot Alderson" doesn't sell very well his part, other than being able to maintain the same facial expression through the entire episode. Some emotional scenes (related with his depression and distrust with the world and "the man") have a great message but i cannot help but feel that all this emotions and thoughts are just being pushed down my throat. Now the main event: FIGHT CLUB inspiration (and maybe also a bit tribute): - his father was himself. all his father's actions and accomplishments were in fact accomplished by Elliot Alderson. (Tyler Durden form Fight Club) -Mr. Robot has the same goal as Tyler Durden: to collapse the economic industry. One way or another they hate pretty much the same things and both want an economic breakdown of the economy (and society). - in the last scene of s01 ep09 when Elliot Alderson is showing Tyrell Wellick the safe place of fsociety guess witch music is playing! "Where is my mind" the same song that is played in the infamous last scene of Fight Club (tribute?).In conclusion, its a good TV Series but the main casting should have been better chosen, has all the plot twist clichés that we like to see. ALL OF THEM, and that kind of helps the bad image I have that this show seems a bit poorly manufactured (following a recipe: catchy phrases like hello friend, a death of a close one, a murder by a mad arch enemy etc etc). 7
