Mr. Robot is sweeping up all the important awards (Best drama, best actors) and well deserved! When i started to watch this series i didn't expect much, but it has blow me away even in the first episode. A dark story about what is right and what is wrong, and the madness that that question brings. The acting is solid and so is the directing.This character, Elliot, is really drawing me in. He's so fantastically flawed, beautifully destructive, sane and insane. His outlook on the world is perhaps pessimistic, or arrogant, but there is a truth in his words - his inner dialogue that comes across as well-written poetry. By the time you're on episode four, the confusion somewhat kicks in. This is okay though, as each character is slowly becoming themselves in the show and synchronizing.I can tell how each character is going to intertwine for the most part - but Elliot is the main attraction. I believe there are people out there who are like him; snorting Morphine 30's and taking Suboxone so he doesn't withdraw - a computer genius and natural poet, and a complete sociopath who abuses his power over computers and the internet to understand the human condition and even himself.This show is well worth your time; I think even the older crowds (I'm 22) - so basically people who would be my parents, can learn something from this show. They can catch a glimpse of what we're all really like: Sociopathic internet nerds who tweet and text and share, passing information around this sterile country as if it's the very air we breath. This show captures the current zeitgeist, or overall spirit of the times - Elliot is just the extremity, of course. A job well done. I give this show a 9/10


                
Going in with low expectation, not knowing anything about this show, the pilot turned out to offer a pleasant surprise. In short, the show is a bit unconventional, like a mix between an audio book and a TV show, but one rather well researched and executed.The acting is fairly good, the narrative style felt novel and fresh, and there's ample room for various subplots and story lines. The setting also felt real, as others have pointed out. Some interesting creative decisions were made, such as blatantly spelling out the antagonist, a company, by giving it an unmistakable name. It also makes subtle jokes and pokes fun of things probably only people in the IT industry would recognize.Whereas most shows and movies seem to throw all connection to reality straight out the window when it comes to IT related stuff, this show does not. In fact, it seems extraordinarily well researched for an entertainment piece. Being in that industry myself and having had a bit of "fun" as a youth, I'd have to say that overall the portrayal of IT security and hacking in this show is leaps and bounds more accurate than anything that has come before it, even if the attentive viewer would be able to spot some minute factual errors.Perchance even entertainment execs have realized they can no longer get away with silly and unbelievable things like "magic picture enhance", nerdy super hackers who as through divine insight guess their targets passwords in 1-2 attempts, or with peddling notions of tools that have weeks of artist design effort spent on them, for buttons that once clicked, reveal some information that would logically be impossible to get hold of through the channel used.It seems as though we finally have a show that doesn't treat its audience as idiots, and where the writers actually spent some time doing their homework. I'm just concerned that the show may be targeting too small an audience, an audience consisting of people who do not switch their brains off when they turn on the tele, and as such it may not be awarded a series contract.So far, highly recommended to tune into if you're interested in seeing something fresh and aren't allergic to narration (getting inside the mind of a somewhat odd protagonist), as there's quite lot of the latter.


                
It's not often a series opens with such strong performance, it brazenly captivates the audience with not only smart premise but also an identifiable observation of society. Rami Malek confidently steps into the leading role with all the awkwardness and anxiety of a vigilante hacker. Mr. Robot takes a different route of technology-based crime drama, it treats the subject with enough credible realism and without being detached from audience like over-the-top hacker with sunglasses gimmick.Rami Malek as Elliot delivers a hefty amount of monologues, he literally communicates with the audience as though he's talking to an imaginary friend. This approach could end up stale, yet the brilliantly fresh material and admirable performance make for a highly intriguing watch. Elliot is tech savvy, though sociably clumsy. It's a different take on leading character, which is why it's compelling to see him dissect all the trivial matters with unapologetic precision.He solves problem by stepping on a gray area between privacy breach and vigilante assistance. At some point he encounters an attack to a large company's server. There he finds a ploy to sabotage very important parties and the subsequent far-reaching effects. Due to his indifference nature and chosen action, Elliot begins his involvement in the web of conspiracy.The production is nice without being overly futuristic. Clips of social media and the view of large metropolis are handled with poise, transitioning from a cool shot of the urban scenery to cynical presentation of pop culture. It doesn't attempt to glamorize hacking like typical blockbuster mishaps, the kind where the hacker shouts at the screen with countdown timer. The show knows its theme and it presents it with both accessibility and sophistication.With an outstandingly interesting pilot, it's a pleasure connecting with Mr. Robot.
Wauw... season 2 was really awful. It was like expanding and stretching, without the content... Budget limit's? I loved season 1 and was the best "computer" movie/series i have ever seen in my life, however i felt bored in season 2. Rami Malik does a good job, and the bi-roles does too, however the writers must have been making a "lets make a lot of movies in season 2"


                
It was a revelation when I first saw that it is possible to make TV that is better than most movies. That was Breaking Bad. I am really glad to find that this has been done again with Mr Robot. The storytelling, the cast, nearly everything is reaching to the new highs.It is not without flaws. I noticed I absolutely loved season 2, while the 3rd season was a little of a disappointment. When I viewed the series again, I saw how the Tyrell Wellick character/actor did not quite match the top-notch performances of the rest of the cast; next to the beautifully subdued performances by the mega stars Rami Malik and Christian Slater, it was clear the actor performing the role of TW did not master the subtleties, the commandment of the scene with his presence, leaving a bad taste of trying a little too hard to be noticed, rather than simply staying on the background as a supporting actor. On the second viewing, I ended up fast forwarding most scenes with Mr. Wallick. God I hope he'll no be appearing on S4.


                
First of all I have to say, I felt connected with Malek in many ways. His anti-social behavior, his view of the modern society, his drug habit, his relationships etc. The pilot was on a good start from the very first minute and it grew on me as it unraveled. I found myself craving for more and more each minute it passed, to the point I stopped the video to check how much more it had left (it was about at the 40min mark, with another or so minuted to go). I don't really love the fact that Malek is delusional, as it may provide an easy solution for nearly EVERYTHING that will go on as the show moves, but if played right, it can become the whole show itself, so meh, I don't know how to feel about that. His relationship with Angela was rather dull, until the point he went and defended her on the meeting, thus justifying not turning the fscociety group to the authorities as his moral code was all about (this and the nearly 200,000$ of student loans she has). Anyway I didn't wanted this to turn out analyzing every turn this episode took so I will stop here. I give it 8/10 with high hopes (and great fear as well) for the next episode! La Ku
The pilot started in a really intriguing vague way .. it went so mysterious ,, i didn't even see the trailer .. The story began simply about this socially awkward hacker being paranoid about someone following him ... some flashbacks then the other main characters starts to appear one by one.The plot is not that fresh but the execution "through my 10 years of TV shows obsession" was genius ,, so much like the movies where there's a delusional guys or you think is he really !! the beginning of it kinda reminded me of "fight club" monologue style .. through this secretive scenario it kinda made me want to watch more ... want to know more ... is this guy really a hacker or is he a new Age Stalker !!! .. but the rhythm went down exactly when Elliot meets with Mr.Robot in the train before it get back to be more exciting and full of questions.And i loved the idea of him easily hacking everybody and analyzing them based on their passwords and Facebook pages is he a bad guy!! or is he a guy trying to save everyone from Evil Corps :D .. Gosh so many questions have been thrown at us in the first episode .. and they left us with a massive confusion in the last scene :PThe Drama looks really good .,, not much on the crime part.. maybe it got on the Cyper crimes thingy more!! the other thing that set me off a bit is there are so much technical talk ... which even for me as an Engineer sounded nerdy and not easy to understand but still kept so damn hooked.As for the Cast is fine , Rami Malek the Pharaoh from the museum ;) and his face was priceless acting delusional, i love Christian Slater and all the others were fine.Overall,, the pilot went just okay .. Fast events .. few things needed a bit more info .. i don't know!! maybe the Tech guys would love this kinda shows even more.. it might be too early to judge but i really hope this gets even better and more clear so it would be up there with other USA Network hits like "white collar", "Suits " or "Psych" and not to be just another summer show waiting to get cancelled.___________________ Update _________________________USA has given a second season to cyber drama "Mr. Robot." .. Early renewal = a really good sign ;)_____________________________________________________


                
Holy crap, I love this show! How did this get on the USA network? It should have been gobbled up by HBO or Showtime.<U+FEFF>This show is like the computer and networking equivalent of a medical or legal drama / thriller, something that's been sorely missing in TV.USA put the entire pilot online (check YouTube). Everything about this is great: the acting, the script, the casting, the technical accuracy. None of that NCIS "four hands on the keyboard" and "I'll crack your 4K RSA key in 3 minutes" BS. I've never understood why obscure medical terminology is OK, but real computer and networking terminology is practically forbidden.I could actually watch without constantly being knocked out of the story with stupid TV-OS made up garbage. This will be, by far, my favorite show of the season.


                
Mr. Robot uses building blocks from everything from Fight Club to Twin Peaks. As you watch you can see every influence. The title card feels like Kubrick designed it and you feel hints of his style in a lot of shots. The one thing that is new and different is how the show portrays technology. TV and film fail every time to show a realistic portrait of computers and hacking. Mr. Robot has no flashy fake graphics and a ton of jargon that sounds good but means nothing. From the first scene we are fully locked into reality as Elliot casually explains to a coffee shop owner that his .onion TOR pedophilia site has been found and the police are on their way. The familiar bits and the new realistic representation of technology blend to form a show that isn't like anything you've seen. Mr. Robot never holds your hand and it keeps you on your feet. Each new turn feels calculated, a place for everything. Sam Esmail, show creator, says that the show is already built and that it is headed somewhere, and you can feel it as you watch each episode. The mysteries are slow to unravel, but this hopefully isn't another Lost, which felt like a cobbled together make it as you go monster. Hopefully Mr. Robot proves itself to be a precise, well-made watch such as shows like The Wire and Breaking Bad.
I just started season one today and I am on episode 5 somehow I just got stop watching it it's constantly on my mind as of now ( not being dramatic ) I recommend it


                
Season 1 was very good especially that extraordinary pilot episodes and it kept it that way along the first season.Then season 2 started it sucked extremely boring just very bad.However,season 3 fixed everything wrong with season 2 and topped with a very exciting plot which made that season 3 the best one for me.


                
Why don't I love this show? Why don't I love this show?There is something about it...Oh wait- Esmail (the show's creator) stole the plot from Fight Club along with countless other snippets from Kubrick movies (just to name a couple victims).I don't care about originality (my score for the show says this much), remakes bother me on most occasions but saying a film like say, Avatar sucks because it's unoriginal, I don't feel that way.Mr. Robot takes things a step further, it just steals so much from so many places. I've just never seen such blatant disregard for other peoples work because of how much of other peoples stuff Esmail used.Had it been just one plot point from Fight Club and a few Kubrickan things every episode, that would have been fine. But no, Mr. Esmail took so much more. The fact that Stanley Kubrick and Fight Club never won a Golden Globe but Mr. Esmail did is evidence of the so called golden age of televisions demise. I'm calling it, Mr. Robot is the beginning of the end of the golden age of TV. Game of Thrones has only a few more seasons left. They are rebooting countless shows. Mad Men, Breaking Bad is over. It's done folks. It's saturated.I digress, So what if Esmail was the first one to bring realistic computer hacking in anyway shape or form to Hollywood. So what if Malek and Slater's roles are two of the best I've ever seen on TV, plagiarism is plagiarism. Everyone steals from everyone, right? Right. I've just never seen this much taken and this much reward and praise given to the taker. What Mr. Esmail did is metaphorically pull of the greatest jewelry heist in history. No one is questioning his genius, even though it's over 50% stolen. He went in with a mask and took it all. Golden Globes and all. The worst part it no one stopped him or even questioned him. Do I need to list everything he stole? I could and it would be astounding but I don't have time. Does that leave me just another jealous and lonely SOB ranting on the internet? Is the proof not self evident? Do you see what he has stolen?I know I'm saying this show is the beginning of the end of the golden age of TV but that's not really what's important here. What's important is how everyone is letting Esmail stand on the shoulders of giants like Kubrick and authors like Palahniuk and be treated as a genius. I'm particular pointing the finger at you IMDb users, whom voted this so highly and especially at the Hollywood Foreign press and SXSW film festival and last but not least, critics.


                
When I first start viewing this show I say: "Holy crap"! The emotional and psychological complexity of Elliot is amazing and Rami Malek is superb in the evolve of the character. Not to many times we are able to find a principal character with too many dark and suicidal thoughts and in some way you feel connected to Elliot Alderson. The first season is a beautiful masterpiece, but the second season, oh my, probably one of the worst I see in a long time. To have an idea, when the first season was finalized this show have a rating of 9.3 in IMDb, now 8.7 and continue to drop in a dramatically way. I just hope the producers, writers and directors find a way to rescue this show that look so promising in the first season. Hope isn't too late for that. I encourage to people to see this show, even with that bad 2nd season, just for the superb character that Elliot Alderson is.
Mr. Robot is an very well made series. The directing is solid, and the soundscape really adds to the tension in the story. "eps1.7_wh1ter0se.m4v" is my favorite episode of the series: it's mind bending and just flat out thrilling. That episode reminds me of BBC's Sherlock: playing mind games throughout the entire episode. Mr. Robot has been doing that since episode 1, and not being sure what is real and what is not is what makes that episode awesome (9/10)Some of the episodes, like the pilot, are a little overrated, but still very good. I was let down by the final two episodes, after the huge build up from Brave Traveler through Whiterose. Overall, Mr. Robot is an awesome series that I will make sure to keep on watching.8/10
Yes Elliot and Mr. Robot are one and the same.This is produced by the same crew that produced Fight Club. It's a shame that they didn't have a more creative twist...you can see it coming from a mile away.This is produced by the same crew that produced Fight Club. It's a shame that they didn't have a more creative twist...you can see it coming from a mile away.This is produced by the same crew that produced Fight Club. It's a shame that they didn't have a more creative twist...you can see it coming from a mile away.
The premise of this show, actually based upon reality but ignored by both the press and most Americans, is actually quite amazing. Anyone that does any research (which I have done - in spades) recognizes that the concept of Americans personal economic well-being, and the reality, don't match. In all first world countries but the U.S., for example, while the universities are ostensibly private, if you are smart enough to get in, they will fund you. Not here. The large specters of student debt and a rampant Wall Street criminal cabal that goes unchecked time after time for illegal financial shenanigans have taken their toll. You can check it out more by comparing GNP (which measures CORPORATE well-being) and other measures of financial well-being such as the United Nations HDI or Human Development Index, which measures PER CAPITA income (individual income). Normalized for INCOME INEQUALITY ADJUSTMENTS - what this show is about, how the top 10% controls 80% of the wealth of the rest of us -- the average United States citizen's HDI index goes from .914 (we rank about 5 world wide) to .755 (we rank around 29 world wide). In reality, the typical American citizen experiences personal economic well-being at about the level of the Czech Republic.If you do a web search for "inequality adjusted human development index" you will find the latest report.So I at least celebrate the increasing awareness of the depth and breadth of our financial inequality as compared to the rest of the first world countries in the globe. As a caveat, ironically, there is a lot of research that shows that the lower the HDI (the lower access to higher education, shorter life expectancy, etc.), over time that impacts GNP or corporate wealth. So by pressing the average citizen financially so much that our smart and deserving but poor children can't afford to go to college, we are ensuring lower corporate (GNP) income over time for the United States. Corporations need educated workers. Over time, the best paying jobs, which require higher education, are going overseas because our citizens are too poor to go to college. Indeed one of the latest workforce trends is a high rate of un- filled so-called "knowledge worker" jobs concurrent with high unemployment.We are fast becoming, I guess, the version of "Back to the Future" where Biff won.I'm not sure I'm in favor of a complete economic meltdown, personally, as advocated by the show's main character, but we can't escape the fact that this kind of show IS -sadly - rooted in absolute economic reality.


                
First off - for all the people that are ranting its $%£* because its technically inaccurate or has sweeping generalisations - they just don't get it. the show is about a dysfunctional but gifted security programmer/coder by day and disenfranchised hacktivist by night. he has difficulty maintaining relationships and can only really get close to people by hacking/invading their lives. he has a therapist and a uses drugs to cope with his reality. the tone and feel of the pilot is very striking an sets up the story very well. If you are not interested in social problems, computing, social media etc you will probably not like this, I'd say give it a try anyway. Christian Slater's appearance is a welcome one as the other protagonist/mentor/illusion? the show tries to highlight our increasingly digitalised age and the technobubble in which people have wrapped themselves in in order to escape or avoid their reality(y'know the peeps that live on FB TWtr Snpcht like they can't stand to be in their own bodies!) and at times your not sure if what you are seeing is a delusion on the part of the main character (Elliot). Again for all the people screaming about how bad it is - there has to be sweeping generalisations and some dumbing down of the tech language and explanations otherwise you'd be left with a narrative that speaks to 1% of the population in short - go and Hatewatch something else! I truly hope this show lives up to the promise of the pilot and our antihero succeeds in his quest.


                
This show is incredible. the cinematography alone is amazing. Its like the shining meets Fargo. the camera angles and symmetry draw you in and show you real life intensities to the point where you forget you're watching a screen.the main character tells us whats going on through his brain but more importantly what he allows the world to see him as. we get to get an inside look at the life of a social anxiety ridden junkie who finds power in knowing someones entire life without them knowing him.usually when i watch hacking movies or shows, i get confused by the terms but since we get to hear Elliot's thoughts as we go its easier to understand.very powerful show. cant wait to see more.


                
I love the pilot episode, it's really good 60 minutes. I wonder if the next episode also will play in 60 minutes per episode.The first scene already give the idea to the audience that this could be awesome series, it feels so original too.The cinematography is candy in the eyes. Well, that's plus.The story is original and quite unique. The writing is good, like they know how real hacker works, not only they hack in computer, but there is also AFK, and stalking works for the hacker to do. many movies make hacker looks super awesome that they can hack anything only by sitting their ass in front of laptop, it is just so unrealistic, not with this show.I like the main character. I kinda hate the scene where he cried because he is lonely thou. But It's alright. Overall this is amazing new show with original ideas, good writing, acting, and beautiful cinematography. Totally gonna follow this serial TV.


                
One of the most groundbreaking and unique series of all time! All of the characters have immense depth and the plot line is the most unique of any TV show in decades! Rami Malek is brilliant as "Elliott," and Portia Doubleday as "Angela" is intense. Grace Gummar as the FBI agent investigating the Five/Nine-FSociety event is sheer perfection. And, BD Wong as Whiterose is one of the most honest and remarkable portrayals of a transgender character I've seen thus far. Honestly, all of the characters are intriguing. Casting director deserves a huge nod!!! I must admit I'm completely bored with Joanna's character...so, PLEASE bring Tyrell's character back...he was the most interesting by far!!! Can't wait to see what happens next season! I have high hopes that this series lasts a while...so completely relevant to modern day technology and its potentially devastating effects. Mad, twisted, brilliant and addictive!!!


                
I must admit I'm into these cyber shows. I'm always trying to understand what makes a hacker. This show allows me to confirm a hacker isn't made, is born.I still don't get how can you show as much of reality on a show that is purely fictional. Or is it not? The actors are well chosen for their parts and, although I'm not in so dark TV shows, I think that if we try to understand the world we are living in, we have to see gut-punching shows like this one, maybe just once. Our reality can be a little bit better than the one shown here, but it doesn't mean this "reality" does not exist. We can't be that naive.
Mr Robot is was a surprising and refreshing find, - I stumbled on it by accident. The acting is quite good especially Elliot and the psycho effects well done, I'm hoping it doesn't go the way of most American made series these days, that is over stretching the plot so it becomes tedious and then looping over themes endlessly, of late it seems American script writers have forgotten that a good story needs a start a middle and an end. and that the end is as important a part as the any other. thus far it seems OK although its a tad predictable. with 2 episodes to go, lets hope the writers are courageous enough to let this one have a worthy ending.


                
Having watched 2 and a fraction episodes, I'm starting to like this "against my will"."Against my will" because the gray-hat hacker Elliot reminds me of every arrogant/annoying kid I worked with in my software engineering career. Plus, it took me a while to appreciate that Elliot was going to be rendered with a lot of nuances instead of a simple "glorious fighter against evil".There are a lot of things that bring back the security stuff that I learned toward the end of my career when I was reading people like Bruce Schneier. I particularly "appreciate" things that ring true such as his snark against older people (and for example their choice of weak passwords).. they sting, but for many people they're accurate.Finally, I can't think of any performance that Gloria Reuben has done that I disliked; this piece is no exception.
Don't have a lot of details to give out other than my own enjoyment. This is definitely one series I will be looking forward to. I'm already hooked! Love the suspense and the narration, the character is quirky, a complete introvert so I can identify. This is more of what I was expecting "Black Hat" to be. Regrettably it did not come close. So far there is no addition of "love" potion into the story line. There is a hint of underlying admiration, but none of that American formula of throwing in a love interest for the sake of having one. Thank you.The main character is, as I said quirky, but it adds to the complexity of who this person is on the inside and the outside. I identify with him because at times I too have been disappointed by society's lustful greed for power and money.Can't wait for the next episode.


                
I have just seen the pilot episode of the series and my review is based on it. The show features a socially reserved guy who is hacker by passion and an IT Network security guy by profession. He has an urge to bring some change in the world but feels his lone efforts are not enough. Then comes the twist where he meets a stranger who offers him a chance to join him in their underground mission to bring equality in the world. I am quite intrigued by the pilot episode and very interested to see what the show has in offering. It is not that age old boring hacking stuff which we normally watch in commercial movies. Acting wise it seems good and lead Rami Malek has done fantastic job. It is promising start but will wait for series to unfold till then I would give it 8/10.


                
