Let me make one thing perfectly clear--Mad Men is not The Sopranos. Now, with that out of the way, I think I can give an honest opinion about this overrated show. Yes, it's overrated, and it's overly hyped as well.When Mad Men first came out, I read the reviews that stated the show was the next best thing to The Sopranos. After watching Season 1 and half of Season 2, I think not. Don't get me wrong, I'll give proper credit to where credit is due. Mad Men is an extremely colorful take of the Camelot years of the sixties, when the Kennedys were in power and The Rat Pack was conquering Las Vegas. The show is colorful, full of wonderful women to look at, gorgeous fashion styles, glossy cars, and lots of booze and smoking. Oh, and there are lots of affairs amongst the many beautiful characters.But, that's not what the bother is.Mad Men suffers from a lack of story, loss of basic thematic elements and mediocre plotting beats. In a word: dull. Some may argue that what is perceived as dull may just be the result of the senses' overexposure to romantic comedies and action flicks. This is not true. One can sit through The Sopranos, yet still feel the plot going forward.This brings me to Mad Men's comparison to The Sopranos. The key protagonist to Mad Men, Don Draper, has a secret, is torn inside and is trying his best to keep the awkward dealings in his life together. Unfortunately, not only is the character fairly drab, but also the actor lacks the capability to express any type of emotion beyond a sneer or constipated grimace. His face can't seem to shape to articulate sadness, despair, anger or fury. His actions are even worse. It doesn't matter if the scene involves drama, romance or comedy, he just acts the same way in every scene without deviation.James Gandolfini, who played Tony Soprano, however, has a vast range of twitches in his repertoire that he can express cruelty and love all with one glance. He can be subtle or in-your-face just by the way he squints his eyes.By the same token, The Sopranos had a complex set of characters with their own quirks and their own historical story lines. It's only after vigilant research do we discover the intricate relationships between them all and their effect on subplots carefully added seasons prior by the writers. Also, The Sopranos had varying degrees of atmospheres, moods and weather patterns. Mad Men seems to miss out on all this.Mad Men also lacks basic storytelling techniques. Regardless of all the rave reviews and awards being piled on this show, which is probably because of all the SPP (Strategic Product Placements), the show goes nowhere. Subplots begin, but never really resolve to much of anything. I think the advertisers love Mad Men because of all the notable mentions they receive throughout the show. Guess who pays for the awards shows? You got it, advertisers.And finally, there is one more thing that needs to be said. Not to give away any storyline, but, when a parent dies, the reaction of an offspring character should be what they're feeling. It's not a monologue, discussing what they should be feeling. Even if the parent is unloved, the child should at least, for the sake of those observing their actions, show some sort of emotion of some kind—even an acknowledgment would suffice. It is not walking into the boss's office telling, and him that he didn't know how he should feel. I get better satisfaction watching Bugs Bunny cartoons than watching elementary school actors deliver empty lines from undeveloped scripts.


                
Amazing the types of shows Hollywood will spend its money hyping...Mad Men is pretty much the exact opposite of what you'd expect reading the hype.It's dull, boring, uninspiring and features really, really dull and wooden performances, especially by the lead who is as expressive as a piece of carved wood.If you need a show to watch to put you to sleep, Mad Men is your show.If you want quality, you'll learn to avoid shows that get "emmy recognition" for what they are: hyped-up snoozefests.Just another bad show.


                
Sorry but this is yet another case of the Hollywood promotional machine pushing on the public something that should have been taken back to the drawing board.Far from living up to its hype, Mad Men is boring, predictable and unengaging.A lot of the fault lies on John Hamm. It's hard to fathom how anyone could enjoy his performances which consist of him looking as frozen as an actor with stage fright with an occasional grimace added.Overall, a huge miss that AMC would be well-served to cancel quickly if it doesn't want to join the fate of FX in hyping a consistently losing show like The Shield.


                
To read the hype on Mad Men, you'd think this show would be some sort of compelling television.Alas, like many over-hyped shows before it, Mad Men is nothing special. It is slow, ponderous, and generally poorly acted.In particular, one has to wonder as to why anyone would pick Jon Hamm as a good actor. The man is as frozen as a snowman and expresses himself through a series of hilariously cheesy grimaces.Mad Men fails to give to the audience what its ads promise, which is a really bad idea. The only thing that lives up to the hype is the pretty cool title sequence.One wishes the product had been as good as the advertising.


                
AMC thinks it is very clever to hype this snoozefest and that it is "putting it on the map".I'm not sure what map they're thinking of.Maybe the map of boring television.Mad Men is insufferably pretentious and yet poorly acted and oh so very, very boring.John Hamm, who has also been over-hyped to degrees unimaginable only a few years ago is not a good actor. He sleeps through most of his scenes and seems to think that acting consists in making a series of grimaces. There is no life here.There is no life in Mad Men (and incidentally, in case you hadn't noticed, ratings are so low you need a magnifying glass to see them at the bottom of the Nielsens).AMC should get a clue and move on to something more promising.


                
Mad Men is poorly written, it spews continually lackluster dialogue, and it struggles with one boring plot line after another. The show boasts quite the cast, but this only underscores how poorly the writers have done in utilizing the talent at their disposal. When it first came out I was intrigued, and subsequently watched several episodes, but it didn't take long to come to the realization that there is simply no "there" there. Short of the somewhat unique premise of the series, there is absolutely nothing about this show that warrants the attention it is getting. Are people really so shallow that they fall for this sophomoric, gimmicky drivel? When I heard that it was actually winning awards I couldn't even believe by ears. Mad Men is every bit as trite and pathetic as our modern movies and music. Style over substance, nothing more.


                
The majority of the reviewers are not from the USA and male. There is a lot of talk about its hidden depths and its realism. How it breathes life into a fascinating period of USA high flyers.Personally I think that is rubbish. It's slow, tedious and the script is awful. The acting is wooden and half the actors seem to be told to take it slowly for the dramatic effect. Sadly that simply doesn't work.This series is dull, meaningless and really patronising to its audience.Watch the first in the series and if you like it then enjoy. If not don't continue as it doesn't get any better. I would sooner watch raindrops running down the window.


                
Mad Men is a soporific show.It's the reason why, in spite of repeated hype campaigns and many awards (clearly all you need to get an award these days is a big marketing campaign!) audiences still shun this bad, boring show.Matthew Weiner apparently thinks a lot of his writing and he got 4 out of 5 nominations for Best Writer at the Emmys, but what it really shows is not quality, rather the fact that the Emmys are entirely disconnected with quality of what is really good writing.It's very sad that so much ink is wasted on this bad show.AMC should have put its money behind something actually good.


                
The only thing good that comes from Mad Men is the following, costumes, set design (backdrop), music, acting-that's it! I appreciate and respect that they chose this era and that it is precise. But I have no idea why there is so much hype over this show, maybe because everyone that loves it are soap opera gossiping schmucks. The pilot was one of the most terrible pilots I have seen, it was boring and didn't give me a hook. I continued to watch it to give it another chance but it did not improve, maybe its just me but I couldn't care less about this cliché soap opera. And the other thing that is overrated is the writing, I can come up with something better! if you really want to watch a phenomenal drama that is not overrated but should be is, DAMAGES, Breaking Bad, Six Feet Under, Dead Wood, and Fringe.


                
I honestly don't understand why people watch this show. The writing is terrible, the acting is stale and the subject matter is dull. The only feature of Mad Men that is positive is the eye candy, and even then they couldn't make the gorgeous women less attractive if they tried.I gave Mad Men a full season to improve, hoping that it was one of those shows that needs to lay ample groundwork; however the more of the godawful backstory that was uncovered, the worse the show became.I honestly can't blame the actors for the acting. As they say, you can't polish a turd, and with the incredibly slow pace and the bad writing, they have NOTHING to work with.As to the setting, exactly how many hours of screen time do they need to devote to telling us that advertisers lie and mislead? I'm not one of those viewers who watches each episode with a notepad and a stopwatch, but I'd guess 20-30% of each episode is devoted to it. ENOUGH ALREADY! All in all, I'd say this show is a little like "The Godfather," in that there's about twice as much airtime as there is story. However, unlike The Godfather, Mad Men's story is just not good.


                
I had to drag myself through as many episodes as i could stomach to give this show a chance. Simply put, this show is terrible. While watching an episode today, giving this garbage its last chance, i couldn't take it anymore... I turned it off 2/3 of the way through the episode and literally threw it in the trash. This show is everything that is wrong with people. It contains the negative mindset, negative attitude, unbelievable ignorance, and just downright stupidity that keeps dragging down society. The only reason anyone likes this show is because they are simple minded, blinders on, haven't had a thought in their head since high school(if they even had a thought then), narrow view pointed, close minded buffoons(have I made my point about being narrow minded?). It's Mr. and Mrs. average that like this show (or anyone who grew up during this time or with a similar mindset/attitude). This show panders to people who THINK they are smart. If you happen to like this show, that's great, go watch it 'till your eyes bleed. I, on the other hand, would like those hours of my life back.


                
After watching this show i questioned the existence of human life. Never ever have i seen anything this uninteresting in my intire life. I want to wish the producers of this series to change carrier and start working at McDonalds. Further more, i hope the actors are beeing payed a lot for doing such a boring series. Wow, they must be really needing a jobb to do this show.


                
There have been a few people who have told me how great this series is. I finally relented and have watch the first four episodes because I don't like to watch a series that I HAVE to watch the first episode to know what the hell is going on throughout the entire series. There are a few acceptions that I have and do make. This series WILL NOT be one of them. OMG! I can't get emotionally attached to ANY of the characters. That is not good writing. They are all just walking through each episode like they are dead. I will mention that the creators must have watched Billy Wilder's 1960 "The Apartment" which is one of the best films made, IMO, for the idea of office executives cheating on their wives and the unfortunate women that it happened to. You feel for the Shirley MacLaine and Jack Lemmon characters and that's a 2 hour film. But,"Mad Men". I've watched four hours of it and don't feel a thing. Bad show. Let's not forget the Darrin Stephens, of "Bewitched" fame, was one of the actual "Man Men" that was really in the 1960's. I'd rather watch reruns of that show.


                
Goodness, I'm so allergic to this series it keeps me up at night. To begin with, most characters are plain flat or extremely irritating and remain so throughout all 7 seasons. I'm not much of a fan of the acting either. Christina Hendricks does a swell job and that's about it.What about the storyline, then? I don't know why I force myself to continue watching but it's truly painful. To see these women throw themselves in front of Don each and every single time. The 60's, you say? I don't believe it. Women are either depicted as seemingly independent and strong, to then undo that image in the most ridiculous way. Or plain sheepish with no backbone at all. That's not the 60's, that's the writer's misogynist view seeping through. And is there any other storyline aside from Don's, frantically looking for his next hot meal?Then there's the children. You don't feel any sympathy for them at all. Sally for one, is arrogant and mean from the very start. And she's not even a teenager. She comes from a broken family, yes, but such behaviour hardly stems from such an upbringing. Especially in the 60's! 
Not to mention the psycho neighbour boy who gives me the creeps every time he appears on screen, yet nobody else really seems to notice. Sally's violin playing friend is another pretentious brat, who speaks freely withtout being put in place properly. Did any of the writers ever study a child behaviour before? It doesn't really seem like it.I could go on about how horribly bad the flashbacks are and how very poor the dialogue, but my allergy is getting the better of me. In one phrase: "It's not mad, it's plain bad!"


                
