When I started watching Mad Men, the rhythm of it felt slow.Pretty quickly did I realize how much more powerful the slow story & plot development rhythm would be, allowing us to discover the characters, mostly in seasons 1 and 2, and then really be in the thick of it in subsequent seasons.Indeed, this series has pushed character development so far that they are the entire and only reason why this series is interesting. The actual events happening at the advertising agency is a pretext to throw more things at those characters and have them deal with it. In fact, the characters are so interesting that there is practically no violence needed (except a few minor events) over 7 seasons to keep this series going. I find that tremendously respectable to be able to craft a series in this way, not using gun shots and bombs to make it lively.Finally, I have not lived in the early 60's time period the series is set in, but I can only say that it's all seemed to me very interesting and all these "vintinge" props and costumes, hair style and such made it all the more fascinating to watch.Absolutely great work.


                
I only started watching Mad Man since it's available on Netflix, and I'm very happy I did. My most favourite serie ever - and I have a feeling it will remain that for a very long time. Apart from the spectacular 60's decors and the non predictable story lines, it's the topics and the development of the main characters that is showed in such a refined way, that I couldn't stop watching it. It is done so sophisticatedly, that the whole show has become one big pyschlogy lesson for me. One that offered me answers I was looking for. :)


                
I also am utterly bemused to see so many negative comments on this show. I haven't taken to a TV drama so much since 'Our Friends in the North' (UK only I think) For those who seem to think the show is about pointing out the improved morals of the 21st century, or don't catch the story lines as being evolved enough, or think the characters shallow - I'm afraid you're missing the (beautifully painted) picture completely.Mad Men oozes. It oozes class, style, sophistication, cinematic production, dreaminess and the wow factor. It seeps into your mind. It doesn't leave you alone, lingering around the corners of your mind for hours afterwards.As a bonus (as if all this wasn't enough) you've got Don Draper (Jon Hamm). If there's a better cast character, being better acted elsewhere on television in the 21st century then I missed it. The fact that Don is also, or used to be Dick, just adds to the dreaminess.It's gorgeous, just enjoy.


                
I must admit I'm more likely to be shocked how many users find this drama dull.I remember the night I had the chance to gaze at one of episodes for couple of minutes.Betty posing for a coke ad didn't seem charming or appealing to me at all, I changed the channel...Long after the series won the Emmies, beautiful tunes of David Carnobora buzzed into my ear via commercials and I thought I might have to get the complete DVD.HBO absolutely made their worst business move maybe in their history by dissing this show.Cos Made Men is clever, cool, charismatic, sexy but more over it's targeting the audience HBO has created over years.Not random Americans who switch between Idol, a weirdo doctors unpleasant patients who will recover thanks to him or ugly police officers digging a carpet for a strand to discover a guy who you already know committed a homicide.OK lemme tell you about why I adore this show.Mad Men is ultimately written by people who has a giant caliber of creativity and talent.This show demands the audience to be careful, tedious, curious about what they are watching.This show is not to be figured out in a single episode.After I completed season one I had some feeling towards what Weiner had in his mind while pitching the series to channel executives.Do not let the name fool you, Mad Men is not about ad- business or copywriters, show merely talks about ads, even when they are doing an ad.It is about America, how America transferred itself -and the world which depended on it- through out the sixties.In which manners capitalism can market itself with big lies.By showing us the differences between 60's and 2000's series easily projects ideas about our time during a past decade.Characters in the show are so real, then I mean not just protagonist Don Draper, every other big, tiny or one time characters gets his/her time on screen and therefore show builds up a magnificent universe which you believe it exits and roam safely.Mad Men is not show yelling or speaking out loud, it politely whispers...We the audience witness a group of peoples lives in NYC, Matthew Weiner cleverly puts mile stone political, social events of USA balanced with everyday life of people as well, balanced fastidiously.The one biggest disappointing down side of Mad Men is that there are almost zero on-location shootings.We never get to see the - city- or anything else.This gives the feeling of being locked in sometimes for the viewer.Cast is totally cool and sexy with their superb retro wardrobe.Jon Hamm is the perfect choice for a lead, January Jones is so sexy that you can't get her out of your mind.Smokey, brownish production design is sweet and elegant.Also soundtrack selecting is so much joyful.I can't say Mad Men is an easy chew.You have to be patient also alert.As I sad you can get a clear feeling only after watching an entire season.Do you want to watch the same TV shows over seasons or want some fun, intelligent brain gymnastics ? The codes of Mad Men are there to decode for your own sake.Do not miss it...


                
As it stands now, yes. Mad Men is the best TV drama of all-time.Matthew Weiner's concept alone puts it into a must-try category. Those who have seen every episode in sequence, experience a level of quality TV that sets the bar to the top.Matthew takes viewers on a high ball roller coaster of human experiences that explore pursuit of bliss, the depths of where one can go, and the winding roads of inner angst one must often travel.The journey is a most interesting one in Don Draper's universe that occupies a time (1960s) in American cultural when changes occurred in warp speed.No Pollyanna view of the world, Mad Men explores the full spectrum of human relationships and personality types.View Mad Men from episode one season one if you haven't already. The trip is worth the time.My vote for Best TV Drama of All Time


                
I don't watch TV drama usually, with rare exceptions: The Sopranos (especially the early seasons) and Entourage, if that counts. Mad Men is one of the most original, refreshingly dark and complex shows I've ever seen on TV. Despite its potential for soap opera story lines, it consistently transcends expectations and explores fascinating characters and a radically changing social environment in a beautifully shot, artfully designed and, above all, excellently acted manner. After watching virtually no TV recently (less than three hours per week), my wife and I have been hooked all week, catching up on every episode - although we have yet to see the first, which a technical glitch in our On Demand service is holding tantalizingly out of reach. I loved Todd Haynes' Far From Heaven, and this is like a generously extended - and in some respects even more fascinating - adjunct to that. Madison Avenue is the perfect prism through which to view the early 1960s, and Mad Men, with its post-noir, Nixon/JFK/beatnik/martini melange, is a hugely enjoyable, finely measured cocktail that leaves just the right taste in the mouth.


                
This series is absolute genius. Many people on here say they found it boring, which makes me wonder. Who can find this series boring?From the first episode of season one, this series is absorbing. You begin to understand each character, except Don Draper, who is always a mystery.This series is not for people who enjoy mainstream series with a pattern, such as House, The Closer, Grey's Anatomy etc. etc. Each episode is unique.I'd like to refer to user rangeriderrango from Canada. He says "The men wear suits that the nerdiest of nerds wouldn't be caught dead in." Huh? Every suits fits them perfectly. This series is really strong in design and costumes.A series that is so well made and yet intelligent and makes you think is rare. I highly recommend everyone to watch it.


                
Series 1, 2, and 3 constitute 39 episodes, hence this review cannot be comprehensive because there is far too much to say. This series is like a miracle, and may be the best American television drama series ever made. It is so rich in texture, so subtly profound in its extended character studies that the series as a whole is a joint work of art, and the contributions of many different directors (including Matthew Weiner, the creator, who directed the last episode of Series 3 himself) all seamlessly come together as a unity. It is a massively successful job of production and coordination, and Weiner as producer has kept the project on track like a general commanding an army on a highly extended battlefield. Now, let us not assume that this is necessarily a cheerful series. Every character in the series is unhappy, so that in itself is a bit of a downer. But we become so absorbed in the minutiae of the lives of them all that we actually care about what they are thinking and feeling. The series is 'made' by its chief actor, Jon Hamm, who is a miracle discovery of casting. He is such a natural leading man! He has the indefinable quality of compulsive watchability. We hang on his every word. His character speaks tersely, and we always wait for him to say a bit more, but he never does. He is the only character in the series with a 'back story', which is often dramatized in flashbacks, which despite the danger which such eruptions into the thread of the main storyline pose to the Aristotelian unities, all work successfully. The subtlest of all the performances is probably that given by the amazing January Jones, that Grace Kelly lookalike who has caused so many male hearts to throb uncontrollably that she is a greater threat to the health of men than cholesterol. She has managed a continuous, slow gradation over the course of three series from the status of 'Miss Perfect' via a steady character disintegration to achieve instead the status of 'Miss Odious'. Her character has a degree from Bryn Mawr, speaks fluent Italian, and has a brain which nobody ever sees because it is concealed by her perfect beauty. As I pointed out in my review of BLONDIE (1938), Miss Jones appears to have based her initial character persona on Penny Singleton. My personal favourite character in this series is Peggy Olson. I could simply sit and watch Elizabeth Moss, who plays her, for hundreds of hours, she is so fascinating. Everyone is compulsively mesmerised by Christina Hendricks, who plays Joan. I don't think any of us can believe that such a remarkable creature could exist. Vincent Kartheiser, who plays Pete Campbell, is equally mesmerising. He judges every scene and every facial twitch to perfection and is a great artist of his craft. Apparently, the reason why he portrays hatred so convincingly is that he really believes in it. It is impossible to praise the savage intensity of Kartheiser's performance highly enough. John Slattery, who plays Roger Sterling, is horribly endearing; he is such a male chauvinist pig and Epicurean, we hate him, but we always want him around because is simply irreplaceably amusing. Robert Morse is just perfect as Cooper, and he is such a pro. It is a pity that we have lost the character Salvatore, whose fate was so sad, and who was played so well by Bryan Batt, with such brave pathos. Perhaps the greatest surprise of the third series was the brilliant performance of the child actress Kiernan Shipka (born 1999) as Sally Draper. It was a stroke of genius to bring her in as a major character in the series, a task which she handles with the aplomb of a true professional. Tremendous backup in supporting roles is provided by such talented players as Maggie Siff, Embeth Davidtz, and Joseph Culp. One could go on and on, as the casting is so perfect. The period design, costumes, and atmosphere are also perfect. We are accurately shown the excessive and compulsive smoking and drinking of the era, which may it be a lesson to us all. As for the treatment of women and minorities, to see it all so brazenly and accurately portrayed before our eyes can only make us all wince painfully and ask ourselves: 'Was it really like that?' The answer is yes. This series is a unique social history lesson to younger people. Major events like the Kennedy assassination are woven seamlessly into the story, convincingly and authentically, using genuine footage. The series begins in 1959 and so far has reached 1964. My God! It all comes back!! It is deja-vu for those of us who were there, shockeroo time for those who weren't. Why send teenagers to school? Sit them down in front of this for 39 hours and they will learn much more about life. Never have we seen such depth of portrayal of characters' lives over a period of years in a TV series, or been so deeply stirred by the sad meaning of it all. The multiple saga of this series is so compulsive that it is responsible for an international epidemic of 'Mad Men addiction', an incurable condition which has defied all medical analysis, and the only treatment for which is to go on watching. Series 4 is eagerly awaited by millions of people currently in a trembling state of angst-ridden cold turkey. The true heroine of this series is the character Peggy Olson, who personifies the main theme of the series, which is the oppressed state of women at the time and their terrible and pathetic struggles to emerge from it, to achieve some dignity and recognition in a world of men which is so fantastically male-chauvinist that today we can barely conceive that things were ever like that, though alas they really were.
I caught the tail end of this era when I started work in advertising in a backwater town in 1970. I can say that this series captures the flavor with surprising accuracy. I was there; I know.Advertising was -- at the time -- an industry that took itself far too seriously --possibly because it was the destination of second rate managers (albeit first rate creative people). From a manager's perspective, advertising could never lead to the presidency of a "real" company. And advertising was a parasitic enterprise requiring a lot of what we used to call "schmoozing." As nobody knew what would eventually work with the public, we had to play golf with the clients, drink and dine with them, and in some cases, facilitate a little bit of sin. Sexism was woven into everyday's activities. The partners had the window offices and were often 'creating' for hours behind closed doors. One of our partners worked until about 10 every night to avoid dealing with his family. Another had a 'special relationship' with his secretary (who looked a lot like Christina Hendricks) unbeknownst to his wife. One partner was weak and incompetent, but was carried because he was a co-founder.In other words, this series is very much like revisiting my first ad agency job. I find the anachronisms (like the term 'play date' in the first episode) to be quite tolerable in the context of a big picture look at the 60s ad world. There was a saying at the time: run it up the flagpole and see if anybody salutes. As one who was there, I salute Mad Men.


                
I really wanted to like "Mad Men", but you shouldn't have to force yourself to enjoy something. The set designs and costumes are great, and they really seem to capture the era they represent very well, but the acting and story lines leave much to be desired. Much of the acting is done in a style in which the actors don't seem to allow themselves to actually take on the persona of their character, which results in a very wooden performance. The storyline moves very slowly and ironically advertises the business of advertising as a very boring and simple career which anyone could succeed at, which I hope for the sake of advertisers is not true. This show has received rave reviews from many publications, but that may just be a response to the lack of good dramatic television and the fear of a reality television takeover. While I do think that "Mad Men" is a step in the right direction in terms of 'New American Television', I don't think it's as magnificent as it's been touted to be by other critics, but let's not throw out the baby with the bathwater, unless of course a better baby is on the way...


                
Ten Stars.When this show first aired I couldn't watch it. I'm 68 years old. I know. I was there. EVERYBODY was a liar and a cheat. The smoking, the drinking, the hypocrisy and the infidelities. An entire mindset created to consume. An entire mindset created to re-enforce the social structures that kept women stoned on Valium, barefoot/pregnant and in nighties. For me, when it aired, it was too true to life. I didn't want to be reminded . . .Now, 6 years later, I'm writing my autobiography and revisiting those times. Started watching Mad Men from S1-E1. This show is EXACTLY what it was like back then. EXACTLY. Young people: Students of history, contemporary anthropology, those of you in Theater/Acting Schools; watch this show. Take note.The acting is superb, the art direction is exemplary and the production is flawless.This show describes the very reason we took to the streets back in the 60's. This show points directly at the issue of "the more things change, the more they stay the same". This show clearly describes why the current generation may have to take to the streets again.


                
Two of my favorite "Mid - Century Modern" movies set in a New York office are Billy Wilder's 1960 Oscar - winning _The Apartment_ and 1959's plush soap opera (and now gay camp fave) _The Best of Everything_ (derived from the pot - boiling Rona Jaffe novel of the same name; the blatant publicity tie - in between the book and the movie paved the way for the modern publishing "blockbuster" that found ultimate fruition in Jacqueline Susann's 1966 _Valley of the Dolls_)...Sooooo, when I came across the set - in - 1960 _Mad Men_ I was pretty intrigued. Would they get it right? Would the characters seem shallow and soap opera - ish a la _The Best of Everything_ or would it be the deeper character study that was _The Apartment_? And very importantly, would there be a 1960 "feel" to the production, or would it just be a witless wallow in what some clueless young production team imagined 1960 to be?Count me as a satisfied fan. The characters are complex, and so are their dilemmas. The juxtaposition between the complacent (but somewhat neurotic; after all, we were embroiled in a Cold War and Space Race; use of tranquilizers and psychoanalysis had reached a faddish level) optimism of the late Eisenhower - early New Frontier era and the mounting self - realizations and self - doubts of the characters and their places in the "American Dream" pecking order are intriguing. The shiny, artificial NEW! NEW! NEW! America as represented by Madison Avenue advertising would soon enough be set on it's head by _The Feminine Mystique_, the Surgeon General's report on smoking, civil rights strife, assassinations, the Berkeley Free Speech Movement, and Vietnam, gay rights...some of these looming concerns are addressed in the scripts. As depicted so well in one of the ad meetings, the age of the gaudy but useless tail fin was receding, and the practical "Think Small" Volkswagen and it's ilk would eventually set mighty and impregnable Detroit on a course from which it is STILL reeling... I'll deduct one star for "continuity" (those 70's - 80's IBM Selectrics!), but the sexual harassment incidents are spot - on. So is the characters' CONSTANT smoking and drinking -- remember, alcohol fueled a LOT of the comedic office hi - jinks in the Doris Day - Rock Hudson hits _Pillow Talk_ and _Lover Come Back_, and also in the splendid earlier (1957) Madison Avenue spoof _Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?_ (starring Jayne Mansfield and Tony Randall). In the episodes so far office imbibing is on the distaff side of those frothy comedies, taking on the darker amber dipsomaniacal hues of _The Apartment_ and _The Days Of Wine And Roses_...So I'm pretty pleased with this show, and especially so since it's done on an ADULT level...in it's plumbing of the characters' depths it's every bit as good as Todd Hayne's recent set - in - 1958 homage to Douglas Sirk, _Far From Heaven_. And if the ad agency were ONLY set in the Seagram Building I would even forgive those out - of - place Selectrics and merit it a smooth "10"... :-)Addendum added on 8/23/07:On tonight's episode ad exec Don Draper was shown on his bed reading _The Best of Everything_. His wife came in and started commenting on the movie, saying how awful Joan Crawford looked ("...however old she says she is now...her eyebrows looked like caterpillars pasted on...AND she was standing NEXT to Suzy Parker...!!!"). As a HUGE fan of _The Best of Everything_, Crawford, and Suzy Parker I'm adding that additional star to my rating - for this it IS a solid "10"...!!!


                
Mad men is one of those very rare TV shows that take your breath away. Intensely clever, captivating, beautiful, every single word, every detail is just right. The episodes are real works of art, all of them. Once you get to peak into the lives of Don, Joan, Peggy, Roger and all of the incredibly rich characters you can never get enough. The scenes are so perfect I often pause to look at the details and get blown away by so much attention to every aspect - the gestures, the expressions, the makeup, the hairdos, the clothes, the colors, the furniture...- every scene is composed like a painting. What the team behind this show is doing is creating TV history. I used to think that after the Sopranos I would find everything else mediocre. And then I watched Mad Men. Matthew Weiner is a genius and being part of the two best shows in TV history is no accident. Watch it. TV will never be the same.


                
Mad Men is a masterful period drama which explores the world of advertising in New York City in the 1960s. Over seven seasons, it is a slow-moving yet effective character study lovingly recreates a decade of intense social change and, thorough its nuanced characters, reflects the true nature of the human condition. Deeply psychological, madly funny, strongly emotional and compulsively entertaining all at the same time, Mad Men is both an artfully crafted series and an emotional examination into the insecurities that bind us all together.


                
I think it's one of the darkest and best expositions of the end of the Eisenhower years, and before Kennedy, womens' lib and civil rights. There were very few beacons of light for advertising in this time of stultifying big agencies. My friends at Doyle, Dane Berbach were the only ones having fun. There was plenty of talent around everywhere but hard and fast rules didn't allow it to flourish. The enigma of Don Draper is so intriguing and it gets more interesting every week. Last week's episode was particularly fine. His wife's need for him was handled so tenderly and that view into his feelings for his younger brother at his birth made me dislike Don for the first time, not because of his pretense and infidelities, but because of his inability to feel anything.


                
I must say that it really doesn't surprise me that so many people dislike this show. While I disagree with their sentiment, it is understandable.Unlike many other current shows, such as Glee or Raising Hope and the like, this show demands the viewer's time and full attention. The airwaves are constantly bombarded with sitcoms, the likes of which hardly take any commitment whatsoever on the audience's part. In our busy lives, it's far easier to watch something that doesn't command your full attention so that, if needed, you can leave the screen for a few minutes and come back without really missing anything at all. The laugh tracks, along with the actors' goofy faces tell us when to laugh and, most likely, whatever tidbit we've missed is part of the episode's linear plot and will be revisited.Of course, there's nothing wrong with such streamlined shows. Lord knows I've enjoyed many of them.However, Mad Men is entirely different. If you want to start watching and you are aware that you are always on call at the office, make sure that Netflix or Hulu is at your disposal. Mad Men is full of minute, yet sophisticated details that are subtle but, crucial. This show is the creation of a classy set of writers, directors, and cinematographers that seemingly have faith in the integrity of their audience. They expect you to catch the characters' sly remarks, one-liners, and overall disposition, without compromising the overall plot line.For example, if you're used to having characters blatantly spell out their emotions for the viewer to understand, you won't find that here. The characters within the show speak through their actions, much as we do but, just as our's are, their actions are subtle and if you doze off, you may miss something crucial.Honestly, as a high school student, I can't think of a single person my age that has watched and enjoyed Mad Men. I can also count on one hand the amount of kids my age that like Inception. They were mostly confused and repelled by it. Some even fell asleep. I hypothesize that they would have the same reaction to this although, it's less mind boggling, in my opinion. I like being challenged to understand and keep up by my entertainment endeavors, i.e books, films, television, etc. Many others don't, which is fine. If you don't, this probably isn't your show.I urge everyone to give this show a chance because, in my opinion, it is brilliant. At first glance, yes it is about an ad company. But, you'll quickly realize that it's truly about America. This show is a depiction of our growth and an excellent glimpse into our history, which isn't to say that it's always correct. I'm sure that there are plenty of anachronisms and other little mistakes but, I haven't taken notice of any.Mad Men is also a character study of Don Draper and Peggy Olson. I can't claim to have felt anything other than tolerable disdain for Draper in the first few episodes for various reasons. However, what I realized is that he truly is an accurate depiction of person. We all have flaws, some not as bad as his, some far worse. He isn't perfect and, really, we should probably stop making our television characters out to be perfect because perfections simply doesn't exist. He is charismatic and charming and can be both a wonderful and horrid man in the course of a single day (within the show). I enjoy Peggy's character because she symbolizes the growth of freedom for women in the '60s as she moves up the corporate ladder from being Don's secretary to being a copy writer.My only warning when watching this show is this: realize that it's going to take an entire season for you to really know whether you like this show or not. You won't know by the end of the first, or even the fifth episode. If you have an interest in our history as a society or just a general interest in the 1960's, give this one a spin. The wardrobe is spectacular and the language is dead on.


                
Not that would make a difference to anyone who decided this show is not worth their time, but I would advise all of you who say you can't see what the hype is about this show, to try watching it again. But this time concentrated, without any distractions, paying attention to what is said, but also to what is not said. Cause one of the greatest beauties of this series is how much it is said with out saying. Everything is so real, and I'm not talking about the reconstruction of the era (which is almost flawless) but about the characters. They are real people with real people's dreams, fears, anxieties, hopes... Definitely the best series I have ever watched. It is worth every second. Worth watching it again and again, because you'll always find some detail that you might have missed the first time.


                
Mad Men was created by Matthew Weiner and takes place at the start of the 1960's. The series is set in New York's Madison Avenue in the advertising agency Stirling Cooper.It tells the story of the mysterious and devastatingly handsome head advertising man Don Draper(Jon Hamm)and his staff.The up and coming young hotshot newly wed Pete Campbell(Vincent Kartheiser),head secretary the strong and seductive Joan Holloway(Christina Hendricks),charming closet gay art designer Salvatore Romano(Bryan Batt),Don's long suffering wife the beautiful and stylish Betty(January Jones),Don's boss who never seems to be without a glass of booze in his hand Roger Stirling(John Slattery)and the eager,hardworking Ken Cosgrove(Aaron Stanton)and Paul Kinsey(Michael Gladis).Mad Men is mainly told through the eyes of new secretary Peggy Olsen(Elisabeth Moss)who at first is thought to be naive and uptight but as the seasons go on becomes a valued member of the copy team and a friend to Don and many of the others. Peggy and Don's relationship is very interesting they are mentor and pupil and she idolises him and he helps her realise she shouldn't try and fit in but should just do things her way, he encourages her to join the copy team and is very proud as she works her way higher and higher up the ranks of the company. They each know the best and worst about each other and each is the one person in the others life who knows them inside out and will always be there for one another.As well as being a fascinating look at life in an office environment at that time.It's also an unflinching look at how women were treated in a time of male dominated positions and rules.Without a doubt Joan is my favorite character because she gives as good as she gets back to the guys and is a strong and feisty woman who's sexy too.The sixties is such a fascinating period to set this in as it really was a time when morality,style and life was changing,Jack and Jackie Kennedy reached the White House with Jackie bringing culture and glamour to the country as well as setting new fashion trends with her elegant styles.It was a time of optimism and change, the space race was starting and the future just looked better and better.All of this is cleverly written in to the series and makes this one of the most authentic and impressive series around.Filled with more fascinating characters, glamour,eye catching fashion, booze and cigarettes than you can shake a stick at,Mad Men deserves all the praise it's had and is well worth a watch.
Mad Men is one absolutely superb show! Set in 1960, the show chronicles an America that, on the surface, seemed idyllic, but which in reality was already troubled because of its regressive attitudes. Political correctness didn't exist as a concept, hence the open prejudice.One fascinating aspect of the show is how I found the characters relatively unsympathetic. The corporate environment is hardly that of the Broadway musical, "How to Succeed In Business Without Really Trying," and this deserves to be mentioned because of the presence of its star, Robert Morse, whose presence seems a welcome one.That said, the performers are outstanding. The characters they play are deeply flawed, and they seem so painfully real. If there are flaws in continuity, such as the typewriters used, it hardly matters when the story lines are so compelling. The ending of the final episode of Season 1 seems fitting, in that what can go around does come around.I look forward to Season 2!
It is prestigious, serious, influential, educative and real perspective of the western world in 60ies. From years of airing, Mad Men was hosted on TV in many Countries, and I never truly had interest to watch it. But, after so many reviews and wins it received, I finally give it a try. So, a month before I collected all 4 seasons and start to watch from beginning.After the pilot I was automatically hooked, and watched continuously all of the seasons in less than 3 weeks. Of course I did not stopped on that. I start to read about it all over the Internet, and thinking on starting to collect gadgets if there is some. About the influence, it is hard to resist to not drink that Canadian Club whiskey or smoking Luckies, but I leave that blemish aside. But it is very alluring I admit.I suppose that series have positive effect on using some of the elements in real life, and with such a style it is so tempting not to try.Anyway after I saw how many international prizes series won, I agree that it deserved all of them. I may say that this is a real gold mine AMC made, as this network really proved to be maybe the best there is.What fascinate me about this show are the true facts about advertising industry in real life. Some of the real life executives from advert agencies, witness the reality in how advertising industry behaved those days. Seems that it is all true, as they stated. It is great reflexion of the world of marketing and advertising then, but it is almost the same today.I am a graphic designer and for me to be in a core of it left me with a real pleasure. I worked in marketing industry myself and must say that series impressed me not by fun, but with feel of reality.Copywriting is area that always interested me, and was and still is desirable to work in, and here it is not just a reference to this kind of work, but educational and supportive for real life ideas. So bravo to that.I assume that people involving with industry, found the same pleasure as I did.But, even it is the most interesting part for me, the other aspects in series is also excellent. The lifestyle, family relations and personal relation/issues, are projected very well. Actually it gives great perspective on life in America during that period. I asked my mother as she was in her twenties linked to the plot, and she stated that it all looks and feel like true facts.No wonder that series is so respected. But not by the audience that watch soaps or fast action fun shows. Mad Men is made for the serious audience, and its slow rhythm that many devoted to the super commercial genre stated seems because it is contrary to that junk. It is like comparing Bergman movies with Rambo.I like the was how characters were developed, especially of Don Draper and Peggy Olson. This is why it is important to watch Mad Men from the start. When someone say that it is too slow I say wrong. It is spontaneous with rich texture and feeling of the characters. Characters were gradually developed through the whole series.The costumes, music, photography and set are rich, and everything is so believable. And the real life facts were implemented very well (political scenes).The script is great, and after I found that the creator is the same person that was involved in creating Sopranos it was clear that we have very serious series.As a final and very important conclusion; the series could really help you to learn how to behave in real world, especially in the business field. And that's educational part added to the previous mentioned. Really important one indeed.I am so happy that Mad Men will continue, and brings something valuable that is so rare this days on TV. With Sopranos, Breaking Bad and Boardwald Empire to name the few, it is a pleasure to have something precious to our intelligence in the sea of so many stupid TV shows.


                
Being in the industry (and having had a father who was a war veteran and a CD at places like Lennon & Newell and Grey back in those days), I can confidently say that Mad Men gets it right.I remember visiting my father's office as a young kid, remember the comps with several layers of see-through pad paper (even the look of the illustrations are pretty spot-on), the boys club aspect of these places, the competition between DDB and everywhere else, the copywriters who grew beards and goatees and all had novels in their desks (one of our family friends became a popular novelist), and how all the creatives dressed up in suits for work everyday.A lot has changed.After many sad attempts of using the advertising industry as simply a backdrop (Melrose Place, Good Company), it's nice to see a show that integrates how the "work" is actually done instead of just showing everyone carrying around storyboards. While it's not the main crux of Mad Men (really, it's another nighttime soap opera), it does lend an air of authenticity.


                
When I saw one of the early episodes of Mad Men (rather by accident) I was completely blown away. The meticulously drafted script, the sensitive portrayal of the characters, which allows you to sense many layers of a personality, the make up, the fashion, the decor etc. everything was so carefully designed and crafted. Most interestingly was the perspective on the 1960 era: the different mind-set of the people, the values, the men-women-interaction. It makes you feel like a social anthropologist studying another culture, which it was to some extent. I got pulled into the maelstrom of "Mad Man" -so was my husband. Every episode was a pleasure to watch. Looking forward to the next season.


                
I honestly must say that I'm shocked to read so many bad reviews of this show. It seems that when something receives a lot of hype, new viewers are suddenly just itching to knock it down a peg, if only to show that they're keeping up with their Entertainment Weekly subscriptions.If you are coming in on Season 2 and have missed the entire precedent for it, then yes, you're bound to be bemused and somewhat irritated. If your attention span doesn't exceed three episodes time, maybe stick to Grey's Anatomy. If you're completely incapable of appreciating subtlety and reading between the lines of artfully written dialogue, this show will drive you, well, mad. And, if you are focusing too much on the "fetishistic" attention to detail in the production design, you're probably missing out on all the good stuff.I will be the first to note that the pilot episode is more caricature than satire, but things do become vastly more nuanced as the show and its character's evolve. Also, whether or not people want to acknowledge it, many of the troubling issues addressed on Mad Men are still relevant to the modern American. Obviously not to the degree they once were, but perhaps that makes it even more important for contemporary society to be bedeviled by yesteryear's Zeitgeist <U+0096> lest we forget. Additionally, one of the most prominent and compelling themes in the show is that of the American dream, and that will remain highly-combustible dramatic fodder long after this ol' empire smolders.Not only are the issues taxing, but the characters are not readily accessible and easy to like. In fact, there isn't one character on the show to speak of who isn't without fault. Does that mean they are devoid of any redeeming qualities? No. But, if you're only willing to watch superficially, you won't be allowing yourself to delve deeper into each character's quirks and personal challenges.A lot of people are cutting down Jon Hamm in their comments, and call me (quite literally) the devil's advocate, but I think Don Draper is brilliantly portrayed. Draper is a man who likes to believe he has each type of person pegged <U+0096> and, it cannot be denied that he has an uncanny clairvoyance when it comes to peoples' actions and desires - but in actuality, he is constantly being surprised by those around him. Such is the duality of his nature, because he doesn't even quite have himself figured out. He frowns down upon behaviors of which he himself is patently guilty, such as the deceitfulness of his father, the wandering search for affection of his wife Betty, the arrogance of his coworkers, etc. He projects an image of control, but the only thing he's really successful at is selling images. A man like that isn't serene or truly confident; he is constantly in a state of emergency (perhaps, hence the many references to Frank O'Hara's introvertive, yet guarded poem throughout Season 2.) If you are ill at ease with Hamm's performance, that is most likely the desired result.In regards to the rest of the cast, they are predominantly luminous. I am impressed over and over again with the performances of John Slattery, Elisabeth Moss, and especially Vincent Kartheiser, (whose commentary on the Season 1 DVD I found particularly insightful.) It seems that for many of the same reasons people are griping about the show, I find it to be starkly true-to-life and affecting. Most people don't refurbish the shortcomings of their consciences overnight, if ever. Most people are desperately flawed, most people have some unsavory characteristics and most people are completely inept/dumbfounded in at least one arena of their lives. However, if you TRULY devote some real time and attention to this show, you'll cull a better understanding of why the characters do the things they do, and how many of them are simply buying or selling an image which is completely opposite from what they aspire to internally.P.S. I was born in 1986, so I can't vouch for the realism of the atmosphere, but that seems to be one thing most of the critics generally agree on as a virtue of the show. All I can say is, I'm infatuated.


                
No other show has hooked me this quickly and thoroughly since the Sopranos. I do not watch much television due to most of the shows being mediocre at best. This show excels and the writers and actors are top notch. The show took me in from episode one. Even some of the best shows out there take time to hit their stride. Mad Men just throws you right in. Fully fleshed out characters both complex and deeply analyzed. I am not from the high ball era. I was born in the 70's. However; growing up I remember a time before the electronic/ computer age and it is a refreshing view full of nostalgia for anyone who remembers a time BEFORE cell phones. A world that no longer exist and both the good parts and not so good parts. The actor who portrays Mr. Draper inhabits his character so thoroughly and effortlessly. Definitely Emmy worthy


                
Mad Men has restored my faith in television. Amidst the thorns and thistles of reality shows, entertainment 'news', and schlubby sitcoms; here is, finally, a drama to celebrate. This program, though relatively slow-paced, in the eyes of most TV connoisseurs, keeps the viewer completely captivated through intricate plot lines and honey-drizzled dialogue. (Not to mention the fact that it's set in such a stylish time and location - the whole thing is pure, decadent eye candy!) But Mad Men's delicious setting just seems like the cherry on top, when you consider this: The characters are extremely well-developed - in other words - not just cardboard cutouts placed around the main actor (the incredible Jon Hamm) in order to create a 'world' for him. This cast is astoundingly talented; and because of their dazzling performances (coupled with the amazing writing staff), we can see the humanity within every one of these people - each with their own secrets and desires, and we can empathize with them. Yes, even with the notorious Peter Cambell (my personal favorite; and simply a brilliant performance by Vincent Kartheiser) both in his trying to establish a place of importance (through unfavourable means) and his personal failings. No one is perfect - and everyone has secrets. It's just nice to finally have a show that acknowledges the facts of life. Such a well - written and stylish one too.


                
