I bought the DVD of Season One based on sheer buzz from friends.It didn't knock my socks off at first --- it's not a show that's so out-of-the-box that it screams to be noticed --- but gradually the characters and scenarios grew on me. The writing was above average and even though the story lines seemed a bit thin from time to time, the acting was so good, the set design was so spot on, it got me hooked. And it did pick up momentum as the season sped toward it's conclusion.Season Two's premiere episode left me dry. Even looking back, it's a strange one. The dialog is stilted, much of what comes out of the character's mouths doesn't seem to fit and --- ABSOLUTELY...NOTHING...HAPPENS. I kept reading people raving about Season Two, but couldn't quite see what they were enamored of. But Season Two got better...way better....the increase in the tension was elegant, effective. Good plots twists, nice character refinements.Now Season Three.... As of this writing, we are now a third of the way into this year's installment and still not much has happened. Worse, virtually all of the story lines this year seem as banal and self-indulgent as that on the average soap. We are just now getting into more Draper back story --- the only thing I could find interesting in FOUR HOURS of footage. Instead we have: -The Sal-in-the-closet plot. Boring...and done to death elsewhere. Perhaps if we were to explore '60s style repercussions or the threat within them that Sal is/might be up against, it might be interesting. So far, that hasn't happened. Nothing has. And the opener with the bellboy? Right, that was believable. Try Red Show Diaries, Matt. It was about that plausible. -The John McCain and Cindy Brady Show --- This grandfather/granddaughter sub-plot is taking up far too much time...it's literally a quarter of every episode and it belongs on Lifetime! The fact that the actors are grating and the characters weak and annoying don't help. I really hope there is a point to including this drivel later on. It's really hard to sit through. Thee you on the thee-thaw Cindy...like never! - Joan's Marriage - This is moving abysmally slow. Christina Hendricks is a great actress. She needs more to do. - Roger's Marriage - Again, standard soap opera fluff. OK, maybe that's too harsh...Doug Sirk standard fluff. That's better.The exception here are Peggy and Pete. Despite the fact that the baby subplot seems to come and go in the show's writer's minds, almost at whim, Elisabeth Moss has ensured we still care about this character and her travails. Same with Vince Kartheiser's flawed and funny Pete.All of this is not bad for passing-time-TV. It's the standard we've come to expect from networks that cow-tow to limited attention spans and low intelligence. But that's not why I started watching Mad Men....it's now become like EVERY OTHER SHOW.To listen to Matthew Weiner's excessive self-accolades within his excessive commentaries you would think he'd created a Great Work of Deconstructionalist Art. I just think he was a writer who had a great idea at one time, but now hasn't any idea how to make that idea compelling any longer and has now fallen back on tried and true clichés.
'Mad Men' entertaining smugfest. Filmmakers convinced of their intrinsic moral superiority to people in the sixties. Viewers too, presumably. Slickly done eg derided single-mum is superwoman - even discovered exercise before it became fashionable. It'll be a retro cult comedy in 2040.This is more a reflection of the first decade of the 21st Century than the Sixties. Yes, much of it is accurate, but the joke is the emphasis on what the filmmakers believe the poor people in he sixties didn't know they had got wrong.It's funny to see how the stereotypes are so fixed in the filmmakers - and they think that they are pointing out sixties stereotypes.There are none so blind as those that will not see, particularly if they are smug and self- righteous.
After watching the first season I read a comment about how it is nothing, but down hill after that the first and hoped that it was not true. Unfortunately after watching the second season I realized how close this show was to being great and how they screwed it up, pretty badly.First thing, the ending to the second season for me is pathetic I hate when a show ends a season just gearing up for the next one rather than ending with a bang and then rebuilding during the next season. This idea is not only possible, but in practice with some of the biggest shows around that just have superior story lines and can keep rebuilding every year.Another part with it missed out is in the past of Don. I mean good God talk about a fascinating subplot. Unfortunately the writers decided to include next to nothing in both seasons about who this mystery character actually is.Really the only reason that I find myself watching this show is because I am bored and it can keep me entertained enough. There are never those episodes where you simply cannot wait to watch the next one. If I am bored enough then I just decide to watch a couple episodes, but it really does not do much to keep me hooked.All in all a great idea, with a mediocre show.


                
The end of Don Mad men producers, Don as a character has died and you can either cut him from the show, or re-capacitate him. Throughout the entire show Don has only rarely, insignificantly gave the slightest hint of a mysterious more complex interior self – a niece from the past says hi and is gone within seconds. Only from these minute glimpses can we sense a more interesting Don, but after season 7 I can hardly live by these crumbs of love and must see Don for what he is 99 % of the time; an aging, lying and shallow advertiser whose one-night stand routine becomes repetitive, sickly, boring. Perhaps it is the show's aim to show the pathology of unsatisfied rich alcoholics? One of the rich elements of the show is its historical backdrop – the fight for civil rights and the first black secretaries at the agency, the first man on the moon and every family is watching it on T.V., the rise of the working woman but the sexist comments she has to endure from her colleagues everyday. Peggy and Joan make up for Don's shallowness by far – but also seem to suffer from the shows indecisiveness whether to display the pathology of sexism or to give a more agentive role to the show's women. If it is striving for the last, it needs to do more. Don's women, the agency's women, are all different and nuanced characters, but all too often just put away as the bitter single or insecure confirmation seeking sidekick. Mad men, give it a bold twist, and do it now!


                
Watching Mad Men is something of an exercise in frustration, as week after week the show's creators seem intent on kneecapping an episode that could have been a brilliant piece of television.It's unsettling to become engrossed in some masterful storytelling, only to have that magic vanish instantly when one seemingly small detail suddenly slams you in the face to remind you that, hey, it's just another stupid Hollywood TV show. In one episode someone casually mentions that Don Draper occasionally drops his Gs when speaking, which dangerously betrays the rural upbringing he's worked hard to hide from everyone. Yet a few moments later during a flashback to his childhood, we hear his family not only speaking with absolutely perfect New York stage actor diction, they're also speaking lines worthy of highly educated upper crust society. They talk nothing like the rubes on a farm during the Great Depression they're supposed to be.Irritatingly in-your-face flaws like this pop up in every episode. Don's home movies shot indoors with no movie lights turn out flawless; in reality those of us who grew up surrounded by relatives with home movie cameras know that without movie lights, the film would have turned out pitch black.Of course what's so frustrating about these errors is how they mar a show that comes so very close to being one of the best shows of all time. The setting and time frame practically beg for dramatic treatment, and if the plots seem a little aimless at times, the characters are always fascinating. The production feels top notch from start to end - each shot is beautifully composed, and the lighting is extraordinary. The production design is superb; they've nailed the look and feel of 1960 perfectly. The acting is almost uniformly outstanding, with the exceptions of Vincent Kartheiser (Pete Campbell) who frequently seems like he's acting in a "Kids In The Hall" sketch, and Robert Morse (Bertram Cooper) who is so compelling and letter perfect on screen that anyone else in the scene with him is totally flattened.It will be interesting to see whether the second season can build upon the first, while curtailing the flaws that prevented the first season from living up to its promise.


                
This show about Madison Ave. Advertising executives circa 1960 is stylish, well acted and fairly well written. I've seen the first two episodes now, and I'm enjoying it. It has smarts and a wry humor about it, and I'm looking forward to the next episode. There are moments that feel too forced, or too obvious. The introduction of the in-the-closet Gay executive was too hurried. His mannerisms were vaguely suggestive of his sexuality, and the writers should have left this a running question mark for each viewer to determine for themselves, just as maybe his co-workers might have. It's easy to cherry pick a new show's faults, but the only reason I'm on here writing about it is because it's better than almost any other show on television right now.FAST FORWARD 2 MONTHS:I've watched more episodes, and the show is fizzling out. It's trying to be too cute for it's own good. And none of the characters are likable at all. None of 'em. The show is hamstrung by it's own contrived stylishness and attitude. It's not that good a show.
This is pertaining to the first episode. I agree that the smoke and drinking bit is overly done and seems contrived. Lets hope the writers get this out of the way or at least make it look natural. The secretary hits are a little out of line.I'm from that era and I don't remember that much crassness. At least not for a few weeks. But I know the writers are trying to get the mood of the Office personnel in focus. I remember that there was a lot of laughter in those days plus all the drinking and smoking and hitting on the office gals . I think the series might line-up to be good if some precautions are taken. Don't over-style -it.


                
I gave the series a (probably too high) "7", because I like the atmospherics and alienation. Anything to get away from cookie-cutter crime and corpse dramas! Funny how the reviews at the beginning of the series are highly enthusiastic, and as the season progressed, because highly contemptuous.I think the truth lies somewhere in between. I read an interesting critique of the show that made the point that the world of Madison Ave. after Kennedy got elected, with a new freshness, youth, and vigor "infecting" the culture, was much more go-go, high-energy, and optimistic that the dour alienated gloom that hangs over the series. I get that the production wants to emphasize the alienation inside the people, but as someone who was 10 at the time, I have an strong intuition that that alienation was not reflected in external atmospherics.The kind of (literal) free-fall that is so superficially appealing in the title sequence seems to express what was happening in the LATE sixties, early seventies, when post-modernism (including in the form of the counterculture) was injecting multiple perspectives and even aperspectivism into the culture, making "straight" modernists dizzy, and shifting the ground beneath them. But in 1960, modernism was in full flower, and the kind of vertigo suggested in the title sequence and in the series as a whole seems 10 years too early.I'll give John Hamm the benefit of the doubt until I've seen him work in other projects.


                
I think this show somehow has become a way to make Americans better. While watching this show and seeing them destroy their lives with all the drinking, smoking, cheating on each other...etc. its like a "what not to do" documentary. This is where we came from, don't go back!! caution signs everywhere. If you every have the urge to smoke or drink or be unfaithful, just watch an episode and it will destroy your appetite to do so. The characters do it enough for you and everyone elseDon is definitely not on the top of the list of favorite characters on the show. Although he gets the most screen time he seems kind of flat. The back story helps but the only time that comes into play is when he screws up his face at the camera and that is the directors way of telling us he is remembering something and being deep. Basically he is a womanizer with a drinking problem.Peggy and Peter I think take the show. Peggy clearly because you don't see her in the same setting twice. Every season her extra-work curriculum is different. Peter needs to make a name for himself (actually to live up to the name he has.) At first you just hate the weasel kid but through out the seasons he has become someone I root for and not just because he whined about everything. He has made some daring moves (If scripted can be daring) and is doing OK to hold his own.I give this show a 7 because I think it is a great view of this time period in our country. It shows family life, business culture, counter culture, historic events, and how our country reacted to those historic events.


                
It took Mrs. Shullivan and I approximately ten (10) days over successive weekends to binge watch the entire seven (7) seasons of Mad Men which we had heard and especially read so much about this series unique originality and great casting. Well the casting for the most part was accurate. Jon Hamm, Elisabeth Moss, Bryan Batt, Alison Brie, and Vincent Kartheiser were true to their characters and most enjoyable. The two characters who I especially enjoyed though were actor John Slattery who plays Roger Sterling, a second generation corporate partner in the ad agency and his Secretarial ManagerJoan Harris (Christina Hendricks). Slattery's character Roger Sterling, as the so-called schmoozer and people person who knows how to (especially) wine and dine his agencies clients and not worry so much about the agencies business itself was always enjoyable whenever he was granted screen time. Hendricks' character grew over each season and although Mrs. Shullivan and I were disappointed on the way she eventually became an agency partner, we felt her partnership was still long overdue, and the large amount of screen time provided to her was proof she deserved every minute of it.As with most multiple season(s) winning Emmy TV series it takes at least a dozen or so episodes before the characters true personalities and idiosyncrasies are revealed to their audience. You may have noticed that I did not reference actress January Jones, Jessica Paré, and/or Rich Sommer as characters Mrs. Shullivan and I enjoyed because we did not enjoy them. The one character who was totally miscast though was the Draper's next door neighbor's son Glen Bishop played with zero "0" personality by actor Marten Holden Weiner. This just goes to prove that nepotism has no place in a successful Emmy winning TV series especially if your father Matthew Weiner is the series creator. I would have dreaded being either January Jones and/or Kiernan Shipka who were the two actresses who were forced by the series scripts to share air time with this overly stiff and plastic personality of Glen Bishop. Whenever this zombie Glen Bishop was granted screen time with Betty Draper/Francis, and/or Sally Draper Mrs. Shullivan and I looked at each other with disdain for the series creator Matthew Weiner for wasting our time. I was forced to drop my overall IMDB series rating down a notch as a result from an 8 to a 7 out of 10 rating.There was a missed opportunity by the series set decorators in taking advantage of the time period, the 1960's, in creating some elaborate sets such as in restaurant taverns and go-go discotechs, and plying us intermittently with reminiscent songs of the era not just in the closing credits of each series episode.In summary the series Mad Men was decent, more hype than happening, but it certainly pales in comparison to my four (4) other longstanding TV series that being, The Wire (2002-2008), Dexter (2006-2013), Gunsmoke (1955-1975), and of course Bonanza (1959-1973).


                
If you're tired of endless cop dramas on every network and interested in a one of a kind 1960s perspective drama, Mad Men is a great show. So far I have watched 6 out of the 8 sessions without any disappointment. Mad Men captures the look and culture of the upper class in the 60s. At first characters appear basic but as time goes on viewers learn more about their personal lives and problems. With this stated, viewers can also get attached to characters, so when a drastic change occurs it can be even harder to go along with it. The drastic responses that go along with a change would have been appropriate for that time period making it intriguing and interesting. Characters of Mad Men make decisions very different from what would be expected today, keeping the viewer involved in the series. With this said, many problems we face today are parallel to problems during the sixties. While abortion and equal rights (gay marriage) as defining topics of the twenty-first century abortion and equal rights among African Americans were defining topics of the 1960s. A complex, yet easy to understand plot makes for an interesting series for just about anyone (any adult). As the series progresses plot twists intrigue the viewer without disappointing them. In most shows change often is disappointing although in Mad Men the changes just get better and better.


                
I was keen to watch at last this much lauded and decorated TV series, being a lover of admittedly older-generation classic American TV and having besides a keen interest in post-war U.S. society. My conclusion for now is that while there's much to savour, there's almost as much to repel and at times it can be difficult to watch. In terms of its highly stylised production values and physical depiction of the times, it seems very accurate, right down to the office settings and fashion-sense. The acting too is of a high standard, the ensemble playing very strong with no obvious weak-links. The tie- ins with contemporary events, prominently in this series the epochal Nixon-Kennedy election adds flavour and resonance and one wonders how many other significant happenings will be deemed worthy of reference. However what can't be avoided here is the controversial portrayal of the sexes. Women are either "easy-meat" office prey for predatory office males, who invariably have passive, docile, unsuspecting wives back home. Personally I find all the "junior-jumping" quite offensive and overdone, all of which makes it harder to empathise, far less sympathise with any of the characters, even the leads. That said, as the series progresses and we go deeper into the mysterious back-story of main man Don Draper, the troubled psyche of his dutiful wife, the progress of frumpy secretary-cum-copywriter Peggy and the thwarted ambitions of baby-faced wannabe Pete, it gradually comes together, although it did take a lot of rather empty episodes to get to that point. That said, I am now sufficiently intrigued to want to see more and how the characters adapt to the burgeoning 60's, but overall I'd still say and forgive the cliché, that it seems that style is triumphing over content thus far.


                
I had to go to New York for five weeks and most of the time I was stuck in the apartment with only a laptop for company. My host had a netflix sub so after a few days I was hooked on Madmen and Portlandia.
Let's compare the two for a moment... Portlandia is a fantastic program but it is spotty and gets a bit repetitive. It's a great spoof on West Coast life and captures some of the treehugging mentality perfectly.Madmen too is a fantastic program, it's sobering to think that the culture in the offices of the day is so different from the starched shirt attitude that now prevails and that this is only a scene or two away from a comedy series too.It's well acted and the scripts really do a great job in taking us back to what it was like when women went to the office with the intent of finding a husband. Men ruled the roost and could say anything they liked or screw any chick they took a fancy to.While it's interesting to see the subtle changes that creep in from episode to episode and season to season it does get a bit hard to see all of the booze and the cigarettes and think that there was that much excess.Of course there was lots of drinking, smoking and sex in the offices I worked in back in the 60's and 70's ( sadly I only got the booze and the smoking) but I don't recall anyone slugging back liquor like it was pop. Maybe things were a little more conservative in England and Canada?In any event I started to get tired of the Don Draper role with his ability to bed just about anything that came along and not think twice about it, and you know that the entertainment has run its course when you start fast forwarding through the more intimate scenes.The deeper story, about how the Ad agencies manipulate people's desires, is allowed full expression without much in the way of countervailing voices and the treatment of the lower hirelings was a part of the series that really got my back up. (which must mean that it was done well!)It strengthened my belief that America is a corporate dictatorship without a meaningful conscience. Corporate conscience only exists to increase sales, no other reason. ( As an aside, what use is it to fine a corporation? Nobody feels any pain)
The spoils go to the most well connected and it's a myth that everybody has an equal chance.
Big corporations run things in the States with no real regard for the working peasant, and the advertising agencies help them do it.To be truthful, the series went on a season or two longer than it should have, it was a bit of chore getting through the later episodes, but then again that's why programs come in and out of favor


                
Beyond advertising, what has kept me glued to this show, beside Joan's fair bosom of course is how accurately it reflects the period. Famous historical references include, the 60s Hare Krishna trend, the 1966 Richard Speck rape and murder of eight nurses, the introduction of LSD as a drug for the intelligentsia before the novelty wore off, even environmental concerns like the toxic fogs in New York, and of course White Guilt. Negro solidarity aside, I felt the lump in Lane Pryce's throat as he struggled to be racially correct when dismissing the black applicants.The season kicks off with the Y&R office dropping water bombs on Negro protesters, resulting in very bad PR, SCDP then runs an ad claiming they're an equal opportunity employer just to get back at competition, action which results in an embarrassingly dark lobby the next morning.In the season premiere, Peggy botches a Heinz pitch, looks to Draper for help, but Don uncharacteristically decides to go with the client. Megan, the new wife throws a surprise birthday party for Don, sings a sexy French number and turned all the ad men in the room to hard men.Just to keep Betty, Drapers ex-wife relevant, the writers assault her with a barrage of bother. From corpulence, to cancer, to controlling Don from afar through her daughter. Peggy hires a new skillful writer, despite her partner's warning to hire a less threatening one.Some things did not change. Peter Campbell remains his loathsome self, constantly deriding Roger Sterling, having an affair with a commuter friend's mentally unstable wife, finally getting his due when he plied a prospect with prostitutes. In what was the height of the season for some, Don pulls the curtain, Roger lights a cigarette, Pryce rolls up his sleeves and knocks Peter out! After glorifying Draper for four seasons, the writers explore the theme of the insecure creative director and boy, was it fun to watch Don squirm? After getting scolded by Cooper, Don decides to start writing again. He flips through the sketchpad of the new kid one night, and realizes the young ones are catching up. In a very familiar industry twist, Draper ditches the youngster's comps on the way to client and sells the hell out of his own idea.What does it take to win a pitch? Good creatives or a smoking hot redhead? A portly Jaguar client demands a night with Joan, Peter indecently propositions her, Don insists the creative is good enough, while Lane advises her that a car account is worth a partnership. After being taken for granted repeatedly, Peggy drops her resignation, and her exit is sadly covered up by the noise of the Jaguar win.Don, this time is quite the repentant philanderer. One would think a deserter will cut people some slacks, but instead he tightens the noose. Plagued with financial problems, especially Her Majesty wanting to make an example of tax-evading expatriates, Lane Pryce forges Dons signature, embezzles, gets caught and hangs himself in his office.This season begs all of the questions troubling a creative in the industry: are you being appreciated? What exactly is loyalty and when is it appropriate to move on? Is there anything like teamwork? What if you're better than your boss? Will you ever make partnership? Rife with portentous symbols while glamourizing the mundane: a toothache, fixing the sink to the admiration of colleagues' wives, a contemplative stare down an elevator shaft. The show says so much without saying too much, making me wonder exactly how much of the subtext did a Nigerian viewer miss.
