The first episode of Mad Men honestly represents the drinking, smoking, sexist fifties, a time when Madison Avenue's attitude and control permeated our entire culture, including one international political blunder after another, a time before anyone ever heard of political correctness. Gays were still in the closet, women slept their way to wherever they wanted to go, and advertising executives ruled the world. Everyone smoked because we all just looked so damn good doing it.Mad Men captures not only the look of the fifties, it grabs all the details along with it. Here's a show for Aaron Sorkin fans, a show that treats the audience as adults, smartly written, yet a show that avoids pandering. At first, characters appear one dimensional but there's a hint of turmoil below the surface, a promise of things to come in future episodes. This, my friend, is an expose.'I suspect Mad Men will be a small audience success story. It's a quality show, for grown ups, and the fact that it's on AMC will mean it can live a full life with less than network audience numbers.I really enjoyed the first episode and look forward to the next. Good job!


                
The characters go around completely oblivious to how pointless their lives are. They think they have perfect marriages-- they don't. Perfect jobs-- nope. Perfect health even though they constantly smoke and drink-- nope. We can look back and see how phony it all was-- the advertising, the plastic homes and lives, and the social niceties and expectations. And here's the punchline-- it's US! TODAY! And that's the brilliance of the show. Today we are the same with different clothes and cars. We are jaded, full of irony and smarm, and believe we are self-aware. Imagine how a TV show (hologram show?) will look back at the sad folks of 2007 45 years from now. We tune out, blame others, scan the internet for porn, buy $5 coffee, and still can't fix the health care system. Apart from the amusement of looking into a 47 year-old mirror, the show gives us tremendous writing, acting, set decoration and drama. Let me re-emphasize my favorite part of the show-- set decoration. Kudos all around at the insistence of having the look of every scene strike me as true and accurate to the nth degree. I have watched each of the first episodes three times each. I love it!(PS to those idiots chatting endlessly about electric typewriters and such: That's the smarminess I'm talking about. What would you rather watch? 'Flavor of Love'? 'The Steve Harvey Show'? 'According to Jim'? Gimme a break! Just enjoy a quality show while you can!!!)


                
Women were objects, the steno pool was a sexist source of jokes, and the ad men were (they thought) at the top of their game. They had the world on a string and all was well in America. Eisenhower was brilliant, Communism was evil, Tobacco was good, and drinking in the office was just creative brainstorming.Performance by Jon Hamm, as Don Draper deserves mention. I had not seen him in prior performances. He fits the narcissistic role of a creative director in advertising very well. A conflicted character, attempting to help his child-like wife make sense of her pointless life in the suburbs. (One may also read Sylvia Plath's "The Bell Jar" to get the actual effect of the time period on women. Also the film, "The Man in the Grey Flannel Suit", with Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones, addressed the futility and role-playing of that era, particularly for women.) Vincent Kartheiser as an irritating newbie junior ad executive. John Slattery is amusing as Roger Sterling, the agency President and Sr. partner, his ego and libido running rampant. He has some amusing lines and despite being sleazy, is also a rather sympathetic character.Overall well-written, the genre has been filmed before but certainly for a television series on AMC, this is daringly creative. It is the first non-dated, non-western I have seen on AMC in a decade. Well worth watching. 8/10.


                
I'm 66, and have been watching movies and TV shows for more than 60 years. I grew up watching films when the audience didn't need a car chase or a gun fight every five minutes to keep its weak minds occupied.When the MPAA rating system was introduced, producers and directors could finally make the movies they wanted, without interference (other than receiving a rating they didn't like). Though one can think of films that were (perhaps) gratuitously violent or sexual, * that freedom was not generally abused.This age of mature film making lasted barely a decade. Its decline began with "Star Wars", as studios realized there was a huge youth market devoid of adult taste. This is why Hollywood currently turns out few "serious" pictures. ** When I read reviews of "Mad Men" and similar adult dramas (TV or otherwise), I'm surprised at the high percentage of reviewers who find them dull, badly written, and poorly acted. I can only imagine that most of them are under 30, and have never seen "good" motion pictures or TV shows.I understand someone objecting to "Mad Men", "The Sopranos", "Deadwood", "Oz", "Justified", "Breaking Bad", etc, etc, //simply because they're entertainment// -- and one might spend one's spare time at more-productive and edifying pursuits. Looked at //objectively//, they are, indeed, time wasters.But human beings like to hear (or see) stories, and that isn't about to change. I've seen all the series I listed, and all are excellent examples of good storytelling. If you find "Mad Men" dull or boring, it's because you have no interest in stories about human relationships.Ditto for bad writing and bad acting. I wish I could write as well as David Chase or Robert Weiner. Only "Breaking Bad" has out-and-out bad acting (Anna Gunn, Dean Norris, Christopher Cousins). (Their acting might look bad because of how their parts are written -- but I don't think so. Oddly, in season 5, Gunn and Norris get noticeably better.)A common complaint from the ignorant is that "these people aren't nice" or "they do bad things" (etc). Well, that's the point -- they're not supposed to be perfect -- just interesting. You wouldn't have much of a story otherwise. And -- let's be honest -- if the shows I've listed encourage decent, moral behavior in the viewers, it is only by negative example. ("Breaking Bad", in particular, shows how an otherwise "good" person can be seduced into horrifyingly immoral behavior. If you have teenage children, they really should watch this show and discuss it with you.)People who find "Mad Men" (and similar shows) artistically worthless just don't know what they're talking about.* "The Wild Bunch" comes to mind. Sam Peckinpah wanted people to be repulsed by violence, yet he's still thought of as a purveyor of "violence porn". Though violent, "Bonnie and Clyde" is a well-written/acted/directed film, in which the violence is not the focus.** There seems to be revived interest in good films, possibly because the Academy again allows 10 nominations for Best Picture.


                
Funny show, well written and very clever. It certainly shows how things have changed since the 50's. I love the costuming, sets and scripting. It's reminiscent of "Far From Heaven" in they way it looks. While the script certainly is laden with sexist comments, it's important to remember the time line in which the story occurs. It's refreshing to see something other than the usual mundane lawyer/doctor/touchy-feely family shows that seem to permeate the airwaves now. I'm looking forward to seeing more of it. I hope it does not meet the same demise as such clever shows as "Huff" and "Dead Like Me". I like seeing something a bit more imaginative once in a while.


                
At first, this show intrigued me. It gave a glimpse into an era long gone. The set and acting were both superb.Unfortunately, the novelty soon wore off and I was left waiting for the plot and characters to grab me. Some shows take a few episodes to pull you in, which is fine, but there has to be a cutoff point where you decide the show just isn't for you or the show isn't good enough itself - I can't sit and watch 10-15 episodes just for something to happen. Halfway through season 1, I gave up on waiting for something to happen. I wasn't pulled into the mysterious Don Draper at all. Nothing interesting was happening and I found myself bored by the constant sexism, drinking, smoking, etc.


                
I'll be the first to admit that Mad Men is a show about watching people go to work and live their lives. It should be dull and uninteresting, yet somehow it managed to grip me for a whole 7 seasons and left me wanting more.The setting is a big part of it. The historical interest of the time (JFK's assassination, the moon landing, England winning the World Cup, to name a few key points in the show) is enough to keep many gripped. It's more than that though. The characters in themselves are worth following and you get invested in them as the seasons progress.To be frank I didn't like the first season. I just didn't get the formula and was getting close to giving up on the show. I'm glad I didn't though as it only improves from the second season onward.


                
This show started off brilliantly, like edgy view of a period that is constantly being imagined as naive and kind. It's nicely lit and shot, acting is very good. First episode was brilliant, writing was razor sharp and well observed. But during the first season, the show seemed to lost its focus. It sort of jumps between business, politics, personal lives and love affairs. It lacks consistency. None of these themes is fully approached and realized. I for one think it should focus a lot more on the business side of things. This way the show could work as a vehicle for revealing principles of advertising to the audience, which is bound to be interesting for the show's demographic. Too bad it doesn't.


                
This show catches a lot of heat from people in my age range (early 20's). If you ask me, this is a great show.First off, it's a period piece. If it makes you uncomfortable glimpsing into the sexual and racial tensions of the 60's and early 70's, go watch Big Bang Theory or something. The show is a glimpse into office life culture of the time. Being mad at this show for being racist or sexist is like being mad at Shakespeare for using old English...it's just how it was at the time! It doesn't make it right, it's just how it WAS.The story arc follows the protagonist (possibly anti-hero?) Don Draper through his personal life as well as his office life at the ad agency "Sterling-Cooper" (undergoes many name changes). Don is deeply flawed. He has a hidden identity, he drinks and smokes like a sailor, he is unfaithful in his marriages, yet there is still something respectable and intriguing about him. Some episodes also focus on the equally intriguing supporting cast (also mostly employees of the ad agency).The acting is first rate. My favorite actors are obviously Jon Hamm who plays the main character Don Draper, John Slattery who plays Roger Sterling, and January Jones who plays Betty Draper-Ford to a TEE. Those are just my favorite actors and actresses, but the entire cast is great all around. It's impressive and is definitely helped by a strong core team of writers.If the content doesn't turn off viewers, I'm sure the content could do the job. The plot can meander sometimes and is overly cryptic at times (regarding Don's personal life), humor can be dry (though hilarious), and the plot lines take a while to resolve themselves. It's a very involved show that demands your attention because if you don't pay attention, you'll lose track of what's going on really easily. Despite all these things, it's fascinating to follow Don's crazy life and the exploits and inner workings of the ad agency (at least for me it is).Good series and definitely worth the watch! - Jack
I've been on here before, slamming the continuity mistakes in Summer of My German Soldier, Honky-Tonk Freeway, The Rockford Files, Time After Time and Call to Glory, and having just seen all the previews for Mad Men, I just can't resist . . . The writers were so proud of themselves concerning their perfect continuity, for instance, they wouldn't let the kids have an Etch-A-Sketch because it wasn't introduced until the summer of 1960 and their story is set in March 1960. And then they haul off and fill their offices with typewriters that didn't exist in 1960!! A previous viewer commented on the Selectrics but didn't elaborate. Well, here goes:As previously written, the IBM Selectric was introduced in 1961 - the FIRST Selectric, that is. It was small and tub-shaped. In the background of the previews, a Selectric is visible - a late-1960s model. But the typewriter Peggy is given on her first day is a Selectric II - and not only a II, but a long-platen, dual-pitch (Pica AND Elite) 88-character element, self-correcting Selectric II - introduced in 1973!! (When I was a freshman in 1973, I remember our typing teacher gushing over the beautiful, brand-new Selectric IIs our school had just received, and she and I agreed that the self-correcting DP Selectric II was the most bad-ass typewriter ever made! Today's any-size, any-font WYSIWYG word-processing has made it obsolete, but in its day the Selectric was a true marvel.)These S-IIs are scattered throughout the office, some even newer (you can tell by a differing design of the keys, more squarish with smaller letters, some as late as 1980.) And in two scenes, there are even two Selectric IIIs visible (lighted cursor position dial, long-platen, dual-pitch, 96-character element,) and those were introduced in 1982!!Somebody really went to sleep on this one! The typewriters they SHOULD have used were either the IBM Executive or the Remington Rand.As for Xerox machines, yes, the first Xerox dry electrostatic copier was brought out in 1959, but copiers were marketed before that. We had one in our high school, in the library, that was made in 1956 and it still worked. They charged us 10 cents a page in 1976. So, Draper is wrong - there were magical machines that could make exact copies in 1960.Other than that, I really liked the show! It's pretty gritty by today's standards, but it's a darkly accurate window on the near past. For us Boomers, it's a stark reminder of why the Libbers were so P. O.-ed at men all through the 'seventies. And the cars are cool! I think Draper is driving a '59 Pontiac. Man, I'd really like to have that car! And the woman that plays Rachel Menken - wow! Is she HOT!Enjoy!


                
This series is very good, not excellent, but very good. Excellent would be the "The Wire" and "Six Feet Under" followed by "The West Wing" and "The Sopranoes".The characters are mostly engaging, well written and multi-dimensional and the subtlety of the writing is terrific. The sets are true to the era.At times, I confess to 'frissons' as I worked in corporations during that era that are eerily reduxed here. Not advertising per se but other media related. Women were treated as disposable ****bunnies, and were not even in the category of 'human'. Yelled at even for the boss's poor dictation or inept direction. Expected to toe the line demurely when the bosses' wives dropped in on the very rare occasions when they were 'allowed' to visit the big fellah's office at all. Wives never came to the office parties which were virtually the orgies seen here. rivers of booze (and often drugs)were omnipresent and the female staff members often berated publicly for not 'co-operating' in the sexual agendas of their masters.I find it extraordinary that this era has been captured so well by the writer and the cast. It has captivated me even though I've only caught the one season so far. I look forward to Season 2.With all the dreck out there, this restores my faith in episodic TV.8 out of 10.


                
This is one of the most intelligent Shows I have ever seen. It would be comparable to the first season of "Six feet under" which was very good and "Deadwood", which was simply stellar. But this epic story is much deeper and digs into the very complex world of certain individuals in a very honest and very realistic way. This was, and sadly enough still is, the very world of Advertising. A world where thousands of people are hired to sell us crap we don't really need. This very American principle is and always was as shallow, as shallow can be. And naturally it involves greed, dishonesty, backstabbing and gender-bashing at it's finest. And now, in 2008, this house of cards will hopefully collapse. Maybe that is the reason why so many people posting here on IMDb don't like the show: because it is hitting home. I love it.And for the gents that don't appreciate the main character's "flat acting": you are missing the point. Don Draper is a man like many of us ( maybe I should say: like some of us), he has to succeed in a world of sharks, he is driven and ambitious and intelligent, but yet with a secret past that he tries to suppress and therefore put's on a facade, which is palatable to the untrained eye, but fools most of us. So his performances seem strained. A task well executed and rarely seen nowadays amongst white, north-American actors, which in general cannot hold a candle when compared to Guy Pearce, Christian Bale or Clive Owen. But in a world where Tom Cruise or George Clooney are considered good actors I am not surprised to find "Mad Men" misunderstood.


                
I was shocked to read a few of the other comments of Mad Men, most of which bemoan bad acting and hackneyed situations. But, like many great genre shows, Mad Men continues the trend of great television programming by putting fascinating characters in a realm so alien from today's world, that we forget that it is our past.While many reviewers place the highlight of the show on Don Draper, his escapades in the office and in his personal life, the show is so much more than a linear piece about one man. The cast works in a truly ensemble fashion, each leading entangled lives, never fully spelling out how each character is feeling or thinking, rather leaving up the situation to interpretation. The acting is superb, especially the introspective way that Jon Hamm portrays Don Draper. He speaks very tersely, rarely talking with passion about anything (unless he's pitching an idea), and never about how he feels. All of this reflects a society that is long gone... you can't imagine any of your friends acting and reacting in the same way to such situations, but I can't see any of my friends acting like my grandparents and their friends either.As with sci-fi and fantasy, it takes a truly immersive view to understand and love the characters and the plot lines that occur. It isn't crazy, it isn't out there, it's every day life on a planet that we'll never know. It doesn't relish, celebrate, or bash the 60's... it doesn't feel like a stereotype... it just matter-of-factly is that decade.What will be particularly interesting is to see if Mad Men has the staying power past 13 episodes a season and not become wrought with frivolities and "period" centric pop-culture references.


                
Jon Hamm is as appealing in this as he is appalling. You may feel stronger with one of those than the other, but while he is the number one character in this, there is a lot more going on here, than might meet the eye. Especially at first, you may not be able to see it. The women are as much part of the whole show as the (Mad) Men. You could even argue that they have a lot more going on at times.The show itself is slow paced though, which may not go down well with some viewers. You really have to be in the mood for the show, for the setting, the time line and all that surrounds it. I know that Jon was hated as much as he was loved by viewers. Because he had so many flaws, but was also intriguing and had that extra special charisma going for him. It's almost impossible to not be enamored by him.Some lingo may not work or may be confusing too, but in the context, you'll never lose sight of things. You don't have to be in the advertising or management business or having lived ages ago. This does work as a bit of a history lesson. And the acting is superb. Of course as with many (recent) shows, it makes sense to have watched all the seasons from the start ... it's character building, even if nuanced


                
This is a fairly good show. To me, though I'm only 29, it gives a welcome context to the upheavals of the mid and late 60's - why every one who was not a well-heeled, East Coast, college educated, hetero WASP male got fed up. Because in this show, that's pretty much ALL you're gonna see: these guys living it up, barely working, partying, whoring, full of anti-semitism and naked prejudice, living like kings and yet still feeling empty and misunderstood. Your heart will not bleed. If anything, if you think enough about it, it will depress you to think how the Conservatives ran against the civil rights movements of the 60's and how much we seem, in our much less affluent, much more tired way, to have boomeranged back to all that. PC's cover, nothing's changed, and Mad Men will bring that home to you.


                
I started watching Mad Men in January of this year, starting from the very beginning. After the first episode, I honestly did not understand why everyone was raving on how awesome this show was. I found it to be mediocre and boring. But for some reason I watched the second episode a couple weeks later. It still didn't grab my attention, but I kept watching the show. About halfway through season 1, I started to realize that this show was actually pretty good. After season 1, season 2 was just as good. Season 3 really made this one of my favorite shows to watch.Mad Men is about the Sterling Cooper ad agency in 1960s New York. One thing that is very cool about this show is the difference in their time period and ours today. Mad Men travels along through the 60s through the perspective of these rich ad executives. I really like the research and effort the writers put into making it historically accurate, and the way it features all of the famous landmarks in history from that decade. The show's writers also provide great dialogue and outstanding characters. The biggest reason that this show keeps getting better and better is because you really start to become fascinated by the characters and want to see and watch more of them. If the show seems dull and boring at first, it will get really good as you start to get used to the characters.Most everything about Mad Men is great. The acting is superb, the story is pretty good, and even though I'm only in my teens I really think, for the most part, they successfully recreated the 1960s. Mad Men isn't the show for people who live on watching violence and action shows or anything of the like, but it is a great show if you like strong characters and you can really pay attention and digest everything that occurs within the show. Like I said, I'm only a teenager and I still love this show. It is great for anyone who is mature and sophisticated enough for a show driven by dialogue and characters, regardless of how old you are.


                
The writing is strong, the acting is strong, and one of the best parts about this show is what lies under the surface. Its American Beauty-esquire approach and calm facade while everything seethes underneath is what makes for such exquisite drama. The actors can say more in silence with their faces and demeanor than they could with words, which would fall short anyway. It is a nod to the human condition, and the affects of society on it, one of the reasons why it is so aptly set in the time period it is set in. The issues it deals with are complex, and it calls on the viewer to actually think on them and use their intuition to make sense of what's going on. If you're looking for an easy watch, perhaps this is the wrong show for you. The pace and timing are perfection. It's true to its time period. I find it absolutely refreshing.


                
There's an awful lot of dross in TV drama these days. That's why it's so easy to miss a pearl like Mad Men.I only came across it in series two,but was immediately hooked.Unlike the usual staccato monotone screeching that is the standard TV dialogue, these people talk in sentences and paragraphs. Sometimes intelligent conversations go on for several minutes.It is very easy to empathise with the characters, in particular the slightly lonely, sad, but intelligent and sensitive Peggy. I was a teenager in the 60's,and for me this series evokes the period really well. The dialogue crackles. The spirit of Noel Coward and Terence Rattigan lives on! (Across the pond ,anyway). Some say it is a bit too slowly paced. Rubbish! You can rush a McDonalds, but never a gourmet meal.Some predictions for series 3. (No spoilers- I've not even read the synopses).The libidinous Don Draper comes a terrible cropper over some woman, and gets chucked off the Board. His already dotty wife goes completely crackers and ends up in the loony bin.The aforementioned Peggy, with her copy writing skills,takes Don's place on the Board.As the 60's advance, the gorgeous and amply talented Joan appears prominently in every episode and takes to wearing shorter and shorter mini-skirts and skimpier and skimpier tops. This culminates in her turning up to work one day in a topless dress. Stirling Cooper (and myself) go into meltdown and the series ends.


                
MAD MEN is an offensive piece of work. Imagine the characters on VH1's, 'Tool Academy' brainstorming and hustling for sex and money at a Madison Avenue advertising agency fifty years ago. The series boasts a plethora of stylized sets, incessant smoking and drinking, and the most backward thinking this side of a gorilla cage. And, there-in lies the charm. This wry narrative forces you to explore the world of 1960 USA without the social and political correctness of 21st century America. Civil Rights hadn't reached the dream stage, and White Men in suits called the shots with God given authority, and ladies(girls) knew their place. This series is certainly not for everyone, but if you might enjoy an ironic and faintly amusing look at the ass-end of Eisenhower's America, this could be the series for you.


                
I really enjoyed watching this show. It had some things I didn't really like about the characters at times and sometimes that I thought might be a little out of character but overall I thought it was pretty awesome. I love the 60s and I get into all the pop culture, music, style, etc. of it and just enjoyed this show a lot.


                
Mad Men4 Out Of 5Mad Men; one of the most acclaimed series by critics, loved by the fans and buzzed at the award shows, is a character driven series created by Matthew Weiner depicting the inner world of an ad agencies set in '60s in New York. The writing is sharp, elaborative, adaptive and explicit that keeps the audience tangled in its not-so-likable and faulty world on the edge of their seat. The character driven mellow subjective procedure is something that leaves a long lasting impression among the viewers.Unlike any other series, the seasons holds on to the merit of its early stages by visiting unexpected places and going beyond one's imagination, exploring a more mature world, proving once again its fame with its excellent execution and fine editing.Addition to that, the bold and ironical take of all the issues that were present at that era is something that sends out a thought-provoking message which is imputed in the plot flawlessly and with utter conviction.It is rich on technical aspects like projecting the chemistry among the characters, stunning cinematography, beautiful camera work, references mentioned in the conversations and the classic tone of the series that makes it supremely watchable. The primary reason why the series stands alone is not only its nature to work in a metaphorical way but to weave out a poem from the sequence, is the genuine soul behind it that attains a certain closure in each episode. The performance objective is score majestically by the cast especially by the protagonist Jon Hamm who is supported convincingly by the cast like Elisabeth Moss, Vincent Kartheiser, Kiernan Shipka, January Jones and John Slattery. The practical conversations, the whistle-blowing dialogues, three-dimensional characters, excellent execution, finely detailed set-pieces, alluring costume design are the high points of the series that helps it enter the major league.Mad Men is a classic take of an era where the rules and laws might be different but the resultant outcome of deeds and the justice is inevitable.


                
I genuinely don't know why I love the show. It's slow and full of day-to- day stories from an ad agency (I'm in love with this industry, that's why I started, but I did not expect to really like it). But strangely the charisma of the show is undeniable.A brilliant choice of cast. Very well written. Music is among the best I've ever seen. And the show is beautiful, so it's enjoyable for the eyes.The characters are the best in this TV series. Every single character, from the main to the supporting, are unique and memorable. Especially Don Draper, Peggy, Sterling and Pete Campbell, four of my favorite. They are all bipolar, complicated and very interesting.Well done AMC. Another favorite and superb show for me, besides Breaking Bad.


                
With the series finale for Mad Men being tomorrow night I find this a great time to review the show. AMC has been running a marathon letting me jump in and review episodes from every season. That has been wonderful as I found episodes where I missed segments where very important things happened that I've been asking myself for years why they never addressed x, y, or z only to find they did it is just the cadence of the show is such that I tend to watch it but allow things to happen without my notice. The bottom line is it has allowed me to review the show, without re-watching it entirely just skimming through the episodes and paying attention to those I knew I hadn't watched closely giving me a greater appreciation for the show. After having a chance to review it and see some of those gaps filled in I went from a 7 to an 8 star rating. The one part of MadMen that always was a negative to me was the cadence of the show. The pace simply wasn't fast enough and at times that is what made me watch the show but not pay attention as things just moved to slow and certain aspects (Don Draper) were repetitive in nature.That being said it is still a great show that was written about a time when I was a child. It allowed me to see a lot of what was being marketed at the time as the cutting edge merchandise through commercials that created classics that I remember to this day. The writing and sticking to the social and corporate climate of the era is awesome. Especially having worked in a corporate environment for well over 30 years it allowed me to see how things were compared to how they are and how radically different the corporate environment is today vs. then. Drinking in the office, everyone smoking, full business attire all the time, the battle of the sexes and the social issues all played into making the storyline just awesome. This is a classic show with a backdrop that brings up a lot of nostalgia and was done well. With a good story to tell on top of it and you have a very good show, period. It appears they took the path of wrapping up how all our characters lives are going to land and the direction they are heading after the roller coaster ride they took us through on the show to me is a happy ending. I want to see Don Draper land with his feet on the ground, sober, and content to be who he is. He was incredibly entertaining yet needs to come to terms with himself, his past, that he is not really Draper and simply be at peace and enjoy the success he enjoyed because on the show his character was not stable but he struggled with issues that are serious and I want to see him get worked out so he can enjoy what he achieved. He did what many of us can only dream of making it a happy ending if he did it and lands on his feet and along with the rest of the remaining cast go off into the sunset with things going to be OK. We know the advertising world has changed tremendously since that time with big data driving much of how things are marketed today. But it sure was a fun ride as the backdrop to the personal stories. I'm hoping tomorrow ends with them all doing well. We've been through to much together for any other ending to satisfy!OK, saw the ending and they did a good job on everyone but the main character DON DRAPER! What the heck? I guess I can follow the fantasy that his little smirk in California was the idea for the Coke commercial they showed at the end. But after all those seasons of watching him fall apart I wanted to SEE HIM GET IT TOGETHER! BAD END.


                
I''ll admit I enjoyed the ensemble cast more than I ever enjoyed the disgusting, lying, hypocritical, evil, human trash Don Draper. This character embodies every characteristic of the modern liberal. Lie about everything, be a hypocrite and point fingers while hiding the very same behavior, and blaming your lack of values, morals, and character on Conservatives. The only reason liberals live miserable lives, cheat, and lie their way to the top like Don Draper is because they create a false narrative for themselves. Keep in mind these shows are created by Hollywood liberals who view the world this way, this is not how real men are and women need to stop believing shows like this represent men. The only thing they represent is the fractured values of a fractured town, trying to spread their disease across the country.


                
May only be good if you're in the industry or can sit through tonnes of dialog.


                
