The brilliance is all in the subtext. There are many hilarious moments that are only funny if you've been paying attention and understand where the character is coming from. There are also many tragic moments that would pass you by if you didn't know what came before. Many lines have double or even triple meanings. Watch this from the beginning, with a friend. Believe me, you will want to discuss each episode afterward to figure out some of the nuances of what happened.The main Mad Man is the confident womanizer Don Draper, who is head of the Creative department at a mid-sized ad agency in 1960s Madison Avenue. I admit, at first I kind of hated him, but as the viewer learns more about him and his past, I learned to - not love him exactly - but like him and want to watch him endlessly. He is a complicated character who can be a very good man, but also a very bad man.Don Draper is joined by a rich cast of supporting characters, many of whom deserve a show of their own: The ambitious young Campbell who is utterly sleazy most of the time, but has occasional moments of growth and even cuteness.Peggy Olson starts out as Draper's secretary, but her growth into a strong, confident woman mirrors what is happening for Woman in the 60's. Silver fox Stirling - he may be morally bankrupt but gets some of the best lines. I could go on . . .The 60's clothes, hairstyles, decor, and current events provide an interesting backdrop for what is essentially a character piece. The setting provides both the occasional laugh (cigarettes being advertised as "healthy") and the more than occasional cringe (how could dumping trash from a picnic in the park right on the grass ever seem okay?!).If you need fast-paced action or a laugh track, this definitely isn't the show for you. But, if you like character development and subtlety in your television shows, rent the first seasons on DVD and settle in. You won't regret it.


                
This is a perfect show in every sense. The opening credits & animated intro are themselves works of art, and the creative direction makes the series so visually exquisite that you can't take your eyes off the screen even for a moment lest you miss one of the many perfect vignettes. The haunting opening music sets the stage for masterful sound design, ranging from each episode's musical selections to the subtlest of ambient sounds. The camera-work is nothing short of stunning; it loves each character and makes even the background action interesting. Talented cast and every character is watchable & believable.For a period piece, 'Mad Men' is remarkably fresh. The show is set in 1960, following a decade of post-WWII recovery which, with the help of rampant consumerism, transformed America from an industrial society into a "leisure society". One of the most rewarding things about the show is how we get to witness the many cracks which had already begun to form in the manicured facade of the '50s, slowly making way for America's rebellion against the manufactured "good life", and resulting in the social & political upheaval of the 1960s and 1970s.We get to have intimate glimpses into the various components of this process--money, power, politics, sex, race, gender roles-- in a way that makes us feel as if we're actually there in the room with the characters. The show also does a magnificent job of portraying the simultaneous liberation and objectification of women as consumerism rapidly transformed their role in society.Each and every well-developed character on this show takes his/her turn to unfold in delicate layers. This unfolding is done with pin-point precision and subtlety, and without ever spoon-feeding us. And every new nugget of information is a highly relevant piece of this very addictive puzzle.~NN


                
I'm in love with this new show. As noted in previous comments (correcting other comments), this show takes place in 1960, and not the 50s. I find the criticism of this show funny--it's a television show, folks. I don't think it's meant to be 100% accurate. If it were, it would be pretty humdrum, imo.A poster said he/she thought all the smoking and drinking was a bit much and contrived. However, I think it's fairly accurate. I'm in advertising NOW, and we always have vodka in the freezer...a couple of the men in the office open a bottle of scotch in the afternoons. Although the drinking on the clock isn't AS pronounced today as it was in 1960, I do believe Mad Men accurately depicts agency behavior during that time. My art director mentioned to me that the 70s in advertising were very similar; smoking and drinking in the office, on the clock.I think Mad Men is genius. First of all, it's sexy; the colors, the lighting, the costumes, the dialogue...it's hot, hot, hot! It is also inspiring! The first episode's "It's Toasted" epiphany gave me goosebumps; ad dorks like me all know that "ah ha!" moment...we strive for it. We live for it.So regardless of whether or not the typewriters are period or how despicable the women on the show are treated by the men (btw, there is still a lot of that going on in the work place, and for some reason, I think advertising alums are prone to it--I've encountered a couple creative and client meetings in which I was ashamed of the words coming out of the male mouths), this show is a good one that I plan to continue watching. I'm thrilled to find a show that, although it's not an accurate depiction of real "Mad" men and women, shows how inspiring good BIG ideas can be and that (as noted in another comment) good advertising is still created the old fashioned way...with creative and rational thinking and not computers.


                
Mad Men is The Great Gatsby Part 2 04-15-17 Most of us have heard the maxim, "nothing new under the sun." Perhaps more germane to my topic, "there are only thirty-nine story plots that get recycled endlessly." Mad Men, Matt Weiner's brilliant TV drama, (set in 1960s New York, on Madison Ave., global advertising's headquarters at the time), echoes Scott Fitzgerald's great American novel, The Great Gatsby.I think I want to say, as a characterization of Mr. Weiner's astounding achievement in dramatic entertainment, that Mad Men is The Great Gatsby Part 2.Here's the gist of my argument: Comparison of the Characters Don Draper, a masquerading James Bond of Madison Ave., follows in a direct line of descent from Jay Gatsby, a masquerading Ernest Hemingway of West Egg.Pete Campbell, a patrician brat-boy of New York, follows in a direct line of descent from Tom Buchanan, a patrician wastrel of East Egg.Roger Sterling, an insider frat-boy of Madison Ave., follows in a direct line of descent from Nick Carraway, an insider trader of West Egg.Betty Hofstadt (Draper), a cover-girl blonde of the social-climbing middle-class, follows in a direct line of descent from Daisy Buchanan, a cover-girl blonde of the social-climbing mid-west.Comparison of Situations Jay Gatsby, a penniless man without a family, gloms onto an upscale mentor who examples for him the good life of the ideal man.Dick Whitman, a penniless man without a family, steals the identity of Don Draper, whom he fashions into the dashing image of the ideal man.Comparison of the Writers Fitzgerald/Weiner Objective - Examination of the American Dream Fitzgerald/Weiner Conclusion - The American Dream is a sparkling bauble, just out of reach Comparison of Relationships Nick Carraway, an upscale insider who is an underachiever, has Gatsby's back on matters of culture & decorum. Caraway, a conventional stuffed shirt, marvels at Gatsby's reckless romanticism.Roger Sterling, an upscale insider who is a man child, has Draper's back on matters of culture & decorum. Sterling, a conventional stuffed shirt, marvels at Draper's reckless adventurism.Comparison of Time Periods The American 1920s & the American 1960s mirror each other. During both decades, American pop culture slipped out from under the watchful eye of Puritan morality. Each time, legions of young adults turned on to intoxications while embracing free love.Jay Gatsby & Don Draper are the two monumental frauds who embodied, with sparkling gusto, the fleeting ecstasy of temporary good times.
I will admit when I first turned on this show I wasn't sure if I liked it. I could appreciate the acting so I gave it a shot. I told myself I will watch the first season and make my judgement then.I did just that and the more I watched the more I found myself drawn in to the story of every person. By the end of each episode I was begging for more! The idea of where they would go with the story and what would happen next filled my thoughts for hours on in.This show brings so many things to the table than what most shows have to offer. They have captured the authentic feel of early 60's so beautifully but the shows brings much more to the table than great acting and authentic feel. It brings great writing, amazing directing, along with mystery, humor, romance, and many other feelings all in one show.It's worth watching.


                
The strange part about Urban American life is that often people don't really know each other. They may think that since they see and interactive with others on a daily basis, they know those people. However, it is more frequent that they don't really know one other. Their true faces are hidden behind a fabricated veneer when they step into the elevator that goes up to the 13th floor of the high-rise office building in Lower Manhattan. Co-workers see each other on a day-to-day basis but may not know the person on the inside, let alone secrets from a darker past. And sometimes, even spouses may not know the whole story concerning to whom they are married. Simultaneously, the superficial veneer starts to wear, and hidden secrets come to light unexpectedly. A word or a phrase said out of context or out of character, or a misconstrued action might break down the veneer."Mad Men" chronicles the lives of such people who seem to be putting on an act for each other, their co-workers and loved ones, all the while keeping the Lucky Strike cigarette company well in the black. Ironically, the setting is an advertisement agency in downtown New York. "Mad Men" was the nickname for advertising men whose agencies were primarily habituated on Madison Avenue in the Big Apple. Advertising consists of presenting corporate facades with exaggerated themes and/or slogans with a particular "hook" to entice customers into buying goods and/or services. The "Mad Men" contrive many different approaches for many different clients: naming a particular kind of bank account for adult males as "The Executive", propagating that a steel company single-handedly built New York, or using sexual innuendos to attract smokers toward a particular cigarette brand. The clients and their need for better advertising ideas never end which keeps the advertising business thriving.The stories center around a particular advertising agent, Donald "Don" Draper, often seen through the eyes of his new secretary Peggy who can't quite figure him out. Draper is a master of the advertising spin, able to leap into imaginative ad techniques with every bound. He wins awards for his ad copies and is an invaluable asset to the advertising firm. But Draper has many secrets. Despite having a beautiful wife and beautiful children, Draper engages in extra-marital liaisons. He is aloof with not only his co-workers but with his family, often seeming like a house guest when he with his family. We also learn that Donald Draper is an assumed name, and he has a long lost brother with whom he wants to cut all ties. In addition to his mistress and his wife, Draper often can't resist a sexual fling, a JKF-like sexual appetite that never lets up. The other characters appear equally at odds with themselves and their situations. Jealousies run rampant through the organization. Pete Campbell, the youngest of the Mad Men, is relegated to making sure potential clients are made to feel at home, and good, by sometimes arranging for sexual encounters for older CEO's after hours. At one point, Campbell is reprimanded when he pleases a client with an original ad copy that saves an account, even though Campbell credits Draper with the idea. And in another episode, a fellow Mad Men sells a story to the New Yorker thereby sparking jealousy among the fellow ad men.And behind the Mad Men are the women, often allowing their men to play these strange roles. Outwardly subservient, while simultaneously suspicious that things are not right, the wives find themselves caught up in a game they neither understand nor remember signing on to play. And the secretaries, who seem either naive or insightful, understand the exploits of their employers but are dedicated to maintaining the status quo to achieve favoritism. The wives are homemakers, caring for the children and the house, preparing wonderful dinners for the husbands in the evening. And when their mad men return home from work, they appear like strangers in their own households. The men engage more time either at work or extra-curricular activities than at home, their wife and children seeming more like casual acquaintances."Mad Men" is a breath of fresh air in the TV drama genre. In the past, shows of this nature have been either exaggerated in one direction or the other. Shows have often been either Dynasty/Dallas or Eight is Enough/Brady Bunch--either too dramatically overstated in regards to sex, money and power or overly sentimental in regards to family, friends, and commitment. "Mad Men" treads the blurry line, straddling between the two, exploring melodramatic material without lapsing into cliché or unbelievability. What keeps the writing fresh and alive seems to be the understanding of their characters. The Mad Men help companies advertise fabricated persona's for their clients. Why do they also enact the same false persona's for their co-workers and loved ones? Future episodes may reveal more about who they really are...


                
This show is both entertaining & exasperating at the same time. The setting is the 1950's when men were men & women were objects for the men. Watching this film it's so hard to believe how far we have come in the work place. I enjoy seeing just how desensitized women were back then. Being told to show more leg because your boss would like you better? Great line. Plus the smoking in every office, bathroom & elevator. I loved the scene where the ad men are trying to figure out what to do about the Surgeon General's report on Tobacco kills people. Then the smokers cough that follows while they are all meeting on it. Priceless. The other scene which really sticks out in my mind is the main ad man assuming the head of the major department store is the man whose been working at the agency for years because he just can't bring his brain to realize the other person in the room, The Woman, could be the owner of a large business. Great work. Then the ad man gets mad at the woman because she has her own ideas on how to run her own company. This was one of the best moments in this series so far. I am so looking forward to the next one.


                
This unique series from AMC needs a few qualifiers. The first is, you can't watch just one episode from the middle of a season and form an opinion about it. Taken out of context, an individual episode will seem mildly interesting for the costumes and hairstyles, but for most viewers, it will be slow and dull entertainment.The beauty of "Mad Men" lies in what's under the surface, the subtext, and that can only be appreciated by watching the entire series, starting at the beginning."Mad Men" starts in 1960. The period has been duplicated with 99.99% accuracy. The missing 0.1% is that a) though IBM Selectric typewriters are shown in 1960, they weren't introduced until 1961; and b) Don Draper (Jon Hamm) in 1962 is 36 years old, which leads one to wonder why he was in Korea and not WWII. There's a third thing from season 3 that I won't mention right now. The hair, the clothes, the smoking, the drinking, the littering, the references, having Jean Shrimpton in an ad, the products - Mohawk Airlines, Utz, etc., the huge copy machine, the Catholics, the Latin Mass, the rampant sexism, the kids in front of the TV, the programs - phenomenal. When the firm is called in to work on a Sunday, and a priest stops by Peggy's (Elizabeth Moss) house, her mother says she's sick. Why? Catholics aren't supposed to work on Sunday. I love it.The characters inside and out of Sterling and Cooper: There's the handsome, mysterious, conflicted and private Don Draper (Jon Hamm) who's a brilliant ad man and loyal to his clients to boot; his Grace Kelly-ish wife (January Jones) who smokes, drinks wine, and goes to a psychiatrist; Peggy, a gal with a big secret and a big brain, who is trying to fit into a man's world; Sterling (John Slattery, who auditioned for his role 9 times), full of wit, heart problems, and women; Cooper (Robert Morse), old but shrewd; Joan (Christina Hendricks), the va-va-va voom secretarial supervisor; the wormy Pete Campbell (Vincent Kartheiser); the closeted Salvatore Romano (Bryan Batt), and many others, all interesting and all fleshed out.Some of the lesser characters "put on" the '60s style and don't inhabit their characters. But you won't find that in the major actors. Hamm is extremely internalized and may seem like he's not doing much, but when Don Draper blows a fuse, you know he's coming from a real place. It's a subtly powerful characterization. Slattery is great, as is Batt, Kartheiser, Morse and the rest of the ad men. Moss is also giving a deeply internalized performance - the character of Peggy is hard to read, as she should be. January Jones does a marvelous job as Don's unpredictable and unhappy wife, and she's stunningly beautiful to boot.I saw one episode from season 2 in August and wasn't impressed. When I started watching the Netflix disks at a friend's house, I couldn't stop. Mad Men has a unique power all its own. It's not easily appreciated; it's not for people who want something obvious that they don't have to think about. It's for people who want to become completely lost in this world and absorbed in its characters. It's also a trip down memory lane for those of us who remember the '60s. Like the agency of Sterling and Cooper, "Mad Men" is not for everybody. However, it's definitely for me, and I'm addicted.


                
Yes, I like this TV drama that much. Well-drawn characters, clever plot turns, and great sense of period. The way the show uses the period to bring home dramatic points really impresses me. For example, in the first episode, Don Draper plays as if he were a single man. (When he turns down Peggy Olson's advances it is only because of their work relationship, he says.) Then Draper goes home to his wife and two children. On the soundtrack, Vic Damone sings "On the Street Where You Live," the perfect irony for a man whose street where he lives has nothing to do with the romance in the song, yet there is something poignant about playing that song while Draper sinks into the domestic side of his double life.I won't give too much away, but by the third episode I realized that ad man Draper is the embodiment of the image-manipulation he does for others; he is his own best advertisement in that he has manipulated and disguised his own image. Unfortunately for him, his disguise is not as perfect as he thinks and is likely to come undone before very long.By the way, for those who think this show is not set in the 1950s: In the middle of the first episode, Peggy looks at a wall calendar and it says March 1960. That means that only three months earlier it was 1959! Do you know who was president of the United States in March 1960? Eisenhower. The same president since 1953. In March 1960, no one knew what the sixties were going to be like. They really had not begun yet. Well, OK, the world was already sticking its big toe into the sixties, but that is as far as it had gone.
Review after Season 4: Season 4 of Mad Men is every TV fanatic's dream. Mad Men loses its slow pace in season 4 and dives into the most brilliant Season for a TV drama ever! I normally put off watching Mad Men until the season is over (like I've been putting off Breaking Bad). But this season, I could not wait for the next episode!I had to watch it! It was just filmed, written, and acted beautifully. If you have never seen Mad Men and was turned off by the first few seasons, PLEASE and I'm on my knees here<U+0085> WATCH SEASON 4. I gave it 10/10.Overview after Season 3: The story follows Don Draper: a man's man<U+0085> the alpha male of the 60s advertising agency. From my former boss, I've learned that Mad Men most likely stands for Madison Ave Men, referring to the street in New York.I must be honest, the show is very slow. You have to be in the mood to watch this. This is an AMC show and it's faster than AMC's other show Breaking Bad but around the pace of every other HBO show.Smoking and drinking during work and the outfits are some of the fine detail that makes this show artful and beautiful. Christina Hendrix's character Joan is possibly one of the most charming and deep characters in the show. She's a strong female character of the 60s, and yet one that knows where she stands in society and still pushes for herself within the boundaries of her time line.Plus she makes curvy women look really, really sexy.Mad Men are for those who love television drama, those who love costumes and art intertwined with entertainment. This is for those who love Oscar movies, because there's a lot of subtle and slow scenes that tells you so much about the characters and helps with the development of the plot.
Is there nobody on movie sets today who is in charge of speech patterns and standards?A friend of mine, in the relatively small Irish Ardmore Film Studios, was usefully employed for years as both a Speech (accents) Coach AND as a 'Time Hawk'. His job there was to watch out for actors using modern phrases and inflections in period movies.It is a pity he wasn't working on the set of 'Mad Men'which is littered with mistakes which ruin the whole 1960s feel.Several actors use the 'raising query' way of talking of todays annoying teenagers, making every statement sound like a question: 'We went to the Mall today, to chill-out' is spoken as 'We went to the Mall today? To chill-out?". The Mad Men are not the only culprits as I have heard this way of talking even in BBC period dramas!Frequent use of the popular phrase: 'You know what?' which precedes the most banal statement, such as: 'You know what? I won't have a drink, thank you'.Other than that, the script in 'Mad Men' is by far the best I have ever heard on a TV series. The obscure, evasive and pithy way that real people speak is perfectly captured. The long silent spaces and the 'nod is as good as a wink' are used beautifully in this drama which otherwise perfectly captures the era I grew up in. To really see what can be done, to exactly capture a past time, put 'The Key to Reserva' into the Google search box and be prepared to be rendered speechless......Tim Costello, Dublin.


                
I'm surprised by the number of negative reviews here. Sure, the show's been hyped to death by the media on both sides of the Atlantic, and inevitably it doesn't quite live up to the life-changing drama it's so often described at - but that doesn't make it a bad show. Despite numerous assertions to the contrary, performances by the cast are never less than good, and often superb: you have to remember how different the era was, how much more inhibited; and not hold it against the actors when their characters respond with stiff upper-lips or blushes where modern people would be much less inhibited.Plot wise, it's hardly an intense thriller, and many episodes end seemingly without giving you any major revelations (certainly, compared with the likes of cliffhanger-per-week Lost and Heroes, or even Weiner's previous offering, The Sopranos, there's no big incentive to keep watching next week); but it's more about the holistic development of the characters and their relationships with each other, as time marches on and the up-tight 50s gradually give way to the progressive, liberal 60s. Most of the characters face unique, defining dilemmas which reflect the wider social changes of the era. Perhaps there are a few too many moments where we, a more 'enlightened' audience, are invited to scorn the naive ways of that earlier age, but make no mistake - Mad Men is not looking down its nose at its characters, but portraying them sympathetically, albeit era-specific-warts-and-all.It's of course impossible to talk about Mad Men without mentioning how it looks - sumptuous; almost every detail is painstakingly recreated (there are a few small goofs, but c'mon, it's TV), which, combined with the top-notch performances, makes it easy to forget you're watching a show scripted and filmed this decade.I can appreciate the criticism that the episodes individually aren't too fulfilling, but to dismiss the show merely because it doesn't awkwardly manufacture conundrums for the viewer to unravel, is like depriving yourself of food because it won't quench your thirst: better to think of Mad Men as a VERY long feature film, and supplement your enjoyment of it with thrills obtained from some other show.


                
Just recently started watching this culture hit that many say is now the best show on TV. It focuses on life in the 1960's I wasn't yet born so it's interesting to see the way life is portrayed on this series. "Mad Men" is set in the advertising world with business men and hot and sexy secretaries. In a decade of counter culture, war, and protest this show is one enchanting drama that entertains and it really makes a viewer feel vanity and get a sense that the world of office advertising is dirty, unfair, and cutthroat just like life. Aside from that the series is moved along just fine with the dramas of everyday life like relationships, affairs, and lustful bed hopping.The two central characters are advertising tycoons Roger Sterling(John Slattery)and Don Draper(Jon Hamm)and both are sharp stylish dressers who have a way with not only office politics that cuts good deals, both have an eye also for the ladies and a taste for the bottle. It's interesting to see in many episodes the sometimes rival between the two as Don was Roger's understudy. Both of them are helped and carried along by two attractive and sexy secretaries played super by the voluptuous Christina Hendricks and the cute Elisabeth Moss. To round out as a wild card is Draper's ex Betty(January Jones)as this lady is just trying to find her way after Don has left.Overall great time period show that's blended with great acting Hamm serves it up and it's combined with plenty of drama to always keep a viewer interested. As the real ad world is about politics, back room deals and going to bed with attractive secretaries. The fashions and clothes shown captures the 60's well as the actresses on the show like Moss, Jones, and Hendricks provide some tasty eye candy. "Mad Men" is a great culture time period drama that's certainly worth a look at.


                
All these reviews about how "unrealistic" this show is miss the point all together. This is a show done in the style of a 60's melodrama. The exaggerated style, the random slap in the face in the super market, the bizarre relationship between Mrs. Draper and the little boy, a woman who doesn't know she's pregnant suddenly giving birth, a man with a hidden past...these are elements that are very much in line with movies such as Peyton Place, Susan Slade, The Best of Everything and A Summer Place...I think this is one of the BEST shows on TV right now. Unpredictable, provocative, surreal, and occasionally funny. Not every episode hits the mark, but even a "bad" episode of Mad Men is better than a lot of shows on TV today. Just the unspoken communication that the actors manage to convey to each other is incredible and speaks highly of Mad Men's highly talent actors.


                
Having seen most of the first season during a marathon, I'm not quite ready to christen this a masterpiece, but it is consistent and clever. Furthermore, it has to be one of the most visually stunning shows ever put on television. The costume design, art direction and cinematography are all first rate, almost to the point of being ill-served by its broadcast. Now that the first season is on DVD, viewers can enjoy it in the best way.This is definitely going to be one of those shows that slays the critics and finds a small but loyal audience. Even for a cable network, it draws a fairly small crowd. Still, the following it developed during the first season and allowed it to be considered a hit should be commended, and I regret not being a part of it. With the second season about to gear up, all eyes are on this show. The strength of this show and it's continued energy is the excellent ensemble work, but Jon Hamm and John Slattery are the true stand-outs, and both deserved their Emmy nominations (and, especially in the case of Hamm, hopefully their wins). Hamm's Don Draper is a lead character to rival Tony Soprano or Jack Bauer in his charisma and lived in quality. Later in the first season there is a turn of events that changes our view of Draper, but Hamm carries it ably. Elizabeth Moss, Zoe from THE WEST WING, is almost the other soul of the show, and gives us the eyes of a newcomer to this sometimes harsh world. Over all though this show is defined by its quick and snappy writing, not afraid to present a world where everyone is smart or at least pretending to be. This show seems to capture the flavor of conversation a half century ago. This shows plan is to go through most of the 1960s, and I look forward to living through it.
I postulate that the overwhelming premise is a time when we assumed we were enlightened with amazing technology, yet we were a society behaving badly to a large extent. Through the industrial age, the depression, and several wars we had arrived and except for the tendency to be "empty vessels" we were finding our way while enjoying life removed from the farms that just several generations prior was still the norm. In many ways we begin to see the decay that we are still fighting.This show is not comparable to anything except perhaps the flip side of 60's shows like Bewitched, The Donna Reed Show, and Father Knows Best. What a flip it is too. It's dark! The humor lies in the details such as the occasional irrefutable hilarious quip and the outlandish, but accurate, portrayals of the white collar executive and the support structure he built to be the master of.What makes it addictive is two pronged for me. First, the costumes and sets remind me of my childhood (born in '59) with such realism. The atmosphere is spot on. Then there's the characters such as Don Draper. He's an enigma that is charismatic in the extreme...Played to perfection by Jon Hamm. He acts badly, but he's conflicted by both his past and his inability to deeply connect with those he is suppose to do so with. Something is amiss and what that is played close to the vest, using flashbacks here and there to expose (?) whatever the underlying cause may be. The other principal actors and actresses add the color with their own lesser twists and turns.It's great to see a series that isn't a cookie cutter type and when used as reflection of what society was it leaves little wonder why we as a society have so many ills from unaffordable gas to overweight excess in even our youth. We still always wait until things are so bad until we, many times in vain, try to fix it. We all have a conscience and when we fail to heed it is it any wonder how everything falls apart? This is a microcosm of that which happens in a particular time and place. It can, however, be applied liberally to any thing from our own four walls to Wall Street. Compelling and recommended for mature audiences who themselves experienced a fair amount of life.
Let me tell you I see very, very few TV shows, but that one caught me from the beginning. Just fascinating.First you find men who are supposed to be mad but you find them not at all. But slowly you start to see the title is not wrong, they are superficially correct and plane characters. Wait only a bit, mad ambitions, mad subtleties, and the mad kind of live we all have now started perhaps those days in the 50's.Let me tell you about Don, the main man. He's seemingly totally perfect, tall, polite, intelligent, fierce, seductive. He's got the perfect wife, perfect job, perfect house and life. It's fascinating how you can feel his deep sadness underlying every movement, both confidence, talent and a strange bitterness follows wherever he goes.Wonderful script, nothing is absolutely, nothing ends perfectly, everything rides open and freely, you get shocking scenes, really impressive ones, as well as sentimentally hypnotizing sometimes.Characters: Cooper is wonderful, Sterling is just wow, Betts is a new icon of conduct and behavior also of perfect beauty, Joanne is excitingly seductive but so subtle you have to raise a smile. Creatives and account men develop accurate mad stories where gossip, ambition and appearances feel comfortable.I would recommend it, but not everyone is ready. In Mad Men even the air speaks and that's usually a boring language for the most.


                
Cool television, not often I utter that phrase. Extremely cleverly written, intelligent and in many respects an American period piece, custom drama. The gently unrolling story lines, the flawed, broken and unhappy characters make for an intriguing mix. There is homophobia here, misogyny and it is eye-gratingly awful to behold, it jars with us and reminds us also I think of how far we have come. It is so good to see quality television with high production values doing so well. Nothing psychic or spooky here, just ordinary flawed people behaving in ordinary flawed way. Madmen, ad men who thought they were Gods and ended up falling from Mount Olympus.


                
Mad Men, despite a generation of fast-action, quick-cut entertainment junkies who claim they find it boring, is a huge artistic success as a series with both style and substance. It has inspired a retro fashion trend, interest in cocktails nobody has mixed in decades, and countless intergenerational debates about business and personal ethics.All while providing a riveting character study of the 1950s mindset. Despite the calendar, the minds of the older characters are firmly in the 1950s, a decade rife with racism, classism, sexism, and homophobia. From Roger Sterling of the silver baby spoon set to secret upstart Don Draper we span the social spectrum of white America at a time when the world is changing. The pulse of the Future Shock of youthquake, race relations dialogue, and the sexual revolution is something Madison Avenue needed to have its finger on, but Sterling, Cooper, some of their staff, and most of their clients have their heads in the sand. The Season 4 scene between Freddie Rumsen and Peggy Olsen discussing women's motives for using cold cream is almost painful to watch to anyone who remembers the women's movement. Later Boomers watch this series grateful to have been born during the 50s instead of having come of age then. Younger viewers are incredulous that the world was so socially fractious and that people ever smoked that much.The latter might not be such a bad thing.The writing is sharp with superb dry wit and gallows humor when required; most lines have two or three layers of meaning. The production design is impeccable and the performances are stellar and on the money. The almost sledgehammer depiction of sexism and sexual harassment in the workplace is shocking to those who didn't experience it as is the huge contrast of the comparative emotional restraint shown to clients and the emotional disasters experienced by the characters in their private and privileged lives. Every actor is perfectly cast from the stunningly handsome Jon Hamm as our Man in a Grey Flannel Suit to the coldly beautiful January Jones as his Stepford Wife. That their characters are endlessly argued about speaks well of their performances.Let younger viewers who want car chases and blood spatter watch the programs that exist for those things while their more curious peers can tune in to find out what they missed about the 1960s and why they should feel happy about that. Mad Men drives that point home well.
There has been a lot of hype built up for this show. Or it could be that I watch AMC a bit too much. As much as I awaited the premier of this show, I have to say that I was a bit turned off by the lack of subtlety from the writers. The way the characters' drinking, smoking and sexual promiscuity was executed was done too obviously. This completely took over the entire story line of the first episode, with cheesy little lines like, "Shall we drink before or after the meeting? How about both?". This kind of scene has to be written in such a way as to make the audience believe that they are doing it almost unconsciously. Aside from the tactless scripting, the show's setting and theme has the potential to hopefully propel Mad Men into greater popularity.CR


                
I love how so many say that Mad Men is "over hyped," or "slow" or "boring." Really, it's their own expectation that was incorrect, yet they blame the show.Mad Men is original, like nothing I've seen before. Hamm is excellent as "Dick Draper" - January Jones and the rest of the cast is fantastic. The elements of of the time - the disregard for child safety, the chauvinism, and of course the rampant chain smoking - so funny to see in this politically correct era we live in. This show is not for everyone. It's smart – possibly too smart for many. There is a high degree of subtlety that the show assumes the viewer has. Those who don't have that sensibility often dismiss the show as slow or boring. Really, they are simply revealing their unrefined palettes. They may be happier with something like Sex in the City, Lost, or According to Jim.


                
Mad Men, the show that so many recommended to me, I was hesitant to watch it because of the plot. Now this is not a show that everybody will enjoy, there will be some people who will dislike the seriousness and complicated nature of this. If you're looking for a show with a lot of action or comedy, turn around now because this is not what you're looking for.Initially I was surprised that I continued to watch, the plot is interesting, but very slow. Somehow I was convinced to watch episode after episode and by the time I got to the second season, I was completely pulled in and couldn't wait to see the next episode. I have watched a lot of television shows and I can tell you for sure that there is no other series like this one. Adultery, Fraud, and Blackmail. What more could you ask for in a 60's themed show? Mad Men is about love and business, it certainly is a show for sophisticated people.


                
I have only watched this show via DVD and have only seen Season 1 so far as I have not gotten any more seasons yet. After watching Season 1 - all I can to start is Bravo, Bravo. This is a show which for once assumes it audience is intelligent people. The show makes a lot of plot twists which you have to be intelligent to follow. It draws deeply into it's characters. It uses historic references and even historic advertising campaigns to move along it's plot lines.It is about the Madison Avenue Advertising Execs but it starts out season 1 in 1960 during the historic Nixon-Kennedy campaign and paints over the history with a wide brush. The concept of this series is very high class and has much polish. When I get into the seasons after number 1, I hope to find the quality the first season has.There are some lines which get a little soapy in the main characters but it is interesting how the characters seem to get into the real history. Towards the end of season 1 the series starts to go into some of the characters besides the main lead.One veteran actor who impresses me in season 1 though his role is just starting to expand late that season is Robert Morse. His role is a far cry from the roles he had in the 1960's but his maturity as an actor shows through with much shine. Everyone in the main cast seems to get their chance so far as the writing in season 1 is outstanding.
I haven't finished watching all of the seasons but i am now in season 6. I just love everything about this show. All characters in this TV series are well played and in my opinion well chosen for each role. What i enjoy the most is the time set in Mad Men being in the 1960s and how everything has involved in advertisement since then. The suits,the drinking in and out of the offices they work and especially the cars they drive, there is nothing not to like! Famous people are also mentioned who were very important in that period, which is kind of cool! It refreshes your memory of what happened at the time and how this influenced the American population then. The script is amazing how there are different role leaders in the series but mostly how the life of the protagonist moves on after mistakes he made in his life.Mad Men is a must see TV show. I rated it 9 maybe because i haven't seen the ending yet. Which i bet i will not be disappointed.
**DO NOT READ UNLESS YOU HAVE WATCHED THE FINAL EPISODE OF THE SERIES** I have watched the final episode of the series today. Mad men is a great series, you will certainly get attached to the characters. I had made a review of the final episode "person to person", when I finished watching it at first I felt disappointed because I thought it was a dud, a letdown; I was thinking to myself "a wonderful series should not end so vaguely", but then after some reflection, online reading, watching interviews with Jon Hamm and also the trivia on IMDb, I realized that the ending was very good and inline with the rest of the series. Also when the series started, I didn't get why Elisabeth Moss (Peggy) was the 2nd from the top on the credits just after Jon Hamm, but as it went along, I realized that indeed she is the star, the chemistry between Don and Peggy although not sexual, is a big part of what drives the series and "the suitcase" episode is arguably the best of the series. There were a few discontinuities in the story line. Although it is not as tight as for example "breaking bad" it is still one of my favorite series ever. The character of Betty was not very likable and ended sadly. Peter's development over the years was nice. His redemption was the goodness of his wife Trudy. I will miss Don, I will miss Peggy and I will certainly miss Roger and his humor and joie de vivre.
