I don't usually comment on things, and spend more time reading and seeing what others have to say, but I think Dave deserves more praise.I just got season 2 on DVD and it has been nonstop laughter since I put it in. There were several times when I had to pause the show because I couldn't breathe.I almost died when the grenade came rolling into the house in the skit that showed what would happen if Enron execs and similar were treated like true criminals.It's bad that I like the show so much. Sometimes i bust out laughing at work and people think I am insane (which I probably am) On another note, I hope things can be worked out for season 3. If this is the end of the show, then I thank Dave for giving us what he has and I wish him the best.


                
I just reviewed the two season DVDs, in anticipation of the third season (alas postponed), and I have concluded that this is the funniest show on TV in a long time. Yes it's a little too edgy and risqué for some people, but those aren't the people who I give a >bleep!< about anyway.It's not just Dave who does it all; he has a great cast around him (Ashy Larry may be one of my favorites), gets major names to drop in (Anthony Anderson, Mos Def, Wyclef Jean) and to stay (Charlie Murphy), and his longer-serving characters are no less valid than the fresh ones (Tyrone the crack addict).It is not for the uptight; it is not for the close-minded. What he pokes fun at is stereotypes, and that's a taboo for many people today. The barriers that political correctness attempted to break down over the last 15 years is exposed by Chappelle in 24 episodes, showing the truth behind the masks that we all wear. Those of us strong enough to handle it find him refreshing and downright hilarious. Those who don't will face the consequences as they manifest themselves in myriad other, humorless ways.


                
Dave Chapelle is one of the funniest men alive. He's no George Carlin or Richard Pryor but they've had years to show their genius. Chapelle makes racist jokes but no group is exempt, everyone is a target, so for white people claiming he is racist he takes a lot of shots at black people too. This show is hilarious, It reminds me of Richard Pryor's short lived show, he manages to slip little things under the radar, and he is unapologetic about it, which makes it better. Charlie Murphy has proven that he is the funny Murphy, he's capitalizing on what Eddie once was, I see Charlie becoming just as famous if not more than his brother, Eddie edge has plummeted in the last couple years. Keep this show on Comedy Central


                
I know I've already commented on this show but I just feel like commenting on it again.I keep thinking but the writing for this show is genius!The cast is talented (especially Dave!) Dave can do an impression of (I'm sure) any celebrity!Donnel Rawlings is talented, Mooney is talented, Charlie Murphy is talented.If you haven't seen Chappelle's Show you don't know what you're missing out on!It is probably one of the best sketch comedy shows ever.It would be a real shame if Dave finally decided not to come back for a 3rd season...The show has everything , though...great cast, great sketches, great guests, great musical guests!If you haven't seen the show then damn! Get out there and watch it!!!


                
This guy [see above] must be higher than Dave was on Half-Baked. Chappelle's Show is not only funny, but it's smart and irreverent too. When some people see it as sophomoric, Dave embraces that only to make fun of them. Look beneath the sometimes low-brow humor and you'll probably find a deep sociological statement. It must be funny to a lot of people because Dave just got PAID! I hope they can keep the show at the level it is now because it is simply hysterical, and the bits with Paul Mooney are brilliant. Richard Pryor himself watches the show and enjoys it, and if the funniest man ever likes it, Dave Chappelle must be doing something right.


                
Mark my words....Some people deem this show as racist/sterotyping/labeling. Well I think thats the point.Welcome to the new millennium, where a guy takes things we've had in my country (USA) since its founding, like racism and makes it funny (An effort to try to tear down racial barriers? Maybe) and exploits how ridiculous and stupid racism and sterotyping really is.And at the same time how does Chapelle hit pop culture so well? The vice city sketch, John Mayer in the Harlem barber shop, the player haters ball, the real world with one super white guy, I know black people, and of course the racial draft...You just got to take all the skits' racism out of context (The way I think Chapelle does), and just laugh at yourself and your entire race for once instead of hyper-defending your race. And if you can do that you'll realize why this is one of the funniest shows of the decade.


                
Dave Chappelle's show on Comedy Central might just be one of the best variety comedies ever.  Dave Chappelle has a gift of making people laugh and his voice doesn't help anything at all as he has a funny voice too.  He delivers in his mockery of R. Kelly, "The Black white supremacist" and Fisticuffs w/ Funkmaster Flex and Big Tigger.  I can't wait for the second season to begin, it's hard to predict what he has in store for us fans


                
I just started watching "Chappelle's Show" about two months ago after hearing how hilarious the show was. Early on I really never got into the show and I just didn't look forward to it so after everyone was saying how funny it was, I borrowed both seasons from a friend. "Chappelle's Show" is hilarious! Mostly all of the sketches are drop down funny. My favorite sketch is Prince but other hilarious ones are racial draft, rick james, wayne brady, the pee song, gay people like ku klux klan, boxer, lawnmower, etc. Other ones like when keeping it real goes wrong, "We F*cked up", and lots of other ones. I will buy both seasons of "Chappelle's Show" and I will hope there will be another season coming out because Dave Chappelle is an amazing comedian.Hedeen's Outlook: 10/10 **** A+


                
It's a good thing Comedy Central didn't listen to "Virginia's" comments in this person's hopes of having the Chappelle Show canceled. Dave is the funniest thing on tv hands down. Comedy Central knows it and apparently everyone but one user on here knows it too. The Charlie Murphy episodes are brilliant. However, the 'Wayne Brady' skit was one of the most funniest skits I've ever seen in my lifetime. I got to work the next day and the entire department was quoting from it. It's been a while for a comedy show to come along and have such an impact on 'all of us'. I'm looking forward to the third season. Dave, Keep up the good work.


                
What can I say about this show, but AWESOME!  I love Chappelle's Show. The skits are absolutely hilarious.  Just in case you haven't seen it, some of the best skits you want to look out for are "What would happen in Black People got their reparations", "The Car Commercial", "Wrap It Up", "UPN", and tons more.  I can't wait until this series comes out on DVD.


                
I had never heard of this Comedy Central series, nor had I even heard of comedian Dave Chappelle, until after the first two seasons that were completed had aired, and probably after Chappelle had walked out of the third season. I was introduced to the show on The Comedy Network in Canada, where I started seeing ads for it, and eventually started watching reruns. Obviously, it didn't take long for me to see that it was a crude, very politically incorrect show, but I had seen and enjoyed that type of comedy before, and found this show pretty funny overall. It was basically the same when I recently decided to watch episodes on DVD after not seeing any in a while.Each episode in seasons 1 & 2 begin with Dave Chappelle coming out in front of a live audience. As the host of the show, he does some brief stand-up comedy and presents a series of sketches. Each episode features a number of sketches, often involving racial stereotypes, and sometimes also involving drug addiction, sex, toilet humour, political satire, movie spoofs, celebrity spoofs, etc. These sketches feature characters played by Chappelle, and characters played by others, sometimes recurring ones in both cases. Some of the episodes have a performance from a hip hop artist to close it off. Season 3 contains only three episodes (the "Lost Episodes"), each featuring sketches filmed before Chappelle quit, with Charlie Murphy and Donnell Rawlings (two cast members of the show) as the hosts in front of the live audience.As I stated above, the sketches often involve racial stereotypes, so there's lots of controversial content. Stereotypes of different races, such as Black, White, Asian, and Hispanic, are included, so you can't say it's one-sided, but it still has offended. Personally, I think some of the sketches are uncomfortable, such as the one where a white guy moves in with a bunch of black roommates, and they torture him in different ways and kill his father. Fortunately, however, it doesn't usually get this rough. For the most part, I have gotten a good amount of laughs out of the show, and have sometimes found hilarity in it. Highlights for me include Tyrone Biggums, the recurring crack addict character (didn't care much for the first sketch with him, where he talks in front of a class, but his second sketch, where he comes to what he thinks is a free crack giveaway, I think I could call hilarious), the clever sketch suggesting what the Internet would be like if it were a real place, the "Deep Impact" parody, Lil' Jon (another recurring character who shouts, "Yeah!", "What?", and "Okay!" repeatedly, which I find funny, though some could find it annoying), and the R. Kelly spoof (even though it's pretty juvenile).Apparently, Dave Chappelle quit the show during the making of Season 3 for a variety of reasons, including stress, an uncomfortable work environment, and loss of creative control. Later, he was considering the possibility of returning to finish the third season, but not if Comedy Central aired the material without him, which he said would be a "bully move". Unfortunately, that's just what they did in 2006 (though I have to say some of these sketches are highlights, such as the one where he gets revenge on his ex-girlfriend), and I guess that made it official, it was over. Too bad Chappelle had to go through so much trouble, leading to a tragic end for the show, but fortunately, some very funny stuff was made for the show while it lasted, and it can be remembered as the bold, edgy show it was (or is). While the show may overdo it with the controversial subject matter (or just not do it very well), toilet humour, etc. at times, and I'm definitely not as big a fan as many others, I have to give it credit for making me laugh, and probably for pushing boundaries as well. As a comedian who tends to use shock value, Chappelle is much better than, let's say, Tom Green, that's for sure.


                
This is the most daring, out there, hilarious show on Basic Cable TV.Dave Chappelle has taken a bit of everything out there, put it in comedic sketches and has driven them off the cliff. Make no mistake, for the weak hearted, some of his sketches will offend some folks, but for the rest of us, this is one of the funniest programs of the new season. Comedy Central did "good" in presenting this guy a show.Some of my favorite drop dead funny highlights from his first season (and I rate as must not miss...) sketches are "Ask a Black Dude" with Mr. Paul Mooney, "Ask A Gay Dude" with Mario, the "Pop Copy Training Video", "The Real World" spoof (Which is the most funniest spoof I've seen on this EVER!), the "Pretty Woman" spoof of 'if these movies were real life', the really out there "FrontLines" spoofs (The Hollywood animal one and the backwoods writer one are to die for!), the "World is Comming to an End Presidential Press Conference" and...the "Reparations" spoof had me on the floor in laughter.I sure hope Comedy Central remembers to turn in some of these to Emmy Voters, they are funny -- I cannot wait to see Chappelle present more of this in additional seasons.


                
While "Chappelle's Show" was occasionally uneven (which is true of any skit comedy show), the successful skits easily predominated. But the reason I liked the show so much was because it was so brave and honest--particularly when it came to race. Chappelle's program was the only show on television that talked openly and honestly about race--something ALL folks need to do in this ultra-politically correct world. But even more importantly, these supposedly offensive skits were hilarious and worked. Plus, no one I know felt offended by them--particularly the wonderful skit about the blind black man who hated blacks because he didn't realize he was black! Another great one was his getting the seemingly white bread Wayne Brady on his show for an insanely funny skit! Brave...and insanely funny. Probably NOT a show for kids but wonderfully entertaining.


                
This man has the formula for funny. He contains the right mix of edginess, profanity, grotesque features, and sexual situations to have a hit TV show. The profanity makes it even funnier, in my point. He has such personality and could be as big as Jerry Seinfeld if he could get off of cable and appeal to the mainstream by hosting Saturday Night Live. His humor is hilarious and should be revered by everybody. Kudos, Dave Chappelle , you have such brilliant sense of humor, if not a little bit coarse. Plus, he just got nominated for an Emmy. I really hope he wins, because he is hilarious. This is the perfect show for people who laugh easily. Believe me, I do.


                
"Chappelle's Show" will make you laugh until you are on the floor, trying to breath and grabbing your stomach. It's that funny! The first season was funny, but the second season was off the hook! Favorite Sketches: 1) Charlie Murphy's Hollywood Stories: Most people before this saw Charlie Murphy as "Eddie's brother," but his story about him and Rick James (With the late James telling his side)is hilarious. Birthplace of "I'm Rick James, Bitch!" 2) When Keeping It Real Goes Wrong: There were several different segments, but the classic is when a guy decides to keep it real and gets his ass kicked by a club goer AND his own date! Soon he's forced to move in with his grandmother, whose a real player herself.3) Wayne Brady: In a slight tribute to "Training Day," Chappelle is on a late night ride with Wayne Brady. What happens next totally destroys the good Brady's image: drive-by shootings, drug use and pimping. Classic line: "Is Wayne Brady gonna have to choke a bitch?" 4) WacArnolds: You've seen those "feel good" McDonald's commercials, where young people supposedly make a difference in their lives by working for them? Well, this is the flip side of the coin. "A thin line between fries and shakes!" 5)President Black Bush: Just for the cameo with Jamie Foxx. And the aluminum tubes with yellow cake (Possibly Betty Crocker?). O.K. The whole segment was funny.Everything is funny. So funny that I couldn't possibly write all of them down. Seriously worth a rent or to have in your collection.
For all those people who say this show is racist and unfair to white people and WHATEVER- get over it. Its comedy. Dave Chappelle is one of the funniest people alive. I love the sketch when they went back in time. "When are we going to be free?" "How about now?" BAM BAM BAM! I about died laughing. He's politically incorrect, and thats a relief. I'm tired of people being so stuffy and PC. he just chooses to be HILARIOUS. The gay version of everything(the gay kkk?) ...Prince...and I'm Rick James, bitch!I love this show.


                
Without a doubt, the Rick James/ Charlie Murphy sketch from episode 2.4 should win an Emmy. I swear to God. It is one of the best comic concepts and executions to grace the small screen in years. If you haven't seen it, buy the DVD or TiVo a rerun. Pure Genius


                
The biggest disappointment in television history is the that this show only really lasted 2 dang seasons! Probably the greatest sketch comedy show ever made, however brief, and unfortunately Dave couldn't handle it. The big wigs should be ashamed of themselves for not stepping back and letting him do his thing. As Chappelle said they came in while he was filming and he didn't like the way they were laughing at him, not with him. Keep hoping one day he will return but it will probably never happen.


                
Brilliant, clever, irreverent, incendiary, thought-provoking, comedy.A show full of skits and stand-up, hosted by and starring Dave Chappelle. The skits are incredibly original, intelligent, left-field and funny, often covering topical issues like race relations, drugs, personal relationships, Prince and Rick James... Very edgy, and clearly for the open-minded. If you're a bigot and/or easily offended, best to not watch it...Pick of the skits, for me, would be from S1 E1 - Clayton Bigsby, the black White Supremacist. He's blind... Not only funny but also shows the irrationality and absurdity of racism.


                
The Chappelle show is a Three season long sketch comedy show hosted by Dave Chappelle. The series is closely related to Key and Peel in the sense of how the show works. The Show is made up of different skits put together for a 30 minute episode. Dave Chappelles creates high quality skits. Most of his skits involve celebrities, comedians, and movie stars that were popular around the episodes launch. Some of his appearances include Charlie Murphy, Rick James, Red Man, Lil Jon and many more. The Chappelle show is the most popular Comedy DVD to ever be released. The first day season one was released it grossed over 1 million dollars. Although the show was very popular not everyone agreed with his style of comedy. Most of Daves skits are vulgar and mature ,some episodes even deal with racism. If this is a turn off for you then you should look elsewhere for sketch comedy because this show is not for you. Another show related to this is the Key and Peele show. Both shows are made up of sketches and put together to make an episode. The Chappelle show is more popular than Key and Peele show but everyone will have an opinion on which is better. In my opinion the Chappelle show is better because his sketches are well thought out, planned, and executed. I highly recommend buying the Chappelle show. I got all three seasons brand new for a low price of $20, an amazing price for the amount of gut busting laughter you will have from watching this show.


                
When i heard of the Chappelle's Show i saw 1 sketch about a man name Clayton Bigsby a Black white supremacist LOLL! how is that possible? the man was blind and in the shelter for blind kids the nurses and the Doctors decide to tell him that he was white because it would be easier for him with the other kids because he was the only African-American and he grow up to become a white supremacist spokesman, publish 4 books with tittles like (smell like "N" Word) all about white supremacy and in his public appearances he uses the Ku Klux Klan hood so nobody knew that he was black until... Well you have to see it ; But that was it for me ,I'm addicted to his unapologetic ,racist (to all races) stereotypical , dark and clever humor and his impersonations are amazing I just found itIf you are looking for good comedy this is your cup of tea I have stomachache of how much I have laughed in the last 3 hours I just finish first season Buy it ,download it ,youtube it whatever just watch is unbelievable...Im rich bitch!!! LOL


                
This show is beyond funny. Dave Chappelle is hilarious. I like his brand of comedy. He has the jokes and sketches that make everything funny. I love his Tupac sketch with that song. That was the funniest sketch he has done. I couldn't stop laughing through the whole thing. I also like some of his early season episodes too. Dave Chappelle has starred in some countless funny movies. This show features some of the funniest episodes of comedy made so far. I think he should make another season but that is my opinion. All in all this show is one of the funniest shows i've seen. Also When the Chappelle Show first came on Comedy Central, I was amazed that they were able to air it. It made so many racist jokes that I thought for sure it wouldn't\'t last 3 episodes.


                
This is one of my favourite TV shows of all time and one of the greatest sketch comedy TV series ever made in my humble opinion. Dave Chapelle does an amazing job as the host and he is also in pretty much every single sketch that they do on the show. The Rick James bits are of course all time classics and I wish there was more of that, it is a real shame that this show only lasted two seasons before all the bitterness and craziness that made this show end. It's a shame how much great comedy there still could have been if he had decided to stay on the air but I'm still just glad he did these two seasons (avoid the unaired extra episodes they put together after he quit because they are not very good at all and only make the show seem worst). The stuff with Wayne Brady is also classic, and the black blind klan member, and the crack head character, so much great comedy in this series!


                
Dave Chappelle is a genius. He takes racist stereotypes and skewers them in the funniest ways imaginable. Some critics say he is too foul mouthed and crude, but walk into any middle school in America and you'll hear 11-year-olds saying worse stuff than he does. Dave is a brilliant comic and it's a shame this hilarious show didn't last longer. If you've never seen it, SEE IT!! Some of the best sketches:"Black Bush"- Dave imagines what it would be like if President Bush was black. The part about the UN was superb."Trading Spouses"- Trading Spouses has gone interracial with hilarious results!"World Series of Dice"- Live from the Marcy Projects in Brooklyn, New York!"Clayton Bigsby"- oh my goodness, BREAHTAKINGLY HILARIOUS!!! How did Dave think of something so clever, so perfect as a blind, black white supremacist?"The Mad Real World"- that was so funny I was in tears. "The Niggar Family"- a hilarious and surprisingly insightful look at racial epithets"True Hollywood Stories": the Rick James one is hilarious, but the Prince one is really funny, too, especially if you are a Prince fan.And the best of all:"The Racial Draft"- the funniest thing I've seen in a long, long time. Watch Chappelle's Show and you won't be disappointed!


                
As shows like Mad TV and Mind of Mencia finally see their ends, one must look back on Chappelle's Show and wonder what comedy television would be like today if Chappelle didn't get burned out and leave the show. Believe it - Comedy Central wasn't paying him ridiculous money because the show was just good. It was and will always be LEGENDARY.Most sketch comedy shows are hit and miss. Kids in the Hall and SNL in its prime in the late 80s and early 90s are the closest that shows have come to the hilarity that is Chappelle's Show. Only Chappelle can turn an already legendary figure Rick James into a whole new level of legend, absolutely REAM R. Kelly, beautifully spoof both Law & Order and the reality of white collar crime vs. ghetto crime in one fell swoop, and after leaving the show, have a 2Pac skit that's easily among the best skits he's ever done solidify his legacy (notice the tremendous irony in that?!). There is no unwatchable Chappelle's Show episode...even if some skits aren't THAT funny, almost all of them are at least somewhat funny, and there's generally at least one very funny skit in each episode if not most or all of them. There's more than enough horrible entire shows of SNL, Mad TV, and Frank TV.Most shows start off weak before they hit their stride (most pilot episodes of shows are ironically pretty bad compared to the rest of their runs) but Chappelle had probably one of the strongest outlandishly funny pilots of any show ever (South Park is pretty close). There was no doubt that something special was going on right from the get-go, and Chappelle never failed to deliver.Some people would say perhaps it's best that the show didn't live a long life because most shows that have age like an old ballplayer still believing they can outplay everyone else. I think any true fan of the show would disagree...Chappelle has been a funny guy since back in the Robin Hood: Men In Tights and Half-Baked days and I'm pretty sure he would have still kept his knack for comedy for many more years if he kept the show going. Still, it's his show, his wish, and at the least we can thank him for 2 brilliant years and the extras that came afterward.


                
