I had never heard of this Comedy Central series, nor had I even heard of comedian Dave Chappelle, until after the first two seasons that were completed had aired, and probably after Chappelle had walked out of the third season. I was introduced to the show on The Comedy Network in Canada, where I started seeing ads for it, and eventually started watching reruns. Obviously, it didn't take long for me to see that it was a crude, very politically incorrect show, but I had seen and enjoyed that type of comedy before, and found this show pretty funny overall. It was basically the same when I recently decided to watch episodes on DVD after not seeing any in a while.Each episode in seasons 1 & 2 begin with Dave Chappelle coming out in front of a live audience. As the host of the show, he does some brief stand-up comedy and presents a series of sketches. Each episode features a number of sketches, often involving racial stereotypes, and sometimes also involving drug addiction, sex, toilet humour, political satire, movie spoofs, celebrity spoofs, etc. These sketches feature characters played by Chappelle, and characters played by others, sometimes recurring ones in both cases. Some of the episodes have a performance from a hip hop artist to close it off. Season 3 contains only three episodes (the "Lost Episodes"), each featuring sketches filmed before Chappelle quit, with Charlie Murphy and Donnell Rawlings (two cast members of the show) as the hosts in front of the live audience.As I stated above, the sketches often involve racial stereotypes, so there's lots of controversial content. Stereotypes of different races, such as Black, White, Asian, and Hispanic, are included, so you can't say it's one-sided, but it still has offended. Personally, I think some of the sketches are uncomfortable, such as the one where a white guy moves in with a bunch of black roommates, and they torture him in different ways and kill his father. Fortunately, however, it doesn't usually get this rough. For the most part, I have gotten a good amount of laughs out of the show, and have sometimes found hilarity in it. Highlights for me include Tyrone Biggums, the recurring crack addict character (didn't care much for the first sketch with him, where he talks in front of a class, but his second sketch, where he comes to what he thinks is a free crack giveaway, I think I could call hilarious), the clever sketch suggesting what the Internet would be like if it were a real place, the "Deep Impact" parody, Lil' Jon (another recurring character who shouts, "Yeah!", "What?", and "Okay!" repeatedly, which I find funny, though some could find it annoying), and the R. Kelly spoof (even though it's pretty juvenile).Apparently, Dave Chappelle quit the show during the making of Season 3 for a variety of reasons, including stress, an uncomfortable work environment, and loss of creative control. Later, he was considering the possibility of returning to finish the third season, but not if Comedy Central aired the material without him, which he said would be a "bully move". Unfortunately, that's just what they did in 2006 (though I have to say some of these sketches are highlights, such as the one where he gets revenge on his ex-girlfriend), and I guess that made it official, it was over. Too bad Chappelle had to go through so much trouble, leading to a tragic end for the show, but fortunately, some very funny stuff was made for the show while it lasted, and it can be remembered as the bold, edgy show it was (or is). While the show may overdo it with the controversial subject matter (or just not do it very well), toilet humour, etc. at times, and I'm definitely not as big a fan as many others, I have to give it credit for making me laugh, and probably for pushing boundaries as well. As a comedian who tends to use shock value, Chappelle is much better than, let's say, Tom Green, that's for sure.


                
While "Chappelle's Show" was occasionally uneven (which is true of any skit comedy show), the successful skits easily predominated. But the reason I liked the show so much was because it was so brave and honest--particularly when it came to race. Chappelle's program was the only show on television that talked openly and honestly about race--something ALL folks need to do in this ultra-politically correct world. But even more importantly, these supposedly offensive skits were hilarious and worked. Plus, no one I know felt offended by them--particularly the wonderful skit about the blind black man who hated blacks because he didn't realize he was black! Another great one was his getting the seemingly white bread Wayne Brady on his show for an insanely funny skit! Brave...and insanely funny. Probably NOT a show for kids but wonderfully entertaining.


                
This is one of my favourite TV shows of all time and one of the greatest sketch comedy TV series ever made in my humble opinion. Dave Chapelle does an amazing job as the host and he is also in pretty much every single sketch that they do on the show. The Rick James bits are of course all time classics and I wish there was more of that, it is a real shame that this show only lasted two seasons before all the bitterness and craziness that made this show end. It's a shame how much great comedy there still could have been if he had decided to stay on the air but I'm still just glad he did these two seasons (avoid the unaired extra episodes they put together after he quit because they are not very good at all and only make the show seem worst). The stuff with Wayne Brady is also classic, and the black blind klan member, and the crack head character, so much great comedy in this series!


                
Chappelle Show was enjoyed by many and will be missed by many, too. It's shown us the true meaning of comedy and what we all can achieve by ... what? It's not "eulogy"? Then what is it again? Ah, OK right, "Unity"! ;o) If you haven't watched the show you might not get the joke, but you might not even get it, even if you watched it. That's also how the show worked. It could be that you didn't get all the jokes at the first viewings. Although it sometimes got to places, that I don't think are particularly funny (e.g. fecal jokes/humor). There are also jokes that I liked that others might feel offended by (e.g. racial jokes).It's a shame overall, that there was no official Season 3 (or four/fifth and so forth), but at least there are "Lost Episodes" available on DVD (from tapings of the 3rd Season, if I read that right, here on IMDb). The whole cast/ensemble are great here, but Charlie Murphy is especially a hoot. His True Hollywood Stories (on TV only 2 of them, on DVD there are two more) are comedy television at it's finest! And yes the Rick James episode is my favorite too ... although my favorite Rick James quote isn't "I'm Rick James, b...", but "Cocaine is a hell ..."! :o)


                
Of all the sketch comedy shows currently running on TV, this one is definatly the most consistently funny, in my opinion.  Lots of people talk about how the show seems targeted on issues of race and I think that's the best part of the show.  There is still racism out there and keeping  the topic in the crosshairs is part of solving the problem.  I think Chappelle takes on all sides of racism and the fact that any sketch that includes any kind of racist sentiment from blacks or whites, that racist action or comment is always viewed as an ignorant action or comment.  Also great presentations of musical guests, from Mos Def to John Mayer.  I hope this show lasts, I know I'll be watching.


                
