Neil de Grasse Tyson's 2014 revival of Cosmos proves worthy of Carl Sagan's original, offering a highly engaging science program that will capture the minds of both children and adults. It features easily understandable accounts of both the natural world and the scientists who have studied it.Although most reviewers have focused on the scientific elements of the series, for me the most interesting and inspiring parts are those dealing with scientists and their contributions to human knowledge. Tyson discusses the contributions of scientists such as Halley, William Herschel, and Giordano Bruno, making them fascinating and easy for the layman to understand. With the exception of a few figures like Newton, most of these scientists are not well known to the general public. As Tyson notes in one episode, it's disturbing that people are more familiar with the names of mass murderers than with scientists such as Jan Oort.Many creationists have claimed that the show is an attack on religion. Although there are occasional jabs at religious oppression, the broader message of Cosmos opposes any form of authoritarianism that hinders the advancement of knowledge. For instance, one episode documents the burning of scientific books under the orders of the first Chinese emperor, who saw them as a threat to his legalistic political system.The show at times goes through complex concepts such as relativity far too quickly, leaving viewers struggling to grasp them. Furthermore, the show has something of a meandering quality, going from one point to another with relatively little connection. Nevertheless, the show is excellent and well worth watching.


                
OK: This is NOT your 1980 Cosmos BUT, the audience is also 34 years older, Carl Sagan is no longer with us and there are maybe 2 generations who were not part of that 1980s experience. If they can wrestle one brilliant mind away from Angry Birds, World of Warcraft or one of those ghastly killing and maiming games, IMHO it will be worth it.I might have given this a higher rating but, like most of us should, I will at least give it time to develop the story.I am sure if Carl had had CGI, he would have used it. People today are looking for clear visuals and much of this stuff cannot be presented in real-time. I do not want a T-Rex in MY living room. No Black Holes either, please. Does anyone really believe everything they saw in Gravity? Well,,,,,,,.


                
How is this rated at 9.6? I mean its good, but not nearly above a 9? It just feels like a really awesome informational YouTube video. I am not denying it is interesting, but its over-hyped. I am still a little uneasy about the high rating of "Planet Earth", but the shots are breath-taking and real. The animation is really good in "Cosmos: A Space Odyssey" and Neil deGrasse Tyson makes a great narrator, but thats it. This seems really arrogant, but I watch a lot of science channels on YouTube and I know some of the info explained in "Cosmos". Rehearing it on this show is still entertaining, but nowhere near being as good to be the #1 TV show on "IMDB: Highest Rated TV Series". Sorry I am focusing on the rating so much but it is just bugging me. tl;drI like the show, but the Rating is too high for what the show actually is.


                
