Disclaimer: This review is based exclusively on the first episode.First things first. Audience of the original by Carl Sagan may be disappointed by this remake. It's almost exactly the same as the original, word by word. But with cheaper production methods, brighter colors and crisper sound. Most importantly, it's without Carl Sagan and Vangelis' excellent music. Also, the stuff covered is not as amusing to the grown up audience who had the pleasure of enjoying the original. You already know this stuff.However, the qualities Cosmos presented to us in 1980, are still the same. It's a very inspiring series well suited to kickstart a young mind into independent critical thinking, curiosity and appreciation of science. The pace and presentation have been changed to better suit todays young, and older audience may not appreciate this. The pace is however still comfortably relaxed compared to other TV material aimed towards the same audience, making me think they will have a very similar experience to the own we had all those years ago. But this series is for the young, and I'm sure it has all the qualities the original had needed when it comes to trigger their curiosity, fascination and generally change the way they see themselves and the world they live in. Personally I think Tyson does a great job walking in Sagans footsteps.Adults with much knowledge about our world criticizing the series for being shallow and bring few new details to the original don't impress me at all. They have misunderstood the whole point of this series, which is all about creating enthusiasm for science among the younger. Not updating adult geeks on the very latest on string theory.Adults may not learn a lot, but you will be entertained. For the younger, this has the potential to be the same amazing ride as it was for us 35 years ago.


                
Having never seen Cosmos: A Personal Voyage, I didn't know what to expect from this show. Only thing I could think of was "oh it's on Fox, they'll probably cancel it after a few episodes." Well all I can say is Fox better not make the same mistake it did with Firefly because this show is spectacular! It's a well produced, directed and narrated documentary about Space (hence Space-Time Odyssey) and many other scientific topics that I would find mind numbing if I were learning it in a science class.I think it's great how the creators use animation and stunning visual effects to demonstrate how the universe came to be. And honestly I've learned some interesting facts along the way (which is obviously the whole purpose of the show). Seth MacFarlane hit a home run on this one, and I really hope they continue this series for awhile. Even if Fox decides to cancel it, I'm pretty sure another network will pick it up.


                
I have watched Carl Sagan's cosmos just before this series was launched. Sagan's cosmos was beautifully told and followed a smooth path of storytelling. Sagan single handedly made space & science awesome for everyone.This new series is very good when it comes to visual effects. some of the scenes (Like planet tours, DNAs, galaxies, explosions, supernovas, extinction events, impact events, a scene where Tyson lifts up a huge mountain by just waving hands, ship of imagination) matches CGI of Hollywood Movies and the background music has made it awesome.the storytelling is not as good as original but it is still a must watch. In one scene Tyson is explaining one thing and then the frame switches to another scene and the previous scene never continues. There are unnecessary scenes of "Ship of Imagination". A lot of episodes involve historical events of scientist's personal lives which I think was not required. While we do respect the history, our new generation is not interested in what a particular scientist did on a beach on a particular night or what were the rivalries between two scientists.There is less new things (Which happened after the original Cosmos) like ISS, Mars Roves, Elon Musk, Hubble, Exoplanets etc in this series which everyone hoped for. There could be entire episodes on these things.Episodes 11 and 12 were the best from my point of view which were based on Venus and Climate Changes and they will also make you emotional and think about our planet.Overall it is a series that you should never ignore to watch. A must watch for people of all ages.
3 decades ago, the amazing Cosmos: A Personal Voyage was created. And now, with the amount of CGI and special effects available, it's only natural that its sequel had to be something special. And boy was it special. Cosmos: A Space-time Odyssey has been produced by Seth MacFarlane, who gave us "Family Guy". Neil deGrasse Tyson, the presenter of this show, adds a lot of depth by unparalleled commentary skills.You'l be amazed by the visual effects in this show and will be impressed by the great attention to detail. Perfection is something you rarely get from a TV show but this show is damn perfect. One look at the show and you know that a lot of effort has been made to create this show.The first episode has really set a high standard and I'm sure the next episodes will not disappoint at all.


                
The always watchable Neil deGrasse Tyson hosts this 13 part series on all things science, as he takes us through space and time and makes enigmatic material easy to understand and digest without ever pandering to a broad audience. Cosmos is a visual experience as much as it is educational and we are in the great hands of cinematographer Bill Pope who gives us stunning images and the effects work are top notch. Over the course of the 13 episodes, a brilliant narrative plays out of the men and women and the heroes and villains of science who paved the path of discovery and our understanding of the impossibly complex universe. But it's Neil deGrasse Tyson who makes this wealth of information worth viewing, with his infectious love of the material, he commands the screen and makes this journey into the unknown and known a treat.


                
It's the rare person who has the temperament to truly "do" science. It's a lot of hard work, and you have to be lucky enough to be born into a society that--through some social mechanism or other--collectively places a high value on the exertions of those personality types. No one expects everyone to value science enough to become a scientist.But, at the same time, there's also an inescapable reality: One of the enlightenment principles needed to sustain good republican governance and a "decent" society is a scientific principle; at least from the standpoint that evidence is key to any truths worth knowing. And America is sort of drawing back to a kind of willful abnegation of that kind of probity. People are "believing" more and more and knowing less and less. And that doesn't bode well for the American experiment.And the new Cosmos, in its own small, media circus way, would, if it could, press back against the encroaching obscurantism. With its very attractive graphic communication, straightforward prose, and compelling narratives, people can be painlessly reminded of the wonderful productivity and discovery that science affords its practitioners and to a lesser extent the lay public.I think I've said all I need to. Check it out.


                
Let's get this out of the way first: I enjoy this show immensely.However, I am not sure which audience the authors had in mind: For viewers with a merest modicum of general knowledge, intellectual curiosity and willingness to think, there is nothing new here. Of course, the marvels of our world are retold in a spectacular way (and hence my rating), but the retelling provides no more new perspective than a visit to a well curated museum of natural history.Perhaps I am being cynical, but I am afraid that Giordano Bruno's "Your God is too small!" we saw in the first episode is lost on those who prefer stories bronze age herders invented for comfort to actual use of their own mind. Just look at 1-star reviews and often rehashed nonsense being spouted there, including "questions" and "controversies" (e.g. about evolution of eye) being clearly and directly addressed in the program. And yet, it feels (from the first two episodes I saw so far) that the series is aimed primarily at them.I can only hope that some young viewers still stranding the fence between reason and fairy tales will fell nudged by Cosmos on the side of perpetual quest of knowledge. Despite my doubts about its chances of success, I admire this effort (and Fox decision to undertake it, in contrast with their usual stance) to stem the tide of manufactured ignorance, which I feel poses direct, dire threat to our civilization.


                
Hello,Cosmos is a visual spectacle and very informative. Just two programs old and it's already raising questions and doubts in my mind about my beliefs. I ,even in my wild dreams would not have imagined that our world is such a tiny entity in this huge cluster of infinite Milky ways and Galaxies. I particularly liked the idea of mapping the age of Earth up to the present day on a calender, as it gave a lay person like me ,a simple way to measure how old the Earth is . To know that humans were born on Dec'31st at 11.59 hour was a revelation with an AH !! . It also makes us think that in such short time human have figured out the creation of Cosmos and also able to reach Moon and Mars and also trying to make contact with any other life forms around.I have one suggestion though. The narration put forth by Mr. Tyson is not very audible . May be because he has a thick and gruff voice and the back ground score is too loud.Fine tuning the audio would be a great help. Thanks, Rita


                
In "Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey", Seth MacFarlane as producer and Neil deGrasse Tyson as host/narrator ambitiously attempt to emulate the achievement that was Carl Sagan's "Cosmos" with this newer adaptation. And I believe they have succeeded in creating a show worthy of the name Cosmos. For, although this documentary may come across superficially as just another piece of science programming that should be more suited for a dedicated documentary channel instead of a network channel, it isn't the scientific subject matter that makes it worthy. "Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey" deserves the title because it's a deserving homage to the word cosmos, which doesn't simply mean outer space as it does colloquially but means the universe seen as a well ordered whole.And that is both what Carl Sagan's "Cosmos" and "Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey" strove and strives to present: they frame the depths of the universe into a truly cosmic way that shows how we ourselves are interwoven into a giant tapestry growing from vibrating strings to atoms to DNA to us who are created from elements created from the life cycles of stars that are nearly infinitely repeated across the almost endless galaxies and superclusters of galaxies in the observable universe. It's poetic moments like comparing our very narrow band of visible light to hearing a single instrument playing its isolated melody in "Rhapsody in Blue" that make "Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey" truly cosmic. Hardly anyone, I'd imagine, really stops to think about how much we are actually missing of the grand symphony that is the actual electromagnetic spectrum; to see them all would be as dazzling as an ancient musician hearing a full symphonic orchestra after being the only musician his tribe of 10 humans. But Neil deGrasse Tyson brings this revelation to us in the same vernacular way Carl Sagan did by combining a fascinating narrative attempting to connect our lives to what happens in outer space and in microscopic space with compelling visuals and music. In other words, by living up to the word cosmos, it gives a way for even nonscientific-minded humans to make sense of how we fit into the order of the universe. It doesn't go into overly scientific jargon as a result. Rather, it aims to stir the same innate sense of wonder and awe our ancient ancestors had staring up at the starry night sky and even dares to inspire its viewers, among whom could lurk the next Albert Einstein or Isaac Newton.My only real critique of the way the subject matter is handled is regarding its seemingly anti-religion bias. The show's warning about how not to allow religion and authority to quell scientific thought and curiosity, as it often did in the past, can be almost too overt at times. But, just as science is the best tool we have to understand the universe(s) around us, "Cosmos: A Space Time Odyssey" is the best show television has, aside from the original "Cosmos", to summarize what we know of life, the universe, and everything through science in 13 episodes and to inspire a broad array of both scientific and nonscientific minds through celebrating how much we know about the cosmos through science and yet anticipating how many more revelations science has yet to discover in the cosmos.


                
Since you're watching science TV shows rather than working on academic research the chances are you are no scientist and all the mathematical formulas are meaningless for you - except for making you temporarily feel intellectually superior compared to other uneducated people. The first reviews on IMDb of this TV show are so poor because those people, sadly, fit in category mentioned above. Cosmos is a great series to watch with your children to ignite their curiosity about the order of nature, man's place in it and how we interact with it. This show is also great for adults to show history of science from a point of view of an enthusiastic scientist - they are not cold hearted calculating machines (unlike some of the viewers behind the TV-screen) that are driven by need just to know. They are often people who find joy in what they do and look with hope to the future - just like how this TV show is portrayed. One of the main goals of this TV show is to remind the viewer that science is more than just a tool of human gratification.


                
Very good , educational , and everything explained through marvoulous visitation about the space and time within various kingdoms and variants of our universe and existence of the celestial entities.Cosmos is the story about us in this infinite Universe.One time mist watch series for the every age group.


                
What appears to be the current spin-off of Carl Sagan's "Cosmos" presents a modern marvel of astronomical animation that is out of this world. Dr. Neil DeGrasse Tyson provides a coolly collected tone that takes no heed in educating his audience in the history of the world in a scientific perspective while cruising in a futuristic spacecraft. The later episodes illustrate a gorgeous display some other progressive advances Man has evolved over the course of history. Although the animation may seem a little choppy, it is unique in its own right, and provides a glimpse of what was our past. I do suggest this gorgeous work for any person of any age, but for the advanced mind that has surpassed the latter age of Bill Nye the Science Guy. COSMOS: A Spacetime Odyssey takes us on a brief journey through scientific history, and gives subtle flavors on what we need for exactly galactic education, and that is just fine.


                
This documentary teaches you about the cosmos(of course) and it manages to do it in an intriguing way. With great visuals and calming music in the background, this show is great after a long day of work. Neil does a fine job at narrating the science stuff in a soothing voice. Sometimes interrupting the talk about the cosmos, Neil will tell the life stories of scientists. This is really good as it gives the show more variety however the voice actors (for characters in the life stories of the scientists) do a bad and sometimes outright terrible job for the said characters. All in all, the show is great and i would recommend it to people who have an interest or people who just wants to relax. Have a great day.


                
If you're looking for a documentary on science and space, Cosmos is definitely the top of its class. Even among documentaries in general, it is sophisticated, intelligent, doesn't talk down to its audience, and is well-done. The only gripes I could have for it is that its animations often look cheap, and it's sometimes a little cheesy. That's it. However, if you're a climate-change-denier, flat-earther, or hyper- religious, this documentary will challenge you. Neil deGrasse Tyson is unapologetic when it comes to his convictions. Despite this, I think the series still stands on its own, and the bias is rather easily overlooked; and, even if you don't agree, you can't deny the grandeur and power of the words of the good doctor.


                
This is a brilliant mini-series for several reasons. But first, just to get it out of the way, the only issue for me was the slight repetitiveness of some things throughout the episodes.Now onto some of the good stuff:The most important thing about the show is that it is a timeline of the development of science, concerning the "cosmos." There is no "new" information given, which hasn't already been told on other related documentaries. The reason I say this is great is not because it has magically opened up my eyes, I had already seen/heard many of these theories/facts before, instead because the show appears to be geared towards a younger generation.I believe that one of the big reasons for why our interests drift away from science when we are young is due to the complex nature of how it is described to us. It is significantly harder to get a grasp on all the scientific facts than it is to just accept things that are told to us. Of course, this brings me to another one of my favorite parts, the show itself says "question authority, yourself, everything" (including this show). I take this as meaning "don't take our facts to be THE truth, instead use them as guidelines to discover the truth." The beauty of science to me is that there is no single answer to everything, which lets us continue to explore.In addition, the show touches up on many other issues about humanity and civilization as well. These are issues that could certainly dictate our existence on this planet, and our existence should not be taken for granted.Finally,and I cannot conclude without mentioning that the production value of the series is great, with beautiful visuals and a wonderful score to accompany it.
