Two seasons and two different reasons to watch this cocktail of masterpiece and absurdity.Why a Masterpiece..!Firstly because its an unprecedented effort to bring a quality web series to the Indian youths who were bored, exhausted and irritated with clichés of ekta kapoor and MTV stuffs. The Tvf have some of the rare and exceptional original-creatives such as Arunabh Kumar,Biswapati Sarkar,Nidhi Bisht and Sumeet Vyas,thus the creative mix brought by them and their actors are often of an assured quality.The act portrayed by Nidhi Singh as Tanya and Sumeet Vyas as Mikesh is both new and in melody with each other..in short brilliant.The character of lleo and purshottam brings an off charts humor and originality to the show. The twists,pause,camera angle and subtle humour are among the best we have seen till date in India.So till here you guys rock..but... When it gets Absurd..?Well somewhere around the 2nd episode of Season 2..the moment Darshan Jariwala and Manu Rishi Chadha comes to the main plot,their presence in the screen is a waste.The similarity of the plot with 'Bang Baaja Baraat' and the question who inspired whom with commonality of Sumeet vyas is confusing to the viewers.Though 'the dinner'(episode 4) was a good plot pause but episode 5 was irrelevant to the continuity and brings a lot which could be avoided to bring the awesomeness of Asrani ji's character at last.The adequate pace in which Mikesh's character developed in season 1 is not followed in season 2,which is disappointing. Season 1 of PR was a balanced symphony of creativity,story flow, risk taking and new character introductions, which gets a bit clumsy in season 2.In the End..Permanent Roommates is one of the best and most sincere efforts brought by few of the finest young talents in India today..A must watch for the desi youths..You will find a lot to bond in here and will adore the way protagonists explore their life ahead..


                
This series is a happy break from the clichéd stuff. It depicts the modern society, broad-minded and reasonable people, within a simple story line. Basically, its easier to relate to this with the things happening around you. This show will make you think, but first, it will make you laugh. There isn't a dull moment. Moreover, its a punch packed in five short videos. What makes it better is awesome acting by each and everyone. Also, its easily available on YouTube. So here I have what I have been waiting for - Indian actors, Hindi language (has English subs too), a short and fast-paced series, and I ain't disappointed at all!!! I would totally recommend it. And I will be eagerly waiting for another series by this super team.


                
It is difficult to watch a single episode of Permanent roommates without bursting into splits of laughter There are 5 episodes in all - each progressively longer than the previous - and each is a gem.The series traces the story of a boy and girl in a long distance relationship - after the long distance stage and when they meet and think of renting an apartment.Anyone who is looked for a flat to rent in any town / city in India will spot instant similarities to real life experiences - which would have been hilarious if they were not 100% true. Somehow watching it here makes them funny. Like the lost housing agent (aren't most of them?), the kind of houses shown, the issues one faces daily as an Indian youngster and a couple (and a father, and a government officer, and a...) The series is mostly in Hindi (a bit of English), but has English subtitles on you tube.Don't miss it. I watched a few episodes more than once :)


                
A story about a boy and a girl discovering love out of a long distance relationship and eventually getting to the point of marriage. The story is as simple as it could be, but that is what makes it so real and beautiful. The fact that the writers never even try to be surreal for a moment give it a clear edge over other TV Series (this is not a TV series though). Mikesh's and Tanya's characters are well crafted. Mikesh is sort of an "egg head" (according to the Wikipedia page) and Tanya is the more mature and smarter one. After three years of long distance relationship suddenly Mikesh proposes to Tanya for marriage which in turn creates confusion between the two. And the couple somehow manages with the baggage of their decision. The plot is funny, specially Mikesh who sometimes could be dumb as hell. There would be moments when someone can feel that they don't love each other and they are not a "meant for each other" couple, actually they are not! That's what makes it more realistic. They are not a perfect couple, not at all but they do love each other. Love and only love drives their story forward. Mikesh is annoying so one might end up thinking, "Why on earth Tanya is tolerating him? Maybe she would better off without him." But love doesn't work that way, and this love gives this simple, realistic story an "over the top" feel. Season one is more funny and reasonable. It is more compact in its storytelling. Season two also share the same theme, but it is more dramatic. The plot is a little bit loose and focuses more on the human elements and values of family, society, and culture. The fact that the episodes of the second season are quite lengthier than the first season can give you a reason for "liking it less". But as the story draws itself towards its conclusion, everything started making sense. The story certainly doesn't end in an "all-happy" mode, but in a more natural way where they try to find "happiness" among what is left of them (believe me one would understand it after watching). The writers very cleverly try to tie all the loose knots at the end, and they succeed also. Somehow you get to understand the feelings of both these characters which were buried deep inside them in this entire series. Acting is superb. The direction is very good. But the real heroes are the writers. The way the story is written makes it more lovable. One extra marks for the story.At the end the quote from their title. "Neither do they die nor do they live happily ever after...It's a third kind of love story." It is indeed.


                
Funny and entertaining. I gave up watching TV about 5 years ago as there is NOTHING in there worth watching. Now this is the kind of stuff the intelligent audience wants. Of course Pitchers is easily MUCH better but this one is good fun too. I didn't much like episode 3 of season 2 (Part 1) but Part 2 seems to be better. Mikesh's father is so weird- are there really men like him? I request TVF to be careful about a few things though- Drugs should NOT be glorified. I was a bit surprised to see a bit of that in part 2 of episode 3. Why? Asrani is such a find..I thought he had retired from active roles but he seems so suited to the character. Keep up the pace guys!


                
Its amazing to see a unique way to express feelings .Season1 very nice ...season 2 is nice ,won't say average because it takes huge amount of hardworking to make a fresh idea work...keep going guys..waiting for season 3 ,Audience loves your team.... Season 1 is short and sweet..journey of two people begin when they feel responsible Season 2 is bit lengthy but good ..can watch every episode and enjoy it too... Expecting season 3 Mikesh and Tanya and every1 rocks! Short episodes like 25 minutes will be better from my point of view Not an author,or associated with media....but i am from audience and into academics so i respect this fresh idea...keep going guys
