I am a big fan of Tolkien's books, but the movie doesn't do justice to them at all and actually is a major annoyance. The scenery and most of the personae are actually depicted very nicely, but as soon as acting and talking starts it becomes plain that the story has been cut, changed, dumbed down, and vulgarized to such a degree that nothing is left of Tolkien's masterpiece and what remains is just an over-length,  fantasy film with a thin story and boring characters.The film has the subtlety of a sledgehammer, its fundamental assumptions seem to be: (1) if a danger is such that the heroes just might escape then it's no real danger and must be enlarged to ridiculous proportions. (2) Comic relief can only be achieved through slapstick of the crudest kind. (3) Battle scenes must last at least as long as it would take a five-year-old to read the corresponding passages backward in Chinese. Moreover, if they could be done without special effects they are bad and must be "enhanced". (4) A traitor must walk around with a sign saying "I am a traitor".The worst example for this lack of subtlety is that the Ring is handled much too often, too openly, and with too little care. This trivializes the sinister and threatening item and takes away much of the power of the story.The reckless exaggeration in the "action scenes" is equally awful. Case in point the "Gate of Moria"-scene, when the Watcher gives Frodo a ride     in the merry-go-round until everyone had a chance to hack at him; the more restrained story in the book is much more effective IMHO. Similarly mutilated are the scenes: "Crossing of the Brandywine", "Cutting Cushions in Bree", "The Burning of the Riders" at Weathertop, "The Drowning of Sam Gamgee", "Wizards slug it out in Orthanc", and, of course, "They have a Cave Troll", and, really, all of Moria.
The main hero, Frodo, gives the impression of a loser: all the scenes in which (in the book) he shows courage, wisdom, resolve are cut or changed. Worst i find this in the key scenes in the Barrow (cut) and at Weathertop. There is nothing in the film giving any hint why Frodo might be "the best Hobbit in the Shire".Due to the many cut or twisted scenes, more than half of the characters have little resemblance to the ones in Tolkien's LotR: Frodo is a loser, Merry and Pippin are idiots until they suddenly turn out to be warrior princes, Elrond appears to be permanently pissed off -- as if everything "... stinks!", Strider is just another warrior hero (his being a loremaster, a healer, the "greatest traveller of our time" etc. does not show), Galadriel and Lorien is done so badly that i wish it would have been cut completely ("more fair than thought of mortal men" is a tall order, but Jackson does not even manage "fair"). Only Gandalf, Bilbo, and Saruman are rendered more or less well.I could go on, nearly every scene has gone wrong. Nothing of the depth of Tolkien's vision, the attention he paid to details (not only visual but to fine-tuning the development of the main characters) or the poetry in his creation is conveyed. What remains of the story is not told in a very coherent or convincing fashion, neither the acting nor the special effects are remarkable.All in all, a complete and utter failure to turn a great book into a movie.


                
This comment contains spoilers in that it directs you join me in seeing through the thin veil of Hollywood, and directs you inward to know what you really need and want instead of just explosions and effects...Seriously, this could have been one of the best movies ever made.  That's right, I'm saying it is not.  Even the casual movie fan (movie fan, not one of the mindless herd) has to admit that he/she can sense the fear in the producer's hearts behind every scene in this movie.  They took a great risk in making an expensive trilogy like this, and they did not want to get the short end of the stick.  The result is a compromise;  a combination of good effects and good acting counterpointed with unnecessary cheeze-ball action and, well, bad acting.  The result is a bizarre movie with brilliant scenes followed by terrible scenes.Everyone knows the plot summary, so I will skip it.Every cool scene of dialogue, every touching moment between old friends, and every time we felt the pull of evil, we were quickly (before any of the sheep dozed off), bombarded with a scene of the gang struggling along on their trek fighting creatures and getting blown up.Apparently, according to my friends, I was the only person who noticed the tragedy in the cave troll.  After slowly being disappointed for several hours, I was quite pleased to see the action take an interesting turn like this.  When the cave troll was led into the room, and had a collar on with a "leash" (a chain).  Right away I assumed he was a trained beast, made ferocious by being beaten and tortured over time by his master, much like some people do with pit bull dogs, etc...  When the troll was fatally shot through the mouth by the arrow, he had on his face a moment of unexpected (for me) realization of the wrongness of his actions.  Perhaps this was brought on by his own severe pain and sense that his life would be over in a few moments.  When I was ridiculed for this by my friends, I said perhaps I was just trying to read something interesting into this unnecessary action.
Elijah Wood.  I had trouble at first putting a description to his particular form of bad acting.  I came up with the phrase, "blank acting", because he always has that one blank look on his face.  You know the one, and the example that comes to mind is the look on his face in the scene where the ring "accidentally falls through the air and lands directly over his finger".  A friend of mine found a review that had a better description than mine:  "What he does is not acting, it is face-making, and anyone can do it".Is this a good movie?  As much as "Gladiator" was a good movie, so is this one.  I know the mass herd of movie go-ers return over and over again to see John Woo (and Ridley Scott) and whoever else who claim to have a "new" movie where they just blow stuff up in the same old predictable way, and the people that made this movie know it too.  In order to preserve their bank accounts, they put the explosions in for the sheep to wow over.  My plea for the future is this: If you are going to take a risk, take it and don't compromise.  Make a great film.  Don't let Hollywood or anyone shape all of your craft into one boring blob.  If you can't do that, then you are not a real movie maker.
This review contains SPOILERSAll qualities of the book were sacrificed for the sake of an action film full of cheap plot devices, gratuitous and often illogical story changes, and poor characterization. The scenery was actually great, if the camera would ever stop whirling around long enough to allow it to be enjoyed. I appreciate a sweeping camera move judiciously used to set off a dramatic vista, but that device was done to death. The action scenes are such a blitz of brief incoherent cuts that they were hard to watch. The lighting is frequently peculiar, for example everyone in Rivendell looked waxy and sallow. Then there is the music. I am afraid the composer has watched Conan the Barbarian a few two many times. Operatic choir music = bad guys, every time you see them. Yuk! Those are just the minor flaws in this piece of trash.The endless action cliches and cheap devices left me groaning at such a ham-handed treatment of Tolkien. From the sacrifice of Sam, Merry, and Pippin's characters for the sake of comedy, to the crumbling staircase in Moria, to the silly wizard battle between Gandalf and Saruman (complete with the dive off the tower, only to be caught by the eagle ploy). All of this was invented by Peter Jackson, as if the book does not provide enough exciting events to draw upon. It is a long book, and clearly cuts had to be made for a manageable movie. But to expend precious minutes on protracted combats and repetitious detail of Isengard, while leaving out important story and character development is truly sad. In fact, Jackson goes so far as to drag material belonging to The Two Towers (the shortest of the three books) into this movie (which is the longest of the three books).Many of these changes do nothing for the story, sometimes even weaken it. In the books Saruman is in it for himself, believing himself to be the one person who could stand up to Sauron, if only he had the ring. His view of things has been warped by Sauron's subtle control of what he sees through the Palantir. This is much more interesting than Saruman as the avowed lackey of Sauron. The former case makes sense of the treatment Saruman gets at the end of The Two Towers, while the later does not!The combat and action should have been brief, intense, and significant. In the book none of the combat with Boromir defending Merry and Pippin is seen, just the tragic result. The battle in Balin's tomb takes up 1 page out of 400. It is short, fierce, and to the point. The incident of Frodo turning out to be okay after being speared is actually rather funny in the book. In the movie this is blown so far out of proportion I thought I would gag. It is turned into the worst of manipulative `character is killed, oh no they are okay' scenes. And for those long minutes (and many others like them) they sacrificed the Barrow Downs? Frodo's `Cow Jumped Over the Moon' table dance? The hobbits actually getting to know and trust Strider on the way to Rivendell?The worst part is the butchery of the characters. Legolas loses his light-hearted singing nature. Gimli is a caricature from a bad D&D game, replete with Irish brogue. Absent was their caustic interaction and the development of their friendship, one of the hallmarks of the books. Hobbits go from the stealthy nimble people of the books to bumbling comic relief. In the book Sam is clever, loves all things elven, knows old ballads. In the movie he is just dumb and loyal. In the movie Merry and Pippin are turned into witless juvenile troublemakers sucked into the quest willy nilly, instead of dedicated friends conspiring with Sam to go on the quest to support Frodo. And Frodo's own strongest moment, when he defies the Nazgul at the river, is taken away, leaving him just a helpless victim dragged along. And finally, back to that ending battle: where is Aragorn's poignant agony watching the Fellowship fall apart under his leadership? And his tortured choice over which way to go? He doesn't have to make it, because the movie adds a scene between Frodo and him settling the matter.Then there are `the bad guys'. We can start with Sauron in the beginning. He looks like some sort of battle droid transformer monster. What is that?! He is a wizard, and in the history of Middle Earth is most famous for his guile and lies, not being a walking tank. The orcs: of course they are supposed to be scary and nasty. But they are in fact a people. It is clear throughout the books that they are more than beasts. Much of the beginning of The Two Towers hinges on their own politics and personalities, as do the events in Cirith Ungol in The Return of the King. But what we see in the movie are almost-zombies who hiss and growl and grunt a word or two. The biggest problem with all of the evil portrayed in the film is the complete lack of subtlety or mystery. It's all shown in full special effects glory, rather than hinted at as in the books. Have I been frightened at movies? Plenty of times. Was I ever frightened during this one? Never.In fact, that is the big flaw in all of this. Peter Jackson has no sense of subtlety. Everything is explicit and obvious and the viewer is clubbed over the head with it. The movie is informed less by the books than by the stereotype-ridden gaming genre that came out of it. If the movie I saw was in turn novelized, the result would be just one more derivative hack and slash novel that would be forgotten a couple of years after publication.
I am assuredly in the minority when I state Jackson's Lord of the Rings Trilogy is some of the worst film making I have ever seen. It would appear that he and his production team read the books, sort of, maybe 30 years ago; bought the Cliff notes, and from that wrote the screenplay. To illustrate my POV, I recommend listening to the superlative 13 hour radio adaptation produced by the BBC, recorded I believe in 1981.Jackson and crew erred when they depended too much on computer fx, and spent too much time on the spectacle of combat and war. I often thought I was watching a slasher movie. What makes the original Trilogy compelling are the relationships and the subtext characters carry with them from beginning to end. To be sure there are mythic battles, both large and small. But they come out of very carefully crafted relationships and a deep well of subtext.I don't quarrel with the New Zealand locations, I do quarrel with the dumpy looking sets that were haphazardly glossed over with computer grafx fixes. I don't quarrel with the casting except Frodo, and yet I found the direction so superficial, and often perplexing, if not simply muddled (Galadriel as an English Vamp?!).A clue to my dissatisfaction can be found in the omission of Tom Bombadil, the only character in the original not affected by the Ring. His eccentric wisdom and unexplained powers ground the plot because there is something, someone who is outside the Dark Lord's power. There is in the Tolkien universe a power unimaginable which Sauron cannot touch. And that is essential to the fabric which holds Middle Earth together. Which Tolkien in his craft and his wisdom knew he had to give expression to. And Jackson in his foolhardiness ignored.Why didn't Jackson's team follow the books with more trust? The master had already worked it out perfectly. Well, almost. The Trilogy wasn't long enough, which Tolkien realized after its completion. Nevertheless, the project would have been immensely improved had Jackson and his team laid out a six episode franchise to match the six books of the Trilogy, taken more time to film it in their excellent locations of choice, and above all, truly paid homage to its original creator by following his work faithfully.These films are a mish-mash which titillated the masses for a brief time. And that is tragic, because it will be long, long before someone will be able to do them justice.


                
I've seen this movie and I dont see what all of the fuss is about. Its not that great and i dont know why people think it is. I struggled to stay awake and fell asleep several times trying to watch this movie. It a tedious movie and once you finally get into the movie it ends.I'm not saying it was a horribly bad movie or anything I just dont understand why people think it is so good.


                
Ok, I admit, I liked The Mummy movies. They are fun, totally unpretentious, have good CGI..are a good way to eat some popcorn...yet not what I call 'high cinema' by any means..but then again, it doesnt set out to be, so  I enjoy it for what it is.  Sigh...maybe  Jackson really meant to make a Mummy movie. If thats true, then its a shame considering the source material he had to work with.Don't get me wrong..the movie was good, worth seeing,   very entertaining, and surely better than Phantom Menace- but only just so. While Phantom Menace only had Lucas' feeble literary  talents to rely on, FOTR had (supposedly) THE greatest fantasy novel of all time, the template by which other series are based, the creator of 'fantasy' as we know(and love) it today.  So why was the film so paltry?  The reason is that Jackson like Lucas fell victim to the same faux pas...Faux Pas #1-Assumption of prior familiarity:  Lucas relied on the audience's past knowledge(and love) of the SW world to 'carry them' thru the film and supply all the emotion(not good).  Similarly, Jackson's movie did the same. I was introduced into alot of characters in this movie and b/c of the frenetic pacing and abysmal screenplay, I only definitively knew the names of say 5 characters-maybe.  I had no insight into who they were, what drove them, what their relationships to others were..nothing. Most of the characters, save maybe Gandalph and Frodo were limited to 2D, at best, rendering them mere props and not the grand characters I imagine they are in Tolkein's novels. Thus I had the feeling that had I read the book, alot of what happened would have made more sense and I would have cared what happened to the characters.I would have been involved and 'pulled' into the film. As it was..I was interested in what happened...but not horribly affected either way by what did happen, a few scenes aside.Faux Pas #2-Ok granted...I say Lucas did better in this respect...character interrelationships. Quite frankly, I saw very little of what made the "fellowship' an actual fellowship other than the 'annointing' at Rivenden(another place I didnt know the name of til I went to chat after the movie). It seemed to me the reaction by the fellowship to Gandaph's 'passing' was amusingly exaggerated(eps with the violins in the background)..when you consider that half of them had only met the man (what seemed like) days ago. I saw nothing to hint at any nature of a relationship between most of the characters,excpet for maybe Frodo and Gandalph.  The boys meet Strider..they go off with him for no apparent reason.  Strider has a lady love..they have a scene for seemingly no reason as I was not given any back info to show me why I should care about them.  It seemed to me that Arwen was a horribly contrived characer...her only raison d'entre being to save Frodo's life...Deus ex Machina to the nth degree.  Then Gimli(another name I learned after the movie)utters the trite 'the felloship is broken' while the whole time I'm like 'well...its only been a few days..that was a quick dissolvement  and besides...its not like they are chums anyway'.  It just seemed to me that the movie threw conclusions at you, but gave you no reasonable build up or preparation.  I mean..come on...we see them travel on foot on a mountain, but after that all of a sudden  they have a horse named Bill that apparently is dear to them?!?Please.Faux Pas #3 Too Many smoke and mirrors at the expense of storytelling-Here Lucas and Jackson both failed miserably. But...at least where Lucas did it, he did it well. I really cant beleive comments that say the visuals were breath taking. Yes some of the scenery was really good, and some of the CGI was grand.  But  the rendering in some of the scenes was just horrible-I mean..In Ep 1 I know everything was not real, but at least the parts that werent were not GLARINGLY fake..the scene with the cave troll was just laughable.  The Balrog...good, but how can I be scared of this 'monster' when 9  character  have just outrun  1000  baddies....and no the graphics were not 'groundbreaking' for it either.  The cinematography during the CGI scenes too often seemed blurry...I felt sorry for the folks up front during those scenes. So, on the whole I felt the graphics were derivative and in some cases dowright bad.  I saw better eye candy in Shrek and FF this year. But, so as not to seem to nitpicky Ill say this...the effects I can live with, as long as I get a good story with good characters..story was good but woefully failed in part 2 for me.Faux Pas #4-this one belongs to Jackson alone...Condensation of an Epic Story.  And no, I dont mean condensation in terms of what was or was not in the books b/c I havent read them. I mean in terms how...if this story is so epic, sweping and grand...how come it feels like it took 10 days?  We are told how far it is to get to Rivvendale(i think?)..yet, three days later wham! here we are.  Gandalph leaves frodo, journeys to a place seemingly 2 blocks away from Mt. Doom and comes back to the shire in what seems like hours.  We are told the Fellowship are in for a long perilous journey..yet seemingly 2 days later, there they are in the mines, halfway there.   Now granted...time is a concern..but surely they could have done something...some scenes of them 'on the road'(and not of them just arriving at the place they need to be), maybe some change of seasons.the only snow I saw was at the top of a mountain..yet, when they visit Cate Blanchett it seems sunny and warm again like it was when they set out.Or how about even some wear and tear on the characters..something, a voice over saying how many 'moons' had passed, something.  Given the pacing of the movie  I lost alot of the 'epic scope' Id hoped a film like this would possess. It made it feel horribly rushed like everything in between battles was just the set up to get to another battle....Like another movie I know...like The Mummy.-AN 7 out of 10 stars
Let's get one thing straight: I'm going to be... controversial... daring... notorious... I'm not going to say that this movie was "good". Shock. Horror.I was looking over the top 250 movies on imdb, and there was Lord Of The Rings: The Fellowship Of The Ring sitting in fourth place. FOURTH place? How can this movie be the fourth greatest movie to EVER be created? How? Especially when you find masterpieces such as Schindler's List, American Beauty and Das Boot propping up the pile. It's not a surprise; there's no doubt in my mind that the next two films will also grace the top ten: all three of them, gleaming in a line. But why? Am I the only person in the entire world who DOESN'T think this is "one of the greatest films of all time", "best ever", "sensational"?It's amazing <U+0096> but when I was asked, "What did you think of Lord of the Rings?" and I had the plain audacity to reply with "It's alright, I s'pose <U+0096> average", I was greeted with an array of shocked faces. It's like the film no one can criticise. And if you do, you're clearly insane, and deserve to be locked up.As for what I made of the film itself, it started off well <U+0096> characters developing nicely, interesting storyline. It was once Frodo set off with the ring that things went downhill. This probably originates from the book, but why was everything hidden in the mountains of doom, in the land of evil behind the trees of terror? Did everything really have to be that over-the-top? Even down to the whole: black = bad, white >good?I've not read the book (I also never, ever intend to) <U+0096> I'm ignorant, clueless, no chance of ever <U+0091>getting it', BUT... when I came out of the cinema, I couldn't even tell you the names of half the characters, let alone anything about their personalities. You form a fellowship, and you'd expect one or two alliances/disagreements to occur. Barely anything. In fact, I was surprised any of them even cared when Gandalf fell over the edge. There was just no depth. It was all action, action, action <U+0096> and no relationships or much development of characters. Even in The Terminator, you at least knew one or two things about the main characters. What makes a great masterpiece of a film is having action, drama, strong characters, etc. As far as I can tell, the only plus side of this film is the special effects.
A few other points to add...Firstly, half-way through the film, when they arrived at the Elvin village, it almost felt like the film was over. There was all the closure of, "we're safe now..." and not even any cross-cutting back to the black riders. When the fellowship finally set off (a good hour and a half into the film!) it felt like another film was starting.Gollum <U+0096> the most un-scary thing. Ever. Oh, and the scene where the fellowship were hiding, and one of the hobbits knocked something over <U+0096> was that meant to be quite so funny?Aragorn and Boromir look near-identical. This is most confusing.3 hours is just too long. Unless the film is worth it. And this one isn't. I dread to think what sitting through the director's cut must be like...
If anyone out there agrees with me, track down the spoof version of this by French and Saunders. That is sheer brilliance.Anyway, I'm off to live in a cave until 2010, when the Lord of the Rings hype should've died down sufficiently. Unless it's anything like Star Wars. In which case, I'll see you 30 years.I can't help but wonder, I wonder if this film would've been successful if not for the huge amount of propaganda and anticipation, which just wasn't deserved?But then again, if this film hadn't been so successful, would I have been so critical?It was probably worth a 7 out of 10. However, it painted itself as an off-the-scale 10. So I'll give it a 1 instead. Ha.
The problem with this film is not it's look, as it does look amazing, but it's length and  confusing nature.  Now if you've read the book then I dare say you'd have an idea what's going on but if you haven't then what I am told is an 'awesome epic' becomes a rather long film involving walking. And boy do they walk. they walk up hills, through forests, caves and over mountains. And then then walk some more! Another fault with the film is that although the cast has been assembled to be true to the book, none of them have any presence at all. It all makes you wish that someone with some charisma would turn up in a car and get on with it


                
Peter Jackson couldn't pace a story to save his life. Everything which makes the book a timeless treasure is completely thrown over in favor moronic "improvements" aimed at a perceived demographic. The only saving grace of the film is the art direction, but even that leans far too much toward the most recent calendar-illustrators of Tolkien's work (Alan Lee, John Howe, etc.), and lends a slick, sci-fi look that the author would no doubt have found distasteful. The subtlety of the story, with just the right bits of information revealed at just the right times, is rejected in favor of a blunt-force approach which gives away everything at the outset in order to showcase some more lousy cgi at the earliest possible moment. The Ralph Bakshi cartoon, while also far from successful as an adaptation, is far superior by comparison. The other two films Jackson's travesty only get worse.


                
This was one of the most anticipated movies, ever, and this is also the first movie I have ever seen that had required 3 sittings to go through, because I feel asleep twice. The point of a movie is not to set up the scene for subsequent movies, rather, to move along the story and not dwell on the same themes over and over again. Yes, we knew the wraiths can find the ring, yes, we knew Aragorn was the king and he didnt really want to be king but he needs to be king. Yes, we know gandalf kicks ass, yes, we know that the lure of the ring is great and it can corrupt easily and blah blah. How many times can the SAME themes be repeated over and over without being boring?


                
I didn't hate this film, but I expected more.At worse I found it overblown, hard to follow and felt like I never had a moment to catch my breath.  After watching it I was left with a vague feeling similar to what you get from eating too much junk food, full but unsatisfied.   Too many sweeping vistas, overkill on the Frank Frazetta-esque beasts and baddies, and very little characterization.  Were it not for the very credible performances by the cast of top notch actors, there would have been none at all.One feels that the director Peter Jackson felt that he needed to cover so much ground (literally and figuratively) that he needed to jettison the quieter moments that make up so much of the great story.One of the best aspects of the Tolkien books was the reader feeling a sense of sweep and getting caught up in the quest, along with smaller moments of detail and quiet characterization.  The latter was sorely missing from this film.  All rush, rush, rush, with out any moments humor.  These two elements were what made "STAR WARS" and "THE WIZARD OF OZ", so great.  These two quest films, albeit in completely different milieus, were so much fun to watch, and ultimately so resonant for so many viewers because of moments of humor that allowed the audience a chance to reflect and also gave insight into the characters.  This film , with the exception of a couple of cutesy moments with Sam, Pippen and Merry and one line from Gimli, was largely humorless.I have a great deal of respect for Peter Jackson and his work. "MEET THE FEEBLES" and "DEAD ALIVE" were a couple of the funniest, most inventive bits of work to come out in a very long time and turned their genres (Muppet films and Horror) on their ear with a great eye to the absurd.  Likewise, he did a wonderful job with "THE FRIGHTENERS" and "HEAVENLY CREATURES".  I was hoping for the same here and was unfortunately disappointed.  I hope, now that he feels that he has set the stage with "Fellowship" that he will offer more depth and humor in the next two outings.One other thing, the film's design seemed to be just more of the same old Sword and Sorcery stuff.  "CONAN" mixed with "NEVERENDING STORY."  Blech!!!  There was even a small film that I saw recently from Spain called "EL CORAZON DEL GUERRERO (THE HEART OF THE WARRIOR) that had far more interesting design for this genre.  I have a feeling this ain't going to be the cash cow that New Line wanted.Michael Escher


                
Before this film was released, New Line said "We hope to beat Titanic". John Rhys Davies said "This is going to be the biggest film ever". Ian McKellan said "I cried the first time I saw it, you will too".As the box office and the wave of indifference proves, they couldn't have been more wrong.Perhaps the arrogance of the film makers is one reason why so many people don't like this film. Perhaps that's why it hasn't broken into the top 50 of the all time "adjusted for inflation" chart.Me? I was just bored to tears. The story is very, very simple. A group of characters have to take a "magic ring" to a special place where it can be destroyed. Along the way, they run away from some monsters, then they run away from some more and this keeps happening right up until the end. Only there is NO end. The film just stops which of course is a cheap marketing ploy to make you see the next two.The script is awful. It's like watered down Shakespeare and some lines are such nonsense that there were a few groans in the cinema I saw this in. It also has a total lack of humor which makes it all the more pretentious.The characters are never fleshed out and some of them take on charachatures. Gandalf is the worst of them all. A caricature of Merlin from the King Arthur stories, he is so 2D he could have been created by Walt Disney.The direction is average to say the least and it seems that Peter Jackson has no real style of his own. Instead he borrows heavily from the likes of Tim Burtons "Sleepy Hollow". The action scenes are very poorly done and so is the use of CGI.I wish I could talk about the score but I really don't remember it. The acting is reasonable enough but some of them must have thought "what am I doing here?" when they had to read such banal lines.Overall it is just a really bad movie. Never living up to the hype and, to be honest, never coming close. No matter how much the cast and crew tell you how great this is, the simple fact is, it's not.3 out of 10.


                
Personally I found this movie to be a major disappointment. Having read the book(s) several times since the mid-sixties, I have a thorough knowledge of the plot and a profound fondness for the texture of the story. I resisted unreasonable expectations going in, and was prepared for what I thought would be, at worst, a visual treat and some interpretative entertainment.What I saw, however, was dour, over-pensive characters with little or no inherent charm, Pippin and Merry tossed in merely for bumbling comic relief, unconnected and confusing plot development (had I not been so familiar with the story I would have been completely unaware of what was going on in the story), and alterations to the storyline that were insipid and done merely to provide larger roles for the actors (the Arwen/Liv Tyler synthetic heroics pop immediately to mind). As if the baffling plot development isn't bad enough, the role of Saruman in the story is greatly misrepresented, texture building subplot roles such as Bombadill and Butterbur were simply removed, and what were the Sacksville Bagginses (so critical to the book plot in the end) doing in this movie if they only got one (rather bewildering) reference. I could go on for hours about missing characterizations but suffice to say the difference between book and movie in this arena is horrific, and in point of fact, fatal.Certainly the 'graphics' were nice, but so what. Amazing graphic hacking and hewing of monsters in a mountainous setting is a dime a dozen these days. Big deal.And, Hugo Weaving as Elrond was ridiculous. All due respects to Mr. Weaving, but all I could hear Elrond saying in any of his scenes was 'Well, Mr. Anderson, one of these lives has a future and the other does not.' Respects to his powerful portrayal as agent Smith. The charm and depth of Tolkien's story is completely missing in this film. Frodo, for example, whines and whimpers through every scene, acting continually pained, as if he had a thorn in his foot the entire time. He has no real inner character or strength, except in a few unfounded grandiose speeches during which he seemingly pulls some nerve out of thin air and proclaims himself equal to whatever task is currently at hand, after first whimpering in the background for a good deal of time with sad puppy-dog eyes and furrowed brow.I would guess that the direction of this film was based on the assumption that members of the audience had read the book(s) and were familiar with the story line (how else could anyone follow the jerky plot presentation). If that is indeed the case, why were there so many drastic deviations from the original story line? Did screenwriter Frances Walsh or director Peter Jackson actually believes themselves better at telling this tale than Tolkien? The difference in medium is simply not a good enough explanation for me, and I rank this convoluted, expensive quagmire of one-dimensional characters and uninspired storytelling right up there with other titanic screen dogs, like Armageddon and Independence Day.Painfully, there are 2 more Lord of the Rings episodes to come.


                
I can't believe that so many of you people loved this movie!  First of all, I completely agree with others who have complained about its lack of character development.  What happened there in that Elf village where the Fellowship suddenly formed?  "Okay, Frodo, you carry the ring, and we'll have an elf, a dwarf, 2 humans, an old wizard, and three other useless hobbits tag along with you."  To the people who read the book (I did not), you need to remember that for a movie based on a book to be "GREAT," it should be self- sufficient.  I should not have need a Lord of the Rings fanatic sitting next to me explaining every scene and telling me things like, "Oh yeah, those guys are called Ringwraiths... no, the bad guy is Sauron and the wizard who became bad is called Saruman, can't you keep these names straight? ... No, Tolkien couldn't use names like Fred and John because he needed unique and magical Middle Earth names!  (except of course for the arbitrary naming of Sam the hobbit)...."  What is all of this hogwash?  Are you people all on drugs?  Can't you see what kind of nonsense this movie is?  Don't you realize that by reading the book, you got all of the character development and background story that the rest of us just did not get?  Clearly, you all used your previous knowledge to fill in the gaps that the rest of us just had to endure. I'm just stunned at how many weirdo Dungeon and Dragon freaks there are out there who ranked this movie so highly.Bottom line:  This movie was terrible in every sense of the word. Long, boring, filled with useless scenery shots (which were really just CGI enhanced shots anyway) and shots of Elijah Wood's blank expression as he stared at the ring in his hand, devoid of any character development (I couldn't even remember main character's names, let alone motivations or backgrounds), and filled with cheesey action sequences that made "The Mummy Returns" look like a masterpiece.  You need to be a huge Tolkien/Fantasy fanatic to appreciate this movie.  Otherwise, go see "Ocean's Eleven", which is much better and more entertaining in every respect.


                
***spoilers***
1st- whoever wrote and agreed to the musical score should be railroaded out of town.  there is less sap in a pine tree.  was this movie "Titanic"?  It would have been better if Max Steiner was scoring, and some of you know my irony.  God! I thought I saw Kate Winslet playing Sam and kissing Frodo in a boat headed toward Mordor!This music sucked out any solid substance which this film might have built on, and substituted thick sugary emptiness.2nd-  Directors should stop forcing actors to be part of the set.  When Liam Neeson said he would never act in a Hollywood movie again, he blamed Georgle Lucas for treating him like a prop.  TFOTR is a disaster on par with Phantom Menace.  Almost every scene in this movie is storyboarded like a cheap comicbook, without any of the redeeming values that can be found in good animation or adventure.  Try Akira or Princess Mononoka (sp?) to guess what magic is supposed to be in fantasy.  If you are a true fan of fantasy you appreciate characters that you learn to love, characters you connect with. These hobbits have less of a fellowship than NYC neighbors.  Who are Sam, Pippen, etc?  If you never read the book this movie doesn't tell you, and in the movie they are just dead space.  Nor do you learn about or admire Aragorn, Legolas, (the elves are ALL wrong, except maybe Galadriel in her tiny scene), the dwarf, or even Frodo.  Gandalf and Bilbo make a good early impression on the audience, and shine through at moments, but the other members of the party are nothing but one-dimensional bodies.  Where is the ethereal, near Godhood of the Elves?  Where the grudging likeability of the Dwarves, the nobility and dignity of the Humans?  Aragorn looks and acts like a 80's hairband rockstar, and the boy-Elf is from N'Synch.  Even the normally reliable Bean as Borimor is lost in the onslaught of Hollywood's pandering, restrictive manipulation.  I bet if you like TFOTR you loved "Sixth Sense," it used the same "methods" of movie construction employed here.  I could rant on and on about the cheesy closeups, or the "oh so pitiful" and confused looks on the suffering, put-upon faces everytime something happened..."now we're scared, now we're shocked, now we're running and swinging swords"....PUKE! Not one glimpse of real characters on a real mission to save all life from evil.  Have you ever seem "Wages of Fear" from the '53?  Even without characterization you need convincing action like in "Blackhawk Down" to make you feel a battleship bond.
3.  I have to give credit to the design effects here.  The opening scenes in Mordor and the Shire are very good, and the castles and volcanoes are frightening.  There is little of the obvious computerness of the "Mummy", in comparison.  I thought Sauron, the digital sets, the "dragon" firework, the wizard battle, and few other scenes were intense and on the mark.  The wraiths were predictable wimps who stood around in a clump pointing swords at people, and most battle scenes were hatchet edit jobs like the haphazard junk we've seen in "Gladiator", but worse.  The gestation of the Uruk-Hai was suitably horrific, but aftwards he was a mockery of himself as his scary face came huffing and puffing along..."look out! it's the 'Predator' coming!!!  Run!"...How silly...but the love scene between Borimor and Aragorn afterwards is sillier.  Basically there is no drama about war, adventure, or heroism here, just B-movie "radioactive-man" bad guys, (except Saruman) and "singing cowboy" good guys.after 3 hours of more and more insults, then 40 minutes writing this, I'm tired.  I could hammer this flick for days....but just let me say I really wanted to like this film, but it's not good.  The system of making movies today is fundamentally flawed, which represents a sickness in our culture. If you can't or won't recognize that fact, you are part of the problem.  I don't claim to know much about the world, or life, but I know this much; The spirit of Tolkien, which is the spirit of the universe, is not in this film, nor will it be in the others.  No technically brilliant, 30 second clip, (even if it  momentarily makes you exist in Middle Earth), can truly help you into another world in order to for you to understand more about your own.  Tolkien was a great mythologist, humanist, and philosopher, and the wonder of living was in his words.  That magic is  not present here.(mostly)  I'm sorry.
This first installment in Peter Jackson's trilogy based on J.R.R. Tolkien's classic fantasy novels follows the adventures of the hobbit Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood), who inherits a ring coveted by an evil being who hunts Frodo and his friends down as they team with a variety of protectors to journey to the only location that can destroy the ring.  Whatever, something like that. I can't deny that this expensive film (all three together cost nearly $300 million) is dazzling on the eyes--sweeping photography, incredible sets, eye-popping visual effects--but it's all been directed with so much awe and self-reverence that it never engaged me on an emotional level (well, not until the last scene, which is a bit late).  It comes across as nothing but a repetitious display of our heroes walking and running, mumbling gobbledygook I couldn't understand, and fighting ceaseless armies of rejects from Friday the 13th casting calls.  And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on<U+0085>.  With all the swirling helicopter shots of moutaintops, I was hoping Julie Andrews would turn up for a much needed production number.  No such luck; instead, we get Cate Blanchett inducing giggles as some kind of omniscient fairy (the only laughs in this dour, humorless film).  The cast tries hard--it's commendable that they kept a straight face with some of the unintelligible dialogue.  Also with Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Sean Astin, Ian Holm, and (the film's best performances) Sean Bean and Christopher Lee.


                
This film is sooooo over-rated. I'd never read the books so went into this with an open mind but was massively disappointed. It is without doubt one of the most boring films I have ever seen.At first I quite liked it even though the f/x were truly terrible and the acting a little wooden. But after the first half hour it turns into mindless drivel. The plot is very dull. A group of creatures have to take a ring to a special place to be destroyed. On the way they have to fight various monsters. And that goes on for 3 hours!! It was so mononetus that I almost fell asleep. I have never fallen asleep during any film but this one really had me dozing off.It has a total lack of humor and emotion and the CGI effects are so fake looking that it ruins any sense of drama. Really, how scary is an army of blurry CGI monsters running at you?The action set pieces have no tension and you are left with a feeling of "Okay, hurry up and beat this monster so we can get to the next one!" That's what it's like. It has NO sense of excitment, danger or suspense and that has to be down to the terrible direction of Peter Jackson.The only joy I had watching this was laughing at some of the performances. Does Elijah Wood realise that he has ONE expression in the whole film? Does Cate Blanchette realise how rediculous her lines are? Do Sean Bean and Viggo Mortensen realise that they look like rejects from an 80's heavy metal act? And what's with Ian McKellan? He's doing nothing more than a bad impression of Merlin the Wizard.In years to come this film will be regarded along the lines of Titanic and Independance Day. If it's lucky.


                
First of all, most people who praise this film did NOT read the books. The books are amazing but cannot work as film. Maybe that is why no one has undertaken this epic until now. What I can't understand was how people can praise all the different aspects of it. The costuming and sets were the only thing decent. My complaints? Too many liberties were taken with the book. Now, I'm not referring to the plot elements (which were more or less intact except for Tom Bombadil. If you don't know who that is, read the book!) but the style that Tolkien worked so hard to preserve in all of his books. The first item that was ruined in the first 5 minutes was the mystery of Sauron. Sauron is such an amazing character because you never get more than very small glimses of him. Tolkien keeps this throughout all the books. Jackson ruined that in 5 minutes. Next, the action always follows the hobbits. This put you in the place of the hobbits. What characters would be better for an audience to identify with? They were as much outsiders to this strange world as we are. Unfortunately, Jackson ruined that also.The directing was nothing spectacular. It was unobtrusive, but there was no style really, so it did not add any more depth to the movie. The acting was pretty good, but it could not save the movie from the unforgivable sins that the movie committed to the book.The special effects, though praised, were not good at all. You'd think since they have to do 3 films with hobbits that they would come up with a good way to do them and stick to it. Not the case! The hobbits change size drastically throughout the film depending on the technique that is being used to reduce them. Sometimes they are children, but the worst is when they just put them further from the camera. How is that supposed to work? Although we do not have depth perception in the theater, the audience can still tell when the size difference is only created by the perspective. The CG effects were not outstanding, but after seeing Star Wars: Episode 1, it was nice to know costumes can still be used well.Now, if I had not read the book, would I have a better view of this film? You bet, but too many things from the book were ruined to make it more of a conventional movie. Even still, I definitely would not think it is worthy of being ranked so high on IMDB.com.


                
Tolkein was right. He said his story could never have been made into a film. Peter Jackson has proved him right. This movie was terrible. It's like a cross between The Mummy Returns and Xenia: Warrior Princess. But those productions are made with tongue firmly in cheek. LOTR was meant to be taken all so seriously.It's like Monty Python and the Holy Grail but without the jokes. Very pompous and VERY overblown. Jackson is only interested in the battle scenes which are done so appalingly that you actually sit there waiting for them to be over.The score grates and whines. Be thankfull then that you won't remember it when you leave the cinema. Some of the effects are good but others are SO bad.The cast are also wasted. It's a good cast but the script is dismal and it lets them down badly.I don't know why this film turned out as bad as it did. All the ingredients are there for a good movie. There is a great story, a good cast, a compotent if not awe-inspiring director, so why then is the film nothing more than a 3 hour long episode of Xenia: Warrior Princess?


                
I've been a Tolkien fan for many years and a lover of film for more years than that.  Here's what I have to say about it.Stop accepting another's interpretation of a literary work and start demanding originality and quality in all media.  Things shouldn't have to be wrapped up in a nice neat 'film-book-music-fast food promo-fan mag-toy' package to be enjoyed.  Adaptations should be spurned, not praised.  Enjoy a good film, enjoy a good book, but don't require or allow them to be homogenized.Stop accepting eye-candy as cinematic genius.  Stop identifying special effects as good film on it's own.  Demand character and plot development. Demand intelligent dialogue and exposition instead of silly taglines and "here's what's happening" lines.  Demand acting above just smiling, crying, and scowling.  How about some complex emotions?I'm not saying there is not room for a cheesy movie now and then, but don't champion them as pinnacles of the medium.Remember or imagine what a film could be.  Don't pay $9 to go sit in front of the television for 2-3 hours.  Demand to be challenged even a little bit. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!  For those of us who care!  If you keep paying to go see mediocrity, they'll keep making it!


                
Ok..b4 we get into this let me preface by saying I'm a HUGE fantasy fan. As a child I read loads of mythology and as I got older I got into fantasy novels, and yes, I even enjoy a good sword and sorcery flick.  When I first saw the trailer for LOTR a year ago my jaw hit the floor. I coulndt not WAIT to see this movie...and so a year passed. I came to the theater wanting to be swept away into the majesty that is Tolkein...I came wanting to be blown away and fall irredeemably in love with the film. Sigh...maybe I wanted too much.Now the film is not bad, not bad at all..in fact in all honesty I can say that it is prob among the top 5 films released this year(which may not m,ean much considering what came out this year)  Yet..I did not come away with a magical feeling..that warm feeling inside when u know u have had a truly good movie experience.  I came away  a bit fatigued(3 hrs is 3 hrs) and midly dissapointed.The good: overall, I'd say the cast is very good. Id aways thought Viggo was a good actor and he finally got a role he could shine in. Ian Mckellar was great as a somewhat vulnerable Gandolph and Ian Holm was delicious as Bilbo...he made a hobbit actually seem creepy. And the guy who played Samwise(the boy from the goonies) was actually good as well.Even Liv Tyler was impressive(though tolkein purists will claim she had no business in the book) and of course Ms. Blanchett did her usual best(with a narroly defined role).The bad:  the script- I just felt( and still do) that if you have read the books( and mr.jackson was admitedlly a HUGE Tolkein buff) you got alot more out of the movie. I think maybe he assumed a prior knowledge and relationship w/ the characters  cuz there was very little development of the characters and their relationships to each other. Thats why when a certain cast member died,..I really felt everyone was taking it a bit too hard on screen, lol.  Secondly, the dialogue could be on the cheesy side. Now, I know its Tolkein..but at least let me fall in love with the characters b4 u get all cheesy and sentimental on me...at least the two bumbling hobbits were there for a bit of comic releif.CGI- was it just me, or was the rendering horrible?  Cgi is always noticeable even if done well..but some scenes were just embarassingly bad. Also, the cinematography was not very crisp..I felt like I was watching the movie thru a haze the whole time. Now granted..the technical failings of the movie dont really bear much on how much I enjoy the plot..but still, for all the money spent..I dunno, I would have thought at least the cinematography would be good.pacing: point blank...when the characters weretn running for their lives..it dragged.  Since the script failed to get me involved with the characters, I just was blase at best about any reflections they may have . This was especially apparent at the initial 'meeting of the fellowship' scene. Suddenly there are all these characters  that have no discernable relationship whatsoever...yet, they all weep like babies when that certain cast member died...didnt make much sense to me. Now dont get me wrong...there were a few poignant moments( i liked the scene with sam at the end..touching....and Sean bean's charac too..touching) but to me..it was all disjointed...very little flow..I could never really sink my teeth into the film.So, instead of being ravenous for the next installement when the film finally ended..I left like 'well..maybe the next one will be better'. Now, I will say, it was alot better than Phantom Menace..I was never  just bored outright..but for all the hype and commotion..I was underwhelmed. Dont let fantasy/tolkein groupies lead u astry, its a good film..but not a great film and nowhere near as good as the first Star Wars trilogy. Sigh...everywhere that I go I read reviews of this nature..so much so that next week I shall see the film again and see if therw was somenthing I missed the first time-A.N.


                
After 1 year of anticipation TLOR has been a big disappointment. Granted, beautiful scenery, granted, spectacular computer techniques, but this is not the way to make a classic novel into a good picture. The casting of for instance Sam, a very important character in the story, is totally wrong; they made him into the fat clumsy schoolboy. Where are the lines of wisdom on Elrond's brow? How beautiful the scenery may have been, Tolkiens love lay in the Northern part of England and Scotland, where the names of the fells and river reflect those he used in the book. So why New Zealand? Most importantly, the acting was unforgivably stiff and unnatural. I don't know what people mean when they argue otherwise. The only way the director thought of showing the actors to play grief, for instance after the fall of Gandalf, was in letting them act in slow motion, already a sign of paucity. Frodo staring for minutes on end, with a tear running over his cheek, call cheap gipsy boy pictures in kitsch interiors to mind. One of the most important scenes of the first book, of course, is the council of Elrond, were the decision is made to destroy the Ring. What an opportunity for dialogue and what a farce the director made of it. The members attending the council were not properly introduced, nothing about the possibilities of using or getting rid of the ring, only a lot of noise and in the end a softheartened Frodo saying he will take it. That was that for a pivotal part in this classic novel. The music was simply awful and stomach-ache inducing. Nothing to be compared to the intelligent use of music and songs in the BBC-radioplay of 10 years ago. Arwen rescueing instead of Glorfindel's horse is doubtless put in because of Hollywood=dollar reasons. So TLOR done by this director is nothing more than a spectacular adventure story, as starwars, the lost menace and all that is. Happily the novel is so great that it won't suffer from this film; may be in twenty years time another director will have a go at it. This production is nothing more than a I think the film is a mere sacrifice to dollars and in that the quest has failed.
the problem of the movie is mainly that it is made to be liked by as many people as possible, and thats never a good start for anything. i dont like jacksons personal visions of the book. he degraded the horrifying black riders to nothing more than weak actionfigures. saruman is too early and often shown, so he cant be as fear-creating as he is in the book. his (jacksons) direction is more or less unsatisfying, and the acting is -with the exception of hugo weaving (elrond)- bad. jackson would have done good respecting that "the lord of the rings" is no romance but some sort of great "fantasy road movie". missing bombadil and good-fitting music (from rosenman) i will by any time prefer the bakshi animated-feature from 1978 (although its incomplete, and bombadil is missing too.. someone finish this movie, pleeeeease).. im personally disappointed that a great man like howard shore (crash, silence of the lambs, dead ringers, existenz, the fly, ed wood) could do such a boring score.


                
I feel compelled to offer some dissent for this mistakenly lauded, and often drooled over catastrophe of a film. Let me preface this by saying that I have not read the book. While this may offend those of you who keep a copy under your mattress, you must understand that by releasing this as a motion picture, it must be able to stand on its own as one.My largest complaint is just that, the writers did absolutely nothing to prepare this story for the screen, other than relying on a gifted cinematographer and production designer to carry the weight. I felt every minute of this story as if it were being read from the pages of Tolkien's umpteenth printing by a four-year-old. The dialogue is slow, awkward, and unjustly sentimental. To someone who has not read the book and doesn't have the pretext of the characters and their motivations, the lines are just as mystical as the glowing ring that every one scampers around in fear of.Other than the spooky horsemen that chase around Frodo the cowardly protagonist, I simply could not find any reason for these middle earth misfits to do what they did. And if you don't find the scene where they all get together under "Agent" Hugo Weaving's direction and decide who's the bravest pussy in middle earth absolutely corny and remedial, then you just weren't listening. I'm still not sure what was less convincing: the ridiculous lines or the misdirected attempts to act them.After three hours, and having lost complete sensation in my ass, they have the audacity to end the movie when things are finally starting to happen. At least Star Wars was sufficiently independent in each of its chapters. I didn't have to wait three years and pay $24 to get a coherent story.
On a positive note, I have to give credit to the DP and his aesthetic capture of New Zealand. Well done. Seeing your photography was the only aspect that made me feel value for my money. That applies to the inhabitants of New Zealand as well. Thanks for letting us expose your country to the world. I only hope that the leagues of trench coat-wearing D&D players flocking to your ports will spare you from the middle earth references they're dying to make.


                
This film was over-hyped rubbish and a COMPLETE letdown. I almost fell asleep when I watched it. Right, so this film  has excellent special effects and nice scenery; that doesn't make it a good film. It's 3 hours long and glacially paced. Many of the characters I found to be extremely annoying, including Gandalf, Frodo and Sam. Frodo's feminine tone is enough to drive anyone insane. The elvish dialogue with subtitles is laughable and all of the actors play second fiddle to the special effects.The performances are wafer-thin and Elijah Wood is shrill and bland. His performance is wooden. Then the film just ends midsentence........ thanks but I don't want to go to the cinema next Christmas to see what happens. If there's as little plot development as in this installment, its sure to be as boring and disappointing.I think the media frenzy surrounding this film was completely uncalled for. It's not that good of a film. In fact, it's awful. A real turkey in my humble opinion.


                
