I really tried to go into this movie with an open mind.  I knew that much would be left out due to time restrictions.  I was aware through the promotional campaign that the dialog was going to be un-Tolkien, for reasons I wasn't clear about, since they seem to have gone to considerable effort to get pronunciations correct.  I knew that there would be many things about both the story and the treatment of it that would conflict with my own hide-bound (some would say fossilized) ideas.But still I looked forward to it.Then they showed Sauron in the second shot of the movie and somewhere inside, I wailed in despair.   I knew, from that alone, that Peter Jackson didn't get it.What is the one thing in LOTR that is never shown?  The one thing so evil and horrible that it isn't even described?Sauron.  The title character.  The Lord of the Rings himself.There he is, in the second shot of the movie.  Some funny looking big guy whose armourer has either very very bad taste or a sick sense of humor.The whole prologue was very aggravating to me, because as I watched it I knew that both the structure of the story and the slow building of understanding that characterized Tolkien's telling of it were being ignored. Throughout "The Fellowship of the Ring" (the book, that is) we see the story unfold largely through Frodo's eyes.  We don't know about the conspiracy between Merry, Pippin and Sam because Frodo doesn't.  We don't know who the Black Riders are because Frodo doesn't.  And we don't know the history of the Ring until Gandalf tells Frodo about it.  Putting us in the hobbit's shoes brings us into the story.  The prologue in the movie separates us from it.On a technical level, the cinematography and editing were completely wrong for a story of this type -- other than a few wide sweeping shots of the fellowship walking south from Rivendell, the movie seemed all wide-angle lenses, swish pans, jump cuts, Spike Lee zooms (zooming in while dollying back or vice versa) or gratuitous and excessive special effects.  When Frodo puts the ring on, why does it suddenly get windy?  I rather think Bilbo would have noticed something was odd about the ring if all that had happened when he put it on.  Almost without exception, all the special effects were over-the-top.  From the glow of the fiery letters shining on Frodo's face (which, I will admit, looked kind of cool) to the flaming eye of Sauron.In a word, the film lacked subtlety.  Tolkien would have been hopping mad.And Arwen at the bridge made me mad, too.  In the book, Frodo stands, weak and wounded on the opposite shore from the Nazgul, and yet with his remaining strength defies them.  This is a crucially important moment in his development and our understanding of his character.Though the waves with horses was a nice touch.Speaking of Arwen at the bridge, there are many annoying examples of small changes to the plot done for no apparent reason.  Why was it Frodo who figured out how to open the gates of Moria?  And why wasn't Sam at the mirror of Galadriel?  Why did Aragorn show up before the orcs finished off Boromir (actually, that one's obvious -- so we could waste more time with another damn fight scene, that's why)?  <U+0085>and why was he not present when the black riders attacked the hobbits at Weathertop?It is possible to transfer a book successfully to screen faithfully.  For example, "Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone" does an admirable job.  I gave the movie a seven out of ten and full marks for keeping within both the letter and the spirit of the book.  It left some things out, but you could tell that the filmmakers respected the book, the author, and the book's legion of readers.Several key dynamics from LOTR were thrown out in the movie.  The whole business of the mysterious disappearance of Gandalf is left out, and replaced with one of the most bone-jarringly stupid scenes in the film: I call it Gandalf vs. Saruman in the temple of Doom.  Was that silliness necessary?  The Wizards in the film may have been quick to anger, but subtle they most decidedly were not.The Legolas-Gimli relationship was likewise ignored, as well as the process of Aragorn gaining the hobbits' trust (especially Sam's).   But this simply underscores the greatest weakness in the movie -- it doesn't build the characters, it takes them for granted.And what of poor Barliman?  He was given such short shrift.  Not to mention Tom Bombadil.  I read a viewer comment in this forum defending his omission which said (quoting here): `a man who stops the Hobbits being eaten, very slowly, by a tree with his power of song is just quite frankly ludicrous in this day and age'.  That's exactly the point:  LOTR is not about this day and age.By and large, the casting was fine, with the following exceptions:Agent Smith from "The Matrix" as Elrond. For God's sake, Weaving even slipped in and out of the "Agent Smith" voice.Viggo Mortenson as Aragorn.  He was capable of playing the fighter, but either wasn't capable or given the opportunity to reveal the historian, linguist, lore-learned Aragorn.The interchangeable actors as Merry and Pippin.  Except for their accents, they weren't easy to tell apart.It's easy to say that even at three hours, the film was too short to cover all the ground in the book (and I will certainly not argue this -- I estimate a faithful, yet watchable treatment at about 24 hours -- but Ken Burns' "Baseball" was almost that long, wasn't it?), but far too much of that precious time was spent in the action and fight scenes.  The Chamber of Mazarbul scene (the fight with the troll) was one of the better action scenes, and handled very skillfully, but I would have traded most of it for a better treatment of the Council of Elrond (like, why the heck is Boromir there?  Who is Gimli, and why is he at Rivendell? Why wasn't Bilbo there? His offer to take the Ring was most revealing in the book).  And, of course, the whole prologue should have been moved into Frodo's sitting room, where Professor Tolkien wisely put it.It comes down to this.  They didn't trust the book.  The darned thing sold fifty MILLION copies.  That's a BILLION dollars worth of books.  And has a legion of admirers dwarfing Harry Potter's.  But they didn't trust it.One of the things I truly admired about the late Robert Shaw (I sing in the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra Chorus) was that he never tried to put his own `stamp' on a piece of music.  His purpose was always to get at the heart of the music, to serve the composer and the composer's intentions.In a way, a film treatment of a book is a `performance' of that book.  And the better the book, the more beloved by the reading public, the more incumbent it is upon the performer to strive for the heart and soul of the book.  Peter Jackson got much that was superficially right, but missed the life at the center.  The film is cold, frightening, and utterly unlike The Lord of the Rings.Finally, the most disappointing thing:  because any Lord of the Rings film would have to be a production of epic scale, this version may have to stand as the only real attempt at a  film adaptation for many years, perhaps forever.  There have been dozens of "Hamlet's, and even a bunch of "Tarzan"s.  And that's one thing that kept running through my mind:  "This is IT.  This is the treatment that LOTR will get in the cinema. Damn."


                
LOTR suffers from a technically proficient but creatively challenged story-telling team. The meandering plot, the stilted dialog, the lack of pacing and the amateurish tone all lead me to believe that Peter Jackson should stick to horror films where his abilities are far more suited to that genre's expectations.I look forward to the day when wide-eyed tech lovers awaken from their cgi induced hypnosis long enough to pay attention to the plot and the "technical" merits of a well-told story. Perhaps then talented casts and film crews won't have to be wasted on projects with only a studio marketing team and profit-driven consumer tie-ins to recommend it.


                
This movie was over-hyped, and the only thing about it that I found fabulous were the special effects. However, this did not make up for the lack of emotional depth in the movie and the drawn out attempt at building suspense. Compared to the series of books this movie is based on, the movie seems shallow and lacks cohesiveness and character development. I was bored and just wanted the movie to finish, which is rare for me. Less focus on special effects and more attention to good acting and a story that builds suspense would have made for a better movie. Perhaps a little more background into the character's lives, for example, would have added a lot to the overall presentation.


                
In all fairness, it's a good kids movie. But I'm afraid that all the hype & numerous awards will fool some people into believing it has artistic merit. Once again, let me stress: IT'S A KIDS MOVIE.You'll find no subtlety, no symbolism, no real character development, no underlying theme, no clever dialog, and nothing really to challenge your mind. Instead you'll get action, dazzling landscapes, special effects, a rushing musical score, good costumes, good makeup and action (I say that twice, because it's the best thing the movie has going for it... really, the action scenes are pretty good).But if you're looking for an *artistic* fairy tale (like City of Lost Children, Brazil, Big Fish, The Crow, Nosferatu [1979] or Arizona Dream), you'll not only be disappointed... you'll be downright annoyed.


                
I read "The Hobbit" in school. Even as a twelve year old I thought it was childish. Obviously I never read "Lord of The Rings". I have no problem with fantasy. As other posts of mine on this site show. The problem with this, book or film, however, is that it is accorded such status as implies it to be worthy of regard as in some sense a "serious" work of art. Concentrating here on the film, I found the whole enterprise grindingly y tedious and even quite objectionable. From the unending, detailed narration at the start onwards. As we jump to Hobbiton we are accosted by the jeepy-jerky lilt of the cliché movie-land "Oirish" folk music. Every moment of this struck me as a dreadful lie. I may not have read LOTR but I know some things about it's background. Tolkien used as his source paradigm for the "Shire" references to the culture of South-West England, particularly around Somerset. That is WHY it is called the flaming "Shire" ( like Wilt-shire, Hamp-shire, Gloucester-shire ) for Pete's sake. Where the hell does all this yip pity-yo line-dancing soundtrack come from? Not to mention the smattering of characters with ginger hair and American-Irish accents! It is as though the need was felt to accommodate the kind of American audience for whom bucolic innocence is only conceivable in terms of the Hollywood "Old-Country" of "The Quiet Man".These people are anyway nothing like Hobbits. They resemble regular Caucasians with pointy ears and a bit of hair on their nearly-normal sized feet. They are too clean. Hobbiton here positively gleams with newness. Cleaner than any place I have been to in the real world ( as I have not visited Switzerland ). Bilbo's palatial warren has the gleaming un-lived look of scenes in a furniture catalogue. No dust, no dirt and no wear or tear in sight. This is more the subterranean show-home of an environmentalist billionaire than the modest under-hill burrow of an impecunious hominid ground-hog that it is supposed to be.The music get's even worse. For one thing the repeated cheaply manipulative interjections of a few sentimental bars of Sibelius. For another the kind of dreadful fake-liturgical choristing that we associate with films such as "The Omen". This even employs an old, oh so VERY old B-movie technique of patterning lines of music to sound like lines of text. Most famously evident in Lon Chaney's "Werewolf" in which the orchestra sounds like it is saying "The were...wolf, the were...wolf, the were...wolf." Here it comes up to grating effect when the Black Riders appear and the fake Latin choir seems to sound like "The evil, it's here, the evil, it's here, the evil, it's here..."Clichés, clichés everywhere. Take the design of things, resembling as it does the kind of Celtic and Gothic clichés one sees in the work of tattoo parlours. These past twenty tears. Liv Tyler's pendant that she waffles on about at length in awed terms looks like something you would buy for a fiver in the high-street comic-shop. The architecture, festooned with ridiculously useless points and wings seems to come straight from the doodlings made by a bored schoolboy during Friday afternoon chemistry class.Then the over-blown battle scenes. If there are that many creatures willing to go to their death in Middle Earth, where the Hell are they the rest of the time? The place seems to be empty until a war starts when fifty million CGI battle-fodder suddenly show up to do service, from nowhere. As if by...magic.More grating, irritating features: Elisha Wood's perpetually perplexed look after a while really begins to irritate a part of my anatomy beginning with a "T". The "action" is mostly talk. The story positively d..rrrr..aa....g.g.g....sssss along. When something happens, it is usually more talk.However, the film is not simply tedious, boring and unimaginative. I find that it is positively distasteful. The story is presented as some kind of vehicle of wisdom and morality. But it is precisely there that it is at it's weakest. The world we are shown revolves around magic, but contains no religion. The creatures fret continually about spells and invisible forces, yet they appear to have no moral framework, no compass of ethics, no churches and no worship. Good and Evil are presented as self-evident, like day and night. The evil are ugly. Ugly people are evil. Is that wisdom? Questions of practise are reduced to arguments about tactics. Obviously the convention of "White Hat, Black Hat" is customary in the cinema. But usually presented only as escapist entertainment. Here it is implied that we should attach some significance to proceedings. Such significance being the very attitude that plagues politics in the U.S and Western Europe, where followers of one ideological camp see anyone who disagrees with them as self-evidently stupid, misguided, even, evil and worthy of death-threats.LOTR hit the big time in the Sixties as an unofficial "Green-Book" of Hippiedom. This is at the heart of it's vision, as here found in the film. In this story, only the bad-guys, the evil ones, use technology. We see this asserted in the patently industrious mien of their kingdom, all forges and furnaces and cauldrons brimming with production. Contrasted to the bucolic, literally airy-fairy aspect of the lands of the "good". In fact, that world of industry, having forged the Ring is implicitly asserted to be the very source of all that is evil in the world. This film proselytises for a Rousseaesque fantasy of pre-lapsarian innocence and moral virtue. An attitude that refuses to accept the harsh truth's of nature, renounces Humanity's tools of advancement and abrogates the harsh responsibilities that are necessary for survival. This is the very mind-set that is today, in the real world, threatening the survival of Western Industrialised Civilisation. The only civilisation with the leisure and free resources to indulge in such a fantasy.


                
... and so the film appears to continue in the same vein, repeating this pattern every half an hour or so.I am a pretty patient person - I don't need loads of action or constant surprises to keep me on the edge of my seat. However, I do appreciate a semblance of a storyline. I am told by friends that the reason I didn't enjoy this film was because i haven't read the book, but to me, this is simply not good enough as an explanation. Yes, we all know that this film is an adaptation of a famous book, but shouldn't the aim of the director then be to draw in new fans, as well as bring the book to life for those who have read the book?? I was so disappointed with this - I don't buy into hype, but I did expect a good bit of escapism with this film. Unfortunately, as already mentioned, I failed to find anything that could retain my attention. And, from a person who gets irritated if people so much as sneeze during films: I began a conversation with the person sitting next to me halfway through the film and continued to do so sporadically, whilst simultaneously checking the timer on the DVD player, wondering when my own ordeal would come to an end...I honestly cannot remember how this ends, so no chance of spoilers from me - suffice to say, it doesn't matter in my case, as I have no plans to watch the sequels.


                
If someone is into effect and cinematography only - then they would probably enjoy this. I had never read the book (if I had I may feel differently). There wasn't much to this movie in terms of plot, dialogue or entertainment. The best parts where in the previews. The mountains, the trees - over and over - people staring all the time. Just boring, boring, borning. Truly the great cast and effect were the only reason I sat through it.


                
I'd first like to state that I've been a fan of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy since 1978 when I first read the series. I've since re-read it an estimated 30 times because of the story's essence and the uniqueness and relationship of its characters. Unfortunately, this was lost with the making of this movie. Somehow, the writer(s) and director(s) missed the boat entirely. Where the movie went wrong: 1) Frodo keeps offering/showing the ring to everyone he meets, 2) Merry and Pippin are immature idiots, 3) Arwen saves Frodo??  4) lame "stair-collapsing" scene that eats time, 5) lame "Wringwraith chasing Arwen on horses" scene also eats time, 6) lame orcs (climbing down from the ceiling??), 7) lame Elrond, Gimli, and elves, to name just a few. Good points of the movie: Digital movie graphics, excellent Balrog (unfortunately scene too short), and Legolas character.I have littel doubt the Tolkien clan would agree that the true nature of the characters and their quest has been poorly portrayed. Granted, the movie can't be exactly like the book, however, the story is what makes "Lord of the Rings" a classic and, again, they completed missed it in this movie. I hope the second and third movies improve, but I wouldn't be surprised if Arwen ends up slaying all the fowl beasts that Frodo encounters. Perhaps I'll live long enough to see the remaking of the movie(s) that show the characters experiencing their quest(s) as J.R.R. Tolkien presented them in his books. P.S. Recommendation for the Director:  At the battle of Minas Tirith when the Riders of Rohan enter the scene, show it in slow motion while playing Led Zepplin's "Battle of Evermore." If so, I might have a more positive comment about this effort.


                
I realize some people will argue that there is no way to accurately translate a book into a movie exactly.  There just isn't.  Well, they might be right.  I suppose I could agree with that.  But not with this movie.  He got nothing right at all!   Arwen - I realize Liv Tyler likes the character.  I realize women are a bit under represented in the movies.  So she took some other parts.  AND MESSED THEM UP TOO!  Since when does Glorfindel (or anyone for that matter) get into a fight with the ringwraiths in the first book?  You know why? Morgul-knives.  Black breath.  It sucks when you fight a wraith, yet she came out okay.   Gandalf/Saruman - The whole reason they didn't fight in the books was because they weren't supposed to!  That made the fight in the Two Towers that much more believable!  In addition, if I was a wizard, and I wanted to fight someone, I think that I could scare him a little more by doing something other than spinning him around.  If Gandalf had been to more amusement parks this wouldn't have 'hurt' him at all.   Goblins - Since when can they climb walls?  Are they little spider-men?   The Balrog - Picture this.  The entire Fellowship surrounded by goblins. They're gonna die.  No way out.  Right, left, front, back, and on top there are goblins.  Then the Balrog comes.  And they escape.  THEY WEREN'T SUPPOSED TO EVEN BE NEAR THE GOBLINS!!   The council of Elrond - Since when did everyone get up and fight?   Galadriel - I realize he filmed this but cut it out.  The gifts scene was important.  Especially for Samwise.   Elvish boats look a lot like Craftsman boats.   Merry and Pippin - they were good characters.  Right up to the point they waved bye to Frodo and Sam and got captured by the orcs ON PURPOSE!  The whole point of that encounter was that NO ONE was sure where they went for some time.  That's how Merry and Pippin got captured - they ran off looking for Frodo.   The Watcher by the Water - since when did Frodo guess the "riddle" of the doors?   Anyways, the whole point of this is to show that Jackson needlessly changed events and sequences around to fit his weird idea of how Middle-earth SHOULD work rather than how it already has.  I'm sure Tolkien is rolling over in his grave as we speak.  I'm not saying it's a bad movie on its own, it simply shouldn't be called LORD OF THE RINGS


                
The charm of the books is the complexity, nuance, and realistic details given to the characters and the story. But Jackson feels he must prove that he's telling an epic story by not allowing the viewer to think for him- or herself.Speaking of a lack of subtlety, what about the visual effects? I had heard that they were done "tastefully," so that they didn't intrude on the story or characters. Unfortunately, they were overblown, often unrealistic, and simply there to WOW an audience. The camera movements in Mordor were particularly distracting. It seemed like an entirely other movie spliced in at random junctures. The quick movement of a camera through mostly computer-generated scenery isn't a new technique and probably won't be a classic one. Jackson needs to decide what kind of movie he is making.The most unfortunate event was the business of a giving a novice the task of writing the screenplay for one of the 20th century's greatest novels. Very few talented writers could measure up to the assignment, but at least there would be warmth, humor, complexity, a lack of cliche, subtlety, etc!Finally, I must ask myself this question: If I saw the movie but hadn't read the book, would I like it? The answer is - barely, and then I'd forget about it. Simply put, if this had been an original idea with Jackson and his posse, the lines at the movie theater would be shorter than this review.


                
When I asses a movie made from a classic story, I usually go back to a cartoon version of Oliver Twist where the producer, writer and director decided it would make a much better story if they added a talking frog. This wasn't that bad.  I gave it a 2 because it wasn't that much better. I didn't hate it as much as my 13 year old son, but I didn't like it. Part of the problem was probably that we finished reading the book this past week and the better story and adventure was still fresh in our minds. There are problems that I can overlook: Hobbits and Dwarves grow and shrink from scene to scene, There was a gratuitous love scene added, and Saruman promoted into the primary villain (The simple "Bad Guy" is much LESS interesting than the scholar  overwhelmed by his subject, etc).  But the thing that bothered me the most and is really unforgivable was the terrible miscasting of Elijah Wood as Frodo. Since Wood seems to feel that acting means opening your eyes wide and whining, It isn't really that surprising that he, the director and writers have turned one of the more appealing heroes in literature into a total wimp.  The more he whined, the more disappointed I got.  I fear that Frodo is in danger of being remembered NOT as an average guy, with problems and desires and a thirst for adventure, put into an extraordinary situation and prevailing through his own grit, brains and determination, but as an ineffectual Dweeb, paralyzed by situations beyond his control and cringing and whining his way towards his destiny.


                
When I bought this movie I thought it was going to be a grand epic adventure. Although it was that, it failed to keep my attention. I have a very good attention span and never fall asleep during movies but I just couldn't sit still during this movie. The story was good and the directing was good but it lacked action. Not fighting action but I mean as in stuff happens because nothing really happens. Its very corny "You shall not pass!"so corny. Reminds me of a Dungeons and Dragons meet or something. Although the last movie in the series is good,this certainly isn't; I had a tough time falling asleep once so I decided to watch this movie and that became my replacement for warm milk. Great for fans but for anyone else this will fail to catch your interest.


                
If you haven't read Tolkien's masterpiece; prepare yourself for maybe the best movie experience ever! If you have however... After having read the books several times, over many years, I have come to love the characters and story, and feel I Know it intimately. I have my own personal vision of The Shire, Hobbiton and the character-gallery. Thus for me the movie was a disappointment. Why? It dictates the appearance of the characters (unavoidably), it changes events, it removes important storyline, it removes not-so-important storyline. Great chunks of what makes The Lord Of The Rings what it is, is simply ignored. Even 2001 special effects can't do Tolkien's (and your own) imagination justice. Peter Jackson has made an honest attempt at the impossible, and I don't think anyone else could have done it better! But the fact remains, I regret seeing the movie. The next time I read The Lord Of The Rings, Peter Jackson's limited vision will leap forward, not my own.


                
The movie is incredibly well produced and incredibly well filmed. However, there is little point. Yes they want to get a ring somewhere but it does not take such a long time to deal with this matter. Rather the movie would be better off split into a serial aired once a week on TV. There is little character development and no substantial development of plot. Instead there is merely a series of exciting and well filmed adventures.If I had oodles of time to devote to being entertained (such as when I retire one day) then I would maybe have enjoyed this movie more.


                
I clearly can't understand how you thought this movie was excellent. Good ok but i had to hand out a 2 rating because. Too many people gave it a 10 without thinking. The story line is lame the length made this movie seem like you were waiting for the 3rd show 3 years from release date to come out. The battle scenes were lame. I was waiting for 1.5 hours for something to happen. Set up the plot the characters my but, look at this movie as a waste of time. I almost walked out of the theatre, and in turn will watch the next two on my Big screen at home where i can pause these boaring movies with lame actors but cool effects that i am willing to sit threw and see something interesting. Because the movie world is in need of a new #1 movie. Don't pick this one. It's like reading the table of contents in a magazine but having it 50 pages long.


                
Whew. Maybe if I had never read the book and didn't know what the tale was supposed to be about, I could have sat through this film more patiently. But to me it seemed overlong and overblown and rather far from the *spirit* of the original work. I am not a slavering Tolkeinist (no offense meant -- trust me, there are other things I am a slavering -ist of ), so I didn't need a word-for-word transcription, but I was disappointed.


                
I watched this film the day before seeing Amelie, and the difference in films was astounding.  After the beginning, where the main character gets his ring, the rest of the film revolves around him surviving various attacks from various different creatures.I have no inclination to watch the second as I'm sure it'll be more creatures providing more attacks, with little real 'plot'As seems to be standard in big budget action films nowadays, there's the token "funny" character (the Welsh bloke) who is simply there to provide cheap laughs.I can't fathom how this is number 4 in the IMDB top 250.


                
I honestly don't see what is so special about this movie. Maybe in not having read the books, I'm missing something, but I was incredibly bored throughout the movie. It was difficult to tell the difference between Mordor and Bilbo and all these weird, "mystical" names. I was unimpressed by the action set pieces. Having seen many Kurosawa films, I felt I had seen it all before, as there are only so many ways to film two large armys coming toward each other. Then there are the strange, mercifully brief moments with Liv Tyler, probably the only actress whos mere appearance in a film is enough to make me want to watch something else. When none of this stuff is happening, there is a lot of talking. But not about anything is particularly interesting, they're all talking about the "RING." Who has it? Where is it? What is it doing? Beware the ring, protect the ring. Ringringringring. It gets really old really quick, and all of this ring-talk is edited together with ring SHOTS. the ring is falling, the ring is glowing. then there are the sweeping helicopter shots of people standing on cliffs and mountains and all. i truly believe this film would've been an hour long had they edited these things out.on a more positive note, i do admire the scope of this movie and the undertaking of peter jackson to film three movies at once. that takes a lot, and the FX are quite impressive. but i feel that LOTR is a movie by a fanboy, made FOR fanboys.


                
Now, keep in mine that I have read the Lord of the Rings series and enjoyed it. Moving on. This is the most angry I've ever felt leaving a movie since after I saw Boys and Girls, and this film was likely a more egregious mistake. This is yet another example of Hollywood doing a ham-fisted job of adapting a book to film. I shutter to call this a film. The book was unmercifully butchered to the point where it became a vapid, predictable story that turned out to be the most curt three hour movie I've ever witnessed. Some have argued that the adaptation of the novel calls for certain things to be cut out, but many of these cuts are inexcusable(notably the background of Strider and the army that travels with the fellowship, and I myself am being curt with this list). Even those of you who plan on seeing this movie for it's eye-candy, I suggest to you to take notice that the eye-candy can not excuse what has happened here. This movie has not allowed itself eye-candy status, like The Mummy 2 and alike, because its supposed allure is in its story. Now to be fair this was not a horrid film, most likely somewhere between a four and a six on a scale of ten, but I rated this film a one in attempt to bring it down from its lofty perch that I can only assume it was given by those, like myself, that were so eager to see a movie of one of their favorite books. I beseech all of you that have seen this movie and read the book(or those that have read the book and not seen the movie) that have given the film a ten to reevaluate your rating and think of this as an actual movie not your favorite book set to moving pictures(and those who have not seen the film to see it before just going on how good the book is). This movie may not be the worst Hollywood has churned out, but it does not touch such movies as The Godfather 1 or 2, Shawshank Redemption, Citizen Kane, Schindler's List, Star Wars, or even, as far as I'm concerned, Tron. Please in the name of all that is right and fair in the cinematic world, bring this movie's rating down to its rightful level, down with its mediocre, or a little above that, brethren. Do not taint the reputation of the world's greatest cinema just for your favorite book. Go rent the other films on the IMDB top 10 or 20, and I dare you to tell me that I am wrong.


                
I'll have to admit that I went into this movie with serious doubts, knowing that it had been voted the best movie of all time.  But the fact is that this movie is mildly entertaining at best. My friends wouldn't even give it a 6, which is what I give it.  It's obviously aimed at a younger audience, and/or the Star Wars crowd, of which I'm neither. It surprises me however to find so many well articulated reviews that were clearly written by older, more educated people. It's unusual that such people could love the movie so much. As someone who has not read the books, I found the movie to be corny in many areas.  The things holding it up are the spectacular scenery and wonderful sound.  It's also predictable, which is an inherent flaw of the book/story, not the adaptation of it in the movie. Still, my friend who watched it with me had read the book, and he mentioned several parts where it differed from the book, and unnecessarily.  I would think that anybody who's seen a good share of movies would know what to expect, and it's those few that keep you guessing that are standouts. This is definitely not one of them.  And how could people not find certain parts corny (such as the emotional moments between Frodo and the other hobbit guy)?  Oh well, my piers here voted it #1 of all time.  This site is usually pretty reliable on movies, but I hope people don't rely on the rating of this particular one.


                
I couldn't even finish watching this film.  I am not someone who has read the book, and I generally don't like "fantasy" films.  But this one had such good word-of-mouth that I decided to give it a shot.Sadly, it played out like a film geared towards pre-teens.  There were just lots of minor details that were completely lacking common sense.  I can "fantasize" and assume that there exists magical rings, a middle earth, and hobbits.  That's fine.  I can even "believe" that these horsemen are drawn to the ring, sensing its whereabouts regardless of how far away they are. That is, of course, unless they're within 10 feet of the ring.  Then, illogically, they can't tell where it is (hiding at the side of the path... sleeping a few rooms over in the inn).  Plain stupidity.Most insulting, I found, was the inclusion of hobbits #3 and 4... the first two hobbits just happen to "bump" into two more hobbits, making their trek across middle-earth painful to watch.  If I wanted to watch 4 bumbling idiots trying to stay out of trouble while making a long journey, I'd go rent "Stand By Me" again.For those of you who have read the books and are fans of the story, maybe you're the ones enjoying the movie.  But I think anyone who hasn't already "bought in" to the franchise should just stay away.  You've got better things to do with your 3 hours (stare at the sun, pluck out your eyebrows, etc).


                
Absolutely dire film. I was convinced by so many to watch this and i can't see why.I'm not sure whether to bother with the rest, but i'm told to stick to it.Basically, the first hour and half of the story is about a ring thats made to control all other rings (they have powers each one) and it's an evil ring. Over many years it gets passed on with untold past. Some hobbit find it and lives for 100 odd years old then decides to leave his town to die basically. That took 1 hour 30mins. The next hour is basically about the new guy with the ring, Frodo.So he has it, then there's a meeting of different 'creatures' ie dwarfs, wizards, humans etc to see what should be done about the bad ring. After arguing for 10mins they decide they should all help frodo throw it in a volcano - the one it is made from.Then the bull goes on with stupid weird sayings "thy nose is as abscondant as a flower on a june wall in may besides a river of everlasting water" or "my land was bright with light, with white towers of beauty, corn was growing in fields, the sheeps all with legs..." stupid annoying boring drawn out conversations about nothing.Frodo is captured by Octopus thingy, which dangles frodo over its mouth (i assume to eat\kill) for about 10 minutes whilst the rest chop away at the legs not holding Frodo. If I was the Octpus, he'd have been eaten whilst i used my other legs to hold the others before i eat them. Not growl at him 18 times whilst each leg is chopped off.I could go on writing about nothing that happened other than long sentences of random made up bull.
This is a film consisting of fluff and stuff with little more than pretty pictures and music, and a chance to catch some zzz's while the kids are entertained with another epic "action" drivel. In there somewhere, fortunately well hidden, or botched, as the case may be, is an anti-industrial message -- weren't the good olde middle ages so great. Boring, boring, boring.


                
Wow, I was pretty excited about seeing this movie. The previews looked impressive and convincing, and most of my friends told me that this movie is awesome. So, I decided to give go watch it myself.Oh my gosh, what a dissapointment! What a boring movie! Why was this movie even nominated to the Best Picture Category. Here are my reasons that this movie totally stunk!1. The Dialogue- Ok...now, the dialogue is my biggest criticism for this movie. All the characters seemed like they were acting from script, not true to their character. Also, the dailogue was so nerdy and unappealing. Dialogue is the reason why Star wars episode 4, 5, 6 was so awesome and terrific!! We can really believe and enjoy the conversations of Princess Leia, Han solo, and luke skywalker. But, never could I enjoy the dialogues of loser Froto, Gandolf, etc. etc.2. Unappealing- This movie is very unappealing. The dialogue stunk, and the movie fails to touch our hearts or actually make us care about this movie!!! I was bored, i hated the characters, and i tuned out of the movie fast and wanted to leave the movie theatre!! it was torture3. The static, unchanging characters- Wow, what a horrible job of having good characters in this movie. What makes movies great is when the director allows the audience to identify themselves with the characters (this is the reason Spiderman was such a success!) Yet, let's take our supposed "protagonist" Froto, the loser kid who always freaks out about the ring. He had to have been one of the worst protagonists i have ever seen. I never rooted for him once in the movie. He never appealed to me. and most of all, He did nothing to make me care about him. All he did was whine whine whine. ok, Gandolf was descent, but no, he was no mentor like Obi Wan Kanobi. Now, the villain stunk!! he fell flat. We don't know enough about him. He's nothing compared to Darth Vader for that matter.Three big criticisms, please consider them. People praise this movie, but i don't. It was a huge dissapointment, and i do not know what the hype is all about. If you want to see a good trilogy that appeals to everyone, go watch Star wars episode 4, 5, 6.Bad movie. Falls flat. 2 out of 10 stars!


                
Well I was excited when I heard all my friends telling me how great this movie was. So when I got the chance to see it no one could stop me! But after 1/2 an hour I was yawning!! It was very dull to say the least! I know Tolkien fans say it is great! It is almost a point by point depiction of the book, but then again the book is not very interesting either. So to enjoy this movie you should either be: A) Tolkien fan or b) a girl (a combination of both would be the best!!) But for someone who hasn't read Tolkien, there is nothing new here, it is just an ok story based on folklore,and so while you watch this looong film, you start to get the feeling that it is actually quite overrated. It is like the movie Wyatt Earp, starring Kevin Costner. The film is a very detailed depiction of the wild west, but one thing was forgotten, the script! And that is the way I feel about LotR. It is so true to Tolkien, but it is never exciting enough for you to care.


                
