I guess I just don't get the facination with this movie.  I found it to be far to long, goofy, and boring to stay awake.  I actually dozed off for a bit after struggling to stay awake for the middle hour.  I haven't fallen asleep during a movie since the Robin William's disaster 'Toys.'I was told before the movie that this was one of the greatest movies ever made.  The Academy Award nominations further prompted my belief that this movie would be exceptional.  I must have been expecting much more than I got. What I expected was to be drawn into this magical, legendary J.R.R. Tolkien universe for 3 plus hours.  I had heard of the great special effects, scenery, and characters.  I prepared myself to be amazed.What a dissapointment.  The characters, with the exception of Bilbo Baggins, were all one dimensional and boring.  I found myself unaffected when they were in peril, since I could care less if one of them were to get offed by an inept Ork.  The Orks were scary looking, but when you consider that there were probably 300 of them and they couldn't defeat the 9 in the fellowship, their bark is obviously worse than their bite.  They are as inept as a Star Wars Stormtrooper. The scenery did live up to the hype, but I think it is pretty bad when you consider the surroundings and not the story as the high point of the movie. Special effects?  Maybe I'm a spoiled 'Star Wars' junkie used to the Industrial Light and Magic standard that has been set.  I saw nothing special in the special effects but the fireworks at the beginning of the movie.While it may sound like I hated this movie, I didn't at all.  It was an entertaining film, but I expected much more.  I held this film to a very high standard based on the reviews and feedback from my peers.  I don't know how this film cracked the IMDB's top 10 let alone the top 250.  This wasn't even close to the best movie I've seen this month.  But I will end up with the DVD as my wife loved the film.  I will watch it when I need help falling asleep.


                
Due to popular demand, some of the reasons why Lord of the Rings is a poor film :This movie is so stifled by nonsense and Hollywood tricks that it's hard to discern, beneath it, the work of a purportedly intelligent, talented, and celebrated author beneath it.To begin with: there are way too many closeups in this movie. Why couldn't Peter Jackson simply let us stand back and watch the characters behave? Why does the camera have to keep poking into the characters' faces, looking for subtle clues? Maybe Jackson's been spending too much time watching the moronic trash of Spielberg, the most overrated director of all time who still hasn't learned how to let go of the audience's hand.The melodramatic soundtrack, far from sustaining or assisting the story, cheapens it and, as Spielberg is so adept at doing, leads me to believe that the intended audience is probably those people who don't like to think too hard. This film would've been far improved if Jackson had simply left out the lousy soundtrack.The special effects generally do not add anything to the story.And there is plenty of plain illogical nonsense in here. For one example, i think we can all agree that it's physically impossible for a human being to outrun an absolutely normal, healthy horse. If a person is being followed at full gallop by a horse, the horse will always catch up. Also, i always have trouble swallowing scenes wherein one or two people capably defeat an army of assailants counting ten, twenty, or more, unless these one or two heroes or heroines happen to have superhuman traits or at least an extraordinarily exceptional degree of training. I'm not aware of whether or not this sort of occurrence is consistent with the actual text, but as i watch the film, i can't help feeling lost in all of Jackson's nonsense.And so much swooping! Why so much swooping? More Spielberg influence. I admit there's also swooping in Heavenly Creatures, but by now his swooping has become quite distracting. Why can't we just watch the characters? Isn't Jackson supposed to be telling us a story?I like Jackson's earlier films, and Heavenly Creatures is a brilliant and compelling one, and clearly his best. But now he's off remaking King Kong... maybe he's gotten lost in Hollywood. Someone please help him find his way out!Peter Jackson had the potential of making a great film which could've lasted many decades as a classic, but instead he made a sloppy moneymaker. What a loss.But then again, perhaps this movie was made for children.On the plus side, the pretty New Zealand landscapes are nice to look at.


                
Imagine a distant world in a forgotten era, a world where the good must struggle against the darkest evil. In this legendary world live an assortment of creatures that range from regular-size humans to different varieties of short people, some of whom can perform magic. It is a magical world where everything is completely predictable, and there are barely any women and no sexy people. This world is called Middle Earth.You can learn all about Middle Earth by reading J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of The Rings trilogy, a story that shows Tolkien's desire to spend as much time away from his wife as possible. As a reading experience, it's akin to studying several History text books, only less interesting and you don't learn anything. The movie is fairly loyal to these ideas, and reinforces the attack on the innocent viewer with its expensive special effects and overwhelming, mind-numbing beauty.Lord of the Rings is the story of a ring: the One Ring. You won't be forgetting this, trust me, as you will see many shots of it in the movie, usually in slow motion. There's another seven or eight rings too, but this one's The One. This ring is very, very powerful and hence very, very dangerous, so dangerous that most folk would succumb to it and become deranged freaks with distorted faces. It therefore makes sense that the chosen bearer of this ring should be Frodo, a lobotomized moron who can never quite figure out what the hell is going on, as emphasized by his never-ending dumbfounded facial expression, which we get to see (again in slow motion) approximately 300 times throughout the trilogy. This idiot is who we the viewers are supposed to relate to.Now the main story goes like this: a crew made up of Frodo, his retard sidekick, an unshaven human, a dwarf, an archer who can't act (brilliantly played by Orlando Bloom), and some other people faking Irish accents set out on a journey to do whatever it is that had to be done with the One Ring. This entails fighting a whole lot of orcs time and time again. Even when you thought they were all dead, another 4000 orcs show up, always ready and willing to be killed in large numbers rather than simply commit suicide in the comfort of their homes. There's also Saruman and the similarly named Sauron, who play very important nondescript roles. As an interlude to each battle our friends go through, there's a slow motion scene of Frodo's idiotic expression as he stares at the ring for the fortieth time.In summary: This movie is an ambitious attempt to end all humanity.
First off, I am a huge fan of Tolkien, and as one I will base most of my critic on his books.The movie is a standard adventure movie, well made with nifty special effects, nice sound track and fine acting. Now if this movie was called something else than lord of the rings the reviews wouldn't be half this good as they are here.The problem of the movie is that it takes the basic story line from Tolkiens books but then it goes and "hollywoods" everything it can, numerous scenes from the book are eighter missing or changed quite a lot, the characters are changed from the book also, a thing that I think should be punishable ! What the movie lacks is deep insight of the characters in it, I know that it is almost impossible to make a good film out of a good book, and it didn't work here eighter, mostly the motivation of the characters is left hazy at best.As a adventure movie it would rate 7+ / 10 As a adaptation of Tolkien it rates 2 / 10I mean honestly, what on earth was Arwen doing at rivendell ford ? And as for the comments that this movie "is the best ever" I can only say that eighter you are very young, or you havent seen good movies...Peter Jackson should have called this movie an adventure movie based on the lord of the rings.


                
I'm shocked at how immensely popular this film is so far.  I'm used to finding fault with overwhelmingly popular films.  For instance, I think "American Beauty" is good, but far far over-rated.  But this is something new for me.  This is a film that is overwhelmingly adored, which I find to be not only over-rated, but not even any good at all.This is a bad movie, plain and simple.  Its got a really bad script.  The characters are terribly thin (with one exception: Gandalf), and certain events have been so hurried that either they lack all dramatic force (The Council of Elrond) or they are utterly impenetrable to someone who doesn't already know what's happening (Lothlorien).  I realize that Jackson had the near impossible task of condensing The Fellowship of the Ring into a mere three hours (I think four is necessary, at an absolute minimum).  But the decisions he made (what he omitted, what he condense, and what he lengthened) reveal his intention to make an epic action film, rather than an epic fantasy adventure film. 
Even the flaws of this movie are entirely in keeping with that goal.  Action movies don't need good characters.  They need good special effects.  Action movies don't need drama, they need fights.  There is a very small minority of filmgoers who feel that action is boring. As long as the characters are fighting, they are not in any way advancing the story.  And for a story to be good, it has to move.  There is plenty of movement in The Fellowship of the Ring.  But there are also massive sequences where the story advances not one jot for unendurable stretches of time, to allow the characters (or their obviously computer-generated counterparts) to battle some massive computer-generated foe.  The worst offender is the Moria sequence, which was at least twice as long as it ought to have been.  To those of you who say that this is the best movie ever made, I must strenuously disagree.  It's not the best movie I've seen this year, much less ever.  Nor is it the best movie I've seen this month, or even this week.  This movie is bad.  And I loved the books.Drew


                
Okay everybody knows that the movie was way to long, it should have been cut to about the time they party made it to the Elven kingdom. The movie could have saved a bit of time by letting the characters die a little more quickly... but Noooo, the characters have to give their final death line... and then another... and then another... and yet again... and then die. And did they really have to show all the scenes of them walking or running or boating for so long with the camera zooming over every hill and rock following them, I liked the country side bit it was a bit much. I am a fan of the books but I have to admit the movie did open my eyes about the series. Its about walking... a lot. And dieing slowly. Well the later of the two was the movie not the book. Personally I want my money back plus interest for making me watch all the extra footage that was not needed.


                
I seem to be almost alone in not liking this movie... I found it generally lacking the depth of the book - not surprising, as it would be quite impossible to condense the immense amount of material in the book to a movie, however long.However, I entered it fully expecting things to change. Unfortunately, I just found a rather poorly done movie.Some aspects were wonderful, yes. The visuals were spot-on, for the most part. The effects were stunning (with a few exceptions...). But the script... oh, the script!My biggest problem was the general simplification of things. The incredible mystery of the book, the sense that what starts out as a simple adventure is actually a vastly larger story is quite lacking. They simply gave away too much - the information in the voiceover at the beginning for example, was a complete waste of time: why give away all of that at the beginning? Why not show things from the hobbits point of view? "A silly fellow went off on an adventure, and brought back treasure, among which was a ring!" And then start revealing more and more of the story gradually - this could be easily done with explanations by Gandalf and Elrond, exactly as it was in the book.Likewise, other "mysterious" aspects were just dropped - showing Gandalf and Saruman's battle was a fine example. A much better way of doing this would be to simply have the hobbits arrive at the Prancing Pony and not find Gandalf! As it is, the audience knew exactly what was happening right at the start, ruining the suspense..In general, a vast story, full of intrigue and a great sense of things being larger than just the small part the characters play was reduced to a jolly adventure story. Even this adventure was poorly executed - the mood of the most poignant moments was ruined by falling back on cheesy cliches and feeble attempts at humour.. In Moria, for example, right before Gandalf's 'death', the terrible "dwarf-tossing" joke. Sure, it's silly.. but it makes a part of the story that could have been genuinely terrifying a complete spoof! Ruins the mood entirely.. Likewise, the pathetic battle scene antics: first of all, shake the camera violently whenever there's any action, and then use all the cliches you can: the bit where one of the hobbits looks to the left, sees the monster, then looks to the right and sees the monster. Then back to the left: no monster! And he relaxes. Then the monster jumps out from the right again!Oh eek.Finally, big parts of the story just didn't make much sense without the background present in the book: the trip to the mountains, for example, was a complete waste of time. It would have been better to just cut that, and leave more time to develop some of the other bits that were severely lacking - the entire time spent in lothlorien was quite useless as presented. "Wicked elf witch"? If it's going to be simplified that much, (and I acknowledge that it's necessary in a movie adaptation, and expect it!) why not rearrange it in a way that at least makes sense? Half the actions in the movie seemed to be done simply because it was a way to have a jolly adventure, rather than because there was actually any reason to do it.Anyway... It was a let down. Luckily, I managed to avoid the hype, and didn't get my hopes up at all. But it was much worse than I expected. I'm amazed that I seem to be one of the few that thought this way...


                
Are special effects all that is required by movie audiences?  Is a quality story unimportant?  Is character development unimportant?  Is spectacular imagery all it takes to impress?  Apparently so.  This movie bears little resemblance to the works of Tolkien that I read 20 years ago at age 15 and, truth be told, I doubted that these novels could be effectively depicted on screen.  Fellowship was too long by a third, (long movies I can handle; two hour plus films consisting of nothing but childish, repetitive chase scenes I refuse to tolerate) marred by a brilliant director whose past works were nothing short of genius but who has obviously sold out to the almighty dollar.   The characters barely made an impression.  Tolkien's rich characters should produce more excitement than a funeral dirge.  A movie featuring these characters should be enthralling, enchanting. It was none of that.  I actually fell asleep during the showing--an afternoon matineé. Does that tell You something?  It tells me something, that Fellowship of the Ring is not worthy of such ridiculously high acclaim.  I want to know how many critics were paid off.  I don't blame the actors, who are all top notch. I blame the director, the screenwriter, and the unwise decision to make into a movie a complex novel which had zero chance of being successfully adapted without sacrificing characterization.


                
The hype surrounding this film is unbeliveable, everyone who eighter has seen it or just read about it in internet rushes to proclaim that it is the best movie ever. Still the movie is flawed beyond belief, the spirit of the books has been completely forgotten emphasis is given to action and thriller sequences.So you keep telling me the movie is almost or completely flawless, let me point out some "minor" errors.First in the story, book vs. movie starting from the beginning Frodo did not read a book in the tree, Frodo didn't ride Gandalfs wagon, Gandalf didn't bump his head in Bag End, Rosie was not a barmaid, there was a tent Bilbo's birthday, Merry and Pippin didn't make pranks, Gandalf provided some effects at Bilbos dissapearance, Bilbo didn't drop the ring, Farmer Maggot grew mushrooms not carrots, etc etc etc, I could make this list a couple of pages long, while some "alterations" are of no importance some drastic things are also changed eg. the fight between Gandalf & Saruman, Strider carries another sword than narsil, Strider just happens to carry suitable magic swords for hobbits, Boromir holds ring at caradhras, Aragorn battles orcs at Amon Hen, Frodo talks to Aragorn about parting the fellowship ...I mean the timeline is completely lost, all possible is done to make action more intense, there are orcs that climb the walls of moria like spiders............And you dare call this faithful ? not by a long shot, sorry.The fight scenes are awful, they look like something from the Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon with the ill timed zooms & slow motion...Those pepole who call this the best movie ever, or even of the year are yet to see a good movie then, or are at their early teens.It is a quite nice action / adventure yes, but it is also just a popcorn movie that has taken a brilliant story and turned and twisted it untill it's almost pure action, no character developement and most of all no spirit, nothing that would make think about anything, nothing that would change your views of the world, it's just a action movie, nothing more, nothing less.I am so dissapointed


                
As "Harry Potter" is one of the best book to film adaptions ever, and one of the most satisfying, considering that Chris Columbus and Steven Kloves wouldn't seem to be ideal candidates for making a great film, "Fellowship of the Rings" has to be about the worst ever. Why? Because Peter Jackson had the resources available to make an honest adaption rather than the overblown, unfaithful special effects extravaganza that he gave us. Stick to the source material, and it's amazing what the results can be. Imagine yourself more creative or smarter than the author, and you just plain stink. As does this "Hollywood" movie.BTW It was nice to "learn" that Saruman was actually under Sauron's direct command the whole time, and that Gandalf was aware of it, and that Arwen is actually the amazonian version of the elves.


                
That this movie could be #1 on IMDB's list only shows that there are major problems with how that list is generated.  I dislike critics as much as anyone, but there needs to be some safeguard against droves of mindless fans exulting a movie that has little more going for it than hype and special effects.  To be fair, the acting was very good, but I can't say more for it because the utter lack of character development in the film ruined any chance for great performances.Others have already pointed out how cliche most of the scenarios and action was and how long the film dragged on for, so I'll just mention my major complaint - the complete lack of continuity, in any respect.  A perfect microcosm was the horse chase where Arwen is at one moment surrounded by the dark riders, who seem to ride at twice her speed to catch up, while in the next cut she has somehow opened up a thirty foot lead - pretty typical of bad action movies, but not of the best movie of all time!Poor portrayal action is only a minor complaint, but continuity is lacking on a much grander scale in this film.  Characters just don't have any consistent qualities - is Sam really very close to Frodo? or is that just how hobbits are? How could the great Gandalf have been so mistaken about his mentor?  The groups decisions while treking through middle earth are asinine - they are halfway across a mountain range and then decide to head back and go through a hellish cavern where they are sure to die.  All this because Frodo gave the ok, but who would expect reason from a group that decided to bring along three extra bumbling fools, as if defeating the supreme evil power wasn't challenge enough.I could go on and on, but this movie isn't worth the webspace.  I just hope that in the end people see some reason and give it the 3 or 4 out of 10 it deserves.


                
I think not.Forgetting for the moment that the movie was mediocre on its own merits there are just tons of differences between the movie and the book which make it laughable to call this an adaptation.
From the raping of almost all the major characters, from Saruman to Galadriel, to the sell-out pandering to the big wave of Celtic-love which started with Braveheart, this movie retains none of the character of the original book.  I wouldn't have been surprised if hobbits had been portrayed as eight feet tall, that being a "valid interpretation".No, I'm not a purist.  I didn't even finish the first book until after I saw the movie.  I like the book a lot, I didn't see it in the movie.Why are the Hobbits, the most British of the British portrayed as Irish peasants?  Why is Loth Lorien a pit stop on the side of the river?  Why is the wise Council of Elrond arguing with each other like so many Congressmen? So many changes were made, so much needless fluff (like the CGI collapsing staircase scene in Moria and the 30 seconds of "Whee!  Aren't these two statues almost real?  Take that ILM!") added.  Do the Jackson apologists really believe what they say, that Jackson read the books and tried to be true to them?For those who say "It's just a movie" and I shouldn't rant, doesn't the calculated use of the name Lord of the Rings demand they do the book some justice?  Most of this film's success is due to that name and cashing in on its legacy.  How much money would the film have made if it had been title 'Ring Party', 'Ring Party II', and 'Ring Party III--Revenge of the Short People'?Feh.  A poor effort--or lack thereof.


                
There was not much I liked about this film, outside of the first half-hour or so.  I had very little problem with the plot alterations for the sake of converting the book to film, I think they did an admirable job with that. 
My concerns with the film as compared to the book were more about the feel and atmosphere.  Using Merry and Pippin as little more than comic relief?  A clumsy, pointless love scene between Strider and Arwen?  Saruman as a B-movie bad guy?  Countless teary and dreadfully unsubtle cornpone scenes of loyalty and friendship?  It felt like they took the outline of the standard Hollywood movie and happened to find bits of The Fellowship of the Ring to shove into the appropriate places (except for having an actual ending of course).You can change the plot to fit it into a film, but when you change the whole feeling until the only recognition is plot bits and character names, you have a loser in my book.


                
I'm the biggest Tolkien fan ever; I've read the book many times, and I've made all my friends read the book as well. (It's a condition of my friendship.) Perhaps these are the reasons why I was so disappointed with the movie. I can't judge...I didn't stay for the whole thing. What little I saw consisted of sappy background music and hobbits hugging people. Really, I thought they were Teletubbies. They left out crucial elements in the story, or changed the facts in sloppy afterthought. For example, they cut out the Old Forest and the Barrow Downs. So then at Weathertop, Strider gives all the hobbits swords...just in time for the fight with the Nazgul...A little unconvincing. The characters were much simpler; Saruman comes to mind. They retooled all of the beauty out of Gandalf's tale of betrayal. These are trifles, but they cut so much out of it, that the movie wouldn't have made sense to me, had I not read the book. For example, in Bree, when they met Strider, they didn't get the letter from Gandalf saying Strider was an okay guy. We just had to rely on Frodo's "hunch." Again, a little unconvincing. What's a palantir? What's an orc? They tried so hard to be cryptic and mystical that they left the audience with little clue as to what's going on. Well, I could go further, but I can sum it all up by saying just this: Read the book...it's much, much better.


                
All right I might be wrong... considering I haven't and wouldn't dare waste my time watching the 2 sequels. Now before you start email bombing me let me give a chance to explain myself a little. I'm not gonna sit here and say this movie was horrible. That's going too far. A lot of time and effort obviously went into the making of this film. The production values are great, the scenery is sometimes beautiful, the special effects are decent, and the directing could have been a lot worse. You see, I'm not gonna be some idiot who posts "THE LORD OF THE RINGS IS COMPLETE CRAP" and rates it a 1. I actually rated this movie a 3. That being said... the acting is far from impressive. The story certainly didn't grab be nearly enough to be interested in wasting another 3+ plus hours a piece on a sequel. The whole thing basically screamed blah to me. A movie that at best could be considered decent. The fact that this movie (along with the 2 sequels) sits comfortably on the top 10 movies OF ALL TIME is really scary to me. Do people grasp the concept "of all time". We're not talking about the best film of the year here. There have been tens of thousands of movies made since the invention of cinema... do you people really believe that the 3 LOTR movies surpass all of those movies? Wow, what a one in a billion coincidence that would be. It makes me think most of the people who rated this movie have only seen about 5-10 movies in their life. Do people forget such cinematic achievements as Taxi Driver, Rashomon, A Clockwork Orange, and Reservoir Dogs, just to name a few. I take some solace at the fact that 55% of the people who rated this movie gave it a 10, proving that most of these people are either fanatical or just trying to drive this movie up the IMDB ladder of all-time greats. But hey, to each his own. The fantasy genre has never been one of my favorites... maybe I'm crazy.... but i doubt it.


                
Biggest disappointment of the year! It started alright, nice scenery shots and a bunch of happy little creatures. But the moment you get used to the surroundings and creatures, you start to notice that it is one simple and utterly predictable story in which the good prevails over everything! The apotheosis is that after three hours of boredom there is now ending!


                
How anyone could enjoy this film is beyond comprehension, and I strongly suspect that elements of fanaticism are involved in its surge up the IMDB ladder.The Fellowship of the Ring is long, incomplete, and boring. The only reason why my friends liked this film is because everyone else loved it. One standard argument goes, "You think it sucks, but everyone else thinks it's good!" This is a textbook example of the bandwagon effect.The fight scenes were extremely confusing and repetitive, almost as bad as those in Pirates of the Carribean (another inferior film).I cannot understand why so many females seem to like this film when it under-represents women. All the women in this movie are presented as useless, weak, and pathetic, as opposed to the men who are stylistically glamorized as brave and gallant characters.Furthermore, the three Lord of the Rings movies as a whole seem to romanticize war. One could easily interpret the themes of loyalty and good versus evil as themes of extremism and stubbornness.If you want a good war movie, watch Schindler's List.4/10


                
Fellowship of the rings (alongside the other two parts of the LOTR series) is a very overrated movie. It's an average movie that only has it's special effects to rely on. Tolkien's story of the ring has suffered a very poor transfer to the big screen and the fact that the complete result lasts for about 9 hours is unbelievable. I nearly fell asleep in the cinema during fellowship of the ring. The two towers had a little more action to it so I at least could keep awake without actually yawning or anything.Bottomline is: I don't understand why people go so crazy about the LOTR movies. They're really not that great!!


                
Look, I think this is a decent film.  The scenery beats out the acting by a long shot, and it really doesn't have anything in common with the book aside from the Title, and Arwen (What the hell was that all about???) needs to be relegated back to her three lines from the text.  Actually - as a movie based on quite possibly the most popular fantasy series ever, this thing is abysmal.The two major themes in Tolkiens Major Opus were 1) Overcoming Temptation and 2) Good will Triumph - so Relax and have fun!  These have been removed completely and without regard to the greater story so far as I can tell.  I can deal with Aaragorn's sword being in the museum at Rivendell, or the lack of explanation to the Fellowship, but the plot to these books is sacrosanct if you're going to make a movie about them.  One of the greatest moments in the book is the Ford of Rivendell - and probably the most misconstrued in the movie.The Black Riders were trying to SEDUCE Frodo to Sauron's side at the Ford. To draw a parallel to another movie - this is the scene in the Emperor's Throne Room in "Return of the Jedi" where the Emperor and Vader try to convince Luke of the great perks of the Dark Side.  Imagine how compelling that same scene would have been if all the Emperor did was screech and Luke was unconcious.  WHERE IS THE TEMPTATION?  WHERE IS THE OVERCOMING OF THE FLESH in search of something greater?  I'll tell you where - it was sold out in Liv Tyler's Salary.  All through the movie, the moments where Frodo was supposed to be tempted - his will was supersceded by the will of others trying to  "protect" him.  On a side note about temptation - what was Peter Jackson DRINKING when he agreed to that monstosity in Lothlorien????  I agree with the Dwarves - the woman is a psychotic bitch!To the second point - NOWHERE in this movie is the joie de vivre that Tolkien crafted into the Hobbits.  Every single person in the entire three hours looked p***ed off or terrified.  What message of Hope is THAT?  There are two ways to look at the Christianity that molded the books - either that Satan is trying to destroy us and life is just a losing battle with Sin, or that God is in control you can relax and enjoy the happy moments.  Tolkien took the Optimistic approach.  Jackson took the bleak one.This thing was a major disappointment and dare I say it a blasphemy against the works of Tolkien.  As a movie - any old movie - it's better than most, but the obliteratingly depressing mood and just rediculously gratutitous violence is unecessary and detracting.  The fighting is not the main point of the story - and neither is the fear and hopelesness.  The scenery is breathtaking.  Basically - everything up through Bilbo's Party is great - everything after is fecal matter.


                
I don't understand how anyone who has read the book can like this film. Acting is awful and the film is full of pointless sadistic violence. It is insane that this film is shown to really young kids. This is not a Tolkien movie, it is a TERMINATOR movie without Arnold. And the body count is bigger. It is plain to see that everything is made with calculator to maximize the profit. Violence sells. Most of the Tolkien magic from the book is gone. All that is left is an empty shell that is used to stage a massacre. It is sad to see that this kind of rubbish is enough for so many people. Of course if you are used to see only this kind of stuff you are not expecting any better. Tolkien must be rolling in his grave.


                
High budget nonsense aimed at those who suspend their disbelief before the opening titles have even finished and need the sound-track to tell them what emotion to feel, I've not seen cinematographic schlock like this since E.T.The plot plods along with little cycles of "mistake", "grave danger", "solution/escape", and by the third or 4th such cycle it gets quite tawdry. I guess JRR's to blame in part, but the utter predictability of the whole film, even down to the details, by someone who's _not_ read the book, indicates that all we have here is the playing out of standard fantasy/adventure/action clichés, and nothing even vaguely capable of stimulating or challenging someone familiar with more than a few films.So lets not look at all the difficult stuff like weaving a plot, and see if it can redeem itself through special effects instead...Sorry, nothing new here, except new ways to demonstrate how to make visual and physical errors. For example, for some bizarre reason they decided that they wanted to make the lighting as unbelievable as possible, which they suceeded at grandly. With monster CGI looking like it had barely moved forwards since Quake, more polygons, perhaps, I almost felt like I was watching my N64 at times.Nope, I really don't have anything positive to say about this film. A big ball of hype but absolutely nothing promised was delivered.FatPhil


                
In twenty years, everybody will more or less agree that this was just a fairly unimaginative and clumsy b-movie, despite all the fuss and all the special effects that looked so nice back then.Tolkien's book is not flawless, but whether you happen to be a fan of the original or not, Jackson's movie fails as a based-on-a-book work: it is neither faithful enough or independent enough to justify itself. Even worse, it tries so hard to be something grand that it also fails to be a simple but entertaining adventure film.If there's one thing this movie should be remembered for in the history of cinema, it is the strong influence it had on the emerging tradition of using loud noises and spook visuals to build tension instead of resorting to decent scriptwriting, acting and directing.


                
The greatest fantasy epic of all times is at last a RiffTrax! No, not Crossroads - we already did that. And not A Very Unlucky Leprechaun - which we haven't done yet but are seriously mulling over. We speak of course of Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, the thrilling tale of some short guys, some slightly taller hairy guys, some thin, fey, but slightly taller guys, some grungy, somewhat beefier, slightly taller guys, and a frighteningly hairy, older, slightly taller guy with a stick, and their quest to throw something somewhere hot. Mike Nelson and special guest riffer Kevin Murphy go after the ultimate comedy prize in this very special two-part RiffTrax. This RiffTrax is only compatible with the Theatrical Release, not the extended edition. It does however, work for both the single side and doubled sided versions of the Theatrical Release. Viewing Suggestion: This RiffTrax was written and performed with the whole family in mind, so if you are comfortable with your children watching Lord of the Rings, this should be perfectly appropriate for them as well. Skip the endless reruns of The War at Home and treat your whole family to the RiffTrax experience!


                
I don't know why other people think this movie is so great. I think they're happy that Tolkien's classic has been brought to the big screen. Cinematography, and special effects were only average, story was to me rather boring, characters were artificial and lacked believability, so why the high ratings ? I saw this movie in the theaters with my girlfriend, and after seeing this movie I was rather apologetic to my girlfriend because she didn't enjoy it, and I know that I didn't enjoy it. It's an epic, I give it that, but most people in this movie just had sad expression or no expressions at all. I just couldn't get any energy out of this movie.The movie was such a disappointment that I canceled my plans to see all its sequels.The only reason I didn't give this movie a 1/10 was it was better than Catwoman, and I could tell that the director and actors put in a sincere effort into making Tolkien's classic come to life.


                
plus: they do try to be faithful to the story. Sometimes they fail though (e.g. at least for me, the conversation between Gandalf and Saruman atop the tower would have definitely created a wrong impressionabout the latter's intentions, had I not known it from the book).Yet, the movie is all too jumpy and hard to follow, it just looks like they've taken a bunch of independent shots just for the sake of showing this or that particular episode, and then just pasted them together. I guess it was a noble attempt to fit as much of the original story into the movie as possible, but it, unfortunately, failed. In this case, the whole is much less than the sum of its parts. 4/10.


                
