A spectacular-looking fantasy adventure with the feel of an epic, but yet missing too much to truly rate as an epic. The cinematography is breathtaking (albeit it actually mostly computer generated), the makeup is admirable and some of the set design is really good, but yet in terms of screenplay it ultimately dull. Converting the first part of 'The Lord of the Rings' fantasy novel into a film seemed to be an impossible feat at the time of the film's production, as the books were full of so many essential details that they would not be satisfying without all the content. Nevertheless the producers went ahead, trimming things here and there, creating overall a good-looking film but one in which the events are unclear and the plot is too convoluted to be understood by anyone not familiar with Tolkein's novel. The concept of character developed is abandoned in the epic swoop of the film, creating a not very involving watch. The film is very lengthy, which should not be a problem in the best of epics, but in this one it just leaves a bad taste, as there is no reason to care what actually happens. The film indeed brews a tendency to bore at times, and the action sequences are not only mindless, but are too violent for younger audiences, which is a shame as the 'The Lord of the Rings' is excellent for enthusiastic young readers. On the other hand, there are a number of positives to the film, as it is technically interesting, but that is not enough to make it a very good watch <U+0096> at the most it is an above average film, because it has some interesting elements. It is just a shame that the cinematic virtues of the film were not given more justice by the screenplay. The original cut was 270 minutes, and judged on the overkill length of this version, two parts to the film would have perhaps worked better. Or perhaps Tolkein's novels would have been better untouched by live action film.


                
I can see why people love this movie. Perhaps I'd feel the same if it came in under 2 hours. As it is, it was far too long. I had trouble staying awake, and one of my party left halfway through as she was so uncomfortable sitting so long in the cinema. That's something I've never know happen before or since!I can't really comment on the movie itself too much, as I'm not sure I've actually seen it all....sat through it, yes. But much of it didn't register after the first half hour. It's well filmed, well cast, great story, awesome effects...but that doesn't count for much when you can't stay with it long enough to see the end, IMHO.


                
did I ruin the film by reading the books years ago?  I had the strangest feeling watching this incredibly praised film that I live in an alternative universe where we were forced to watch a rather tiresome version of the film.  I was ecstatic to hear all the critics praising the film, ecstatic to hear all the early viewers praising the film, but it certainly didn't live up to the hype that it had been given.Minor Spoilersthere were many things that disappointed me in the film - the shallow characters and comedy relief that Pippen and Merry play, the whole council of Elrond, the battle of the wizards, and, my god, the final "let's hunt some orc" nonsense from Aragorn.  Hey Peter Jackson, couldn't you just take a couple more days and make sure some of those scenes were done a little better?the battle scenes were good.  hollywood certainly knows how to show someone getting sliced up or beheaded nowadays.  but I just had a hard time finding the soul of the movie.spoilers endmaybe if some critics had said that they didn't know what all the fuss was about, then I would have gone in with lower standards, and maybe on some rainy end of winter day, i'll give it another chance, but for now I believe that millions have somehow been duped into believing that this is a great movie ("the best of all time" as too many imdb reviews state).honestly, and this hurts because I was such a fan of the book, i have to give it a 6 out of 10.
I'm not claiming that this movie isn't great because it doesnt live up or accurately depict the series of the books. I'm claiming its not great because it simply isn't great. To me, it's a pretty average film. Something for the kids, maybe, if you can find a kid that can sit still for 3 hours. The combination of over-used plot devices, under-developed and painfully similar looking characters (the two other hobbits besides frodo and the chubby one looked like twins, as did the two humans, ryder and the other one, with the same hair-cut and facial hair), and tedius nature of the film makes this one for video rental. Theres simply nothing amazing going on here, and the movie came off as rather tripe. No clever dialogue. No charm. No depth at all. This film simply takes itself too seriously. Although it's a much better fantasy film that the horrible, recently released Dungeons & Dragons, It in no way deserves to be the number one movie on imdb. In my opinion it doesn't even belong in the top 250. Theres something unsatisfying about fantasy films in the 21st century and I think I know what it is. Instead of focusing on character development and clever writing, too many film makers are using computer models and animation to deliver a story, thinking that the visuals will be enough to carry the movie. We can see the same mentality in star wars, episode one. The original trilogy contained 3 fantastic films, but the phantom menace, quite bluntly, sucked donkey. Jar jar was a completely useless computer generated character that they made just because they could. He had no relevance to the movie! Star Wars episode 5 a new hope, however, didnt have the kind of budget to make a useless movie with useless characters like its successor did. It had to rely on a good story, appealing actors, and enjoyable, but not over-blown action sequences. It seems like LOTR and many sci-fi/fantasy movies coming out these days just have pointless cgi characters and sequences, with awful stories and awful actor-characters thrown in at the last minute so theres an excuse for all the computer generated stuff to appear in the first place, and that my friends, is truly sad. This movie would be much better if it were made 20 or 30 years ago.


                
I was really disappointed in this film. Myth is about sophisticated relationships between and among human beings, life and why we are here. Tolkien gets close to this kind of idea but the movie is very one dimensional, focusing on a reduced version of the plot and not even hinting at the sophisticated notions of the book. I would not recommend this film to anyone who had not read the book, and then only as a way of visualizing some of the events in a way they might not if they did not see the book.


                
In making the movie, the creator decided he did NOT want to make a movie to please loyal fans of The Lord of the Rings. Rather, he was more concerned about maximizing its commercial appeal. In that regards, the three movies - The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers and Return of the King - are successful. It tells a tale loosely based on the Tolkien classic. However, so many of the most basic facts are either eliminated or changed that by the time the Fellowship is formed -- beyond the names of the characters there is little resemblance to the trilogy created by J.R.R. Tolkien.The most egregious distortion is how Sauron was vanquished and The One Ring acquired - yes, the basis of the entire movie. The last alliance of Elves and Men came about after Sauron's forces had finally been driven back from dominion of Middle Earth and back to Mordor. A long and brutal siege of the evil wizard's tower, Barad - Dur ensued. In the end, Sauron himself came out.Perhaps the director had a problem envisioning what kind of battle must have transpired, but the greatest of the alliance battled Sauron up the slopes of Mount Doom, the volcano which forged The One Ring - Elendil, Isildur, Elrond among them. The director belittled the magnitude of the battle by having Isildur make a lucky swipe with a sword that cut off Sauron's fingers, thus separating him from the ring and making victory possible.Of course, if that were the case there would not have been a resurgence of Sauron. As anyone who has read the book knows, Sauron was beaten by force of arms, will, magic the full essence of what made the combatants great. Elendil's sword was broken when he fell upon it. Indeed, had it been shattered as they showed it would never have been reforged. Which is why Aragorn was able to carry it with him -- but that is among the more minor liberties the director took with his perversions.Isildur then cut the finger with The One Ring from Sauron's hand. The nature of the ring was that, in order to gain dominion over very powerful races, Sauron allowed the greater part of his strength flow into the Ring. Without it, he was diminished, but not killed. If being separated from the Ring vanquished him, then how was he able to come back? And wouldn't it have a much greater impact even on such a being as Sauron, to face the heir of the man who actually "slew" him, than the one who got a lucky shot.From that one major and totally unnecessary change, the connection between the movie and book was altered to such an extent that it was no longer the same.The other travesty was the failure to show the passage of time. It seemed that from the opening scenes of the party and Bilbo's farewell, and Frodo learning the secret of the Ring and his flight from the Shire, that perhaps a few months had passed. Quite the contrary, it was about 20 years that passed and Frodo used the Ring frequently. It's difficult to understand why the Ring had such an incredibly powerful hold.The list of unnecessary changes, omissions, senseless additions (Elves at Helm's Deep?) goes on and on. The director wanted to make the movie his own and capitalized on a popular title to do so.In and of itself, I suppose the movies do weave an acceptable yarn. However, for anyone who truly loved The Lord of the Rings, it is an unwatchable obscenity.
The entire Lord of the Rings movie trilogy is a complete travesty. I read these books when I was very young (I'm 24 now) and after watching the movies and seeing the new covers for the books, my disappointment was heightened. One of the major purposes of any work of fiction is to exercise the imagination in the form of creating images of the things in the work, especially the characters. Now, when someone reads these books after watching the movies (even The Hobbitt) the reader will have a preset image of the characters that they've seen. The Lord of the Rings is one of history's greatest series of fictional books simply because of the imagination put forth in creating an entire world to base it on; that's now basically ruined because of the movies. A good comparison would be the Dune series, which I now feel uncomfortable reading simply because I saw the Sci-fi channels presentations of the book and Children of Dune. The only reason that the movie deserves a 4 is because of the quality of it.


                
lord of the rings: the fellowship of the ring, was one of the most entertaining movies of 2001.  it was also highly overhyped. this was a very enjoyable movie, and a very good action movie. of course, being a good action movie, means that it is permissible to overlook mediocre acting, wooden dialogue, stereotyped characters, terrible corny humor, and excessive and sometimes (oftentimes) phony CGI. first, the acting. i have seen people on this board actually suggest that people such as elijah wood, viggo mortenson, and orlando bloom should be nominated for oscars! now, i will grant that the oscars in no way reward the best performances of the year, but that would be carrying things just a bit too far.  of course, it might not be the actors' fault, it could be... the dialogue. i fail to understand why seemingly all "epic" films, and fellowship of the ring is no exception, have dialogue that is apparently meant to seem completely contrived.  almost every line feels as though the characters speaking it has put about ten minutes of thought into it, and this is while running from monsters and creepy-crawlies! then there are the characters themselves. we have frodo, the humble little guy that everyone roots for. gandalf, the grizzled, wise sage. aragorn, the pragmatic and skilled leader. legolas, the stoic and noble silent one. and boromir, the greedy, unlikeable human. merry and pippin, the goofball, comic relief.  the list could go on to include almost every character in the movie, but this review is getting long as it is. i believe even fans of the movie will concede that much of the attempted humor is corny and often unbearable (especially the dwarf). if you have seen it, you know what i mean; if not, be glad that you have been spared. and finally what i found to be the biggest flaw: the CGI.  there is just far too much! granted that it some instances it was used with splendid effect, and in these cases, i am all for it. however, just to throw out an example off the top of my head, in the scene in moria, there is no need to have various people jumping on the cave troll's back. it just looks fake! it is entirely unnecessary! what is it doing on my screen? much of the CGI could and should have been cut out.  it detracts from the movie as its overall effect is to give a very impersonal feel to what should be a personal and moving story. well that about sums this rant up, so i will leave you with the following advice: if you are in the mood for a solid action/adventure movie, then fellowship of the ring is for you. but, on the other hand, if you have unwisely chosen to accept the opinion of the lord of the ring freaks on this board that this is a quality film and even one of the top 5 of 2001, then you will be sorely disappointed.


                
This is a typical product of a Hollywood system that has completely exhausted its creative energies, and only survives by badly copying books, classic movies and foreign movies. Don't spend your time watching this movie. Just read the book it is based on.


                
I've just been at a showing of this film today of its premier, and yes I've read the books. I do enjoy them quite a bit, however most of the things that are good with the book are somehow lost in this film. Given you can, and have to I guess, take away stuff from the book to be able to make a film out of it, this one is a good example on how you should not do that.The film starts off with a big battle. Which looks very CG. But oh well, that's how it starts. It wasn't yesterday I read it, but I can't remember the book having any of this stuff in the beginning. Do they include it just to have an excuse for an action sequence or for the exposition? If it is because of the exposition, I think they could've easily let this one and other ones out and instead tried to develop the characters. Remember this movie Star Wars? In the beginning of the first part they talk about the senate, the rebellion, the empire... You haven't got a clue what the hell these are, but the movie still works! I guess this could be because I've read the books, but they just keep on talking about all the things over and over until the seats in the theater knows exactly what it is too. The ring is indestructible. Ok, I get it. Gandalf throws it in the fire but it stays intact. Uh-huh. Gimli hits it with his axe, but its the axe that is destroyed, not the ring. I know it, already!In the film we get to see Saruman and Gandalf and Saruman's place a lot (Mordor?). In the first book Saruman and how he makes the Orcs and everything are hardly even mentioned. I think they should have let it be like that. More for your imagination to make up, you know. The story is about the fellowship of the ring right? I don't care about Saruman, I don't need him until the second book. I sense a bit of Star Wars influence here, this with showing bits of what the empire is doing all the time. In SW it works, this movie would've done fine without it. Another thing is the part where they cut down all the trees, they don't explain to the poor people who haven't read the books what is so important about that... Could be fun for them to know maybe. Or don't care about showing it, please.Also the character development is lacking. Sam, Merry and Pippin are like smaller and less extreme versions of Jar-Jar Binks. Their only purpose seem to be so they can get captured by the Orcs so a few of the fellowship guys have to go after them. They join the mission just because they are stupid and happen to show up in right in time, or something like that. Not like in the book out of friendship with Frodo.Also I think they heavily mess up the place where Gandalf fights the balrog. Again, I could be wrong, but in the book didn't Gandalf practically sacrifice himself for the rest of the fellowship? He chose to stay behind and fight it knowing he would have to go down with it too. In this movie he seems to be able to defeat the balrog and still go on, but right when he's about to go the balrog gets him with his whip and drags him along. Changes Gandalf's personality and heroism very much in my humble opinion.I do like the fight scenes however, especially the fight in the dwarf cave and the one in the end. The shaky camera is nothing but a nuisance, but other than that they are great. Gollum is very well done aswell, almost exactly the way I imagined him. Looking forward to seeing more of him in part two and three. The whole film on the other part could've been done much better. I doubt that without the popularity of the books, people wouldn't have liked it as much as they claim they do now. I was a lot younger when I saw it, but I remember enjoying the animated version from 1978 more than this one which really isn't much more than OK. Oh, and I can also mention its too long. Many of the scenes seem to drag on for very long.
Based on the long-running hype surrounding this movie, not to mention the critical raves it has generally received, I knew that one of two things would happen when I went to see this movie:1) It would truly live up to the hype as one of the greatest movies of all time or,2) It would not match up.I am not surprised that, given the nature of mainstream, Hollywood blockbusters, that I fall into the second category. "The Fellowship of the Ring", though exciting in parts, fails to maintain a constant stream of interest and energy, thus making it fall far short of the "epic" that many viewers are already calling it.Since most people on planet Earth are already familiar with the story, I won't go into great detail here re-creating it. From a plotting standpoint, the movie has several problems. Since Tolkien's work is so masterfully detailed, it would be difficult to completely portray every character with the depth and understanding that he did. But the beginning of the movie does just that, as the moviegoer is painted an excellent picture of the Hobbit Shire and the beauty and peace that this diminutive-sized but big-hearted race has achieved. But then the movie gets bogged down.Character after character is hastily introduced, as we are pushed through fight scene after fight scene. "Fellowship" suffers from the same syndrome that many action movies suffer from: despite the fact that the heroes are constantly pitted against insurmountable odds (in numbers, resources, etc.), they never seem to be in any real danger. And the movie generally stages a fight scene, gives the audience a few minutes to breathe, and then stages another fight scene. Although the fights are done well, what is lost is a true understanding of characters, as we never really get to know any of the main combatants. Worse yet, we eventually forget why they're fighting in the first place, since so many of the fight scenes fail to explain what is going on. Visually, the movie is occasionally stunning. But there are certain scenes (like the battle scene at the beginning of the movie) that look obviously computer-generated. Even the tightest military formation does not move in complete synce unless it is a COMPUTER SIMULATION. I did think that the camera angles and the way that the movie played with the actors' height was pretty great, though.I've heard a lot about how the acting in this movie was tremendous, but this is not a character-driven movie, so how can you tell? Except for Elijah Wood, I didn't feel like anyone really gave a performance worth remembering. There were no bad performances, mind you, but no one (except for Wood) really stood out.The monotony of the fight scenes made me anxious for the movie to end. I could feel the length of this movie, and that's generally not a good sign, unless you're dealing with an historical piece like "Schindler's List" or "Ghandi", where the time isn't as important as the story that's being told.In the end, this movie is not a "Star Wars" or a "Godfather" or anything of that nature. It morphs into a generic action feature that presents its audience with some exciting scenes, but ultimately fails to deliver a cohesive movie. I give it a 4/10, since it has some value, but isn't anywhere near the "classic" that people are hastily calling it.A final note on this movie being #1 in the IMDB. I wouldn't get worked up about this. Though the database has a great deal of value, weighing the historical importance of movie is difficult. We will have a more balanced picture 10 to 20 years from now about the importance of this movie. Even great movies that seemed like they would last forever after they were released (remember "The English Patient"?) have faded into the background after a few years.


                
Well, I was forced to watch this by a friend trying to get me to like LOTR more than Star Wars. So I did. And I have to say I didn't get what was happening pretty much throughout the movie.The action was great, I just didn't understand the plot. I'm no LOTR basher, but it's not the movie for me. And I don't want to go up against the LOTR nerds, so I won't say anything negative. And since I'm not praising the movie, this review probably won't get noticed and is useless.Well, I don't get all the LOTR hype. If you'll excuse me, I'll go watch Return of the Jedi now.


                
There is too much to say about the flaws in this movie and it could go on and on until readers would simply dismiss it before even viewing it so I will not make a catalog of these flaws...Instead let's just summarize : Great rendition of the visual aspects of Middle Earth : glorious landscapes and well used CGI make Peter Jackson's vision quite right about this aspect of the movie ( although i find his Lorien much like Ewok town, and far from what could be Laurelindorenan ).An unconvincing cast of actors, some terrible ( Aragorn, Elrond, Frodo ), others much better ( Sam, Pippin, Merry and Orlando Bloom whom I find quite convincing in his attitude ) but none lighting the screen.The terrible part in these movies is that Jackson simply does not get the point of the books : be it for scenaristic reasons or simply because he did not like it ( or even read it ? ), his vision of Men, Dwarfs and Elves is just completely wrong... Tolkien's world is quite simple in fact, Good and Evil being clearly defined trough the books. A simple example of how far Jackson is could be Aragorn who in the book is a man who knows perfectly where he comes from, where he is going, what it will take him to get there and thus supports the consequences of his fate with an astounding will that nothing can hardly shake. So why in hell did Jackson make him a total looser in the movie, wondering and pitying himself about everything up to the color of his boots...As a real Fan of Tolkien's masterpiece, I could bring down this movie to pieces. But instead, I'd simply say this : If you've seen the movie and if it has made you want to read the book, then it has achieved enough for me... The rest is in Tolkien's pages.For the rest, if you want a far more credible approach to Tolkien's world, you should try Ralph Bakshi's anime dating from early 80's ( or late 70's ). If it doesn't have the visuals, at least it has the spirit !


                
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I went to the theater and got excited when I saw the opening sequence. It showed the history o the ring and what it was. They also had a battle that we didnt get to see enough of. Then the pace slows down. NO...IT COMES TO A HALT!!! I looked at m watch every five seconds. This movie is bad. Fans of the book love it but guess what? The book was trash too. Please, if you have three hours of your life to throw away, go and watch men working at a construction site. It is more entertaining then this garbage.


                
This movie is beautiful. The sets, the language, the costume...all that is a 10 out of 10. Unfortunately, the dialogue and story are painfully slow and far too self conscious. It's like the writer knew the film was going to be a classic and so made the dialogue as artsy as she/he possibly could. The result is that none of the characters have any humanity, they all seem very conscious of the fact that they are in a movie, playing a part. Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn is quite good, but he doesn't have enough screen time to save this picture. This movie is just that--a moving picture (the story itself seems irrelevant)I would recommend seeing this movie while wrapping presents or making dinner, and accepting it as pretty scenery. Otherwise...there's not much here.


                
this movie is so boring, at least the first 1:30 of it. honestly, it looks as the directors had nothing to put in the movie in order to make it long (long is not cool) so they put some boring things such as the party or whatever. the cast is awfull, like bunch of little kids who were taken to the movie (especially the elfs and the hobits), Gandelf is kinda good although. i suggest u to drink a lot of coffe before watching this film, u might fall asleep


                
Now, to be fair, I thought the Lord of the Rings books were turgid, overwritten folksy yarns too thickly-written for young children and too purple for children old enough to have developed taste. I read The Hobbit at the right age, but by the time I picked up LOTR I was too old. I could only associate it with greasy-haired reclusive teenagers in long-sleeved t-shirts, their elasticated cuffs flecked with paint from moments of artistic expression with miniature lead models of goblins.If you were one of these people (and it would seem there are a lot of you out there) then this film is right up your street. The scenes of faux-medieval taverns filled with bawdy folk with British regional accents will have you scrabbling under your bed for your 18-sided dice and Athena posters of fantasy vistas. If not, you will see a road movie pocked with interludes of predictable action sequences made interesting, if not engaging, by extensive use of special effects.If you do find yourself rolling your eyeballs in disgust, you can pass the time you would have otherwise spent being involved in the film by spotting the immensely irritating tics adopted by the cast. I'll finish with the top ten.1. The Star Trek-esque fixation that evil creatures must speak with deep booming voices and sweeping arm gestures;2. The way Christopher Lee pronounces Mordor (readers familiar with the way Inspector Taggart of the Taggart television series pronounces "murder" will feel at home);3. The hobbits' arbitrary accents picked from rural-sounding regions in the UK;4. Sean Bean's five-minute death sequence;5. Orlando Bloom's catalogue model poses as a substitute for acting;6. Cate Blanchett's cooing (based, I'm fairly sure, on the British astrologer Mystic Meg);7. The way that the inscription on the ring rhymes in English even though it was written in another language;8. Sean Astin's "I'm only here for comic relief" character;9. The indefinable quality in Elijah Wood that makes you just want to punch him.10. The final exchange between Wood and Astin which goes: Wood: Do you think we'll ever see them again? Astin (adopt West Country accent): I should think so, Master Frodo, there's going to be two sequels (I paraphrase).


                
...or are over twelve years old, I suggest giving this movie a miss.Not being a fan of the Fantasy genre I didn't think I'd enjoy it but usually when I think like this a movie surprises me.  Not this time.  I left the cinema feeling I'd wasted three hours of my life and thinking I should've read the book beforehand.  It wasn't that I didn't understand anything in the film, just that all my mates who had read the book seemed to enjoy it, and the rest of us didn't.  But then again, if a story is good enough it should lose little impact in transferring to the big screen. 
I won't go on about the faults - although the repetitive storyline (battle, walk; battle, walk) and the needless over-acting are worth a mention.  It was aesthetically pleasing, but huge sets and great CGI don't count for much when you are fighting to keep your eyes open in your chair.  There are only so many times you can gasp at a huge building/statue/mountain before you get bored and start demanding an interesting plot.This film would've been a flop if the book wasn't so well-known.  As it is, thousands will come to see "how it comes across" on the big-screen.  These people won't know what it's like to see the story for the first time in this way, and will probably find it difficult to understand why the rest of us keep a blank expression throughout.To cap off, if you enjoyed the book you're likely to enjoy the film.  If you've never read the book you'll be looking at your watch every five minutes from an hour into it, trying to forget how long you'll be in there.Kids will like it though.4/10


                
possible spoilers--but I don't think much could spoil this stinker.I was actually sucked in by the hype and paid good money to see this. How a supposedly elite audience such as the IMDB member base could rank this film (at the time of my comment) as the #6 best movie of all time is more a comment on the IMDB member base--at least those who vote--than it is the film.  This first installment is the last one I'll see, thank you, and I'll admit to being charmed by it up until we left the Shire.After that, it was one special effects horror after another trying to finish off Frodo and  his friend.  Don't get me wrong.  I love movies and will do anything to suspend my disbelief to be entertained and taken to another mystical place--but special effects just don't make a movie--(See The Perfect Storm, for example)--and they had everything but the tiger from "Gladiator" in this movie.  Maybe the tiger would have helped.
Early into the second hour, I was hoping something, anything, would succeed in killing Frodo so I could leave.  But no, I stayed right to the end, thinking "How could a movie with so much buzz be bad?"---but it was.
Boring.  3 out of 10, save yourselves while you can.  And if you can't, well, at least you won't have me in front of you in line this Christmas (or next!) to see any more of of this foof.  #6 indeed!
This movie is WAY overrated.  After sitting through 3 hours of this sludge, I failed to see what all the hype was about.  Sure the special effects and cinematography are above average, but that's where it ends.  The dialogue is weak, convoluted, and at times verges on hilarity.  For example, the last line of the film, SPOILER (and I use this term very loosely) `Sam, I'm glad you're with me.'  Give me a break!  I waited 3 hours for this ending? There is absolutely no payoff for the viewer; it's just a longwinded journey with a fizzle for an ending.I understand that this movie is based on a book and that it's the first part of a trilogy, but movies should be judged as single entities.  For a movie to be considered a classic, it should be able to stand on it's own two feet. Example: `The Godfather II' is still a great film even if you've never seen `The Godfather' or know who Mario Puzo is.  `Lord of the Rings' fails to transcend without the help of a series of books, and the rest of a trilogy of movies (which haven't come out yet).  The plot just moves from one occurrence to another, there is little cohesion here.  Some events are just completely irrational.  SPOILER Why didn't anyone reach out a hand to Gandalf when he was hanging on the ledge?  He's just hanging there for a while, and no one even makes a minor attempt to help him up.  Why?
The character development is also terrible.  Little time is spent in letting the audience get to know these individuals.  Maybe they should have cut a few of them out.  They tried to cram too much into 3 hours (a fourth of which was spent repeating the scene with the finger getting chopped off over and over and over.).  The acting is decent though Elijah Wood just has the same troubled, incredulous expression on his face the whole time.  Does this guy ever blink?  And also, why didn't Frodo just put the ring on, become invisible, and take the darn thing to the dumping point.  He could have skipped the whole way whistling Dixie.  Can I get a witness?  So anyway, I rate this movie a 6 out of 10.  It would have been more suitable as one of those 3-part TV mini-series, and doesn't deserve to be rated as high as the classics.  Don't believe the hype.  Peace.
With a brilliant theme, tens of millions of pound, a superb cast and an adoring public in rapt anticipation this movie should have been a cinematic triumph. Seldom have I been so disappointed.Whilst the settings were lovely and the film was writ large, it was entirely boring and overly long. I was praying for the end a long time before the "conclusion" and my young niece and nephew had already fallen asleep. The problem was that the plot was boring and the director never really managed to bring the book alive. Nothing of consequence seemed to happen and the film just meandered along with pretty scenes. I could not get involved.One of the most annoying things about the film was the ending. It just seemed to stop. It was as if the film was just a starter served up before the main course. That sort of thing is okay as long as a film exists in itself as a piece. This seemed to be more of a 3 hour trailer.Whilst pretty, this film is a real lemon and I will only watch the followup when it goes to video.


                
I left the theater before the movie ended (as did others before me.)  I was with my wife and best friend who disliked the movie more than I did.  I enjoy action, adventure, etc., but I didn't care what happened to any of these characters, so I had no problems leaving the theater.I think the reviews and ratings here are saturated with fans of the book and I'll be interested to see if this movie rates #1 in 3 weeks when fewer fans of the series cast their vote.  I gave it 4 out of 10.  I've seen worse, but I've seen far better.


                
First off: As far as fantasy movies go this is a fairly good one. It is just orders of magnitude above the likes of e.g. "Dungeons and Dragons" but that is mainly due to the abysmal quality of those flicks.But how does LotR compare to other, "normal" films? Well, that's a mixed bag. From a technical point of view: It does employ several interesting techniques such as blurring, out of focus filming, or the rather good visualisation of Frodos shadow world experiences. Additionally, the "shrinking" of the Hobbits works extremely and surprisingly well...apart from some minor occurences that left me feeling a bit uneasy (without being able to say why) the film manages to let the audience accept and believe the differences in height between humans (etc.) and hobbits.As for the "stunning visuals": Lots of people claim New Zealand is an amazing country and does offer beautiful and breathtaking locations around every corner. I've never been there myself, so I just have to  assume they know what they are talking about... and the LotR-FotR movie has not done much to change that. And that is because of the massive employment of CGS. Almost every single scene that displays the world of Middle Earth is  in one way or the other either completely computer generated or computer "enhanced". This is of course inevitable when it comes to locations such as Rivendell or Moria (and these almost invariably look great), but... The problem is that even nowadays it is still possible to tell CGS from filmed ones and imho too many computer generated scenes in too short a span of time convey a feeling of irreality. I know, the story is supposed to take place a long time ago, when the world looked different and there were still elves and dwarves and magic around, but LotR-FotR managed to give me the "Oh no, not another CGS" feeling. It would have preferred if the weather peak had been an ordinary film set, for example. All in all, however, I really liked the technical side of the movie.Now for the story (I'm going to announce spoilers, but there are almost none): Obviously a movie isn't a book. Deviations in style and story are inevitable when translating one into another. However, I don't think FotR  manages particularly well. Let me explain:The significance and power of the one ring (and the other rings as well) are insufficently introduced. (2 minor SPOILERs ahead) Gandalf states "I don't want the ring, I would use for good things." Fullstop. So what? Likewise Galadriels "fit" is hard to understand without the background information of the book. Her words: "But I pass the test. I will diminish and go into the west and stay Galadriel" are especially bad. How is someone who hasn't read the books supposed to know why she will "diminish" and "go ito the west", whatever that means. The relationship between the one ring and the elven rings and the dilemma and the sacrifice of the elves is completely left out of the movie!Often the movie introduces certain places (Gate of Rohan, Moria, Caradhras, Lothlorien, Mordor, and especially Gondor and the White City), without giving the audience any idea of what they mean and where they are. Sure, you can't put all the background information of a book into the movie, but neglecting it completely can't be the best way to go. (minor SPOILERS ahead) As it is, FotR conveys NO information at all about the significance of Gondor for example, or why the fellowship has to stay on the west side of the mountains, or why they can't pass the Gate of Rohan, what the mines of Moria were and are and where the hell this "Mordor" is in the first place. It thus fails to set the stage for the following movies.The main focus of the movie seems to be the display of fights or flights. So it is either Aragorn stabbing Orcs or the hobbits running away. The remaining time is used to loosely connect these scenes with each other. Of course, this generates a lot of action and suspense but given the intricate story of the books this doesn't work particularly well. Someone who hasn't read the books is likely to get the idea that the books are just your everyday fantasy literature with some band of adventurers hacking and slashing away at Orcs to accomplish this goal or another. Which it isn't. SPOILER ahead: I feel that the time of some of the overly long fighting/suspense scenes (especiallythe fight with the troll in Moria and the scene on the collapsing stair) would have been better spent on some more background information, character development and/or just plain conversation.There are other (minor) points of criticism, e.g.: the way in which the course of events has been changed in the movie, which gives rise to some questions, (SPOILER ahead) for example how Gandalf managed to complete the journey to Isengard, his imprisonment and the escape in the same time which Frodo needed to get from the Shire to Rivendell. , but since none of these points weigh as heavily as the ones outlined above I will leave them out of this review for the sake of brevity.
As a conclusion: From my point of view, the movie felt like a flat stone skipping over water, touching certains point in the book (mainly fights), and then jumping to the next, without following a visible path. So I don't think that LotR-FotR ist "the best of movie ever" or "of the century", not even "of the year" (my personal favourite is Amelie), nor is it a "masterpiece". It is a rather good fantasy movie which  utilizes the main ideas of the LotR books to display lots of running and fighting. It seriously fails to set the stage for the movies to come, fails to motivate the actions of the Fellowship as it should, fails to flesh out the characters sufficiently and completely fails to include even the slightest bit of the history and shape of Middle Earth which make Lord of the Rings such an extraordinary book. And if you have seen (and maybe even liked) the movie but haven't read the books, then for heavens sake go out and buy a copy of them as soon as possible, there is just so much more in the books than the film even gives an idea of!P.S.: Please excuse my bad english, this is also the reason for the "brevity" and not very good argumentative structure of this review...
I hated this movie really bad. It just went on and on and on. I can't believe that most people I know enjoyed it. Well, I'm not a big fantasy buff and you probably have to be one to enjoy this movie. There are movies so much better than this. John Q. (2002) was the best movie ever. Then Aliens (1986). But on my worst movie list, first comes Manos, the Hands of Fate (196?), then Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, The (2001).


                
I do not understand at all that this fantasy nonsense movie is in the top 3 with movies like The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption. Sad but probably caused by the fact that most voters are Americans with their sad movie taste. Hopefully just a recency effect. The scenery is beautiful but if that's what you're looking for my advice is to watch the travel channel at home :)


                
