Okay, I started to watch what is considered to be the number one quintessential fantasy film series (...or adaptation of the quintessential fantasy book - take your pick). So how is this magnum opus of fantasy storytelling, at least in my opinion? Well it's above average but it does have some slight problems - I repeat - SLIGHT problems.The story - A warrior named Sauron crafts magic rings for the leaders of each kingdom of Middle Earth, which possess great power but he creates one more ring for himself that possesses great power and great evil. He conquers Middle Earth but he gets defeated by a human king who takes the ring instead of destroying it. 300 years later, a Hobbit named Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) finds out his uncle, Bilbo (Ian Holm) has possession of Sauron's ring and after he leaves for a journey a wizard friend of the family named Gandalf finds out and after people drawn to the ring follow him, Frodo journey's with a few other Hobbit friends to a meeting place because Gandalf consults his other Wizard friend - Saruman (Christopher Lee) they then meet up with a Ranger/King named Aragorn who helps them travel to the Elf-land in which they go on a quest to toss the ring into the volcano in which it came.I really loved looking at the cinematography of this movie. New Zealand looks really good in these shots. It is certainly one of the very best elements in this movie. I can also give that as a nod to whatever effects they used for the scenery because every frame is in some way fun to look at. I can see very clearly why both these elements got an Oscar win.I can also safely say that I enjoyed the acting and that for the most part - I kind of want to see what happens next (well, I started watching these right? might as well finish them) It has that vibe that Harry Potter struck (although this is infinitely better) when it does get me into the world they set up and created. In terms of the acting I liked Ian McKellen as Gandalf especially. I can say everyone does a good job. I wanted to see in some way more of Bilbo's story just simply because of the performance of Ian Holm.So really there are a lot of things in this movie to like and it is very easy to see why it has a fan base that is so large and strong at the same time. Now here are the minor things which I didn't like - Well I didn't really like the 2 comedic relief Hobbits... I just didn't find them funny and I think Frodo got captured or in peril a few too many times and the bad guy Orc of the movie got introduced way too late in the movie to make an impact (although to be fair Christopher Lee did make an impact on me as a villain and I did want to see more of his character).So if anyone is thinking about seeing this movie - I'd say go for it. Most people might point out the slow pace but there is quite a lot of things in this movie that is worth watching. I am not as bid of a fan of this (at least so far) as a lot of other people but there is quite a bit to like in this movie and certainly one I'd recommend to anyone who wants to see a "world lies in the balance, must do quest" (which I admit that is an extreme butchering of the plot) fantasy movie.


                
While Fellowship of the Ring is a good adventure movie, i also think it is very overrated. It doesn't hold a candle to A New Hope. The first part of the trilogy gets off to a slow start as we meet the characters who will soon become the fellowship. It picks up speed when the faceless, hood-wearing, horsemen come looking for the ring. There are some great action scenes that follow and an exciting cliffhanger at the end. I own this, the Two Towers, and will own Return of the King because they are good movies. But masterpieces they are not. They get slow at times, become cheesy at other times, and the acting is not top of the line. I'd give the whole trilogy a 7 out of 10. No more, no less. 7/10


                
'The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring' is an epic, ambitious film in scope and magnitude, if not in heart. It tells the fantastic story of Frodo, a hobbit (small person) from the Shire in Middle Earth. The Shire is a peaceful place, as close to utopia as one might find. His peace is interrupted when the sorcerer Gandalf rides into town and discovers the secret to Bilbo's ring. Bilbo, also a hobbit, acquired the ring from Gollum - a distorted creature whose life has been elongated, but also deformed, by the mystical ring.When Bilbo leaves for adventure, it is Frodo's job to return the ring to the desolate Mount Doom and cast it into the fire from which it was made. This, you see, is the only way to destroy the ring. As a mere hobbit, Frodo cannot shoulder this burden alone. Along for the journey is his gardener and confidant Samwise, Sam for short. Two other hobbits, Merry and Pippin, too immature for their own good, meet up with Frodo and Sam on their way to the magical land of elves.Once there, a "fellowship" is formed to destroy the ring. One of them is Aragorn, a ranger with a secretive past. He is the primary focus of 'Lord' other than Frodo and the ring. He is a descendant of the man who held the ring over Mount Doom and could not destroy it. He is in love with the elf Arwen but the backdrop of the times leaves that love affair in jeopardy.Sauron, the dark lord who originally created the ring, has found out its location and seeks out the hobbits, and later the fellowship, to take the ring back. Saruman, the secondary villain in the film, is Sauron's "puppet," but also wants the ring for his own power. He is a sorcerer like Gandalf, but has turned to evil.Also in the fellowship, protecting the ring from Sauron and Saruman, is another man, Boromir. He is from the land of Gondor. Legolas is the lone elf representative in the fellowship. Elves are the fairest of the many creatures of Middle Earth and gifted archers. There is also a dwarf (slightly taller than a hobbit and certainly more robust) named Gimli. Dwarfs reside in mines, great connections of caves in the mountains through which the fellowship must journey in order to complete their task.It is difficult to summarize the plot of 'Lord of the Rings' because of the amount of information that is thrown at you. There are characters and their ancestors; different creatures in the elves, dwarfs, hobbits, and men. In addition to them there are the mysterious orcs, goblins, ringwraiths, uruks, sorcerers, and the creature all onto itself, Gollum. This complexity in setup and the numerous strands of plot to keep under control is the primary problem with 'The Lord of the Rings.' It took me up to three viewings to saturate all of this material and half way understand it.The triumph of Peter Jackson's labor of love is that you want to watch it indefinitely to soak in all of this splendor. The effects and settings are indescribable other than to say nothing this stunning has ever been featured on film before. Visually, the picture has no equal and will forever be understood as altering the way movies are seen. Unfortunately, to tell the story's backdrop, much of the humanity involved in Middle Earth is left on the back burner. In addition to that, there is a serious problem with pacing.The filmmakers seemed more interested in remaining faithful to J.R.R. Tolkien's original creation than they are in attempting to make a workable adaptation into a film. In that regard, there is a large battle sequence that feels very much like the climax of the film, but is then followed with upwards of an hour of more footage! This was the straw that led 'Fellowship' from being a great film into a good film. With that in mind, I am forced to think of 'Fellowship' as split. It is a masterpiece of visual technology and presentation, but married to a story that needs more heart and less intrusion of detail. *** out of ****


                
Alright, I liked the movie, but I have mixed feelings.First of all, you gotta give Jackson credit for his work, but it seems to me, that though he did a good job over all he did not really caught the magic of the books - and I don't mean in the movies, but he himself. The special-effects, the cast and and the production is great - but for acceptable alteration of the original story you find at least the same amount of really bad choices Jackson made. Let me just give th example of who is responsible for going through Moria in the book and on the other hand in the movie. Why change it to Frodo and give him the burden of Gandalf's death? Why do not let Aragorn take the broken sword out of Rivendell? These are just needless and bad alterations of the original story, and there are more examples for that kind of things.But nevertheless the movies made a break for the fantasy-genre and will spawn a lot of movies from the same kind (or so I hope). Jackson deserves credit for that. The Lord of the Rings is something you have to see - but not something you have to like.
+ Interesting plot
+ Engaging
+ Pretty
Drags on for too long, especially in the extended editionToo many drawn out battles


                
Real-life link: Surprisingly, I can't think of anything that during the movie made me think 'Hmm would be good to remember this if I get into similar situations'. So no real life links from this one that I can take away. Plausibility: a bit low on this category as well. I find it a bit implausible that a young and inexperienced hobbit would volunteer to go to one of the most frightening places when even the most braves leaders of all middle earth refuse to go. I also find it a bit implausible Froddos friends would volunteer to go with him to these dangerous places given that the movie does not provide any reason for us to believe that their friendship is that strong. Storytelling: this is the strength of the movie. You won't get bored watching this. The story moves fast and progresses so gratefully. One event leads to the other in a great manner. Character development: Characters are also another strength of the movie. They all embark a development joinery. We are given enough background of the main ones so that it makes us curious to see how they will develop and act when they are confronted with difficult decisions and events. Overall, great development of story and an interesting movie.
It's my honor and pleasure ladies and gents to write my first review of The Lord of the Rings to you, a film that was a famed obsession of mine when I was a small child. The third one is my favorite film of all time as of now, and I will be even more excited when I eventually end up writing this one review in particular to you. Just saying. But, let's begin rolling now shall we. Here we go. In this beautifully scripted and finely directed first movie to a now legendary trilogy, The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring has astonishing, Oscar-winning special effects (even if not all of them are quite "there" yet, which is a bit disappointing but understanding and forgiving for the time this was all made), and more importantly still, a classic and epic tale of good versus evil that's fascinating, at the menu. Though the film frustrates me for the fact that it fails to offer me such a compelling, powerful, and unforgettable experience, I still very much praise the film overall, if just not for its intellectual level unfortunately. The cast of The Fellowship of the Ring is excellent and flawless. And each one of the characters brings exactly the right kind of tone that's needed for the movie. The redefinition of the fantasy film genre in general is also a striking element in here that's worth taking into account, and this is made notably clear by the fearsome, first-time appearance of the menacing Ring Wraiths, mysterious black riders without a face (what?), and the frightening, burning Eye of Sauron (oh dear) whom we all know is the main antagonist, the truest villain of this trilogy - the Ring Wraiths being only the minor, yet still principal villains of the franchise, but just serving Sauron for his evil purposes of conquering and dominating the whole of Middle- Earth. But that's not all there is to say of positive. There's also that scene fight in the movie which takes place inside the Mines of Moria and finds the Wizard Gandalf opposing the fiery and monstrous Balrog, a devilish cinematic creation of first class, a true monster, and which is my favorite scene in the whole film and which for sure gotta be the best one in the film for anyone. I'm in love with that scene and it keeps playing back in my mind at times, particularly the moment in the beginning of the second movie already which curiously looks back at that scene specifically again and gives an extended insight of the aftermath of Gandalf's brave and ruthless one-stand fight against the Balrog, as we all witness his unexpected and tragic fate when he accidentally ends up falling down with the Balrog... and deep down you see him go, with the camera following closely all the way. This one I have to say really feels like a pure and iconic redefinition of a movie character's courageous and mortal sacrifice to save all others. Talking about that, the Ring also is something of a pure and iconic redefinition: a simple, innocent-like ring object, yet which carries the doom to befall the whole world and which must be destroyed in order to end all evil currently spreading. But that I believe is more obvious. Or is it? For further comments, I definitely praise the actor Ian MacKellen (is that how you spell his name?!) who shines in his performance as Gandalf, the memorable music, stunning cinematography, neat editing, grabbing opening narrative (with the right kind of voice) which really helps settle the mood for the viewers for when the plot starts to kick in, the film-mic look of JRR. Tolkien's Middle-Earth universe, subtle filming, and decent plotting. As you can clearly see for yourself, so many good things to point out about The Fellowship of the Ring. To Peter Jackson and his whole film-making crew that contributed to the making of this film, I say well done to them, for they all did an impressive job on this movie. They all worked well here. Keep it up. And for you guys, see you all in my next review for the sequel to The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers. I hope you enjoyed reading this review I just wrote. My rating for The Fellowship of the Ring: 7.0, 1 or 2/10
OK, so I'm 18 years old in a weeks time and am unashamed to admit that I've never read any of Tolkien's books nor even had the desire to. The truth is that I'm not particularly into all that magic Harry Potter stuff and would take the stark intensity of Chirstopher Nolan's Dark Knight trilogy over the Lord of the Rings any day. But after hearing such hype, especially from my favourite critic who often loves what I love, I thought the time had come to record them when they came on the TV. My plans were ceased from an orange man called Dale Winton, a program that my family would rather record than Lord of the Rings (they wouldn't even give it the time of day!) But fast-forward about 7 months later and there they are again on Channel 4, Christmas day, and so I stick the record on.I didn't really know what to expect, but after hearing all the unbelievable hype I was excited to take a trip to Middle Earth and see what was so amazing about it all! But unfortunately I came out watching a fun, if not occasionally dragging, swords and sorcery epic that did lose me on more than a couple of occasions. I enjoyed it enough to go and watch the other two, but was simply not blown away like everyone else. I enjoyed the opening narration about the origins of the ring and its wearer etc. I thought that it effectively transported the audience into another world which also had some rather breath-taking imagery. I also enjoyed the time at the shire where there was some very likable characters and surprising humour that did not go a miss! It was just once the hooded horsemen were introduced that things began to drag, and unsurprisingly in a three hour film. It began to lose me with its unnecessary complexity such as the encounter with Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee, that scene confused me and some of the dialogue also had me puzzled thanks to their wizardy speak such as, "We must retire to Mount Maduro" etc. I also felt that some characters and plot lines were unnecessary and detracted from the story, such as the elf woman who wasn't in it for long and didn't really have a lot to do, other than send a tidal wave to the hooded horsemen. The plot also went off on a tangent such as when they "enterted the realm of the witch". I didn't feel that there was any need for it and it just slowed down the pace that was beginning to pick up.It also takes quite a long time for the fellowship to actually be created, as it's from there that the adventure really begins and its at least mid-way through, if not over. However, there were a lot of good points about the film. The characters were very strong and I found myself forming attachments to them (not a euphemism). When one of them bit the dust, I did actually care! There are relationships which we can all relate to and it does help to drive the story along and make you care about their quest. There was also some breath-taking cinematography and scenery which really showed off the epic scope of the film. Some of the directing was also very impressive and memorable such as the sweeping shot over Christopher Lee's place.However, in a film with a three hour running time I did expect a little more action than I got! I also didn't think the action was that well handled, with shots being taken too close and too many quick cuts which make it hard to see what's going on. I'd say that there's more thrills and fun to be had in King Kong and that the action sequences in that are better handled. Hopefully we can see Peter Jackson mature as a director as the series goes on like Christopher Nolan did.In the end, it's down to personal preference. I'm not entirely into magic and fantasy, but the characters and underlying simple narrative makes the film relatable and very watchable. I expect more from the following two, as Fellowship did leave me feeling disappointed. I didn't find it as amazingly mind-blowing as everyone else, but maybe that's because I haven't read the book/s. I may enjoy them more if I set my expectations at a lower level, but nevertheless the spectacular imagery and set pieces do make this film memorable.


                
Visiting Middle Erath is an huge journey: it took 13 years to Tolkien to write it, almost 6 years to Jackson to shoot it. For me, LOTR knocks at my door every decade: I read the first book upon recommendation by a friend in high school in 1991 (without finishing the two others books). Then, i went to see this first adaptation in 2001 but it's only now, in 2010 that i have watched the entire trilogy, taking a day of vacation to do so: first between 7.00 and 10.00, the second between 11.00 to 14.00 and the third between 15.00 and 18.00 just in time to catch my holidays train at 19.40.I really have a like/dislike with this work: As it's fantasy, it's fascinating but Tolkien wrote it like history and it's as boring as school books. Consequently, i don't feel the same intensity of other fiction heroes (Harry Potter, Spiderman, ...). In other words, the story is too much about facts and lacks some passion, especially romances.Nevertheless, this first movie was a good moment and with the first Harry Potter, it made the year 2001, the second best Christmas movies ever, behind 1984 (Ghosbusters + Gremlins).The opening at the Shire really set the tone for the trilogy because it's the warmest and liveliest place in middle earth. After, all the locations goes grimier and grimier up until the dreadful Mordor. The appeal of this first movie, in addition to be the one that exposes the characters and places, is that it's the only one that reunites the fellowship. Thus, we don't find the separate stories that plagues the sequels and it's a harmonious flow. Another strong point of this movie is that we really appreciate the beauty of natural landscapes. Sure, the shoots are digitally enhanced later but at least, at the beginning, it's nature and not blue screen!


                
this was one of the best films that I have seen in the last couple of years. having read the hobbit, and over a period of years read the trilogy of the lord of the rings. not in my case an easy book to read but worth the effort. I was amazed at the way the film mirrored my thoughts on all the characters and scenes. definitely not an easy job considering the power of our imagination. special mention to the actors and special effects brill.............  have no hesitation in recommending this movie. maybe a bit much for the under 12's to sit through.


                
Now don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the movie. The story is incredible in book and on screen, but the Screen Adaptation was lackluster. The jokes and the drama were pretty cheezy in a lot of places. They still worked, but for a classic like the LOtR Trilogy I would hope for a more mature movie.And the cinematography was wretched. They repeated the same over-done, helicopter-circling-establishing-shot every time the fellowship came to a new location. The action scenes were largely shot in the hand-held, up close style and while I admit there is some use for this, it is hardly original, and I think we would prefer to actually SEE the action! And the character's sizes were all wacked out...I understand it was hard to make big people into little people, but for the amount of money put into this movie I think the sizes could have been constant.But as I said it was a great story, I loved watching the movie, I just wish it had been done by a more capable director+crew.


                
I have seen all the LotR movies several times now, and also the extended editions. And while the movies are fairly entertaining and have many beautiful scenes, I am generally not very impressed with them at all.They are generally filled with all the things *money can buy* - superb production values and master craftsmanship in many areas of technique and design -, but deplorably short on the things money *can't* buy, namely depth of characterization, good ideas and a well-balanced story structure. The characters are totally two-dimensional cardboards for whom it is incredibly difficult to feel anything at all, no matter how hard one tries. The translations of Tolkien's ideas are uninspired and predictably pedestrian. The storytelling frequently suffers from bad pacing. Building suspense is an art lost (or rather, never discovered) to Peter Jackson, so nothing becomes even remotely eerie or unsettling, though I'm sure today's young audiences think the tiresomely cheap shrieking effects of the Nazgul constitute proper creepiness.In short, the design efforts (all hail to Alan Lee) are gorgeous, but filmically speaking these movies are a study in cinematic blandness and sterility. Some of this may stem from Tolkien's original text, in which the characters are also almost total cardboards.But, I should also say some good things. Some of the actors are good, esp. Viggo and Orlando, and the guy who plays Faramir. And Ian McKellen, of course, and the splendid Andy Serkis. I also think Elijah Wood is right for the part of Frodo, but I have a problem with Frodo in these movies. He's always worried and tired and enooormously burdened. I can't enjoy watching him when he's constantly depressed like that! It's annoying and silly and ruins the character. I want at least a few scenes of him being happy! Being a proper Hobbit! Throughout these three movies he's just depressing to watch. Sigh.Sorry, on about the good things... The language. This is my single favorite part about these movies. Nary an American accent in sight! Superb phrasing, stunningly beautiful enunciation. Damn, Oliver Stone should have been paying attention to this when he did Alexander; with this quality of dialog and accents it would have been twice the movie it actually became. "Whether by your will or not, there is no ship now that can bear me hence." Whew, pure Shakespeare, mate! THAT'S impressive. And Théoden's last words: "[...] my ancestors, in whose mighty company I shall not now feel ashamed." Magnificent!The trilogy does improve a bit as it moves on. This is mainly due to the fact that much more time is spent on the really interesting parts, namely the political developments, the wars, intrigues, etc. The human lands and characters - not to mention the far superior human dialog - are by far the most interesting to me; after having watched the movies several times, I now utterly loathe the entire Hobbit part of the storyline, which I find totally boring. I am consistently compelled to fast forward through those parts. My Ratings: The Fellowship of the Ring: 5 out of 10. The Two Towers: 6 out of 10. The Return of the King: 7 out of 10.


                
I wonder how many Tolkien fans have praised The Lord of the Rings to their friends whilst secretly bemoaning the many narrative gaps, chronological and character errors introduced by the film-makers in an effort to keep the audience's attention? I'm not saying that this is a bad film, far from it; as a piece of theatre it is excellent, well acted, filmed, directed and scored. The problem for me, and several friends I spoke to, was that most of the time watching the film was spent counting the differences between the book and the film. Of course, such a long book as this would have to be greatly cropped to produce a watchable movie, but I felt that some of the disregarded scenes, (such as the journey through the Old Forest and meeting Tom Bombadil, or the Barrow Downs), could have been incorporated without much difficulty.


                
Spoilers herein.For some reason, IMDB dropped my original comment. Only Gandolf knows why. This is a slim replacement, but done after some time has passed. That distance is valuable.The game here is one that you can only lose. Books can tap the imagination in ways that film ruins because what you see constrains what you can imagine. The books were successful because they created a whole world in such a way that found niches in our ability to envision. The best that can be done is to amaze visually, not trample the actual story, and hope that distracts from the fact that something unbounded is now visually bounded forever.My original comment spoke to small compromises made in the film that make the pagan notions fit more clearly in a Christian context. That's likely what prompted the removing complaint, so I avoid repeating the mistake. But I will note how the women, Ms Blanchett and Tyler are photographed. They are so idealized (even for film!) that I sat impressed. The camera can construct beauty and imply so much more. They do so here, and many girls will struggle with these ideals in the future.I think the idealization of Cate adds one dimension to the story that wasn't quite in the book: Cate's magical pledge could be seen as creating a vision that is the entire rest of the story. I prefer this, seeing all the monsters and motivations as coming from this lovely magical queen's mind. Cate as Elizabeth, the magical queen that Spencer has as the Fairie Queen whose dreams define the world. This way, the imagination part of the project is made explicit.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.
I think I can watch this film a billion times and not get bored. Today I saw LOTR for the third time and I noticed a few details.


                
A great story with near proper intros for each character, convincing acting, and great cgi scenes. The film is quite long but people who like fantasy usually don't notice due to the complexity of the characters and constantly evolving story.


                
I watched first The Hobbit trilogy and for me was really good, i enjoyed a lot that movies, i saw the fellowship of the ring for first time a few hours ago and i really enjoyed the references about the past of Blibo, i think this movie don't has a lot of action and that's why for me is 7/10


                
RELEASED 2001 and directed by Peter Jackson, "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" adapts the first part of JRR Tolkien's popular fantasy trilogy about adventures on Middle-Earth. The story starts in the homeland of the Hobbits (innocent, diminutive humanoids) where Frodo (Elijah Wood) is instructed by the noble wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen) to quickly leave the Shire with the powerful One Ring in his possession. Gandalf and Frodo are later accompanied by seven others, the titular 'Fellowship of the Ring,' to take the ring to the only place it can be destroyed, the fires of Mount Doom in Mordor. The rest of the main cast include Sean Astin (Sam), Viggo Mortensen (Aragorn), Sean Bean (Boromir), Christopher Lee (Saruman), Orlando Bloom (Legolas), John Rhys-Davies (Gimli) and Hugo Weaving (Elrond). This three-hour fantasy features a diverse cast of colorful characters, quaint beings and settings, moments of genuine wonder, dark ee-vil creatures, high adventure, thrilling brutal action, a superb score, magnificent locations (forests, mountains, rivers, etc.), and wondrous CGI sets. The film LOOKS and SOUNDS so great that it'd be sinful to give it a lower rating. There are problems, however, at least for those who aren't uber-fans of Tolkien. For one, the opening is hindered by prologue that is overlong and convoluted, not to mention unnecessary. The bulk of it could've been conveyed later via flashback, which they do a little bit anyway. Secondly, the story takes forever to build any drive. Thirdly, except for maybe Frodo and Gandalf, the characters are shallow and I didn't care much what happened to them. Fourthly, main protagonists getting seriously wounded and everyone else expressing their melodramatic concern gets redundant. Fifthly, there are only two females in the main cast (Liv Tyler as Arwen, a half-Elf princess, and Cate Blanchett as Galadriel, a royal Elf); unfortunately, their parts aren't much more than glorified cameos. "Mythica: A Quest for Heroes" (2014) cost LESS THAN $100,000 to make, which is a mere fraction of the $93 million it cost to make this blockbuster and the filmmakers knew enough to include a couple of prominent babes as key protagonists in the story. Despite these negatives, "The Fellowship of the Ring" is the best of the trilogy and is a must for fantasy/adventure aficionados, especially Tolkien fans.THE MOVIE RUNS 2 hours 58 minutes and was shot in New Zealand. GRADE: B/B- (6.5/10)


                
Good movie that does the book justice, aside from the ending that just doesn't happen in the book. Good cinematography and good decisions about what to keep and take out from the book, along with good acting and fast-moving plot keep it from being a drag despite the length and make it a fun but unexceptional fantasy and action movie.


                
Breathtaking. Unique. Captivating. Enchanting.Within minutes of the start of this first chapter of an undeniably epic trilogy, the audience was left gasping at the intensity of the images on the screen. And we had nearly three hours to go.The scope of Tolkien's masterpiece may have eluded film-makers for decades, but director Peter Jackson makes good on his promise: he has not only brought us the tale of Frodo and his bold companions, he has brought us Middle Earth. And believe me, it is BIG. Sweeping vistas and hang-onto-your-seat camera shots send us zooming through the towering cities and citadels of Tolkien's imagination.But even more impressive than the stunning visuals and sound- effects-like-you've-never-heard-before are the actors who breathe life into the characters. Ian McKellen's portrayal of Gandalf is nothing short of awe-inspiring, and Elijah Wood's Frodo is one of the most unexpectedly captivating performances I've seen in a long time. The despair, terror, and determination of the Fellowship is all there, in spades. I left the theater aching...from tensing every muscle during the fight and flight sequences--the breathless and compelling kind we haven't seen since Spielberg gave us a desperate charge onto the D- Day beaches of Normandy.Those unfamiliar with Tolkien's world may quickly find themselves lost in it, but happily so. The depth of his creation cannot be grasped in a few hours, and it doesn't need to be; the struggle of good against evil explodes on the screen, and leaves little room for complaint.The movie ended with a stunned audience sitting on the edges of their seats, feeling somewhat bereft. We were exhausted, but no one wanted to wait a year for more.Jackson's ambitious first chapter is truly unlike anything you've seen this year. George Lucas and Chris Columbus take note: this is how you deliver on a cinematic promise.


                
Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring (2001): Dir: Peter Jackson / Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Sean Astin, Liv Tyler: Here at long last is a much anticipated showcase about the uniting of good to conquer evil. The plot regards a ring severed off the finger of a demonic figure and the quest to destroy it. Despite its glorious production values and a detailed screenplay it is still hinder when arriving at a sudden cliff-hanger ending. Director Peter Jackson captures the spirit of the material with extraordinary visual effects. Ian McKellen delivers a compelling performance as Gandalf the wizard out to guide Hoblit Frodo in his quest to destroy the ring. Gandalf is imprisoned by a demonic adversary but escapes. As Frodo Elijah Wood is to put the ring on in the midst of danger because it renders him invisible. He received the ring as a gift before being warned of its power. From there he is sent on a quest to destroy the ring while avoiding its magical temptations. Viggo Mortensen as future King Aragon is a warrior who accompanies the Hobbits to a violent standoff with ogres. Sean Astin plays Frodo's friend Sam who will be his strong right arm. Liv Tyler plays a princess and Aragon's romantic interest. In the end it is a triumphant visual effects that bring the book to life but it acts mainly as a fellowship in Hollywood overspending. Score: 7 / 10
Frodo Baggins inherits his uncle's magic ring, which is the long- lost Ring of Power, which belonged to Sauron, the lord of evil. After this breeches-soiling revelation, Frodo embarks on a journey to take the ring to the elves of Rivendell. Once there, it is decided to form a small group to toss the ring into a volcano. From the outset of this quest, the party is beset by misadventure from blizzards to orcs to ancient demons.This is more or less a faithful representation of Tolkien's signature work in film form. While there are some continuity and pacing issues, they are relatively minor (though fairly numerous). However, the writing was decent and they packed as much of the book as they could into the movie. The scenery shots were absolutely beautiful and the effects were not overblown.In the end, I enjoyed this movie and it seemed like everyone was doing their jobs the best they could given the volume of material they were working with. While I do fault the writing and editing somewhat, there's only so much that can be done to compress that much narrative into a movie.
When this film came out I really thought wow! What a film! And it really is! I enjoyed everything, from beginning to the end! There are really a lot of reviews for this film, there is not much to add.Film is excellent, visual effects too, plot is fantastic and film keeps you glood to the screen! I wanted to watch the second and third film, but I had to wait second and third year for it although all three were made at the same time.The whole map was interesting of different worlds they created.Fight between good and evil!Good wins!Must see!


                
This movie is geared to the adventurer in all of us. Those who are 7 and older and like to fantasize about different worlds here on earth will enjoy this movie. We are introduced to not only to hobbit land, but also to magical elf land. We meet Frodo and Sam, the heroes of the Lord of the Rings. However, in this version we believe that Sam is more of an annoyance than an ultimate hero. We meet the saviors of men from evil who become the fellowship of the ring with Gandalf as the guide, but not the conqueror. While reading the book, I had no idea how the scene with Gandalf and the mountain terror could ever make it on the big screen. However, it was good. The ending of the movie was like the beginning of another adventure, one which I could not hardly wait for the next in the series of Lord Of The Rings film. This movie is wondrously entertaining and truly a joy to watch.


                
I can remember back over twenty years ago when I first saw a Peter Jackson movie. It was his splatter comedy Bad Taste. Not long after that I saw his anti-Muppets film Meet The Feebles which funnily enough was in even worse taste. And that was followed by his bigger budgeted but insanely gory horror-comedy Brain Dead. Now, if someone had said to me right then that Jackson would be given the task of helming one of the most prestigious, expensive and elaborate film franchises ever less than a decade later I would have asked them if they'd taken their daily medication. It was surely on the basis of his later – and still best - film Heavenly Creatures that Jackson must surely have got the gig. That one incorporated some nice fantasy visuals into its story. But even taking that into account it's still a surprise he got to direct Lord of the Rings. But it's a good thing that he did because clearly this is a film made with an extreme level of loving care and Jackson seems to have more or less pleased the rabid fans of the books. Which is pretty remarkable all things considered.I still haven't seen the third part of the trilogy which is clearly something I have to get around to doing soon but I get the distinct impression that this first part is the one I am ultimately going to favour the most. Whereas The Two Towers has that tricky middle part syndrome, it also is as much about an epic battle scene as anything else, in The Fellowship of the Ring clearly the recreation and exploration of Middle-Earth is the main selling point. And I suppose this is the key to this opening act being so decent. The detailed artistic recreations of The Shire, Rivendell, Moria, Lothlorien and Mordor are remarkably well done. They offer a great contrast of fantasy visuals and complaining about them just seems a bit churlish. On top of that, we are introduced to a very good ensemble cast. Every actor is chosen well for the role. Possibly with the exception of Legolas (a bit bland) and Gimli - or MacGimli as I like to call him on account of his ludicrous Scottish accent – who I simply found rather amazingly annoying. But this is a minor complaint in the grand scheme of things. Overall, this is a pretty fine cinematic rendering of Tolkien's fantasy world.


                
