In this movie, form is more important that function. We go from one pointless subplot to the other just so that we can see these wonderful and enchanting images of worlds we have never seen. The movie never comes together because the creators (director, etc) are too busy making sure they create beautiful images and scenarios. I don't see it as a poetic anti war movie. The book may do that, but this movie is not about anything. In the UK version it is not clear why Howl gives his heart to calcifer. It is not clear why Howl, knowing all his problems would be solved by putting his heart back in, doesn't do it --hey, the heart was always there! It is not clear why the witch of the waste wanted Howl's heart. And it is not clear why the Sophie's mother all of the sudden appears in the movie in the place where she used to live. What happened to the hat shop that it was empty for them to move back in. Pointless. I hate it when artists think form is more important than communicating with audiences.
Sometimes reviews assume lives of their own. That seems to be the most plausible reason this film has received so much praise. Yes, it is very visual at times. At other times not so impressive. For example the fire in the castle could have been drawn by a talented fourth grader. But the real elephant in room everyone seems to be overlooking is this film has a very confused, hard to follow plot. In fact the director, Hayao Miyazaki, has as much said he agrees. So why do people sit through a film they really can't make heads or tails of and sing it's praise? Well, probably because you're supposed to. Slapp on the artsy title of animie and Miyazaki's name and you have critics falling over themselves to sing it's praise. I suspect the average movie goer will not be happy with Howl's Moving Castle. When you pay almost $10.00 per ticket you don't really care about credentials, you want to be entertained. And watching visuals just goes so far before you know you've been snookered. Instead, rent "The Triplets of Belleville" if you want to see creative animation at it's best.


                
I've seen some bad butchery of good books before, but really, this is the WORST I have ever seen. I love the book, but the film, I truly truly hated it. It had the same names of some of the characters and places - is about the ONLY resemblance to the book. The rest, its completely different. The characters have no real motivation for their actions, other than that its what the script told them. The continuity is *terrible* (I don't mean Sophie morphing randomly between old and young, I understand that, I mean, how come howl can fly at the start and at the end he can only fly when some weird bird thing). It loses the whole part of howl being cursed by the witch, you never know WHY calcifer makes his deal with howl, WHY the scarecrow is following Sophie, and what IS it with all the huge war vehicles with massive guns? This isn't dominion tank police - but you'd be forgiven for thinking it was. They have nothing to do with the original book, but suddenly, we have to have a huge war with giant flying robot ships, or its just not anime. If I hadn't been with other people in the cinema (who also all hated it BTW) I would have walked out.
This should have been titled Dageurotype. It is nothing but a series of images, though even dageurotype was more than that. To make matters worse, many of the images seem to have come off the cutting room floor of Sen to Chihiro. I haven't read the book, but the derivative nature of the images makes it hard to believe this is really based on someone else's book.Derivative didn't we see Chihiro and Haku run through a field of flowers? Wait, Sofi and Hauru do it too.Didn't Haku turn into a snarling dragon and suffer multiple bloody wounds? Wait, Hauru turns into a snarling bird of prey and suffers multiple bloody wounds.Don't I remember a scene where Haku's scales fly off him one-at-atime as he turns from a dragon. Wait, Hauru's bird shows the same effect.Wasn't there some cute, strange little character following Sen around? Wait, now it's a dog.Wasn't there an obese bad witch and an obese pretty nice witch in Sen to Chihiro? Wait, now there's an obese bad witch who turns into an obese pretty nice witch.Weren't there blob men in Sen to Chihiro? Here they are again. These guys never stop working.The list goes on & on.Opaque & Incoherent So, what is up with this witch liking to chew on hearts? And, why was it Hauru ran off with her & then ran away? I mean, she's a hot ticket, but was it a one-night stand or what? NO indication. So, Sofi really wants to break her spell & the way to do it is to break the contract between Hauru & Calcifer. So, why does she spend NO time over the next hour trying to decipher the contract? And, why does she tell Calcifer that "Suliman told me Hauru gave you something", when Suliman said nothing of the kind? Wassup wid dat? Who are these 2 countries? Why are they at war? Who cares? We're just supposed to be so disgusted at the bloodshed that we ignore the bloodless story. Where the heck did Markl come from? Does he need to be home for dinner? Is he one of the "lost boys"?Amazingly enough, the ending is worse than the rest.
Man, this film blows! After the awesome Spirited Away and spectacular Princess Mononoke, I watched this piece of junk and lost my faith in Miyazaki. I hope the old fart goes to retirement and lets his son carry on the legacy (or what's left of it). This might be a good movie to introduce yourself to Miyazaki/Studio Ghibli movies, but after seeing some other films, you will understand how bad this really is... (I heard that it is better the second time you see it... Maybe in a couple of months, I'll have another look..) That's about all I have to say about this film, but there seems to be a 10 line minimum of text to be written, so the rest of my review is just useless babble and complete waste of time... So... I would like to end this review by sticking a finger up my nose.


                
I just got back from Japan. Ghibli's new movie has been out for almost 2 months. The reviews are not good. More interestingly, a few bad reviews from famous reviewers say roughly "not a good movie, hard to follow, but Ghibli does make bad movies ... just look at Hauru, that had the same problems this one has." These are from reviewers who did not dare give Hauru a bad review. Now the truth is out.Congrats to yipidee, who said "I honestly believe a lot of people think that if they don't enjoy a Miyazaki film they're wrong, and therefore say it's great no matter what. This film is the best example of it." Right on, yipidee.Congrats to lippp, who said "why do people sit through a film they really can't make heads or tails of and sing it's praise? Well, probably because you're supposed to. Slapp on the artsy title of animie and Miyazaki's name and you have critics falling over themselves to sing it's praise." Right on, lippp.Congrats to badtobono, who said "incoherent ... nothing but a series of images ... derivative". This is exactly what the new reviews are saying about both movies.Sometimes it takes a few years for people to speak the truth.


                
I don't have much to say about the movie reiterating the points of the plot as already explained by comments below, other than the fact that I thought it cannot be possible to top or even equal the top-notch quality and subliminally emotional power of the magic fantasy hybrid of the Grimm Brothers, Lewis Carroll & Japanese folklore in Spirited Away.Howl's Moving Castle retains some of Hayao Miyazaki's magic in storytelling and animation but it's not certainly his best. In fact, it's his worst since the embarrassingly contrived Kiki's Delivery Service.It seems to me that the strange mess of Howl's Moving Castle confirms there is a theoretical pattern that Miyazaki does his best when he creates original stories inspired by the fantastic works of European & Asian literature and turn out fantastic animated films and manga, but his skills do not translate well in the attempted adaptation of previous published works.Don't get me wrong; I have a great deal of admiration for Mr. Miyazaki. Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind comic book series is a worthy companion piece to C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien's famous epic literacy works. He has an incredibly imaginary mind with the penchant for telling outlandish stories reminiscent of Aesop and Hans Christian Anderson. That's the only positive compliment I have for Howl's Moving Castle in spite of its mind-bendingly glaring story and character development flaws.The story as written by Mr. Miyazaki (I watched the Japanese version with English subtitles instead of awful-sounding English dub) starts all right. . .then it became a confounding mess leading to the bizarre ending that feels rushed as though the production schedule had to be fulfilled on time in time for a projected theatrical release. Tim Burton's horrible 2001 re-make of Planet of the Apes suffered the same "rushed production" effect and this lesson remains unlearned.A further production delay with Miyazaki's storyboard revision to iron out the problems might have improved the ending and clarify some plot points and character development to keep the story consistent, but that wasn't the option. Studio Ghibli and its subcontractors came close to missing the production deadline for Spirited Away (as tensely explained in a documentary as an extra on Region 1 DVD) but miraculously turned out a masterpiece right on schedule.So Howl's Moving Castle, however visually pleasant, falters in the second and third act in terms of marginal storytelling. The film resorts to Miyazaki's scenarios that border on the incomprehensibly bizarre towards the closing. Not to mention the fact the movie carry the sledgehammer approach to delivering the main theme. It's better to be subliminal than to be so screeningly obvious it becomes annoying that may inspire "who cares?" apathy at the end when the two-hour ordeal is over.I get the point, Studio Ghibli. Try to be coherent and subtle in the next Miyazaki production, please.The last third of the movie embodies the term "deus ex machina". Look the phrase up in a dictionary. That's why the movie is an abominable mess that render the plot incomprehensible that rely on overactive imagination to move the movie along to unsustainable and unnecessarily overlong length. The Neverending Story this movie ain't. It probably isn't faithful to the source material, either.* out of four, courtesy of a very disappointed Miyazaki fan.


                
I did not like this movie because it was hard to follow. I think the movie would have been a whole much better if Sofi, the main character, did not change almost every different scene. I also did not like the plot very much.The plot was hard to follow because there was a door that opened up to four different places.When someone knocked on the door they turned to the color-coded-place and happened to know which place the person was knocking from. I am sure my friends, who were watching Hauru no ugoku shiro with me, did not enjoy this movie entirely. I am not against the movie, but there are some holes the could have covered up. I liked the Japanese animation. So if you like anime and manga, this is a great movie for you.
While I enjoyed the animation and the style of the film, about an hour into it I became increasingly uncomfortable as the true roles of the characters began to emerge. I found the final plot to be somewhat incoherent and very problematic in terms of reinforcing negative gender stereotypes and un-empowering gender roles. For example, why is the main female character and an additional female character attracted to Howl when he is never around, highly volatile and outrageously needy? Why does the main female character give up her hat business to clean his castle? Why are age and weight the predominate indicators of social disgust and unattractiveness? Why does Howl's big scene displaying his love for the main character consist of little more than buying her gifts and showing off his power? Why is the broomstick the most considerate, caring male character in the picture and also the one that no one wants to be in love with? I have very little experience with children's films, but would like to think that a theater full of attentive, undiscerning children would be an arena that demanded a higher level of responsibility in terms of presenting characters that empower the viewers as opposed to propagate oppressive stereotypes.
