Having little experience in the Anime realm, I have to admit I'm probably not the most knowledgeable reviewer to examine a film such as this. But what I DO feel I'm fairly qualified to do is to evaluate stories. Animated or not, films are a valued method of reaching out to viewers and creating entertainment.Although HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE had some great animation and interesting concepts, the story was so nonsensical in so many places that I found myself shaking my head wondering why I was watching it.The story (if I'm not mistaken) is about Sophie, a young milliner (hatmaker) who lives a mundane life until she's afflicted by a curse put upon her by the (initially) evil Witch of the Waste. The curse comes in the form of age, turning Sophie instantly from a vibrant young girl into a ancient old hag. In order to break the spell, she must find Howl and his moving castle. But with the curse comes the added insult that she cannot tell anyone about it. So once our heroine meets up with Howl, she's unable to tell him what she needs and instead becomes the moving castle's housekeeper.Within the house she finds a young boy who wants to be just like Howl. She also meets and befriends the power that helps keep Howl's castle constantly on the go: a type of fire called Calcifer. And with the castle comes a multitude of problems: Howl's carelessness and difficulties of "the heart", a war against outside forces, and the threat of the Witch of the Waste.Again, the animation in the film was great. It was excellently colored and moved in an almost Van Goghish fashion across the screen. But oh the story! There's never an explanation given as to the war that is constantly circling this strange land. Why and how it got started are never fully explained, even though much screen time is given to the machines of war. Why and how the young boy who lives in Howl's castle came to be there are never explained either. Nor is any explanation given to the powers of Calcifer, the fire that drives the castle (the ending touches on it slightly but very ineffectually.) There are plenty of other non-sequiturs but those are the biggest. Too bad, really, as there were some great voices amongst the cast ...from Christian Bale, Billy Crystal and Lauren Bacall just to name a few.I don't mind films that leave a certain amount of exposition up to the viewers interpretation, but there needs to be some rhyme and/or reason for the basic constructs of a movie. HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE left me howling for too many explanations.


                
Up to and including "Spirited Away", the animated films by Studio Ghibli are of a high standard both technically and in spirit. With "Howl's Moving Castle", the soulful quality of the earlier films that peaked with "Princess Mononoke" disappears and what we get is an empty shell of a story that exploits typical Studio Ghibli motifs and themes and the studio's technical virtuosity. All the familiar devices of earlier films – a young female protagonist on the verge of adulthood, elderly women, a flawed hero with shamanic characteristics, heroes and villains manipulated by more powerful characters of uncertain quality, sophisticated flying technology in an alternative 19th-century steampunk world – are worked over in a fantasy aimed (cynically it seems to me) at a mainstream Western audience and the result looks very cheesy and manipulative with an ulterior message that superficially celebrates female bravery but channels it into socially restrictive roles.The story's heroine is a plain-jane working-class hat-maker called Sophie who accidentally meets a young wizard Howl and so arouses the jealousy of the Witch of the Waste who turns her into an old woman. Sophie runs away and meets a scarecrow called Turnip who takes her to Howl's over-sized trailer-park home. Here she meets a fire demon called Calcifer and Howl's child assistant Markl. Sophie insinuates herself into Calcifer, Markl and Howl's lives by claiming to be a cleaning-woman and through her association with the unlikely trio, is drawn into a war between Howl's country and an enemy realm missing its Crown Prince; during the film's course the war also moves into Sophie's country. Howl is forced to participate in this war at the cost of eventually losing his humanity through repeated transformations into a bird creature. Sophie comes to realise that Howl and the Witch of the Waste are pawns of more powerful forces, represented in part by Madame Suliman, the former mentor of Howl, and Sophie's work for the rest of the film is cut out trying to locate Howl's missing heart, the mysterious connection between Howl and Calcifer, ending the war and locating the missing Crown Prince.Working out all the different strands of the film and connecting them together might take viewers 2 – 3 viewings which would expose them to an excess of saccharine musical schmaltz and a deadly "love conquers all" radiation cloud in the tradition of Beauty-and-the-Beast stories. I think if I had to sit through this film again, my hair and teeth will start falling out, my skin will break out into ulcers and bruises will mysteriously appear and spread. Characters are poorly developed and the love Sophie feels for the feckless Howl is so unbelievable as to be laughable; she would have been better off taking her chances with Turnip who performs a noble act of voluntary self-sacrifice in comparison with Howl who fights because he is compelled to, not out of free will.The war merely forms a backdrop to the events and all the various characters can do is try to stop it without understanding anything about the lead-up to it and why Suliman forces Howl to do her dirty work; or participate in it. Even the animation of the war and its participants looks like a cut-and-paste job of previous Miyazaki / Studio Ghibli films like "Nausicaa of the Valley of Winds", "Porcorosso", "Laputa: Castle in the Sky" and "Princess Mononoke": several flying machines look like those giant bug monsters of "Nausicaa <U+0085>" with wing-flaps added as an afterthought. Backgrounds are visually gorgeous at first but turn out to be generic according to the role they have to play so, for example, town scenes have a dreamy alternative-universe quality similar to scenes in "Kiki's Delivery Service" which takes place in a similar alternative 1950s universe that might well follow on in the future from "Howl's Moving Castle".The film is too long and its story is too intricate to work as a family film, the characters are shallow and implausible, the animation is cynically overwhelming and unoriginal. Worst of all is the film's message about what happens to girls eventually: they get to play brave heroines for a brief while and once they are adults, they can be either beautiful scheming bitches like Suliman or domestic-goddess workaholics like the geriatric Sophie slaving away for love. Issues like the nature of war – Miyazaki made the movie partly in protest at the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 – are sidelined so much that all the eye- blinking in the world couldn't make them more missed. No way in the world would I recommend this film for families with young daughters. I feel so cheated having seen it.


                
There is a lot of very high praise being thrown about in these reviews, which I can only imagine is coming from Miyazaki fans who automatically love anything that he does. Because while this animated feature is an admirable piece of visual art, it lacks any other redeemable traits.The plot is nonsensical and full of loose ends (and loose beginnings). The characters behave in frustratingly random and unexplained ways. The core plot points are half-baked. And the ending is truly terrible. As I neared the end of this overly long story, I was just wishing it would be over already, and when the end did come, it seemed as though the director was in just as much of a hurry for it to end as I was. The ending felt rushed and corny, with a good dose of deus ex machina which still failed to bring sense to the plot.Read the book - it's pretty good. But give this movie a miss.


                
Don't fool yourself--Despite sharing a name, the movie is more pastiche then adaptation. I deeply like both Miyazaki and Howl's Moving Castle. I found their combination to be jarring and distressing. If you've read the book, spare yourself and don't see the movie. I expected to see an animated adaption of the book and instead was treated to the disconcerting experience of seeing familiar characters, lines, and places juxtaposed with little or no reference for the original story. Minor points within the book become key to the plot of the movie, and major events/characters in the book fail to appear at all.Howl's Moving Castle is not an especially deep book. It's a fairy-tale about a girl under a spell, and how she saves a wizard from an evil witch (and from himself). It's half a reversed 'Sleeping Beauty' crossed with a marriage comedy. But the movie plays the romantic theme very strongly, and brings in a theme about the how destructive and pointless war is, which was in no way present in the book. It is almost as if the director became disoriented and wrote the second half of the movie as a pastiche of another of Miyazaki's movies, 'Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind', which develops the same theme very strongly.Watching this movie has really degraded my opinion of Miyazaki. I enjoyed both Spirited Away and Princess Mononoke, as well as a variety of Studio Ghibli short films and had a general positive impression of Miyazaki. But as I see more films, I am reminded of H.P. Lovecraft's stories: While Lovecraft wrote well, he only ever wrote one story. Everything he wrote was a variant on that one story. It appears it may be the same for Miyazaki. Each film offers less, because you have, in essence, seen it before.


                
I'm pretty sure you have to be a) a child, b) completely brain dead, c) on many many hard drugs to make sense of probably all the Japanese movies I've ever seen.I give it a 3 for graphics.The only Japanese anime that I have even come close to liking so far is some episodes of Cowboy Bebop. Is there something wrong with me? What am I missing, people?Suggestions, please! Are there any Japanese movies out there that would appeal to my "westernized" mind? I live in Hawaii, so I literally constantly find myself surrounded by Japanese people.


                
