"Howl's Moving Castle" opened here in France on Jan. 12th (as "Le Château Ambulant," natch), and I saw it at an avant-première. As a raving fan of Miyazaki and of Diana Wynne Jones, I feel lucky to be an American living in France -- I see there's no release date announced yet for the U.S. Sorry, folks, and blame Disney! I understand the feelings of viewers who have criticized the movie as trite. I find it's less imaginative, in terms of character development and emotional profundity, than Miyazaki's best masterpieces. However, even a pedestrian Miyazaki movie is infinitely more rich, frightening, imaginative and humane than any six Disney films put together, and there's a lot to love in "Howl's Moving Castle." I am glad I didn't reread Jones' book before seeing the film; even going on my six-year-old memory of the novel, I can see the movie's a very loose adaptation, and I think Jones fans would do best to try to take the movie on its own merits instead of looking for a faithful adaptation. That said, Miyazaki is surprisingly successful, at moments, in capturing the richness of the novel's characters: the peculiar co-habitation of charm and terror in Howl the sorcerer and his demon companion Calcifer, and the pragmatic strength of will that makes us love Sophie, the protagonist, who embodies both the fairy-tale archetypes of the young girl and the old woman at once.Miyazaki's directorial trademarks are here in spades. Most of them lend strength and power to the film: his passion for open landscapes, his vision of the power and horror of war, the uncompromised way his movies work to empower children, and especially girls. A few of them are just Miyazaki quirks that fans will recognize with amusement (walrus mustaches, cobbled European squares, and flying machines for everyone!) Richer and stranger, though, are the very successful integration of two things that Disney animation never even approaches: the way even a children's story can blur lines between an enemy and a friend, and the cohabitation of the monstrous and the sublime. Enemy, ally, monster, beloved: Miyazaki gives both visual and moral weight to these disturbing contradictions, and certain scenes in "Howl's Moving Castle" evoke a frightening sublimity I have never seen elsewhere than in "Princess Mononoke." I think the film suffers from a slightly hurried pace, especially with respect to the protagonists' character development, and the result is a loss of the subtlety that makes Jones' book such a gripping fairy tale. Her Howl is more ambivalent, and her story is a more complex investigation of adolescent heartlessness and the growth of the heart. The ending, which falls back too much on clichéd imagery and deus-ex-machina, also could have been better handled. All that said, "Howl's Moving Castle" contains lots of treasures and will, I think, stand up to repeated viewings. Miyazaki fans will be delighted, and kids around the world should be given the chance to taste this latest rich, respectful children's tale. (Be warned, though: there are moments as terrifying as those in "Princess Mononoke," and younger kids will need their parents with them.) On a final note, as few hardcore fans of Japanese anime will need to be reminded, the movie is doubtless best seen in its original version with subtitles. The Japanese voice acting is terrific -- although the voice of "young Sophie" doesn't strike me as anything special, the actors playing the aged Sophie, Howl, and especially Calcifer are fantastic. Calcifer is a magnificent creation and should delight even the most conservative fan of the novel. I have serious doubts that the inevitable English-language dub will do the nuances justice.


                
I'm a big fan of Miyazaki's work, and having seen everything else he's done, I had to see Howl as soon as I could locate a subtitled version. Unfortunately, I must rank it among his weaker efforts. It's certainly not a BAD film - I don't think the man is capable of that - but after the brilliance of Mononoke, and Spirited Away, I was disappointed.The big problem, putting it bluntly, is that the movie makes no sense. It's possible the fansub I was watching mangled it, but I can't imagine a way for the script to be written to make the events cohesive. It takes the dream-logic of Spirited Away, but takes it to a point that it becomes nearly impossible to get "into" the movie. With Spirited, you always felt like there were rules to the world, even if as an outsider you didn't understand them. This never seemed the case with Howl.Furthermore, Miyazaki seems to have dipped into his bag of stock tricks a bit too often. There's little in here that you haven't seen in some form in his previous films. There doesn't appear to be anything new he has to say with this film, it's just retreading the themes that have run throughout his work. I could easily forgive Mononoke as being a thematic remake of Nausicaa, since I feel his message had grown sufficiently in the decade separating those films to be worth repeating. That's not the case here.But, as I said, it's still not a bad film. I suspect people who haven't seen all of Miyazaki's canon will find it quite enjoyable. The richness and nuance of his character animation continues to grow. No one makes more expressive animated figures than Miyazaki, and the characters alone nearly carry the film. And supported by another wonderful score by Joe Hisaishi, as in all of Miyazaki's works, there are moments of staggering beauty rarely seen in films of any genre or style.And despite the incomprehensibility of the plot, he makes it compelling and watchable, even as you have no clue what's going on or why.So, I give the movie an above-average rating and a recommendation, simply on the strength of being a Miyazaki film. The worst of his movies is still better than just about anything else out there. But the purists are likely to be a bit disappointed.


                
Having seen Spirited Away I came to this movie with high expectations. However those were slightly dampened by again seeing the Disney brand attached to this man's wonderful work. I have browsed a lot of sites, reviews, etc to see if anybody else came away from this movie with the same impression as me and so far I have not seen any similar views. Maybe some of this site's users can give me some feedback. The references to The Wizard of Oz are numerous and obvious and yet there seems to be a subtext here that is not so much explained by The Wizard of Oz but is more in keeping with a Japanese man who knows his work will be distributed by a major American company. The images of war and aerial bombings are not in keeping with a treatment of Oz and it is only when you view the "Wicked Witch of the Waste" in her powerless state with her bulbous, purple nose puffing on a cigar that only one character comes to mind. Winston Churchill! This movie to me is a Japanese viewpoint on World War II. When viewed in this light even the blob-men who come out at night during bombings take on a cancerous appearance that echoes the mutations suffered by generations of Japanese civilians post Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Even the main character, Howl, suffers a struggle of duality where he was once blonde, beautiful and pure but is increasingly in danger of turning into a large black bird due to his increasing involvement in war. The more this movie continues the more his bird-form resembles the black eagle of Nazi Germany. To me this movie is an attempt to explain the duality of Japan's involvement in the war. Continue to fight and end up as the fascist state of the southern hemisphere or withdraw and yield to the inevitable revenge bombings of the US as retaliation for Pearl Harbour. You may call me mad but there are many more instances to support this theory scattered throughout the movie and that is why I don't think this is a great movie. It is too concerned with making a heartfelt point while dressing it up in a more superficial wrapping as a Wizard of Oz-like commentary on age and beauty. However, this is probably the most subversive movie we will see for many a time.
Having waited eagerly for "Howl's Moving Castle" ever since I learned Miazaki was directing it I have to say I was disappointed. In my opinion this is the worst of all Miazaki's films. Please don't get me wrong, this is a really good movie. It was enjoyable and technically beautiful. The animation couldn't have been better, and at times even verge on genius. The character of Sofi moves so naturally from the young girl to the old woman that you completely believe that they are one person. Sometimes you will catch a turn of the old woman's face and see the perfect reflection of the young girl that is trapped inside. This is something only the greatest of artists can accomplish.Where the movie breaks down is in it's mishmash of a plot and it's few likable characters. Other than the love story going on here the plot is hollow and lacks any motivation. It seems like there's a whole lot going on in the background that we need to know for it to make sense. Everything is ambiguous, and nothing is ever tied up to any real satisfaction. Then, suddenly a plot point will jump out, make an appearance, and never be resolved. I find this unfortunate.It's sad when of all the characters in the story the one that makes the biggest impression on me is Hin the dog. This weird little mutt steals every scene he's in! Oh, I think the characters of Sofi and the Witch of the Waste are well developed (particularly the Witch of the waste) but other than that I couldn't get involved with anyone. Even Howl seemed one dimensional and lack lustered. It doesn't help that I was forced to endure Disney's typically poor translation and awful cast. With the notable exceptions of Jean Simmons and Lauren Bacall I thought the casting uninspired. Billy Crystal is particularly bad. He takes what should be, and is, a very important character to the story and makes a poor joke out of it. Un-funny and unsympathetic, he almost single handedly ruined the film for me.As a Followup to "Spirited Away" this movie was a disappointment for me, but even though I consider it Miazaki's worst film you must consider the caliber of his other films. Everything he touches is magic. The worst Miazaki film is still far superior to almost everything else comparable. This could easily be one of the 5 best movies of the year, however the competition isn't that great.It's worth seeing.


                
Note 1: I saw the Japanese dubNote 2: I would like to clarify that I am not a Studio Ghibli fan. I have liked most of their movies ("Porco Rosso"; "The Tale of the Princess Kaguya") and loved some ("The Wind Rises," "Spirited Away," "When Marnie Was There," "Grave of the Fireflies") and disliked one ("My Neighbor Totoro")Though not as marvelous nor stunning as other Ghibli works I loved/liked, the wonderful characters, world and animation of "Howl's Moving Castle" make up for the not-so-great story and slow start.


                
I think I am one of those stark staring mad Miyazaki lunatics who owns a copy of almost everything he has made... but for me this movie was a disappointment for various reasons that have been already said by many others here. Lack of new ideas (almost every trick, character, face, music passage not to mention a style) and on the other hand lots more of syrup and pathos instead of openness and sincerity. It felt more like a "Hollywood Blockbuster" than any of his previous masterpieces - though some have had hints of it here and there. Laputa comes to mind.Again, as others have mentioned, everything is relative. Regardless of its drawbacks, it is still Miyazaki with most of the greatness this inevitably implies. Disney still can't touch this and it still was great to watch.It's just... that I will still prefer to watch Totoro or Kiki or Spirited Away all over again instead of this one. These three are and will remain timeless classics for me I guess.


                
This is my first Studio Ghibli film and then I realised why people revere the studio. The animation is quite beautiful.


                
About a bazillion other people have already given a detailed summary of the film so I don't need to go there.The good: The animation! I thought it was simply brilliant. There were some background scenes (inside the castle) that were painted photo realistically, yet as a viewer, I did not find them jarring with the foreground characters at all. Also, the CGI elements blended in perfectly.The bad: Plot? What plot? The plot didn't make much sense.On the whole, the lack of plot didn't effect me much at all because I was too busy putting myself in Sophie's shoes or else ogling at the amazing animation. This movie had me on a very emotional level.Other interesting little tidbits: There were many similarities between this and my other favourite Miyazaki film- Laputa: Castle in the Sky. Some of the scenes seemed to be updated shots from Laputa. In fact, I had a sneaking suspicion that the two films were set in the same alternative universe. And I wasn't in the least bit surprised when Pazu (from Laputa) made a very brief appearance about 20 minutes into the film. Catch him if you can.Conclusion: Don't expect a coherent plot line. Just keep your eyes open and enjoy.
I'm not a good fan of anime. Like the fantasy, the background, but don't like too much the style of characters. Miyazaki is one of the best of genre, so it's difficult not to like this movie.Sophie is an ordinary teen with no self steam. Meets Howl, the hero, the wizard, the handsome man. Jealous, a witch turns Sophie to an old lady. The story continues through magic kingdoms, goddess, demons and wars.Like a fairy tale, Miyazaki criticizes war, jealousy, vanity, but storyboard could be better. Animation is great, with a huge living castle moving thousand parts at the same time. Kind of bizarre, but really good.Humor is everywhere. Isolated and adult, but the best comes with Calcifer, a simple demon. The fire of the castle. Simple, but funny.Worthy, even if you're not an anime addict.


                
Sophie is a young shy hat maker working for her mother in an alternate-world turn-of-the-century European town. A wizard named Howl rescues her from a couple of lascivious soldiers only to be chased by a horde of waste demons. They escape to her sister Lettie's place. She is later visited by the Witch of the Waste and turned into an old woman. She runs away and encounters scarecrow Turnip-Head. After helping it, it leads her to Howl's Moving Castle. There she encounters the fire demon Calcifer who Howl uses to power the castle. Calcifer offers to break her curse if she could end his servitude. Sophie pretends to be new cleaning lady Grandma Sophie. The Mayor arrives at the Great Wizard Jenkins with a request from the King to fight in the war. Howl's apprentice Markl is able to switch between various exits and with various disguises. Then the other king invites Great Wizard Pendragon to join in the war. Howl is known as both wizards and unwilling to help either side. Madame Suliman threatens to take away his powers before he is lost after losing his heart.This is an interesting world. The start sets up an easy fantasy with an evil witch and a haunted hero. The twist is the heroine gets turned into an old hag. About midway, the movie takes an odd turn that deviates from that easy formula. The evil witch becomes powerless. There is a new villain but she's not really a villain. This is an anti-war movie but it isn't so straight forward. Even the simple love story gets a last-minute true love detour. While the world is amazing, the story seems to delight in odd diversions from the formula.


                
1st watched 7/26/2009 – 7 out of 10 (Dir-Hayao Miyazaki): Complicated and inventive fantasy from legendary Japanese animation director Miyazaki entertains the senses and the mind as well as the heart with this one. The story is about a moving castle lived in by a wizard called Howl as kind of a way of escaping from the responsibility of serving in a war he doesn't believe in. A young girl becomes attached to the character after a spell from a witch makes her old and she goes into the castle. These and other characters are very likable and include a mute scarecrow, a talking fire that moves the castle and more. The animation is wonderful even though sometimes the story is hard to follow. It's also a romantic movie about the young character and Howl, although this doesn't really kick in til' near the end. The female character teaches Howl eventually about not avoiding responsibilities and he learns to deeply care for her. All in all, a very complex story that really is fun also. A winner from this heralded Japanese director.


                
Loosely based on Diana Wynne Jones's 1986 novel, this is the tale of young hat-worker Sophie Hatter. When a curse is placed on her by the Wicked Witch of the Waste, she turns into a 90-year old woman. Ashamed of her looks, and fearing she will be of no use to her step-mother in their shop, she flees to the countryside in seek of shelter and to somehow get help to lift the curse.On her journey she meets a helpful scarecrow (who, incidentally, is a source of terror in the novel) who directs her to local wizard Howl's 'Moving Castle'. This isn't just a name - Howl's castle does indeed move - it hops along on spindly legs, groaning under its weight, and puffs of steam emanate into the surrounding air. Inside, Sophie finds the castle is not all as it seems - it is disproportionately small and shabby, and able to open its door onto four different locations at will. Calcifer, a fire demon, powers the castle and Howl is not quite the evil, girl's heart-eating wizard he's made out to be. Instead he's shallow, vain, tempestuous and, to Sophie's horror, handsome. Sophie makes a deal with Calcifer to break the contract he holds with Howl, in return for her curse being lifted. But will Sophie end up breaking the spell herself, and will Howl in fact see her for what she really is - a beautiful, resourceful young woman, and return her feelings?World-renowned director Hayao Miyazaki has done a good job here. He has taken great liberties with Diana Wynne Jones's original story, but this is no bad thing in some ways - the film is a pure visual feast. From the Wicked Witch of the Waste's obese puffing up the palace stairs, to Calcifer's near death, and Howl's slime explosion, there are some brilliant images here. The scope and depth of the scenery, the close-ups of Sophie's eyes, and Howl's blond hair have all been obviously attended to with great detail.I would urge anyone to watch the original film with subtitles. The actors' voices are much more in tone with what's on screen, in particular Calcifer's comical screeching shouldn't be missed.I'm all for artistic vision, and the different ways that novels translate from page to screen. However one major aspect that I didn't agree with in this version was Sophie's differing appearance - when angered, or in a fit of passion, she grows younger before our eyes. She's cursed, not just emotional! If it was as easy as that perhaps she wouldn't need to hang out at the castle mopping Howl's floor.Don't worry if you haven't read the novel first, but do make a point to do so at some point (anything written by Wynne-Jones is worth a read, for that matter). Although this film does arguably stand on its own merits, to miss the genius of Wynne-Jones's writing would be a great shame.This film is a good example of well-crafted animation, inspiration and directorial vision.


                
One thing that will always be evident in any Miyazaki film is the director's imagination. The worlds he creates are incredibly characteristic. However, up until Princes Mononoke, these worlds were also accompanied by a solid story, which allowed the director to express himself and at the same time made sure the audience was not confused and the theme of the movies was delivered withing their time frame.Howl's Moving Castle and in my opinion Spirited Away move on a basic story thread and theme, but the individual actions of the characters are sometimes unexplainable and impolitic. In Princess Mononoke, in every action we could see the motive. This is not always the case here.Besides that, this movies reminds us a lot of Miyazaki's previous works, like Laputa. As a result, this world does not seem as impressive as the ones we've been used to so far.What gave me the worst impression was the ending. To me it was so over the top that it made one forget the rest of the movie and the other themes just to focus on the relationship between Howl and Sophie.In the end, how bad can a Miyazaki movie get? At worst, it will be simply quite good and that's what Howl's Moving Castle is. I could not use a negative word for a Miyazaki film, so let's not say that it is his worst, but it is definitely the least good.


                
Every so often. a wonderful movie comes along that I absolutely love and watch over and over and over. Howl's Moving Castle is one of those movies. I read about the movie online and bought it without ever having seen it before(which i never do). But needless to say, I'm very happy. The animation in this movie is superb. we can expect nothing less than amazing when it comes to Miyazaki's artwork. I also think that the characters in the English version did a great job. they were all wonderful Also, I recently read Howl's Moving Castle by Diana Wynne Jones. It's an amazing book. It's a lot different from the movie. But wonderful nonetheless. I know this comment really sucks. But i just wanted to rant because i'm bored. Bye.


                
After seeing Spirited Away and loving it, I couldn't wait for the newest animation movie to come out from Studio Ghibli. This movie also happened to be a animated version of my favorite book, Howl's Moving Castle. After seeing the movie, I loved the animation and music score, and the plot was very interesting, if confusing at times. The thing that took me by surprise is that the plot line is so different. Some names are changed, and one of Sophie's sisters doesn't even exist! I know those are small things, but there are many other, more major, details that have been changed beyond recognition. However, if you have not read the book but wish to see the movie, then you will enjoy the movie. Just be prepared for a surprise when you read the book and compare the two!


                
My first experience of Miyazaki's work was 'porco rosso / crimson pig' and I still consider that his best movie with Howl's Moving Castle running a some way behind.Howl's Moving Castle has an opening scene that reminded me of 'porco rosso' (namely the enthusiastic crowds cheering on the military parade). At this stage I was thinking that this would be a collage/mix of his other movies - and indeed most of the characters are drawn in similar style to the 'spirited away' and 'princess mononoke' movies.The plot is good as always (although primary credit must go to the original author). I find the worth of his movies to be in the plots and sub-plots that he puts into them. His movies seem to impart morality much more convincingly than anyone else (disney are you listening). And I agree totally with another reviewer when they said that Miyazaki can masterly blur lines between an enemy and a friend. This is what Disney should try and be like - kids are more sophisticated than we give them credit for and I think this movie can be appreciated by anyone over the age of 5.I like his level of animation detail too - I tried looking for flaws in the animation but I don't see them - even when someone slams a door in the background you can see things like dust and such moving - and this is just in the background. It's flawless anime.Anyone who doesn't like 'spirited away' or 'princess mononoke' movies will want to steer clear of this movie - but I found it to be a really good movie and the least you should do if you're a Miyazaki fan is rent it out and see it for yourself - maybe you'll end up buying it too :)


                
Howwl's Moving Castle is a good movie that could have very easily been great. The animation was excellent, the voice acting (and casting) was fantastic, and for the most part of the film, the story was very good. The ending, however, just didn't make any sense. I have not read the novel (by Diana Wynne Jones) that the film is based on, and as much of the story that the film did convey is going to get me to check out the novel. I am betting that the cutting that was done was HUGE.I thought the PG rating was a little much, I'm fairly sure I've seen 'G' ratings with more objectionable material. Still well worth checking out, maybe not for those who are not fans of anime and animation.


                
Working in a fashionable hat shop, Sofie feels under-appreciated, yet she's to shy to change. Talk has been spread of sightings of Howl's moving castle. While walking down a back street, Sofie unexpectedly meets this mysterious Howl. People have known Howl as a vicious wizard that eats pretty girls hearts. Though the wizard Sofie meets is a confident, care wizard. That night, Sofie also meets the Witch of the Waste; a vain and selfish witch, places a curse upon Sofie, cursing her with the body of a ninety year old woman. Desperately to have the curse lifted, Sofie travels across the country. Meeting a strange scarecrow, Sofie soon finds herself upon Howl's moving castle. The legged castle is a rusted, decrepit place, which looks to fall to pieces in any given moment. Here she meets Calcifer, a fire demon who is also under a curse, and a young boy Markl, a training wizard.With the success of Hayao Miyazaki's last film Spirited Away, it was a hard step for him to make a film to equal that wonderful film. While you shouldn't really just compare Howl's Moving Castle just against Spirited Away; though it doesn't come to it, Howl's Moving Castle is one of the weaker films from Hayao Miyazaki. Based upon the book by Diana Wynne Jones, the story of Howl's Moving Castle seems inconsistent, jumping around to much, making an uneven flow. When an important piece of information is told, the scene jumps somewhere else. The story starts very clear, yet during the later half of the film the story seems muddled and abit chaotic from the strangeness that Miyazaki presents.Though the story of Howl's Moving Castle does hinder the film somewhat, it's the artistry that really creates this film. Much like many of Miyazaki's film, the world he is presenting to us is so out of this world; inhabited by some outlandish characters, wizards and demons. What so impressive about the animation is the handcrafted style, where animations are so heavily made with computer animation. The warmth just emanates from the screen, and you can see so much sweat and blood went into the vibrant detail.While Howl's Moving Castle isn't one of the better films from Hayao Miyazaki, it's still a very impressive film all the same. You can't help but be drawn into this beautiful world.
This and 'Spirited Away' are quite possibly the two most well recognized Anime films ever made. Hayao Miyazaki is just one of those film makers that attracts all sorts of people regardless if those people like the style or not. His films are bright, vibrant, and stuffed with sci-fi type elements. 'Howls Moving Castle' is no exception to this. We start off with our main character, Sofi, being turned into a very elderly woman. Not wanting anyone to see her like this she runs away from home and becomes a maid for the mysterious wizard Howl. And now we have our movie.Just like all of Miyazaki's films this is absolutely breathtaking to look at. The hand drawn style is great on its own, but it's the detail in the world that is so impressive. Whether it's Howls gigantic moving castle that is made up of many different moving parts or the bustling streets, it's hard to be sucked in by the world.It's beautiful, bright, and filled with color. Which was nice to see considering the amount of films these days that are very bleak and void of color or life. It set the tone for the rest of the film as a fun but kind of dark tale. What really springs this world off the screen is the soundtrack.Each song is undeniably unique and perfect for each scenario in the film. It's an excellent score that doesn't force the film on you. Hayao understands that the majority of the audience can recognize subtly. So, unlike many other films, he uses the music to accent what is being seen on screen. Not to try and force you how to think or feel in a particular scene. All this helps the film move along at a shockingly brisk pace. The film is two hours long but goes by in no time at all. This has a lot to do with the previous elements that I mentioned. Really the only times it slowed was when characters decided to just spew exposition. I understand that some children need things to be spelled out for them considering that this is a kids movie but by doing this the film doesn't have any interesting characters.It says this character is like this and they are like that. It kind of sucks that the majority of the film is smart about not pushing things in your face but it doesn't even try with the characters. Instead of showing you who they are it just blatantly tells you. Then they don't really behave the way the film says they should.This happens with the story as well. It says OK we are going to do this and then this. And I can't help think that the characters they are talking to already know this. The only people that don't know what these characters are talking about is us. At that point it's fairly obvious that the film is no longer having the characters talk to each but to us instead.Now I'm not saying that children's movies have to have the same complex characters of 'Prisoners' but this film doesn't even try. It will say one thing but not give us any indication of who that person actually is through their actions. It makes some of the motives in the film very unclear. It's a shame that the film couldn't simply write consistent story and characters because this film could've been one of the best. It's animation, voice cast, and original ideas are enough to get one through but don't expect much more than that.


                
When an unconfident young woman is cursed with an old body by a spiteful witch, her only chance of breaking the spell lies with a self-indulgent yet insecure young wizard and his companions in his legged, walking castle.By going through the IMDb Top 250 for every year since 1996, I have had the opportunity to see just about every major Japanese animation of the last twenty years. Most I simple do not care for, not really understanding how such primitive animation is considered revolutionary. The fantasy elements are good, but we need better animation.This film seems to be the exception. More than any other anime I have seen, "Howl" looks like a professional job, with a great story, fun characters, and rather decent animation. Some of it is still choppy, but it has a more slick look than the others.


                
From the writer-director of Castle in the Sky, My Neighbor Totoro, Kiki's Delivery Service, Princess Mononoke & the Academy Award winning Spirited Away comes another spellbinding journey into the creative world of this highly revered filmmaker. Howl's Moving Castle continues the remarkable success streak of Hayao Miyazaki's esteemed film career & is a fascinating take on old age difficulties, futility of war & magic of love, all encapsulated with Miyazaki's unique storytelling ability & infused with his distinct artistic flavour.Howl's Moving Castle, on a superficial level, is a love story between Sophie; an unconfident young woman & Howl; a powerful but insecure wizard. When a witch, who's after Howl, casts a strong spell on Sophie which transforms her into a 90-year old woman, she moves out of town & travels to seek a cure for her spell and eventually finds shelter in Howl's strange & mobile castle. There she meets a fire demon amongst other acquaintances who offers to break her curse if Sophie is able to set him free from Howl's service.Written & directed by Hayao Miyazaki, Howl's Moving Castle features another intriguing drama that's effectively paced & expertly narrated by him. It also boasts a compelling set of characters amongst which Calcifer; the fire-demon, turned out to be the most interesting for me. Like all Miyazaki's films, the animation is impressive while the lush cinematography captures every moment in fine detail. The humour is nicely timed, the themes are elegantly explored & Joe Hisaishi's score wonderfully accompanies the whole drama with its blissful tracks.On an overall scale, Howl's Moving Castle may not rank amongst Miyazaki's finest works but this anime is still full of life, love, joy & magic. The only complaint I have is that the final 30 minutes are kind of messed up plus the ending feels slightly hurried up. Yet it doesn't take away much from the film as it still manages to transport its viewers to Miyazaki's wonderland and will surely leave most of them emotionally fulfilled & satisfied. Another visual wonder from start to finish by Studio Ghibli whose creativity never seems to tire out, Howl's Moving Castle is thoroughly recommended.


                
"Howl's Moving Castle" is an another masterpiece made and directed by Hayao Miyazaki who was the director of other great movies such as "Spirited Away" and "My Neighbor Totoro".I really enjoyed this movie because I compare it with the movie "Spirited Away" and I found it very interesting. In this movie we watch a young woman who is cursed with an old body by a spiteful witch trying to break this spell, but she has only one way to do this."Howl's Moving Castle" is a movie that I think that if you like this style of movies you will love it. I also want to tell you that if you liked the other movies made by Hayao Miyazaki then "Howl's Moving Castle" is your film and you have to see it.


                
18-year old Sophie (voiced by Emily Mortimer), spends her time working in a hat shop her late father opened years ago. One day, on her way back home, a group of young men harass her and this is where she meets the very handsome and stranger Wizard Howl (voiced by Christian Bale) who saves her, but at the same time gets her involved in a long bittersweet adventure. But, the Witch of the Waste is displeased with Sophie and Howl's growing friendship, and turns the pretty young woman into an ugly 90-year-old (voiced by Jean Simmons).Not knowing what to do, Sophie decides to take residence in Howl's moving castle as a cleaning lady, in an attempt to find a way to reverse the witch's spell with the help of Calcifer a demon in the form of fire who only takes orders from Howl and Markl, a young boy who protects the door which can open to 4 different worlds and dimensions.Adapted from a novel by Diana Wynne Jones, the film is a journey of enchantment, through the eyes of very wise Sophie. Despite her young age, she acts perfectly adequate in the skin of an old woman and becomes indispensable in Howl's moving castle. She adds feminine warmth, organization and her own natural charm to a group of wizards. She was warned from having her heart broken but Howl can see through her old face and does everything to protect her from evil wizards and wars while she brings sanity back to his life.Miyazaki teaches his viewers valuable lessons about life, love and wars with visually striking means. But above all he allows us to dream, to walk in the sky, to fight demons and make it all seem so logical and so real. He brings back the child in all of us.Find all of our film and festival coverage as well as our education and events at www.DohaFilmInstitute.com. Follow us on Twitter @DohaFilm.


                
Well, as i can see, after watching this movie you are rather absolutely amazed or totally disappointed. I think I'm more related to the second group of people. The characters are nice, the idea is nice , there is that GREAT ADVENTURE that makes a movie stand out in a crowd but I guess there isn't a MAIN IDEA, the clearly displayed idea. There were just A LOT OF INTERESTING sequences and quotes and thoughts, but none of them was developed enough. For example there is the interior conflict about beauty as Sophie is not beautiful and Howl is, then there is something about war, something about overcoming your hate and the will for revenge and many many other great concepts but they were not presented and developed clearly enough, as at some points the movie is moving too fast and you just don't get enough time to pay attention to them. Besides, there were also many useless details. So, in conclusion, if you want to make a good movie, the idea is JUST NOT ENOUGH. I guess it's sometimes complicated to get rid of all the details and focus on ONE main idea or maybe two, but that's what really makes a movie great, doesn't it?MAIN CHARACTERISTICS----1hour 58 min (which means LONG! if you do easily get bored, this movie is not for you) ---on the other hand the movie is MOVING FAST, so if you don't really look for a good idea, concept, than you will probably enjoy watching it just for this fact.---THE ANIMATION IS GOOD AND THE CARTOON ITSELF IS BEAUTIFUL


                
One thing I cannot get over is the beautiful clarity of the animation. Studio Ghibli has a very particular style and I must admit to being a great fan of the way their films look; at times they can be quite breathtaking. I also love the imagination of the people that designed things like the Castle, it's quite fantastic. Putting aside the visuals for a moment, I have to say that, sadly, I did find this one a little too long at nearly two hours. Although I did find the story quite enthralling at times, there wasn't quite enough (for me) to enthral me for quite that long. Having said that it's still an excellent piece of work and one I have no problem in deeming<U+0085> Recommended.My score: 7.1/10.IMDb Score: 8.1/10 (based on 73,040 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score: 86/100 (based on 147 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score: 93/100 (based on 220,543 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog: Thoughts of a SteelMonster.


                
