If there's a list of great computer animation movies of all time, Pixar would dominate most of the top positions. Great story, great voice talent, great timing, great for all ages. It'd be hard to pick just one above another and perhaps another viewing of Up may be in order to figure out where I'd place it among so much stellar work.Up is by far the most emotional human drama of any Pixar movies thus far, very heavy, so much so if you're looking for pure fun with some jaw-dropping chase and/or thematic scenes and no downer moments, Up may not be for you. I saw it in a packed theatre of about a 65% adult, 35% adult split audience and it's the only time I can remember being in ANY animated movie where there was sniffles and watery eyes, and that was within the first 10 minutes of the movie. There's an undercurrent of life after losing a loved one in this movie, which I don't feel gives anything away. It's pretty heavy subject matter, Pixar handles it, like they do everything they touch, incredibly well, but it doesn't make it any less sad to have the material threaded throughout much of the movie you're reminded of it, but I suppose it's up to one's own interpretation of loss and how to place it in your life that perhaps will have an emotional effect on you.Story is what makes a great movie great. Without story, you don't really have anything, maybe some effects, some action, maybe some cute or clever sight gags, maybe some laughs, hopefully some emotion, where Pixar shines above all others in animation and over a good 99% of the movies out there is they can intertwine it all and do it seemingly effortless, which is an incredible feat. To do this in a few movies is one thing, but Pixar has pretty much nailed this now for their entire career of making movies, that's just simply unprecedented. I should note I saw the 3D version which, to be honest, didn't really take the movie to the next level. One of the more well known syndicated reviewers had said you're better off seeing the non-3D version on screen, and I actually agree. The 3D glasses added little to nothing to the movie except for an eye-strain headache later in the night. It didn't take away from Up mind you, it just didn't add to it either. Up is a great movie either way you slice it and it should be noted, the theatre I saw it in gave it a fairly loud round of applause at the end. It's pretty rare these days that an audience applauds after a movie, perhaps we as a society has become too jaded, or too just expecting of the goods or feeling we're entitled to the entertainment. It's nice when a movie hits on all cylinders and elicits such a range and emotional reaction people who don't know each other in a packed room all gasp, laugh, cry, and applaud together. Great movies however can do that and Up is truly a great movie.


                
I was lucky enough to get a ticket to a special pre-release screening of Up at Pixar studios in Emeryville, organized by the San Francisco Film Society. After a hour-long reception in the atrium of their beautiful main building we went through some rigorous security (metal detectors!) and were treated to an hilarious short (Partly Cloudy) and Pixar's new high water mark, Up.My favorites to date have definitely been Wall-E and the Incredibles, and Up is another slightly-left-of-center masterpiece. The emotional impact of the beautiful, wordless summation of Carl's life that opens the movie is the bass note that resonates through the whole film and is at least as affecting as the scene in Wall-E when he holds his own hands while watching Hello Dolly. The rest of the movie, of course, is breathtaking on just about every level, especially the tactile quality of all the characters and textures and the completely realized weather effects and action scenes. With no "new" technical milestones (fur in Monsters, Inc., water in Finding Nemo, realistic camera effects in Wall- E), the design is the main focus, from the hilariously stylized characters to the amazing setting of the tepui.As the associate producer who participated in the Q&A following the movie pointed out, the past three Pixar movies have not been easy sells to their parent company Disney (they'll be back in familiar territory with Toy Story 3 and Cars 2), but Pixar's commitment to inventive, story-driven films continues to pay off here. All of the good press is true, and I can't wait to see it again. Thanks for staying true to yourselves Pixar!


                
I was luckily able to catch a screening a few weeks ago here in Houston.As an avid lover of Wall-E, I felt Pixar could never reach those heights again.I was wrong.UP's story will probably seem peculiar at first glance. An old man as a protagonist? It definitely blew my expectations. The first 5 minutes demolished every other Pixar feature just because it was the first time I cried in a theater.This just shows how much heart there is to the movie. I really don't want to get into specifics because of spoilers but the movie literally has everything.Amazing visual effects.Amazing sound.Hilarious comedy.Breath taking action.Heart.All those combined equal something special. Today's movies like to blow you away with gimmicks, Pixar is different. Each movie shows soul and UP definitely has it.I can't wait until it comes out so I can see it in 3d, im bringing everybody.10/10


                
UP, Pixar's latest animated feature, is just delightful. But how do you go about extolling the movie's virtues without giving away its surprises? Like the kid at the beginning of the movie, you don't try to conquer the immovable force; you work around it.The one clue I can give away – because it's the movie's heavily hyped premise – is that Carl Fredrickson, a gruffy old widower (voiced with gruffy old charm by Ed Asner), miraculously inflates enough balloons to use his house as an aircraft. Soon, he finds himself reluctantly sharing his ride with a short-attention-spanned kid named Russell.I'll also mention a couple of other items that can gauge your potential interest in the movie. One is a gag that is a take-off on a famous painting – perhaps too inside of an inside joke, but typical of Pixar's cheery attempts to appeal to viewers of all ages.Also, part of the plot involves Carl's long-held wish to meet a Lindbergh-type adventurer named Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer!). This is another in-joke that's even vaguer than the first one. Cartoon historians know that Walt Disney started in the cartoon biz by creating Oswald the Rabbit for producer Charles Mintz, who then greedily stole the rights to Disney's creation. This gives you a pretty good idea where the ostensible hero Muntz stands in the scheme of things.Beyond that, I can only offer you some enticing clues about the characters. There's a dog who's the leader of his pack and in menacing beyond measure, until he opens his mouth and gets one of the movie's biggest laughs. There's a huge, awkward bird that is a big laugh-getter at first. Then she becomes a real enough character that – at least in the audience I was in – when she's injured, she elicits screams of fright worthy of Bambi's late mother.There's surprising, heartfelt emotion, vivid imagery (you can almost touch the landscapes and skies), and a music score by Michael Giacchino that's practically a character in the movie – particularly in a thoughtful montage that takes Carl from childhood to widowhood.There aren't many (or at least not enough) live-action movies that are engrossing as this cartoon. Pixar Studios has gotten to be one of those movie icons that shouldn't even have to deliver a premise to get funded anymore. The moneymen should just shut up, hand over the money, and trust they'll get a product that will appeal to everyone.UP is only the second Pixar feature to get a PG rating, only for mildly intense imagery and action – nothing off-color in the least. Again, if you can handle "Bambi," this film should be a breeze.


                
Carl Frederickson (Ed Asner) has lived a long life, but dreams of adventuring to South America. He wants to spend his remaining days in his home, but new high-rises are being constructed around it. After a chance accident, Carl loses his home, and is set to be taken into a retirement home. Unhappy with this idea, the former balloon salesman ties thousands of balloons to his house and simply floats away, en route to his dream adventure. Except, he is not alone – young "wilderness explorer" Russell (Jordan Nagai) inadvertently shows up in mid-air, and Carl sees no other choice but to bring the boy with him.The fact that this plot line is even relevant enough to get made into a movie is more than enough reason to praise Up. Ever since Toy Story, Pixar has consistently delivered the most radically original and unique ideas for animated films, and live action films. Sure, not all of them are as amazing as others (Cars is quite simply stale compared to the likes of Ratatouille and WALL-E), but there is something brilliantly imaginative and exciting going on at the studio, and Up is no exception.Coming off the breakthrough of WALL-E, I was not expecting the same reaction to Up, but I was more than just pleasantly surprised. The film is hilarious, heartfelt, moving and depressing all at once. This may sound like it is an issue, and that the film has a problem holding its ground with its tonal structure. But instead, it handles it quite well; splitting the film into quadrants and allowing the themes and plot line to coincide with whatever emotional response the filmmakers are going for. And while there is plenty for young children to enjoy and take from the film, it is the older audience that will get the biggest reaction from it. There is a lot going on in the film, but it never loses its speed and never loses control of what it wants to say and do. It knows exactly where it wants to be and when. And where other recent Pixar films have failed (specifically in their lengthy runtimes and frequent need to drag themselves out), Up does not. It practically blasts its way through its beginning, all the way up to its ending, with time left to spare.What makes Up work so well, much like WALL-E before it, is the focus on very few characters. Where WALL-E spent the majority of its runtime primarily on Earth with its main character, a love interest and a cockroach, Up spends its majority with Carl, Russell, a "bird" named Kevin and a talking dog named Dug (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson). It does allow for more characters to enter in later on, but the focus never strays from these main characters. Some may say the film is trying to tell multiple stories, but as the film progresses, it is clear it is telling one story – the tale of a man who never experienced what he wanted the most. The film builds up Carl's backstory heavily in startlingly moving moments that surprisingly were surprisingly kept rather secretive in the marketing for the film. We know from the very first trailer that Carl is a fairly mean old man, but the film spends a great deal of time to develop him into an emotional wreck of a man.But the real success of the film is in its imagination and adventure. While WALL-E is perhaps the most startlingly unique and original animated picture of the last decade, Up still manages to pack in a lot of uniqueness. But while WALL-E got caught up in its own environmentally sound message, Up sticks with being an almost straight adventure picture. It is frequently thrilling and exciting, and lets up only for a few moments at a time. For such an older character, the film really stuns with some of its fantastical ideas. Sure, it is obvious this is a film that could only ever be done as an animated film, but what it lacks in realism it makes up for in fun – something that has been sorely missing from the movies for years. It came back for a short while with the first Pirates of the Caribbean film, but the focus as of late for any film has been on deeply conflicted, depressing narratives. And while this film is struck with having some of the most depressing scenes the year has seen so far, it never wallows in the sadness. It throws the moments at you, and then quickly moves on. And as said previously, the tonal shifts work excellently in Up's favour.But of course, an animated movie cannot work without its animation. While Up is not a breakthrough in the way other Pixar films have been, it keeps with the tradition of still looking stunning and leading the curve for computer animated films. It does look cartoony and fantastical in many instances, but this only continues to work towards it being even better. The locales are realistic looking; the dog fur is near perfect. For me, watching Carl's facial hair gradually grow in as the story moves along was simply amazing. The little details and minute perfections have always been key to the Pixar films, and Up is no different. Additionally, the 3D effects really add a layer to the film, and bring the movie to life (unlike other recent efforts like Monsters vs. Aliens and Bolt).I cannot praise Up enough. Words cannot do justice for how excellent the film is. Pixar continues to outdo itself year after year, even with their subpar films. While each film has their own flaws, Up revels in being as close to perfect as the company has been in years. I adored every minute, and look forward to watching it again with an even bigger smile on my face.10/10.


                
Honestly, I found the DVD of this film in my house and decided to give it a watch as I had nothing better to do. Truth is I really should have made the time before.Although I enjoy all the other Disney/pixar movies, I am at that teenage age where I mainly seek Violence, sex and gore. Thankfully my teenage boredom did me a big favour in helping what this fantastic masterpiece. This film was so fantastically deep, meaningful and moving beyond relief, as soon as I switched it off I rang my grandparents to tell them I love them.It should be made necessary that everyone everywhere should see this film and I think the world would be a much better place - it really is that good.100/10


                
Seriously, I'm convinced, Pixar is maybe the only movie studio that is providing the best movies around. Who said that animated films can't be considered real movies? Can't be considered an art form? Up is the latest creation from Disney and Pixar, after last year's smash hit WALL-E, I felt like they couldn't at all top themselves and they did it again with this incredibly charming story. Admittingly from the trailer, I wasn't sure this story was going to work as well, but I got the opportunity to see Up this week and was just totally blown away by it's story, animation and characters. The thing I adore about these movies that Disney and Pixar are creating is that they're not just for the kids, but the adults as well, this is something that I could even see an adult seeing by themselves. This story doesn't insult kid's intelligence and is extremely entertaining for anyone to enjoy, to go through this adventure with an old man who just wanted to make his wife happy.Carl Fredricksen, a quiet young boy, meets Ellie in her clubhouse, discovering together they share the same interest in exploration as their hero, famed explorer Charles F. Muntz. Ellie expresses her desire to move her clubhouse to Paradise Falls in South America, a promise she makes Carl keep. Carl and Ellie fall in love, wed and grow old together in the old house where they first met. Ellie dies of old age before they can take their trip, leaving Carl living alone in their home. After a tussle with a construction worker over Carl's broken mailbox, the court orders Carl to move into a retirement home. Carl comes up with a scheme to keep his promise to Ellie, and creates a makeshift airship using thousands of helium balloons which lift his house off its foundation. Russell, a Wilderness Explorer trying to earn his "Assisting the Elderly" badge, has stowed away on the porch after being sent on a snipe hunt by Carl the day before. After a storm throws them around for a while, they find themselves across a large ravine facing Paradise Falls. With their body weight providing ballast allowing Carl and Russell to pull the floating house, the two begin to walk around the ravine. As they walk towards Paradise Falls, Russell finds a colorful tropical bird which he names Kevin, not realizing that the bird is actually female. They later run into a dog with a translating collar named Dug. They discover Dug's owner is Charles Muntz, who has remained in South America for several decades to find a bird like Kevin in order to restore his reputation after bringing back a skeleton and being called a fraud. Though Carl is initially thrilled to meet his hero, when he realizes that Muntz is after Kevin and will kill to obtain her, Carl takes steps to save the bird and escape from Muntz.Up is seriously the best movie I have seen so far this year, it's actually one of my favorite movies of all time, I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this film. Wither it was the fun and charming story between Carl and Russell, the crazy bird Kevin, or the story that nearly killed me in laughter, the dogs that have collars that make them talk. I don't remember the last time a movie that made me laugh so hard that my stomach hurt, it also made me tear up and smile. If someone ever tells you that an animated film can't be considered a real movie, just show them Up. I absolutely adore this movie, can't wait for it to come out on DVD and watch it again. This is a perfect family film, actually scratch that, it's a perfect film, the animation is incredible, the characters are lovable and the story is magical. Up is going to be a film to be remembered for all time, great movie, go see it.10/10
What can I say about Pixar? Amazing?? Perfect?? Got to see this at the Cannes Film Festival in France (went on a trip with my family) and Pixar gives us another instant classic: Up.The movie focuses on 78-year old man Carl Fredrickson's (voiced by Edward Asner) life who always had a dream of going on a journey to South American to see the wilds of it. He buys thousands of balloons just to attach it to his house to float up in the sky. So, he starts with his journey up in the sky in his house with balloons attached to it. Suddenly, he's not alone and somebody's at the door while flying, it's a boy scout kid named Russell. He invites the boy with him on his journey to South America.Just brilliant and simple story-telling, beautiful visuals as usual with Pixar, awesome voice work, funny and smart dialogue, beautiful score once again by Michael Giacchino & very, very enjoyable characters. Speaking of characters, the highlight of the film: Dug the Dog. A sort of "robot" dog that will have you have you in a lot of stitches each scene that dog is in and that was the case with me. Simply, one of the funniest characters Pixar ever made. Pete Doctor, one of the four Pixar directors (John Lassester, Andrew Stanton, Brad Bird) who directed Monster's Inc (2001) needs and should get nominated for his clever, genius and smart directing of this but if Stanton didn't get the nods for (Finding Nemo and WALL-E) and Bird for (The Incredibles & Ratatouille) which they should of been, then the Oscars are making another HUGE mistake for not nominating this guy for this movie.Up is the funniest Pixar movie, funnier than the Toy Story movies, A Bug's Life & Finding Nemo which were the funniest, in my opinion. The movie is not just hilarious, it's emotional and sad at times. Like WALL-E, it focuses on the character feelings but not as magical as WALL-E. Still, Up is full of emotional, fun and hilarious proportions. Your in for a BIG ride in this!! 10/10.


                
Pixar has become the most dependable studio out there for producing reliable films that don't simply continue to raise the bar in animation but set a level of excellence in storytelling that puts most live-action movies to shame. 'Up' represents another change in style, as significant as Wall-E's shift to photorealism, intricate camera effects and darker themes. It effectively blends moments of tragedy with almost slapstick humor, while showing that their understanding of story structure and pacing gets more refined with every release.Up is about a 70-something ex-balloon salesman who fulfills a lifelong dream of adventure by tying thousands of balloons to his house and flying away to South America. This trip, inspired by his adventure- loving wife who dies before their dream is realized, is forced when property developers attempt a compulsory purchase on his house and try to move him to a retirement home (issues of death and eminent domain in a cartoon?). The problem is that he has an enthusiastic - and fatherless - 8-year old Wildness Explorer stowed away on the property when it takes off. Their adventure focuses on the characters they meet along the way, while our hero Carl is still trying to drag his house to the dream destination at the top of a waterfall.The opening shows the life of Carl, growing from an young boy, meeting his adventuring-loving girlfriend, their marriage and her death just before their adventure starts - it's an incredibly emotional 5-minute intro that's light on dialog and heavy on visuals, and didn't leave a dry eye in the theater. This sequence in particular was reminiscent of the dialog-free sections of Wall-E which deliver their plot punches without exposition or the need for endless sequences that would take twice as long in live action. But this approach doesn't leave the younger audience behind either, and for such a dark start, all I could see in the audience were kids and adults alike glued to the screen.I won't give away any more plot details since the film doesn't open for another three weeks, but every scene and character trait is meticulously plotted so that nothing seems too ridiculous or contrived, even for such a fantastic journey. The graphic stylization is also fresh, in the same way that The Incredibles had a very distinct and authentic look. All of this serves to heighten the humor and there are some extremely funny scenes, helped by the way the characters are quickly and believably established (even the talking dogs, but you'll see what I mean).This is the second time I've been to Pixar to see a pre-release of a movie and I felt a little scared before seeing this one, wondering if their run of first-class work may have hit a plateau. On the surface, I didn't really think a story about a senior in a flying house could live up to Wall-E, yet although the films are as different as they can be, Up is as gripping and entertaining as any Pixar film. Their ability to blends styles and take the audience from laughter to tears in minutes showcases their deep understanding of story, and it's a shame that more films aren't crafted the same way.Up opens on May 29, and I highly recommend it to everyone. The next two films out of Pixar will be Toy Story 3 (2010) and Cars 2 (2011). By the way, look at for a very funny short film before Up called Partly Cloudly.
Sadly, there aren't enough superlatives in the English language with which to laud Up, the latest offering from the folks at Disney/Pixar. This is quite simply the best movie of any genre to emerge thus far this year. No small praise considering how I've long been adverse to "kids movies", pegging them as being shallow, vapid, and simplistic - a personal preconception which Pixar mercifully shattered with 2004's The Incredibles and 2008's WALL-E, which proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that for all their acclaim as an animation studio, they are equally brilliant story tellers Up tells the story of Carl Fredricksen (voiced by Ed Asner), who as a child meets Ellie, later to become the love of his life. Carl and Ellie find they share a common dream – to one day visit Paradise Falls, a mysterious tropical oasis in South America made famous in vintage newsreels chronicling the exploits of explorer/adventurer Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer). Life, however, manages to get in the way as the two grow up, get married, experience the pain of miscarriage, and eventually grow old, so much so that father time catches up on Ellie, leaving Carl a widower. All of this is conveyed with little dialog in a masterful sequence that had the audience, old and young alike, sniffling throughout.If you're thinking this isn't the usual stuff you see in "kids movies" you're right. But all credit is due to Pixar and the directorial and writing team of Pete Docter and Bob Peterson for realizing that children aren't idiots, and can handle complex, often tragic stories, if conveyed in the proper manner. It's a refreshing change from the over-protective mentality that once saw all hints of violence edited out of Warner Bros/Looney Tunes cartoons.In Up, characters bleed, there's implied murder, and it's all counter-balanced with some of the most delightfully twisted humor that's as inspired as anything the Zucker brothers ever came up with. The story literally had me careening from being misty-eyed to laughing heartily, frequently in the span of minutes.Faced with forced relocation to a retirement home, Carl opts for one final gambit, to fly his house down to Paradise Falls with the aid of a multitude of helium-filled balloons affixed to the roof of his house. Along for the ride is Russell (Jordan Nagai), a Wilderness Scout seeking to add a merit badge to his collection. Eventually the duo are complimented by Dug (voiced by co-director and writer Bob Peterson) a dopey derelict dog equipped by the now aged Muntz with a translator collar that converts dog thoughts to English.Like WALL-E, Up manages to imbue its characters with depth and humanity, while at the same time tell a story that is mature, delightful, and most of all, terrifically funny. In an era when Hollywood seems only capable of re-boots and do-overs, Up is not merely a refreshing stroke of original brilliance, it is likely the best movie you will see all year.... or until Pixar emerges with their next effort.
Coming off last year's hit Wall-E, Pixar attempts to sweep the hearts (and pockets) of moviegoers with Up. I had the privilege of seeing the film in Philadelphia two weeks before its release. Since Wall-E is in my personal top ten, I couldn't contain my excitement for the excitement Pixar had in store. But I was a bit worried that the premise of a man and his flying home couldn't translate into a feature. So is Up a worthy addition to Pixar's critically acclaimed catalogue?Well, just take a wild guess.Up revolves around 78 year old balloon salesman Carl Fredricksen, who has kept adventure alongside his childhood love Ellie. Meeting as pipsqueaks, the pair shared a lust for escapism and eventually married. Together they had this fantasy of going to Paradise Falls, an elusive world in South America where many wonders lay. But through a somber montage, we see things fall apart and pass away, leaving Carl alone in the house the two rebuilt through their lives.I should mention that Up has many sad (yet endearing) moments, for Carl deals with emotional loss while trying to rekindle his flame of adventure. After the aforementioned montage, one audience member burst into audible tears; I admittedly had to fight some back as well. When you see Carl wishing to be alone and personifying Ellie through their home, you can't help but feel (insert sad adjective).But alas! This *is* a Pixar film, after all. As Carl begins his journey through the skies, we're soon treated to blissful wonder, pure excitement, cunning suspense, and, of course, laughable humor. Pixar is the master of manipulating emotions, and a roller-coaster's worth is packed into 96 minutes.While resting in his buoyant home, Carl receives an unwelcomed addition to his adventure: 8 year old Russell, a Wilderness Explorer (i.e. Boy Scout) who helps Carl for an aiding the elderly merit badge. I originally thought the chipper chubbster would be annoying, catering mainly to the younger audience. However, Russell provides comical relief and has surprising emotional depth.As the characters' journey continues, we discover the pair is more alike than the 70 year difference would suggest. Along their way we meet a rare (and hungry) bird with a sense of humor, dogs who can talk, and many other surprises that I won't spoil. I honestly wasn't bored at all; even during the slower parts Pixar gives us much to admire.Unsurprisingly, Up looks AMAZING. While I didn't see it in 3-D, the 2-D version has plenty to marvel at. Instead of going for realism a la Wall-E, Up tries a more stylized look a la The Incredibles<U+0085>and succeeds marvelously. I love Carl's squarish head, the vibrant colors, the miniscule details, everything. As a technology junkie, wondering about the programming and rendering used to make the film made my head spin. Things like the scripted physics behind Carl's balloons or the global light reflecting off Russell's chocolate bar were enough to give me a nerdgasm.The sound is fantastic as well. Again, Pixar gives us a great original theme which is mostly played on piano. It's sparse in emotional parts, loud and boisterous in action scenes. Edward Asner does an exceptional job voicing Mr. Fredricksen. All the technical aspects are what we've come to expect from Pixar<U+0085>which basically means they're perfect.However, I don't think Up is perfect overall. Granted, this is a film about a man who attaches balloons to his house and flies away, but there were moments that made me question certain choices or actions despite Up's fantastical setting. Furthermore, the central villain was a bit weak (not on a moral scale, though) and quickly came into play with little buildup. Though these seem a bit nitpicky, I was brought of the film at a few points and questioned certain things after the movie finished.Yet these complaints aren't deterring me from jumping on line and putting on 3-D glasses when Up is released. While it's no Wall-E in my book, Up is a film that will take your emotions up, up, and away. It's about loss, love, and realizing the destination isn't what necessarily matters; the adventure getting there is sometimes the most important thing. So take a seat beside me when Up is released<U+0085>but could you get me some tissues this time? Oh, and while you're over there, you might as well grab that Oscar too.9.2 / 10, rounded up for Pixar's hard work through 10 films
As I am much more hesitant to give a movie a score of 10 than most reviewers, take my score of 9 as a ringing endorsement for this sweet CGI film from Pixar. In addition, the film is the first 3-D film by the studio and it looked lovely.The film begins with a sweet but VERY emotionally draining prologue. You see Carl Fredricksen as a very young boy along with his first two loves--the adventures of the explorer, Charles Muntz, and his meeting and falling in love with Ellie. All this is done with a minimum of dialog and it is one of the sweetest segments I've seen in years--and is a first for something this deep and emotional from a computer generated film. Keep a few Kleenex nearby--you'll likely need it.Then, the film jumps ahead to the present day. Carl is now elderly and alone. His life is quite sad and he dwells on the recent loss of Ellie. Fortunately, the film doesn't dwell on this too long or become maudlin--though it did come a bit close at times. Now, with nothing in his life other than memories AND the court pushing him into a retirement home against his will, Carl comes up with a crazy plan--to float his home away with a bazillion balloons and take it to South America!! Unfortunately, while the plan works, Carl also gets an unwelcome passenger (Russell). Now Russell is an absolutely adorable character--wonderfully rendered and with a fittingly cute voice. You cannot help but love him. But, since Carl is alone and childless and grumpy, he is less than enthralled with this hitchhiker.Eventually, they arrive in South America and meet some new friends--a bizarre giant bird and Dug, the dog. But, being a family film, you KNOW that there must be some villain and sure enough, along comes a very, very, very elderly Muntz who seems a tad..."touched". This sets off some very hair-raising adventures and you'll just need to tune it to see what happens next.Technically speaking, this film was incredible and shows that the same old software is NOT being used but a newer generation with greater clarity and richness. I loved how through the course of the film, for instance, Carl's beard stubble starts to slowly grow in as well as the lovely shading and colors. While I loved RATATOUILLE and WALL-E for their animation, this looked a lot better--plus came in 3-D. I just saw Dreamworks' latest film the week before (MONSTERS VS. ALIENS) and frankly UP looked immensely better--there was just no comparison.As for the story, it was highly imaginative and strange--in a good way. I can only think of one other film that is like UP at all, and that is the wonderful French live action film, LE PAPILLON. It, too, is about an elderly single man who has an adorable child dumped in his lap and like UP, by the end of the film the old man has essentially been adopted by the kid. Both are rather predictable in that sense, but both also make it work due to brilliant writing, adorable kids and plot elements that are very unique and magical. Heck, in UP, the many dogs in the film can talk AND are excellent chefs--where have you ever seen that before?! Overall, it's a great film for almost all ages. I did notice in the theater that one kid (about 4) got very, very, very upset when the cute bird was captured--and he screamed and cried for some time. Keep this in mind if you do take young kids to see it--it may elicit come tears though there is no dirty language and the violence is mostly mild. For Pixar, this is among their best.
Up is wonderful and well written story that is very well animated for its time. It stands out from other movies not only due to its animation technology but through the uses of character archetypes. Along some ingenious planning throughout the movie which will certainly grip you on your seat for the whole time. Each part of the story fits together seamlessly and as directed by Pete Docter who has shown potential in the past with Monster.Inc. It is no surprise that Up would not have been better. Easter Eggs are bound to be found as this is just another part of the Pixar and Disney family. It ended very gracefully with a happy ending for the two main and primary characters that lies within the movie. I am very glad that I had spent my time and money to watch this exquisite animation. It is well made and deserves to be recommended if you are seeking the adventure that lies beyond the unreachable.


                
"UP" is one of the most wonderful animated feature from Pixar, which included all of the emotions of sadness, heartfelt, funny, whimsical and adventurous which can bring you into tears. It begins with a romance as sweet and lovely as any I can recall in feature animation. Two children named Carl and Ellie meet and discover. They share the same dream of someday being explorers and following the entire marriage life, it began with the love from first sight to widowhood and continues with the amazing skyward journey to Paradise Falls. Finally, I love how this film really touching my heart and I cried every time I watch this movie. It's such a very deep emotional film that no one will ever miss.
The negative reviews for this are horrible. The story was not too sad. It was like life is for old people. Their spouse dies, and they live by themselves. That, however, did not happen to Carl Fredrickson. He meets a lively adventurous little boy, and has a fantastic, exciting, and yes perilous adventure in the place of his childhood dreams. This adventure is in the loving memory of his wife, and although he starts out thinking the little boy is an annoyance, they become almost family by the end of the story. This is not a sad story. It is about a lonely old man, and a boy from a broken family making an unlikely and meaningful friendship. If anyone, says this story is too sad, I point to the ending. Was it sad? No. People compare this to the masterpiece of Wall-E which I think was equally if not more sad. Earth is an inhospitable wasteland, mankind turns into lazy useless blobs. Only at the end of that story is it happy and hopeful, which is the same for UP. UP is an UPlifting masterpiece about hope, friendship, adventure, and love.
Some, and you know who you are if you're reading this, may come across the IMDb page for Pixar's Up (and no, it's not Up! with an exclamation point, as that belongs to the 1976 Russ Meyer X-rated flick), and turn your nose up at it as just another Disney and/or Pixar kids flick. "An old man with balloons tied to his house flying around with an annoying kid, not enough "art" for my taste" (or something similar to that if not as snobbish). I want to relay an example for you that may get you excited: this is for Pixar a riff on Werner Herzog's Fitzcarraldo. You might remember that crazy little movie where Klaus Kinski, a dreamer obsessed with opera, decides he has to build an opera house in the middle of the South American jungle, so in order to accomplish this he has to drag his big freighter-ship across a mountain to the other side. It is a leap of faith, but we take it because it's led by a filmmaker with a compelling sense of telling a story with an equally compelling protagonist. Balloons tied to a house, ship across a mountain, not much difference if you ask me, just the degree of the ambition.But it's not enough to compare it to Herzog, or even really try to. Pixar's Up, directed by Pete Doctor, is original in its intent to make a serious adventure movie that starts off as something quite mature, makes it big leap to kids, and then straddles that line like that guy who crossed the twin towers on the tightrope in the 70s. Take your adjective, this is beautiful, audacious, heartbreaking, heartrending, sublime, hilarious, surreal, inventive film-making, and it doesn't talk down to any age group in its story of an old man, Carl Frederickson, who fulfills his and his late-wife's dream of having a house on a hilltop called Paradise Falls that their favorite explorer as kids flew to in South America. If you're a kid you'll not get any tasteless jokes (there's one poo joke that actually works since it's brief and, dare I say it, funny as hell), and it helps to get you prepared for some of the hardships that may come in life, like, well, the possibility of not having kids and losing your loved one in old age. Rare does it happen that you'll cry in the first ten minutes of a Disney family film anymore. Here's the rarity.Up is also in the tradition of wild fantasy, like a tale out of the Lost World mixed in with a tale out of Pixar's idols, Studio Ghibli. One could definitely see the kinds of characters like Carl, Russel and the hero-turned-villain explorer Charles Muntz in a Miyazaki film (as Ebert so thankfully noted in his review), but they also remain true to the Pixar tradition that's given them their distinction. They're never card-board cut-outs, and even when faced with certain plot elements reminiscent of Disney fare, such as with the big bird, "Kevin", in the jungle they have to help get back to her kids, or the (insane/perfect) comic relief of the dogs that talk with the collars around their necks, its dealt with the kind of love and care that should be given in solid storytelling. Nothing is too frivolous in Up, and there's an undercurrent of sadness to both Carl, for what he's lost and has to achieve without his late wife he's known since childhood, and for Russell lacking a father figure or real mother (this last part is handled really well, watch for "Phyllis" mentioned).Oh, and I forgot, it's animated in the usual tradition of Pixar fare: awesomely. Following on the heels of their arguable top-top masterpiece WALL-E, Up features the ordinary (inside a house, an old man) and the extraordinary (the birds, the dogs, the juxtaposition of a floating house with an airship, something else out of say Howl's Moving Castle) with delicacy and subtly while at the same time grandiosity and the vibrancy possible in the medium. I could go on and on, about how howlingly funny it is or how touching it is in the little moments. But make no mistake, Up is modern film art, even if it doesn't fit into your local art-house cinema. Take the (well-behaved/respectful) kids, take the old folks, take your rotten punk kid. It is what it is- squirrel! Good stuff.
When I walked into the theater last night for the 9:15 showing of Up I had high expectations. I didn't go in with a half-hearted interest or mild confidence; I was expecting to see something amazing and I wasn't let down. "Up" flies as high as the House that becomes the premise of the film.I admit I was a bit distracted when the movie began; either no one knew the movie was starting or no one cared because they were being VERY loud. But as the movie played on the noise died down and I found myself charmed by an opening sequence that is so emotional that you'd hardly believe you were watching a children's movie. In fact, three fourths of the way through the sequence a younger woman sitting in front of me declared to her friends "This movie is sad!" in a voice that indicated she had not been expecting it. That being said this movie is still definitely suitable for little children and although I wouldn't go as far as to call it a children's film (I think pixar is beyond that) it has, as always when it comes to pixar, no course jokes or crude humor.As the movie progressed past the opening sequence, I almost expected to be let down by what came next; I wasn't. After a touching opening sequence that told the tale of his life, the character of Carl Fredrickson continues to be developed with such care that you can't help but feel sorry for him when the men Nursing Home comes to hall him away; even if he is a bit grumpy.Since I don't have time to go through the movie section by section (and you probably wouldn't have time to read it even if I did) I'll continue this review by highlighting my favorite bits and criticizing what little there is to criticize.The scene in which the house is sweeping through the clouds as a storm rages around is truly incredible; the action is actually intense and you don't feel like your watching a happy fairytale in which the characters would never get hurt or die. In general, the action was that way throughout the film. There was one point somewhere between the touching storytelling, the witty script and the epic action that I literally forgot the movie was animated and that has arguably never happened to me before.The biggest downfall of the movie, in my opinion, were the evil talking dogs. I found Dug to be the only talking dog that really came across effectively; the other "evil" dogs had little to no character development, were not memorable at all and were not threatening in the slightest. When they climbed into airplanes to shoot at Russell I found myself rolling my eyes in disbelief; dog's flying airplanes? This small downfall, however, is not near enough to ruin the movie in any way.Another slight downfall (and I'm not sure if I'd really call this a downfall) is that I would have liked a bit more of a sense of wonder and discovery when Carl and Russell first arrived at Paradise Falls; perhaps they could have discovered a few interesting creatures (besides Kevin) or strange plants. Ultimately I don't think they would have had time for this which is probably why it wasn't there but it would have been nice addition.As you can probably already tell, my overall opinion on this film is VERY positive; although a bit more of time would have made the film a bit more interesting and well-rounded, in the end, it is not needed and the film still comes across as charming and even epic without it.
Every once in a while a film comes our way that makes us sit and reflect to what extent the talent of creative minds contribute to our enjoyment, be it while watching a film, or a play, or a concert, or any other expression of the arts. This is exactly what we experienced with "Up", a positive film that reflects the times we live, and the sense of fantasy in all of us, told in simple terms, but packing a message of hope about humanity."Up", the Pixar creation of 2009 offers a magnificent entertainment for audiences of all ages. The minds behind this animated film were in the right places as they offered us their view of a fantastic voyage to an unknown world that only lived in the imagination of an older man, who in spite of his advanced age, decided to take the road to the unknown because he is at the end of his life and the world in which he lives is not what he once knew. With the help of a boy, he does what he could not have been able to pursue when his beloved wife was still around. The prospect of living his last days in one of those institutions that cater to the old, the sick and the infirm, Carl Fredricksen opts for an escape. His beloved house serves as the vehicle where he will reach the Paradise Falls in South America. Unknown to him, Russell, the boy scout wanting to get another badge for assisting the elderly, comes along for a trip to the unknown. Little did he know the dangers he and Russell will have to face while at their destination, battling the egotistical explorer that once was his idol. Because of his determination, and with the help of Russell, he ends up being the real hero of the story, having escaped the indignities of the stay in the nursing home.Pete Docter and Bob Peterson directed "Up" using the Pixar amazing technology of animation. Mr. Docter the director of "Monsters Inc.", also contributed to the screenplay. It the first time Mr. Petersen, a writer, had been involved in directing. Both men show a great talent for working in a medium that presents challenges for even the most experienced men trying to work in it.Ed Asner's voice is heard as Mr. Fredriksen. It is to the actor's credit to have given his character a human quality that perhaps with another actor would not have the same results. Jordan Nagai lent his voice to Russell, the boy with rare qualities hard to find these days. Christopher Plummer is perfect as the famous Charles Muntz. "Up" is an excellent film that will give pleasure to all kinds of audiences as it wants to appeal to the child quality hidden, perhaps, in all of us.
There is something to be said for a mainstream movie for kids that doesn't slap you in the face with obvious jokes and with silly plots and sillier characters. But Pixar's Up avoids all that and manages to deliver a stunning, subtle, smart, funny, emotional, and utterly entrancing film that is as suitable for a six year old as it is for sixteen year old or for a sixty six year old.From the moment little Ellie grabbed young Carl's hand to pull him along into her world of adventure to the tune of Michael Giacchino's touching and altogether beautiful score I was mesmerized. I watched as Carl fell in love and I watched the montage I had read so much about expecting to be wowed by the animation and by the advances in storytelling Pixar has made, but I wasn't. I was so caught up in the story that I didn't even notice at the time how well it was done. I was in the movie. I was in the meadow with them, I could feel the love they felt. And all the while that score just lifted me along effortlessly into their world. That twenty minutes was a story all by itself. I was moved to tears every time I went to see Up, and I will say that I saw it quite a few times. But the movie doesn't end with this twenty minutes, it evolves into a funny and wonderfully surprising adventure film, and yet it doesn't lose a drop of the tenderness is started out with. We see Carl as an emotionally devastated old man, lost in grief for his wife, and we see him take this huge adventure in her honor. We watch as he holds on to his wife's memory above all else, and when he does this he doesn't seem like a cartoon hero at all. He seems like our grandfather struggling in the loss of his wife, or our parents struggling through the loss of their parents. And that's another thing that astounds about Up. Carl never feels like a drawing. He is so human and so amazingly relatable that we can't help but root for him to make it through his journey. That is in no small part thanks to Ed Asner, who does brilliant work as the voice of Carl. But what makes it even more amazing to watch is that the greatest journey Carl takes isn't the one in the house with the balloons. His ultimate journey is the emotional trek he makes through that jungle, going from pathologically holding on to the life he made with his wife to the final realization that he has his memories and it's time to continue with the rest of his life. Powerful stuff for an animated film.But Carl's journey is not the only part of this movie. There's a funny little boy named Russell who accidentally winds up on the ride, and there are jungle hijinks and yes there are talking dogs, but none of these elements are two dimensional and only there for laughs as they would be if any other studio had produced this film (not that any other studio would have gone forward with a project with a grieving old man as the emotional centerpiece and protagonist of an adventure story).No, instead of making these characters two dimensional foils in Carl's journey, Pixar gives each of them life. From Russell's absent father serving as his motivation, to Kevin the bird's maternal instincts, these are not frivolous characters. Even the talking dogs are brilliant, because they don't seem like people in a dog's body, they seem like dogs with people's voices, which not only makes them funnier, it makes them more believable. Now needless to say, seeing as how this is a Pixar movie, the animation is flawless. The colors, the design, the lighting, all brilliant. What was extra wonderful was that the characters looked like they acted. Everything about Carl is boxed. From his square head to his rectangular fingers to even his geometric ears of all things, we see how set Carl is in his life and his ideas and how boxed in to his life he is, and his animation matches. Ellie on the other hand is a free spirit and her animation differs to show that. And there is such wonderful poignancy in seeing Carl's boxy chair next to Ellie's flowing curvy one. Russell's face is soft and open, reflecting the innocence and the possibilities of his youth. And I think it is no coincidence that Russell resembles young Carl quite a bit. Muntz is properly sinister looking, and there is something about the way Doug is drawn that tells us "dumb dog" before he even opens his mouth.I walked out of the theater having experienced on of the most full and satisfying films I have ever seen. I have loved every movie Pixar has put out, except for the Cars which was still better than most other non-Pixar animated efforts, but this one has stayed with me like none other, and that is saying something. I laughed and I cried but more than anything, I was thoroughly and completely entertained. What a movie! Go see it please, it is worth every penny.
Carl and Ellie meet and discover they both have the same dream of becoming explorers. They see newsreels of a daring adventurer named Charles Muntz, who is accused of faking a discovery of an animal unknown to man. He goes back to Venezuela, vowing to bring back the creature he claims he saw. Nothing is heard from him in years. Carl and Ellie grow up and marry. They buy an old house and fix it up. The two save up their money to go to Paradise Falls, but end up using the money for problems in life. It's present day and Ellie has died.This is all told in a beautiful but heart-wrenching montage that will make any human tear up. It's one of the best montage I've ever seen. However, the film focuses of Carl after the death of his wife. He is a recluse. After a problem has occurred, Carl decides to go to Venezuela, as a promise to Ellie. However, he's stuck with an 8-year-old Wilderness Explorer named Russell. Together, they embark in an adventure to a lost world, all brought to you by Pixar.Saying that "Up" is (yet) another masterpiece from Pixar is getting clichéd by now. At this point, Pixar can do no wrong. What they have done in the past several years was bringing films for all ages to enjoy. "Up" is the reason why people go see movies in the first place. Compared to other animated films, "Up" doesn't have innuendos for the older audiences. That's because it doesn't need to. This film is fantastic for all ages, the story appealing to many more people than the last two Pixar films.The rich story in "Up" may might as well be the most realistic from Pixar yet. It's poignantly told and there are things in life that are shown here that have never been shown in other animated films before. The characters are lovable and charming and are painfully and surprisingly authentic (well, except for the talking dogs, of course). The odd relationship between Carl and Russell grows as the film progresses. For the first time, the adult is smarter than the child. The film is also undeniably endearing. The film is so endearing, in fact, that you'll cry or choke up in at least three or four different spots in the film.I didn't see this film in 3D but I can tell you the film works well with or without the extra dimension aspect. The whole look of the film is just wonderful. The colors are exuberant and lively. The animation is pitch perfect. The story is nearly flawless, with some minor problems, including some talking dogs. The score by Michael Giacchino is sweet and lovely. The directing by both Pete Docter and Bob Peterson is really great. Wow, it seemed like every shot of the film moved the story along. Some scenes were hilarious too, filled with witty dialogue. The action sequences were impeccably crafted, I'll admit, including an excellent shot in the very first one.Overall, what I loved best about this movie are the characters and the story, the two most important aspects to any movie, in fact. The entire film just hits all of the right notes. With films being released these days, it's fantastic to see movies like "Up" are being released every once in awhile. I loved every minute of "Up" and I assure you will too. It's no surprise for me to say that "Up" is the best film of this year but I find it hard another film may be better than it.


                
WHY U NO LOVE UP? IT IS THE BEST MOVIE U DAFT FOOL! I AM TIRED OF YOUR TOMFOOLERLY! GIVE IT THE 10 STARS IT DESERVES U CANNOT TELL ME THIS COCO TURD BUTT OF A MOVIE IS BETTER THAN THIS MASTERPIECE!!!! UP HAS EVERYTHING YOU COULD WANT IN A MOVIE: ROMANCE, ACTION, SUSPENSE, COMEDY, AND ADVENTURE! I CRI EVRYTIEM! U NO CRI U NO MAN! THAT IS THE DON WAY! ONLY ONE THAT COMES CLOSE IS INSIDE OUT!


                
Pixar, who never seems to make a wrong step, steps right again! And this film shows no sign of a studio exhausted for ideas. This is one of their best films in fact. What I love about Pixar is their attention to detail, story, and treating their characters with respect. They make complex stories feel simple and effortless by the mastery with which they tell them. And on top of that, they dazzle the eyes and are just plain fun as all get out. When listening to how they developed the story for UP from the director's commentary on the DVD, I felt as if I as an audience member was being treated with respect and even being nurtured and cared for. They took great pains to bring something to life that would touch my soul and enchant me. Yes, UP has a few dark moments, but the undercurrent is sweet and hopeful, making the experience delightful through teary eyes. It is a must see. One note of caution: because of the maturity of some of the subject matter, I would not recommend it for little little kids. Perhaps 5 and above would be a good start. I feel the "married life" scene while easily the best moment of the film would be too emotionally hard for them.


                
...is the first thing I thought when reading the synopsis for Up. An old man borrowed with life attaches hundreds of weather balloons to his house to fly to South America. Along the way he meets up with a young boy scout, a giant colorful bird and a talking dog.Seriously if I hadn't heard this movie wasn't being done Pixar I would have brushed off the movie completely, thinking it nothing more then a stupid, childish animated movie with one too many fart jokes. Even after hearing that Pixar was attached to this film, I still thought the movie would failed.....oh boy was I wrong.Up is a masterpiece plain and simple. It's takes a crazy premise and makes it deep, confronting and oddly relatable. Makes otherwise annoying and one dimensional characters deep. And makes the audience look on in awe one minute, laugh out loud the next and then cry their eyes out finally.There certainly is something to be said about a movie which can make you blubber like a little girl 10mins in only to do it again in the last 20mins. Hopefully I've said enough.


                
In the years since Toy Story burst onto our screens,i have grown a little weary of the cute digimations that have flooded our screens. More than most seemed to feature some sarcastic little animal,voiced by an irritating overpaid recognisable actor picking up and easy paycheck. So, with trepidation i inserted Up in to my DVD machine and after 10minutes i realised i was watching something as imaginative as it was visually impressive. I never gave a second thought to who was voicing who.To my delight, i just let myself be carried away with the film and at the end i found myself having choked back the tears at least 5 times. Wow. I never thought a digimation could do that to me but it did. My hardened heart has been thawed by the sheer joy and creation on display in Pixars Up. A truly remarkable film done with love and passion that deserves all the plaudits and all the stars in all the magazines and review shows around the world. Perfection.


                
This movie is like the perfect animated movie! After seeing Wall-E I thought how can they top that, but they proved me wrong.Yes, Up is sad, its painfully sad, I cried, but it still doesn't stop the movie from being great. Im a young adult and my sister is 11 we both cried like babies but, were good at handling things like this, if you have a child that is emotional or sensitive then, maybe they shouldn't see this movie just yet.The story of a grumpy old man, wanting to fulfill his and his late wife's dream of getting away was very creative to me. The little boy was adorable and added great comic relief and some parts had me laughing out of my seat.The colors were vivid and made some of it seem so surreal the way the balloons floated lifted the house and took them were they wanted to go.Some people seem to hate this movie because it was sad, but I think this whole movie wasn't just about loss it was about life! When the movie is showing The old man(sorry I cant remember his name right now!)and his wife's life together, there is a point were there filling up this jar full of money so they may go on the trip that they've wanted since they were kids. But each time, "life" happens like a broken roof, or window, they have to crack the jar open so that they can fix what ever has happened.I just think people shouldn't be so hard on a movie just because you find is sad...Anyway this movie was amazing and if anyone has time they should go and see it!
