I own every Pixar film on DVD but I have to say that UP may be the first one I pass on. I was very excited about seeing the film today after reading several good reviews. I think now that perhaps some reviewers out there are letting the Pixar reputation get to them. I can't believe ANYONE would say this is one of the best films of the year. Films like MONSTERS, INC, FINDING NEMO, WALL-E and TOY STORY deserved accolades like that but UP doesn't have the heart those classics did. The film is at its best early on when the characters aren't talking much. We see a montage of the lead character's life as a young Carl meets an exuberant girl named Ellie. We see them marry, live a life together, experience the highs and lows of life and finally, we see Carl loose his beloved Ellie and become a widower living alone in the house that always was their home. This sequence is moving and made me think that Pixar was about to strike another home run. However, at this point the characters start talking more and the story starts to get a bit...much. Carl decides to tie a bunch of helium balloons to his house in order to fly the house off to South America on the adventure he and Ellie were never able to complete together. He unwillingly takes along a young boy scout stand-in (Russell) who ends up on Carl's porch when the house takes off. Russell is determined to earn the patch for helping the elderly required by his troop in order to graduate to senior status. The balloon premise is a bit far-fetched but since it's an animated film, you go with it. However, once in South America, things get progressively weirder. Carl and Russell end up walking through the jungle and mountains with the house strapped to them, floating above. I think I knew the film was NOT going to be the usual classic I was used to from Pixar when they come across a bunch of talking dogs. It seems Pixar, whose done films about animals who can talk and done films just about humans, wanted to mix the two so they write into the story these dogs with collars that allow us to hear their thoughts. The dogs belong to an old adventurer living in the area who is determined to capture a big, ostrich-like bird to prove he's not the fake the world judge him to be decades ago when he claimed the bird existed. The adventurer has hundreds of dogs and not only do they search the jungles for the elusive bird, they also cook for their master, serve meals AND fly planes. Very weird. I think if you're going to make a film about smart, talking animals - make a film about smart talking animals (FINDING NEMO) and if you're going to do a film about humans, do one like THE INCREDIBLES about humans. In UP Pixar tries to mix the two and it just doesn't work. The ONE character who I thought had the most heart and was most interesting, was Kevin, the big bird who doesn't talk, seems devoted to her young and takes an instant liking to the human boy who probably reminds her of her babies. I heard kids in the audience more than once asking what was going on because they couldn't quite understand the story. I suspect UP will not be one of those films kids will watch over and over again like they do with the other Pixar classics. Pixar has some incredibly talented people but in UP I think they spent too much time on "cool" ideas and not as much time on developing the story and characters into something we could care about and believe in.
Do not take young children to see UP. The movie starts with a depressing montage of an young boy meeting, marrying, and then burying the love of his life. They grow old together, childless, after finding out that she is barren, and then the wife dies. That is how UP opens and it only gets worse from there. There is physical assault, the endangerment of a child, savage dogs, fire, more physical assault and death (again). There is nothing uplifting or redeeming about UP and most of the young children in the theatre had to be carried out crying, because sections of it are dark, menacing and terrifying. The parents I was with agreed that this had to be the product of a disturbed mind and castigated Disney for ever releasing such violent dark content. Nobody had any idea how UP got its rating, with all the violence and darkness. This movie can and probably will damage the Disney brand in terms of how much parents trust it in future. Not suitable for children and by no means is it an uplifting, funny or enjoyable film.
The kid screamed, cried a river, feared, worried, wanted to get out of there, wanted to quit the whole thing and go home. I am not talking about Russell, the kid character in the movie, I am talking about my 6 year old kid. It was his worst time ever in a movie theater. Certainly I regret taking him to see this film.SPOILERS START HERESadness (excesive in my opinion), dogs with ridiculous talking gadgets to save film time, an exaggerated villain (who being a hero world explorer becomes a raving-mad animal slaughterer in a split second), a cartoonesque rare bird taken from a Porky Pig episode that is neither funny nor tender and scared the hell out of my kid, a miraculously resistant hose, inconsistent time tables (if Muntz was a grown up when Carl was a kid, how old is he when Carl is 78 years old?), graphic violence and a common place kid of divorced parents to fix the tearful ending.I certainly do not agree with all these "best Pixar film ever" reviews. The story is not solid, everything is excessively explained for an adult film and extremely violent for a children's.It seems that some executive had the idea of a flying house and nobody knew what to do with that.Yes, the graphics are great, but then again, Pixar used to do more than that.
I guess, there will not be too many people who'd agree with me. But that is what I really think. In general, I was really upset. I'll even say that I waisted my money and time, because I payed to get sad, while there is enough of terrible things in this world. I was going to see an adventure and comedy but I saw a blue story about unfulfilled dreams. If you remember a movie 'What dreams may come?', I have the same feelings after this one: this world is unfair. I'd say that this movie is good for kids - it will teach them some generally good characteristics. And movie wasn't funny...it was cute and nice...and heartbreaking . Someone can say, that it is a sign of a good quality movie, when it touches your heart. I agree with that, and sometimes it can be too much of touching. If it had less sad parts but with the same story it would be better.


                
"Up" is technically perfect. The animation is tremendous; the soundtrack is moving (and compliments the content). For these reasons alone, I reluctantly give 3 out of 10 stars.That said, the story is SAD, depressing, and too frequently vicious. The story is also SLOW to evolve. Another review I read here hit on the most frustrating aspect – this movie was misrepresented in its advertisements.This movie is about a man who feels like he has done nothing with his life and as consequence becomes a shut in when his wife dies. We see a montage of their life with lots of sad moments about not having children and the wife's final days in the hospital. Then we meet the boy and find out he is motherless and that his father left him. He hopes getting a scout badge will bring back his father. Uplifting so far huh?! Finally we arrive in South America, where the curmudgeonly old man and whining boy drag a house through the jungle until they meet the old man's boyhood hero. Turns out the boyhood hero is now a murderous evil psychopath who wants to kill the old man and the boy. Mixed in is a playful bird and happy go lucky dog. Oh yeah, the boyhood hero is trying to capture the bird. The boyhood hero's dogs are trying to destroy the happy go lucky dog.In the end all is well. The boyhood hero plummets to his death and the whining boy's father doesn't come back. However, the old man becomes a new father figure.I am sure the folks who made this thought they were making a serious film about life meanings, opportunity lost, the dangers of obsessions, etc - they probably succeeded. I took my children to see a movie about a floating house, funny kid, and a goofy bird. They got what they were after, I did not.
I am now convinced that all these people who loved this movie must be trolls. This film DOES NOT deserve the high rating. I repeat, it DOES NOT deserve the high rating. Before you watch the film, you are presented with a short film called Partly Cloudy. At first it starts off pretty innocent, but then delves into some garbage about how storks bring these awfully cute babies to their parents. And then it goes on to show you that the clouds went on to create these babies. Absolute garbage! Some of us prefer to be upfront, responsible and honest with our children. We would never teach them this! Granted you have to have a suspension of disbelief to reality when watching films, this kind of theological idea is forced on the audience. Worst of all, it was Unnecessary.Now onto the film. The best thing I can say about this film is the graphics were spectacular! It's east to see how much money was invested in the technologies to make this product. Next I'll say that my favorite characters were the talking dogs and the bird! They were INCREDIBLE! In fact, they could have made a stand alone film and it would have done very well. Bob Peterson is an excellent voice talent choice.Now onto the bad. For starters, the content is inappropriate for this film. The first 5 minutes are drama laden, saddening and very, very depressing! Right off the bat, the audience falls in love with Mrs. Fredrickson as a child and onward. For some reason, the script writers don't let this couple achieve their dream of traveling together; every time they save up, they have to spend it on something else. Then they also show Mrs. Fredrickson have a miscarriage. And then later, she dies.Let me remind you that this all happens in the first FIVE minutes of the film! I kept thinking as I watched this film, "gosh, this is depressing! I feel terrible!" Disney films are supposed to leave you feeling like a million bucks! Good things happen to good people and bad things happen to bad people - this is how it should be in the Disney world. Second, unless you are an annoying, chubby eight year old or a rigid old man, you'll have a hard time relating to these characters. By the time something actually happens to either of them, it's hard to care about them. Countless times, I found myself rooting for the other, no human, good characters or the bad guys.You can't get me to like you by feeling sorry for you. And that's what this film does to the main character.I was expecting something like the pixar film, "Meet the Robinsons," but this was NOTHING like that.
Up is not a very good comedy, There is barely any laughs at all, maybe 1 or 2. Up is not a good action movie simply because there is very little action, its starts out slow remains slow until the last 10 minutes where i was utterly bored of it. Up is not a good drama, the villains motives are questionable and so is the protagonists objections to the villain. The movie seems to be set in real life yet there is talking dogs. Also they would need about 100,000 times more balloons to launch the house into the air, but the animaters were too lazy to do that.So basically this movie is about a guy who lives an extremely dull life then gets kicked out of his house. His wife dies before him and he doesn't have anything to do when she dies. Anyway ill try not to waste anymore of my time thinking about this horrible movie
I was extremely disappointed in this movie. There is so much adult content, this movie should never have been marketed to children. From the miscarriage of a child and message of not being able to have children, to the death of his wife, to the burning of his house and being shot at by the explorer trying to kill him and his friend, this movie has so many inappropriate things for children. Lucklly some children will not be able to figure this all out for themselves. But if they are like my son, they will be asking you questions all the way home. The only good thing I can say about it is that the animation is good and there aren't any four letter words. Shame on you Pixar and Disney!!!!
The opening twenty minutes were quite touching (the famous sequence of boy growing through life and losing his true love/wife), but after that it just went downhill. How far Pixar have plummeted since 'Toy Story?'!!!!! The story is just a bit of fantasy of young and old trying to live out a dream in exotic setting, where danger lurks in form of batty old explorer and his many dogs! Gosh, what originality and what a plodding plot, characters, and empty subsidiary characters!! Yes, you just sit there while old Walt works the sentimentality line he did in the forties and fifties, only with modern animation, eg fat Americans who eat chocolate! Sorry I could not enjoy it more, but you suckered me into the cinema (only £3 each admittedly) and gave me a tired rerun of a lot of other Disney rubbish with superficial modernisms. And please can we really not have that cliché of how the real American Dream of family, apple pie and redemption is just around the block? Does every US film have to make Americans love themselves with no criticism - after all the villain is voiced by a Canadian!
I will only give this movie 3/10 for the brilliant (sic!) engineering behind it, that is the tech department.As for the story, well it puzzles and annoys me: 1. Is there a need EVERY time for a conflict? Maybe so, but let's face it: what is the real target speaking of the public??? 2. I recognize the need for the ecological theme, but I really resent the advertisement for chocolate...3. I'm really annoyed because of the child's obesity: for the old man to be obese is quite easy to understand, but the recurrent obese child theme must not be neglected...
Though it's an interesting concept, in my opinion it didn't work very well. The idea of an old mans house traveling by balloons to where he wants to go is not a bad idea, but in my opinion, it's not a very good story.The thing that it made it especially unpleasant to me is the fact that the main character starts out as a happy adventurous kid, but then jumps way ahead to the point where he's a weak old man who needs a cane and who has just lost his wife. This made the whole movie seem rather sad and unpleasant to me. It's also sad how things often don't go very well for him.


                
I never wanted to watch this movie; I confess. But since so many people tries to shove it in my face to watch it, I decided to give it a try...Even though I was sceptical as I began to watch it, I thought the beginning was pretty good... until they made a montage about their life. That was just stupid. I thought it would be so much more interesting to have a story about the love between those two, how it developed (but I know it wouldn't be about that, but still). The more I saw of the movie, the more I did not like it. It felt cheesy, and used a lot of annoying movie clichés. Kid follows old man even though he tries to get rid of him, the main person's child icon turns out to be evil, the characters manages to get out of unbelievably difficult situations out of pure luck, old man hates his followers and wants them to leave him but he gets attached to them near the end... there's just tons and tons of stupid clichés I can't stand. The movie doesn't even try to be original. But the worst thing of all, was the dumb, dumb ending before we see what happens to the old man and the boy. I am talking about after the house disappears, we see it has landed RIGHT EXACTLY IN THE PERFECT SPOT from the painting, and the camera zooms out to calm dramatic ending music... this moment was so cheesy, so utterly stupid, I felt like I was going to puke. No, really; I felt it coming down my throat. I found it THAT stupid. I admit, it WAS sort of entertaining. But it's way too serious for kids, and way too cheesy for adults. This movie is like Ratatouille, proving Pixar movies are popular just because it's Pixar. Only REALLY good Pixar movies are Toy Story, The Incredibles and Monsters Inc. in my opinion; period.
I have loved every single other Pixar movie and look forward to their release. While I found the animation to be as amazing as always, the plot was depressing and downright boring for much of it. I didn't care about the characters at all (except maybe Dug) and the talking dogs were about the only decent laugh I found in the whole thing. I am completely baffled at this high of a rating (it was 8.5 at the time of this post with over 50,000 votes). Maybe I'm in a off mood but I don't think so. Anyway, maybe I have gotten to the point that i expect much more from Pixar. Doing a little looking into it this has a higher rating than Toy Story (8.1), Incredibles (8.2), and Finding Nemo (8.3). WTF?!?!?!?!? Those are all much better films by far. I have seen them all numerous times and never got bored once. I couldn't barely make it through UP hardly once!


                
Usually I do like Pixar movies,Toy Story,Monsters Inc,Bugs Life and The Incredibles.Even Cars is not that bad as a film,if seen a second time its actually quite a decent good movie.And yes,many people has said that Pixar's downfall did start with a particular sequel named ,Cars 2.Yes I agree it is really bad, and so as Brave.However,there is a movie from Pixar that has actually been a strong reason for Pixar's own downfall,and ironically,the title of the movie is "UP"So we started with a scene with the first montage that chronicled the main protagonist of the movie,Carl,and his own time line.And then later,Ellie comes in.Yes,this is what I have to agree,it was very touching and was hardly anything seen in any animated movie.Then we have the funeral scene and the first half of the movie was pretty good,except,until the house on balloon scene,everything turns awry bad.Look,I've seen the movie twice,but this is the first time I don't really enjoyed a Pixar movie that badly since Wall-e or Brave or worst Cars 2.Okay,the first time I watch this movie,luckily I was watching it in Fox Premium Movies not in the cinemas,I switched of the channel after that balloon scene and the scene where they went to Paradise Falls.I mean that was two years ago.Then again,two years later,hoping that I'll appreciate this movie again,I watched it in my laptop,and thank God I did not rent or purchase it, again the same thing again.As how pretentious the story tries to be,or how hard it is pushing to be one,it will always be very misguided.Even the character portrayal is pretty bad also.The voice acting is not good and the goals of what the characters were were also very bad.Also the animation is pretty that bad by Pixar standards too.Compared to the awe inspiring ones from Toy Story and The Incredibles,no less they are created in the years where CGI animation was not as advance as today,they still managed to hold up time compared to this movie that shows Pixar's own laziness in character design.And yes,contrasting to what many people say about the portrayal of Russell,I am deeply offended by the portrayal of him,and being a Chinese born Malaysian,I am offended by how stereotypical he was portrayed,because his annoyance reflects on how many of us were portrayed,as annoying and loud Asian people.So if possible try avoiding this movie.Luckily,the day after watching this pretentious crap,I do watch Big Hero 6,which is another movie that features Asian characters and which has a way better animation and storyline than this one without trying to feel pretentious at all,and yes I am really satisfied with it,giving that it has a way better representation of Asians than Up really has.So try perhaps to avoid this movie,or maybe watch if you are okay with this one.Storywise,it is not pretty bad,but it was mediocre at Pixar's standards.Overall,it is just a over-hyped overrated movie that was hyped for the wrong reasons.And it is also very offensive too.Also on its side,it was the cause of why Pixar falls so badly.
Wow! The programmers at Pixar should be proud that they have fully mastered the creation of hair, clouds and realistic facial expressions. Up is a fine movie. It makes you laugh and cry. Wait. Why is there a cute dog with a collar that can make him talk? Where did that bird come from? Why is she so naturally friendly to humans? Why, all of a sudden, does he do tricks and look cute? Oh, I forgot. This movie, like all other Pixar movies, is for kids.Come on, Pixar, the Toy Story generation is all grown up. We know you have finally mastered making realistic looking computer animation. Looks great! Now, challenge yourselves to make something with some depth and complexity. Try making "Maus" into a movie. Or even something like "Sin City." Imagine that. Or are you afraid it won't make money. I know you make double or triple the money off your movies because kids bug their parents and adults have to pay full price! Plus, the kids want all the toys and they are not satisfied until they buy the DVD or Blu-Ray and watch it again and again.As far as Up is concerned, it is what I call "generically" good. It has a smooth beginning, middle and end. However, this is not the most realistic Disney movie (we are referring to Cars here...a movie about TALKING CARS!). Why is that old adventurer so nuts...just because they didn't believe he stumbled upon an amazing creature? If they hadn't of briefly mentioned that crazy guy in the opening of the movie, the third act would have made absolutely NO sense whatsoever.So, challenge us, Pixar. We can take it. Making movies for kids is great but when will you finally cross over to great art?
