In terms of animated features, Pixar ventures where very few other animated films have gone before and that is to delve into the lives of the elderly generation. In fact, having any film (animated or not) examine what it is like to grow old and the roller coaster ride that is life would normally mean you are in for some heavy material indeed. This is because true depictions of life are not constantly joyful and grand, it is always hand in hand with tears and hardships. In this respect, Pixar are to be applauded to have dared create a "kids" film that explores the circle of life in all its vivid glory and personal heartache.Those who have scored UP poorly have undoubtedly felt misled, disappointed or even cheated because oftentimes when one thinks of Pixar, one thinks of imaginative explorations of what it would be like if our toys were alive (Toy Story 1 and 2), or if cars could talk (Cars), or if a mouse wanted to be a gourmet chef (Ratatouille), or how a family attempts to be "normal" when they all have superpowers (The Incredibles). Previous Pixar stories have always reached the realms of "brilliant" because these imaginative explorations are balanced with plot depth, humor and characters which audiences connect to and cheer for. Whether it's an ant trying to show his colony that they should stand up to the grasshoppers (A Bug's Life) or a humble cleaning robot guiding humanity home and trying to find love (Wall-E), all Pixar films are both fantastical and deeply meaningful thus showing their movies are more than just eye candy.And this is where UP has divided the people. Don't get me wrong, UP has the fantastical and the deeply meaningful in spades, the difference here is that Pixar explores these to the extreme.Flying a house to South America using thousands of balloons, dogs with futuristic collars that allow them to translate their "dog" language into English (or any other human language) and lest not forget they can also cook, a mythical rainbow colored bird and an old man who uses a walking stick in the first half of the film but can do "Indiana Jones"-like feats in the second half of the film - Fantastical? CHECK.Boy meets girl, they fall in love, they marry, they discover they can't have children, they grow old together, wife dies, old man lives alone in house which he calls by his wife's name while high rise buildings are being constructed around him, old man attempts to fulfill promise to his deceased wife by flying to South America taking the house with him, and all that doesn't even cover the background story of the boy scout (who's father has left him and now only lives with his mum) who tries to help the old man out - Deeply meaningful? CHECK.The daring exploration by Pixar of both these fantastical and meaningful themes has resulted in a beautiful, at times humorous, oftentimes heart-wrenching and flawed (but not necessarily in a bad way) film.Never before has Pixar challenged the audience to such a level. Are you able to suspend belief to the point where you can believe a house can be lifted off by thousands of helium filled kids balloons and yet at the same time be willing to invest in an old man (who himself is flawed in more ways than one) and experience both the pain of love lost and the goal of hope found? Will parents be willing to explain to their young children about life and death? Will kids understand the adult themes? Will adults enjoy the ride or will they feel the movie is too depressing and the events too unbelievable? These are the questions which Pixar has dared audiences to confront.As for me, I enjoyed the film, I laughed during the bits where you're meant to laugh, and I was moved to tears during the bits where you were meant to be moved (especially the beginning which shows the fast forward life of old man Carl). I struggled at times with suspending my belief of the events in the second half; how both Carl and Russell (the boy scout) manage to do the physically astounding is not to be thought about in depth. All in all, a brave film by Pixar that doesn't quite reach the lofty heights of brilliance but if looked at from above has many lessons to be learned and perhaps, just perhaps examines the flaws in all of us (especially as we get older) and how we should all try to reach UP to greater heights.
Up is a funny adventure with very well rendered and well animated 3D images. It delivers a message that we, irrespective of age, should never forget about dreams and are able to lead meaningful lives. It also sheds some light on the importance of letting go.However, some ideas are underdeveloped and puzzling. First, the relationship between the old man Carl and the kid Russell is not well-developed enough. Judging from Carl's indifference to Russell's visit, I do not feel his desire to have children after Ellie's death. Simultaneously, Russell's admiration for Carl as his role model can be further developed so that their very good relationship in the last two scenes can be better prepared. For example, what skills has Russell learned from Carl who used to be an adventurer? After watching the film, some may find the ten-minute Carl-and-Ellie love story much more touching and memorable than the Carl-and-Russell adventure. Second, Carl, who relies on an electric chair to move downstairs and staggers along with a stick, suddenly becomes so strong that he can even climb the ladder with his feet hanging in the air, which does not make any sense even in the created world. Third, it is too easy for them to "float" to Paradise Falls, a mysterious place, without scenes showing Carl's prior knowledge on aviation or science, which not only makes the plot contrived, but also the first-15-mintue adventure less exciting. Fourth, why and how does the bad guy invent a device helping his dogs talk with different languages? Fifth, the bad guy should be much older than Carl and I wonder why he is still alive and looks even younger than Carl. Sixth, why does the dog, a loyal animal, betray the explorer, even when he has the upper hand?On the whole, Up is interesting, visually stunning and suitable for kids to watch. However, the story and characters can be further developed. Wall-E, with robots who cannot speak, is more touching, while Bolt, a Disney animation, is funnier than this one with hundreds of dogs. Until now, my favorite Pixar film is still Finding Nemo. Toy Story 2 and Wall-E rank the second and the third respectively. The rest of my top five are The Incredibles and Ratatouille. Up, despite using two ordinary human beings as the main characters, lets me DOWN.


                
"Up" may be more emotionally charged than previous Pixar efforts, though almost exclusively in its first act, and is nevertheless a step down in storytelling for the company that last year brought us "Wall-E" and before that "Ratatouille." "Up" suffers in comparison to those films, and happily resigns itself from 'good Pixar' to regular good.The story follows reluctant protagonist Carl Fredrickson, a 78-year old balloon salesman, who along with his now-departed wife, always dreamt of flying to adventure in Paradise Falls, South America. During a moving, poignant montage of his life, it becomes clear that the opportunity for adventure is passing the couple by. So when the widower Carl is sued and his home threatened, he takes the opportunity to take off, the house held afloat by thousands upon thousands of colorful balloons for the adventure he never had. All goes according to plan until he discovers Russell, an overeager "wilderness explorer," has stowed away beneath his porch.The second act is the film's weakest, and the adventure advertised boils down to a few paltry miles. After a brief storm sequence, the unlikely pair find themselves on the other side of the canyon, but nevertheless "three days" from Paradise Falls. With the floating home strapped to their backs, Carl and Russell begin their trek, only to be sidetracked by the obligatory supporting characters, amusing though they may be: "Kevin" a fictional female dodo-like bird with hilarious favoritism, and "Doug" a golden retriever with a dog-to-English translation collar.Where the film finds itself in trouble is in keeping the established themes at the forefront of the story when the arbitrary sequence of events in the second act unfold. The villain, Carl's childhood idol (which makes this guy how old?), a disgraced adventurer by the name of Charles Muntz, is the perfect match as a man who's been corrupted by his dreams, but he's never developed to a satisfying level and receives relatively little screen time.Muntz's minions are a wellspring of only occasionally successful gags, an armada of translation-collared dogs tasked with hunting down Carl, Russell, and most importantly, Kevin. Their presence in the film feels somewhat random, and not quite funny enough to justify. It's becoming an ironically dirty word in reference to Pixar's work, but it all feels a little too cartoony.The visuals are as strong as the best Pixar has offered, though shot composition gives everything a sort of flat feel to it (a problem perhaps 3-D was meant to rectify), with characters seldom moving on more than one plane, leaving the environments feeling oddly like stage backdrops."Up" is sadly Pixar's last original film until 2013, but with its glaring screenplay problems, it may be for the best that the studio recharge its creative cannons. After ten feature films, nine completely original, it's hard to leverage complaints against "Up" greater than that it simply isn't their best work. It may not be the revelation that "Ratatouille" or "Wall-E" were, but middle of the road Pixar is still worth the price of admission.


                
For a few perilous moments in the middle of "Up," I began to suspect that the folks at Pixar just might be about to register their first major stumble in the studio's hitherto flawless reign as "king" of the computer-animated film (a reign which began with "Toy Story" all the way back in 1995). But, like the airborne house that floats at the center of the story, the movie eventually righted itself and sailed off smoothly into the wild blue yonder.This generally wistful and enchanting film tells the tale of Carl Fredricksen, a grumpy old man whose beloved wife, Ellie, has recently died, taking their dream - of traveling to South America, to a place called Paradise Falls, and setting up home there - to the grave with her. When Carl is threatened with eviction, he hatches a fantastical scheme of attaching hundreds of helium-filled balloons to the house and flying to South America on sheer wind power alone. This he does, accompanied by an adorable little tyke named Russell, who just happens to be caught under the porch at the moment of liftoff.So far, so good, as "Up" captivates us completely with its imagination, its lyricism and its charm, along with its visual homage to such earlier classics as "The Red Balloon," "The Wizard of Oz" and "Around the World in 80 Days." There's also a stunning montage sequence which chronicles - without narration or dialogue - the complete married life of the Fredricksens, starting with their wedding and ending in Ellie's eventual death.The trouble for "Up" begins to rear its ugly head only after Carl and Russell have arrived at their intended destination. Here they are confronted by a number of strange and exotic creatures, including a hitherto unclassified species of bird and a bunch of dogs who've been given the ability to speak by some sort of shadowy mad scientist who's clearly up to no good in this remote corner of the world. At times, we begin to suspect that once the writers, Bob Petersen and Pete Docter, came up with the idea of launching an old Victorian house into the stratosphere, they never really figured out what to do with it once they got it up there. But the messy mixture of science fiction and jungle melodrama they've come up with is unworthy of all the quality work that has come before it.Yet, what eventually saves "Up" from crashing and burning in its second half is the wonderful voice work by Ed Asner, Christopher Plummer and Jordan Nagai, the soaring and sweetly romantic score by Michael Giacchino, and the theme that sometimes our yearning for adventure can make us so myopic that we fail to perceive the "adventure" that's happening right in front of our eyes on a day-by-wonderful-day basis (more shades of "The Wizard of Oz"). These alone are enough to compensate for the occasional narrative misfires, a made-to-order villain, and an overabundance of drooling, snarling pooches that feel strangely out-of-place in a tender and lyrical fable such as this one.The animation and backgrounds aren't quite as rich and compelling as they were in Pixar's previous two ventures, "Ratatoille" and "Wall-E," but the less spectacular look actually makes "Up" a more contemplative, relaxing work to sit through.
I went into the movie expecting it to be a funny, laugh out loud sort of story. That's what the previews and the studio plants on here are suggesting anyway.What I got instead, was a semi-dramatic, sometimes funny, many times downright melancholic movie about an old man who is facing his regrets in the twilight of his life.It's a character study basically. The boy, the dog, the bird, all have very little to do with the movie at all. It's 90% about the old man, and how he deals with the loss of his wife. There's quite a few tearjerker scenes, and only a few funny ones.The pros: The movie is animated well. The 3D was good, and not "in your face" - you didn't notice it for the most part, it just made the movie subtly better. The ending was good (of course everything turned out well).The cons: Not much really of a comedy, or an adventure. My kids were bored. They rated it "OK". This is more for grownups, or may you guys can go with your dates, cause she'll be blubbering and holding your hand.I recommend it, but don't go in expecting it to be a non-stop laughathon.
Another enjoyable Pixar production right here, this time doing for the elderly what "Toy Story" did for infants. It does fall a bit too obviously into the formulaic last half hour big chase with the bad guy, which in this particular feature I think was going along perfectly well as it was. Maybe that's just the adult in me, so I'll chalk up the first half of the film for me and the second half for the kiddies.I particularly liked the prologue in which we get the potted life story of Carl and Ellie, the film subtly making the point that life goes on even when you're old and widowed. I might argue that the feisty Ellie character actually seemed to have more going for her than her more passive husband and that I missed her in the second half. I also didn't appreciate the fact that it was their childhood hero and inspiration who turned out to be the baddie and of course cuteness must have its place in any Disney feature and here we get a double dose with Doug the dog and Kevin the err...big bird.However the crotchety old Carl Fredricksen is a fine creation and even more so his keen-as-mustard adventure scout assistant, Russell, the film also reminding us that the generation gap needn't be so wide. While there are fun moments and good laughs to be had, I was most taken with the marvellous animation, as so often is the case with Pixar. In particular the scene of the first ascent of the house with its multicoloured balloons sending it skywards is a visual treat (it's a pity they give this away in the promotional material) as are the first, rainbow-tinged views of Adventure Falls. The vocal characterisations are excellent, with Ed Asner as frosty old coot Carl and young Jordan Nagai as young whippersnapper Russell while the background music is likewise enjoyable and apt.In summary then, another Pixar treat, although like I said from a purely selfish point of view, I do wish they would abandon the routine mini-Indiana Jones big finish, no matter how flashy and superficially thrilling it might be.


                
Not much to say for a review of "Up" except that it was an adventure of a tale filled with adult-undertones in an otherwise child-like movie that knows how to use its sense of fantasy to drive the story home. The music was standard Pixar/Disney fare, which has a hint of obvious, on-the-nose emotional-clichés about it by this point in Disney films. Even though the scenes were absolutely ridiculous in logic, it makes for the best kind of kid's film. This is the updated version of "Rescuers Down Under" and "Flight of the Navigator." (Basically Disney and Pixar decide over the question "Does the shot look dramatic enough?" and goes with whichever logic gets them that shot) Personally, I would have liked the movie better if Carl made the decision to stand his ground in the end and not to go after these accessory characters, and the way they arrive and return to the destinations of home and Paradise Falls is completely by happen-stance. In the end, I gave the movie a reluctant 7 stars, though, because it is fascinating what Pixar can dream up, however implausible the story is.
The opening eleven minutes of Disney/Pixar's animated "Up" are pure poetry in motion. Chronicling a man's journey in life from boyhood to married adult to lonely widower, director Pete Docter gives us images which are extraordinarily heartfelt, so elegiac in tone they should take an audience's collective breath away. Big dreamers but relative homebodies, an elderly man and his wife live happily together alone in their house until her passing. Faced with eviction, the man gets an amazing idea overnight: attach thousands of helium-filled balloons to his rickety old house and sail it through the air to a revered point in South America. But, as with 2008's "WALL·E", there has to be dramatic conflict, a villain, a chase, and lots of outrageous comedy in order to attract the youthful target audience. In a perfect world, there would be a Pixar effort designed to steadfastly avoid this kind of commercial pandering to 10-year-olds. Once the house reaches the next continent, the man, now joined by a chatty juvenile, encounters a rare bird being hunted by a world-renown explorer--the 78-year-old's childhood hero--who fails to live up to his newsreel notoriety. The bird only wants to get back to her babies in their nest (how's that for conflict?), while the man and his kid-companion are held off by a pack of dogs who have voice-boxes in their collars. If this isn't bad enough, at one point the dogs even prove to be flying aces in fighter planes apparently held in storage since WWI (it's a lackluster homage to "King Kong", and a highly unnecessary one). The screenplay, written by Pete Docter and his assistant Bob Peterson from a treatment by Docter, Peterson and Thomas McCarthy, is so wonderfully cognizant of an elderly person's traits and attachments to their beloved belongings, to then witness the central character being chased by talking dogs is an insult. And yet, because the filmmakers are wise enough to keep returning to the tale's likable principles, "Up" is often vastly entertaining. The detail is marvelous, often beautiful, as is the subtle music score by Michael Giacchino. There are a handful of near-terrible moments in the film which keep it from being a true masterpiece, but Docter and his team are surprisingly honest when it comes to the sentiment. The friendships made and lost in "Up" are genuinely touching; and, though the slapstick is noisy and sometimes mean-spirited, the overall intent to somehow steer this vessel to a happily-ever-after ending is clearly evident and commendable. *** from ****


                
'Up's' plot-line plays with the Pixar films' cross-generational appeal by having an oldster and a kid as its main characters. It's a buddy picture about the voyage of Carl Fredricksen (Ed Asner), a 78-year-old widower, and Russell (Jordan Ngai), a chubby eight-year-old Asian "Wilderness Explorer" who wants to earn an "assisting the elderly" badge. The movie "teaches" us that we can still realize our life-long deferred dream of exploring South American wilderness if we can just attach thousands of helium balloons to our house and sail away. It's hard to say if up to then Frederickson's life has been fulfillment or disappointment. His wife Ellie (Elie Docter) was a childhood playmate who dreamed of emulating an explorer named Muntz (Christopher Plummer), who has found a prehistoric bird in South America's Paradise Falls plateau. They never go very far. Ellie, alas, can't have children. One day when they're both in their senior years she falls down and shortly thereafter dies. Fredrickson has had a career as a balloon salesman.The film sketches in the couple's life as sweetness and smiles, yet hints at a world of disappointment symbolized by Ellie's "adventure" scrapbook, which was never filled. Poor old Fredericksen won't move to a retirement home even though his little house is now surrounded by a vast loud construction zone. The demeaning practicalities of aging are depicted as something to escape from -- magically. When Fredericksen strikes an agent of the contractors and gets branded as a public menace he's somehow legally mandated to the old folks' home: this is the moment when he flies away, taking his house with him, with Russell a stowaway.There's no doubt about the exhilaration of an aerial escape, or the charm of the bond that develops between the old man and his dutiful, plucky little sidekick. But Up gets into deep trouble wit the arrival of the dogs, dozens of them, with electronic flashing collars that enable them to talk in squeaky (or sometimes deep) voices, in various languages according to what button you push. Forgive me, but I didn't buy it, and I just didn't see the need. Mr. Fredericksen is sold to us initially as a pretty feeble old man and so the strength and vigor he develops in South America is hard to accept. There's something to be said for a story that ends with the awarding of an explorer scout patch for assisting the elderly. All Russell really wanted to do was help the old man across the street, -- or even just across his lawn.I want to love Pixar films. Their animated features have moved from strength to strength. 'The Incredibles' was energetic and smart, 'Ratatouille' was witty and sophisticated, and 'WALL·E' wastranscendent and moving. Alas, Up does not live up to that standard.The house of Pixar has been declared triumphant in the field. Denby of The New Yorker heralds Pixar animations as examples of "moral fable" and damns the old Disney ones as mere "psychological fables" marked by "cloyingness" and "malevolent overtones." Well, Up is full of cloyingness and weirdness, and the latter part of its adventure has its fair share of malevolence. Up is a hugely overblown fantasy whose point is lost in endless violations of the laws of biology and physics. Pixar has its ups and downs, features different writers and directors, and to typecast them is dubious. What they have in common is a technology and a look. The look is mainstream, as is the sensibility. If you want something more artistically or intellectually adventurous, you'll go to French animations like 'Persepolis' or 'Fantastic Planet' or F'ear(s) of the Dark;' 'The Triplets of Bellville' blows away the similarly dark American film 'Coraline.' Eastern European animations have a fresher look. The world of Japanese anime is rich, fantastic, and frequently very adult or sexual; it seems to capture the original, fantasmagoric world of comic books better than American comic-based films like the Batman franchise. Likewise graphic novel films like 'Frank Miller's Sin City' go far beyond the tame confines of Pixar or Disney. An adult animation like 'Waltz with Bashir' is in another league.It's a bad start for 'Up' and not a step in the direction of technical or artistic innovation if you're forced, as you may be, to watch 'Up' in 3-D. The glasses, on top of your own, weigh upon and pinch your nose and the dimmed images with the planar levels they create are as flat and fake-looking as your grandmother's stereopticon slides. This Fifties movie gimmick with its chintzy throwaway plastic specs is unconvincingly heralded as the great new technology. It didn't do much for the creepy 'Coraline,' the fascistic 'U2/3D,' still less for the slipshod 'Jonas Brothers: The 3D Concert Experience,' and it only detracted from Zemeckis' watchable 'Beowulf.' 3-D is supposed to look incredibly real, but even granting this dubious claim, why use it for 'Up,' which flaunts its unreality? Its digital figures are like painted toys. Its Paradise Falls looks unabashedly like paper-mâché rocks and fake foam. The Pixar images pop out at you without the effect of 3-D imaging, the colors are brighter, and the experience is more absorbing. Why not let us use our own imaginations? There's some thrill of adventure in this movie, and certainly the titillation of swooping flights and dives through space, as well as the time-honored animation scare of teetering on a precipice, and going into free fall only to be magically saved. But this, compared to the best Pixar films, gets lost in its gimmicks at the cost of a meaningful tale. Of course a travel yarn is just one thing after another anyway, and there's' no harm in an adventure with the moral of a good deed attacked to it. But that's just what it is, though: attached. And how much richer were the worlds of 'WALL·E,' 'Ratatouille,' and 'The Incredibles'! 'Up' has less to offer to adults than they did.


                
Carl Fredericksen is an elderly widower whose house is in the middle of a building site. Rather than be evicted to the local old folks home, he ties thousands of balloons to his house and literally flies away to South America for an adventure. However, unbeknown to Carl, he has a well-intentioned stowaway on board <U+0085>This is Pixar's tenth movie in, and the quality of their work is quite simply outstanding. Up is a wonderfully original story about an irascible old man, a likable fat boy, a talking dog and an embittered adventurer from a bygone age. It's a crazy, almost farcical plot, but yet the characters are so carefully observed and real seeming that you are swept along by the beauty of it. The wordless montage of Carl and Ellie's marriage at the start is an extraordinary five minutes of animation. Russell, the Boy Scout do-gooder, is a genuinely great kid - he's goofy, a little sad and he keeps the story moving nicely. The Lost World environs - lush groves, rocky tepui plateaus and dazzling waterfalls - are all rendered with exquisite detail. Although the story takes some swallowing, nothing about the movie seems forced - Carl's growing fondness for Russell, his reluctance to let go of his past life, his resolve to help rescue the rare bird - all flow as smooth as silk. Most importantly, it's hilarious throughout, with comic scrapes aplenty, crazy situations, lots of madcap moments ("Squirrel !") and genuinely funny characters. The small voice cast are great; eighty-year-old Asner and eight-year-old Nagai make a lovely team, and co-director Peterson steals the movie as both Dug the heroic Golden Retriever and Alpha the scary Doberman. Deftly scripted by Docter and Peterson with actor Thomas McCarthy, and featuring a beautiful score by Michael Giacchino which weaves in and out of the action, adding much suspense, humour and pathos. In the Pixar tradition, the movie is preceded by a wonderful short film called Partly Cloudy, directed by Peter Sohn. Do not confuse this with the 1976 Russ Meyer movie of the same name, or you may never recover !
I was exited to see this movie, as it had rapidly climbed to 26th place on IMDb's Top 250 before it was released here in Germany. Maybe those expectations ruined it for me, as expectations often do, but I really don't think this movie deserves a spot this high. Okay, it's funny. But so are Monsters Inc., Wall-E, Finding Nemo and countless others. The story is imaginative and entertaining, but no magic. The plot tries to push us through a wide range of emotions, but the movie's sugar-coated, candy-like look and slapstick nature kept me from identifying too much with its fairly shallow characters. A while ago, I saw "Spirited Away", a movie that touches the soul, takes you into a land beyond your wildest imaginations and leaves you with magical, dreamlike images you won't forget for a long time. Compared to movies like that, "Up" seems like your typical "let's all have a good time" - Disney family entertainment flick. Which is perfectly all right, and I will gladly give it a 7 out of 10, but this movie is definitely no milestone in movie history.


                
HBCU247.com writes this movie is a great in showing how important it is not to get wound up in our plan As and plan Bs, but sometimes it is necessary to take a detour to achieve our goal<U+0085>happiness. And with that in mind let me also say, 3D is AWESOME, but this movie was kind of like a combination of 2D/3D, but it's all good the movie was good. There's also a part of the movie where no words were spoken, but the musical score practically guided you long with every motional turn had there been words. Although some animated movies present their featured presentation with fun songs, and antics galore, but Pixar always deliver a movie that not only has a lot of laughs but also has with heart. The "graphics" were cool, the story had heart, you laugh<U+0085>you cry<U+0085>you just ENJOY!
First it must be said that Up is a good movie. It doesn't fade next to Ratatouille, Wall-E or any other of Pixars greatest. It is fun for kids as well as adults, it makes you care about the characters, the animation is flawless and the plot keeps your attention every second. Still, Up is one of the strongest arguments for closing the vote until the hype has passed (Maybe until the movie has been released on DVD?) Along with movies like The Dark Knight, Star Trek and the other Pixar Wall-E it makes me more and more certain that this is the solution. Don't get me wrong, I loved both Wall-E and the Dark Knight, but there still is no way that they're as great as the ratings say. Besides, Star Trek was plain awful. Slumdog Millionaire is probably the only hyped movie I can think of that has landed on an appropriate rating in the end. Anyway, I recommend Up, it is a good movie you and your kids probably will want to see again and again if you are a Pixar fan, and if you're not I recommend it all the same. 7/10.


                
Well, it's warm and curable. But hardly more than that. But of course that's enough sometimes.


                
So moving for a children's movie it's just so powerful and shows life in it's true form. A beautiful film and great characters


                
Often we don't expect certain movies to mean anything. This one was enjoyed by my entire family and tought a great lesson. Emotional roat coaster.


                
I'm not particularly a fan of animated movies, but once settled in I can generally find them entertaining and worthwhile. The same can be said for "Up", the tale of an old widower curmudgeon who inadvertently hijacks a stowaway on his sky-bound home as it lifts off for a lifelong destination called Paradise Falls. The film is colorfully rendered, and if you're a guy who once might have been involved in Scouting at any level, you'll get a kick out of Carl Fredricksen (voiced by Ed Asner) sending his young hitchhiker Russell (voiced by Jordan Nagai) on a hopeless snipe hunt. When these things occur, I find myself in the underdog's corner, and when Russell finds a snipe and names him Kevin, the adventure really gets under way. It's too bad Carl's childhood hero turned out to be a villain, but that sets up the challenge of saving his new found friends from a diabolical, mad scientist, and find a way to get back home. Oh yeah, can't forget the cute canine pal along for the ride as well. His name is Dug, and is sort of the comedy relief character along with Kevin, and has a big hand (paw?) in making the save for the intrepid travelers. For it's efforts, "Up" won a Best Animated Feature Film at the Oscars in 2010 against some worthy contenders. In it's own way, the film has something for young and old alike, and if you're feeling down for any reason at all, you might even find it up-lifting.
It was all right, I mean the story was good but I tend to over think movies and compare them with reality which makes movies worse. Yes I know that the shift from reality makes these movies, movies. For example Star Wars (or any Sci Fri movie for that matter) would be sh!t if you compared it to the real world. But Up however looks like it's supposed to look like the real world, if that makes sense. Now before we start this may contain spoilers it just depends on how much you know about the movie. First off Pixar animations admitted to have calculated how many helium balloons would have been needed to lift up and fly away with the house and yet didn't animate enough balloons in the film, what were all the calculations for? And also did you just happen to have a bunch of helium balloons cramped together in a chimney and if so how did the house not take off already (it's been a while since I saw the movie, I remember most of it with my photographic memory but I can't remember if this was explained in the movie). And lastly, if you think about it the old dude basically kidnaps the little Boy Scout and just flies off.
Now there are things that couldn't be done with live actors but CGI has changed that and it left me wondering why this very lovely story was produced as an animation. For the first half of the story there seemed no earthly reason why, and even in the second half I was still wondering.Perhaps it was in the marketing as a 3D production that we are treated to camera angles and shots that would be quite difficult to achieve in live action and that is a pity because the story stands up on its own and is overplayed in many of the animation sequences. Fortunately it doesn't spoil the entertainment value but I am left thinking it reduces what could have been a great film into a good one.Yes the spectacle is, in places, a visual treat, but there is something missing in the personalities that the film doesn't quite make up for. And so I am awarding it seven out of ten for entertainment value, with three out of ten deducted for trying to divvy up reasons for three dimensional viewing.


                
*SERIOUS SPOILERS* I'm amazed at how many Hollywood movies today explicitly acknowledge the power of cinema to shape minds and lives. Since this is now a trend, how can Pixar be far behind ? This film opens with a film within, the documentary on exploration which is seen by our hero as a very young child. The notions of mystery and adventure, conflated with the larger-than-life celebrity figure of Charles Muntz, burn themselves into the child's consciousness. They virtually define his life and existence. Along the way, he meets a girl who is similarly besotted with Muntz and the fantasy he represents. They get married, and their mutual love is founded on the film they both saw and fell in love with. Soon they get swept in the grind of everyday life, but they keep their dream alive. When she dies, leaving him an abandoned old man, he attempts to transform their dream into reality.So the movie begins, but the rest of it is more or less generic animated fare. And its oddly more Disney than Pixar. Sure, the animation has the usual high level and the color palette is much wider, but the comedy and action sequences are rather tame by modern standards. I actually think that 'Kung Fu Panda' (which is quite lowbrow) is more effective as an action comedy, and has a far more rousing third act. I'm surprised they didn't try to make this deeper, or extend the self-reference to the entire film. Too bad. But that opening was very nice.


                
My favorite Pixar movies are the ones who have (in my opinion) the very best characters. Monsters, Inc., Toy Story, Finding Nemo, The Incredibles, etc. My least favorites are the few that have the most uninteresting characters, like Cars. Not to say that Cars is a bad movie, but it didn't leave a memorable impression on me like those other movies did. Up fits somewhere in-between those two categories. It has some great characters, they just don't happen to be the main ones.I'll just come out and admit it - I thought Russell was an annoying little brat. Carl was a likable enough protagonist, but Russell really hurt the movie, for me. Kevin and Dug, on the other hand, are a big part of why I still ended up liking the movie a good bit. They're some of the most flat-out hilarious characters that Pixar has ever made. Most of the comedy in Up involves one of those two animals, in some way.This is a beautiful movie, no one can deny that. It's so bright, vivid and colorful, that anyone who's watching it on DVD or an SDTV is really missing out. Up is basically a commercial for running out to get a shiny new HDTV and a Blu-Ray player. This movie is an absolute visual and technical marvel, and it's also a good family film. Pixar's record of quality remains spotless.     


                
This movie is about being happy...or knowing to be happy and acknowledge your happiness. It is also about ideals and how our Icarus need for adventure can drag us away from the ultimate purpose of all human being: being happy... Carl grow up in a silence, enjoins the household happiness of a wooden fairy-tale house alongside his pretty innocent image of a wife and partner...Carl and Ellie are lonely people in an absurd world that can never be understood on a stand alone basis, so their marriage is a protection against the existential angst...they are alone and happy...well, until her death, when the adventurous intrinsic nature of the human being took over, pressing Carl, now literally surrounded by a concrete world, to search the unknown and to settle the promise he made to his wife Ellie...This film is a visual allegory of this struggle between domestic happiness and Icarus adventure and using Pixar genius imagery can transmit to the viewer a sense of emotion that will entwine the viewer with the characters...it is a permit to dream and , although sometimes sad and philosophical, this movie lets us in need to get out of the theater and LIVE.
Pixar's newest and arguably most well received film, Up swept the world with its mix of comedic and dramatic elements. Positively received by critics and crowds alike, it comes with a daunting reputation.Carl Fredricksen is a curmudgeonly pensioner, living alone in an increasingly urbanised environment following the death of his wife. When construction work damages his DIY mailbox, Carl strikes out, and is condemned to a retirement home as a result. Unwilling to leave his home, he uses thousands of balloons to lift the house away and fly to South America, as he once planned with his wife.The first ten to fifteen minutes of Up have become amongst the most famous scenes in recent cinematic history. Conveying a life of love and loss without words in such a short and simple scene, Pixar may well have accomplished their best work here. It is endearing, emotional, and engaging, immediately allowing us to forgive Carl's gruff exterior and meanness. After the involving start, however, things begin to follow a standard formula, with wicked villain, threatening henchmen, catchphrases and general conventions of children's films. This may be appropriate, given that the film is just that, but the potential purveyed in the opener unfortunately goes largely untapped. The remainder of Up, following its strong start, simply fails to live up to what it might have been. Jokes are mildly amusing, plot is insufficiently entertaining, characters are less than enduring. Though it functions just fine as a children's movie, it leaves a sense of disappointment behind it.With a strong start, Up promises much but fails to deliver the best. Entertaining despite this, it works as a way to pass the time and entertain the kids. Its beginning taken as a short might have made Pixar's best film, but as a whole it keeps the audience happy, if not thrilled.


                
Pixar animated movies like "Toy Story" & "A Bug's Life" were fun, creative and amusing. Up is strangely "adult" in nature and it's appeal to the very young maybe minimal. The best line in the entire film "I finally get to meet my childhood hero, and now he wants to kill me". Seriously, this should have been a PG-13 movie. Pixar films were more upbeat before they teamed with Disney. Now with Disney, their films have an added drama to them. Disney is great at musical animation storytelling, but I wish they had left Pixar alone.The story isn't that great, although the love story between Carl & Ellie is admirable, ultimately it's about the widowed Carl and an obese stowaway but determined boy scout, Russell. Their encounters with a strange bird and a talking dog lead them to the villain in the movie, who probably should have had more screen time. There was no explanation of why he needed all those talking dogs.I thought the animation was superb but the scenarios when the main characters were put in peril, were a little too unbelievable. It seemed with all those bright colored balloons it would be a fun movie, but "Up" can be a downer sometimes and I'd only recommend it to fans of animated films.


                
'Up' is the latest movie from the Pixar stables.Mr. Frederickson, an aging widower, fulfills his lifelong promise to his wife of flying to South America by attaching helium balloons to his house and taking off, after his home is in danger of being torn down. His adventures in the Amazon constitute the story of 'Up'.It's a refreshing plot about one's dreams, but there is one jarring note. Why is Mr. Frederickson's idol shown to be the bad guy? He's not trying anything illegal. That note, and the subsequent storyline that stems from it, took away the charm for me.The visuals of the movie were refreshing. The wide, flowing waterfalls; the wildlife of the Amazon, it all contributes to the larger-than-usual canvas of 'Up'.The voice acting by the cast is extremely good. The dogs, the eagerness in the kid, the sinisterness in Mr. Frederickson's idol's voice comes out beautifully.Final Verdict: 'Up' is an interesting concept handled very well. The jarring note about the idol aside, the movie keeps you engrossed thoroughly.


                
