"Up" is a winner, and I couldn't be less surprised. Anyone still putting a limit on how new and inventive they think a Pixar film can be deserves to have their socks blown off. For the rest of us, just buy a ticket and expect to be taken away. This new flick is the work of writers/directors Pete Docter and Bob Peterson, two guys who have each been around the making of Pixar flicks before. Docter was a director on "Monsters Inc", a writer on "Toy Story" and a co-writer and director on "Wall*E." Peterson was a writer on "Finding Nemo". Both know the guidelines for success and while "Up" doesn't reach the heights of say a "Wall*E" or a "Toy Story", it's still a fantastic movie because, well, I don't think the people Pixar hires know how to make anything other than fantastic movies.This one is about Carl Fredericksen (Edward Asner), a 78-year old retired balloon salesman living alone in a house full of old memories. Carl and his wife Ellie met each other as young children, both enamored by the newsreels about adventurer Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer). They eventually married and planned on seeing the world together, especially Paradise Falls in South America, but life kept getting in the way and before he knew it, Ellie died.As the world changes, Carl refuses to change with it. When developers threaten to move him out of his house and into a retirement home, the old codger rigs his house up with thousands of balloons and before you can say "way to go Carl", he floats away, determined to have the adventure he and his wife never had. He doesn't plan on taking 8-year old chubby wilderness explorer Russell (Jordan Nagai) with him or crash landing on the other side of Paradise Falls, or finding an exotic female snipe (that Russell names Kevin) or a group of talking dogs (one named Dug befriends them) tracking down the bird for Muntz, who it turns out is a sinister villain, but things kinda turn out that way.You're grabbed instantly. The adorable opening montage of the Carl and Ellie love story is more endearing and moving in its dialogue-less 10-minute entirety than any other romance this year by a long shot. This is another Pixar flick that goes in a daring direction. We next see Carl as a heartbreaking old man, his wife dead and the world no longer needing him. You forgive him his bitterness and you love him for the sentimental streak he has towards the things he and his wife shared together. His crabbiness is a little funny but there are also some heavy scenes early on as well. It sets up a beautiful, multi-layered story about enduring love and learning to live life without limits.When a thrilling rainstorm crashes Carl and Russell on the other side of Paradise Falls, the two must each harness themselves to the house floating above them. The characters each look terrific and share a good chemistry. Russell is the usual 8-year old kid, talkative, inquisitive, and annoyingly overeager. He is a good comic foil to crabby Carl, his big, rosey smile and plump round stature a counter to the stout, frowningly square-faced Carl. As the two spend more time together, a wonderfully written friendship develops.The movie is full of visual gags and the talking dog-henchmen are great fun. Muntz, an adventurer who travels around the world in a big blimp, offers a menacingly evil villain to chase Carl and Russell through rough mountainous terrain before the exciting final house vs. blimp in-air showdown. Plus the movie looks fantastic, a lush array of candy color and grand scenery. And the vocal cast, from Edward Asner to Christopher Plummer and Jordan Nagai each deftly voice their roles. "Up" is one of the year's rare treasures, a movie that flies in every way possible and from Pixar, you shouldn't expect anything less.
Pixar has its first truly Disney project. It has all the hallmarks of the Pixal manual: it is obsessed with exploring the third dimension and it has an extremely refined engineering of story. It touches on thoroughly conventional family values in a slightly new way. And it has a strangely relevant short that precedes it.In this case, the three dimensional explorations that Pixar mastered are rendered in visual three D because Disney's corporate strategy requires it. Its a massive shame. That's because of the unintuitive fact that of all the exploration and innovation that Pixar has done has to do with novelties of the projection into a 2-d screen with a frame. The frame , usually constrained by the physics of the camera, has a broader physics in Pixar-land. But to get audiences to "read" the 3D, these extended physics are taken away and what we have is ordinary camera movement and framing.I may have a different experience when I see this in 2D, but I think not. All the cinematic fun, the adventure of the Pixar spirit, is missing here.The one thing that is outside the normal Pixar range is the color palette. It much richer here than usual. I think that may have also to do with Disney strategies for dealing with technology threats.The child here is Asian. That's also a market driven decision.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
I just want to say that although I thoroughly enjoyed this film in many respects, it is not for children. It isn't as though they may not have fun watching it, as the visual effects are quite stunning, or they might not get a giggle or two from a few scenes, it's just that in order to fully appreciate the film you must have been in love at some point in your life...or at least comprehend love to the fullest extent.I would categorize this movie as a romantic comedy/action thriller for adults had it NOT been an animated film. As you may have heard it is nothing from what you would expect in the commercial previews. However, it is pleasantly unexpected. Had I known a thorough synopsis through the commercials, as some films seem to give everything away in a 30 second preview, I don't think I would have enjoyed the film as much.The movie touched my heart and as one reviewer said "I began crying in within the first five minutes of the movie, and I'm not much of a crier." Well, I certainly concur.This is a great movie for lovers, perhaps those going through a tough time in a relationship, or newlyweds. For children, however, they will most likely utter the words that my niece did, "It's not funny." If you have children that are easily entertained, patient, and can sit still through nearly any movie, take them along to watch with your significant other, if you can. Otherwise go with your partner, a close friend, or even yourself. I promise you'll be brought to tears, but they'll soon be wiped away as scenes become more comedic.Enjoy!


                
The sneak peeks and trailers to this movie did not particularly inspire me to go to this movie. It looked like it was a rambling movie that didn't really speak to the comic or action side to the viewer. A guy puts enough balloons together to lift a house off it's foundation: So WHAT??? He inadvertently picks up a scout as he flies away: Again... so WHAT?? Getting the point of a movie is a big reason to motivate people to go SEE a movie I would think. But this was a Pixar film, and I NEVER miss a Pixar film. So, in a moment of spontaneous motivation (and seeing that 2 out of three spawn were currently in house that morning), I popped some corn, my wife filled some water bottles, and we all piled into the Tan Mini-van and went down to the Metropolitan theater (where I felt confident I would not be met with a sour presentation of this film) to purchase tickets and view this movie.The last time I went to see an "3D" film was an iMax theater with sharks and fish. It was pretty cool, so I was happy to kid about how much the glasses added to the family appeal. We sat down and waded through the kiddie previews and trailers then came an announcement to put our 3D glasses on. The new Toy Story and Ice Age (both up to their 3rd sequel) previews were run. Sorry, when you get to a third sequel that wasn't originally written as a trilogy I can't get excited. The Disney lead-on filled the screen and away we went.Within the first 10 minutes I was angrily batting moisture from my cheeks. I was shocked. Pixar emptied the climax of the plot first off, but what an opening sequence of events! Without giving too much away, the plot revolves around a core of love and a promise. Remember those "Cross your heart" promises? Well, there you have it. The rest is a strange adventure with some odd sub-plots that seem thrown in to keep the kiddies focused. Both colorful and deep, the only real question one keeps throughout the movie is whether the promise will be fulfilled or not.My wife and I watched through the ending credits (hoping for a surprise tag somewhere. Sadly, no) and saw Brad Birds name come up in the conceptualization of this film, and granted some of his influence if felt. The primary animators are quite diversified and well established, some even old enough to be your father or grandfather. As I IMDb'd some of the talent, I was impressed... and as for Ed Asner playing the primary role: I thought he had died years ago!!! But he's alive, and a great talent for the part. Pete Docter who has been in the Pixar pen since the first Toy Story does an admirable job of making this one and a half hour film both entertaining and thoughtful. There are chases, there are technological malfunctions, there are obsessions, there are fanatics and there are devouts and totally absurd sequences. This movie is no less a study of society than ornithology is a study of birds. Its amazing.And all through it you get to see how generations meet and interact on a very honest level. I am not young, but I am not old. Each generation will find something totally involving in this film. From an artists point of view the artwork and color are spot on; from a comedy point of view it is not overwhelming; from the heart... well, it's profound.The audience clapped after it was over. During the viewing, there was a nominal level of noise from the "too young to even enjoy Dr Suess" generation but it wasn't distracting. This film is for kids; Well, not just kids... for kids, adolescents, early adulthood, young parents, old parents, grandparents... its for everyone. Highly recommended. Well done, Pixar, well done.


                
I was fortunate enough to attend a preview in Denver. It is yet another Pixar that appeals to all. I attended with my 5 year old daughter, 8 year old son and two friends. We all really enjoyed this movie. The storyline was probably a bit over my daughter's head but she was drawn to the characters Dug the dog and Kevin the bird so it didn't make much difference. She was giggling through out the movie over their antics. My 8 year old son was drawn to the idea of a flying house and the adventurousness of the story as well as the characters. Certain parts of the story had my girlfriends and I getting choked up and teary eyed but that aspect of the story was over their head. There are a couple take aways from this movie depending on how old you are and not wanting to spoil it I will leave it at that. I highly recommend this movie! See it as a family if you can. It will make for wonderful discussion afterwords. My one regret was that my husband couldn't make it but we'll definitely see it again so he can. It's wonderful!


                
What's up? Up is up! It was very successful movie! It even was nominated for Best Picture by the Academy Awards. It was the second animation film to do that. Directed by Pete Docter, Up is Pixar's tenth film in their series and their first full-length 3-D film. The film tells the story of an elderly widower named Carl Fredricksen (Voiced by Edward Asner) whom trying to fulfill his late wife's dream by taking their house to South America. The only problem is, that an earnest Boy Scout named Russell (Voiced by Jordan Nagai) has tagged along, making the simple trip, so much, more complex. Can Carl make it to South America or will his late wife's dreams be shattered? Watch the movie to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I found this movie to be very entertaining. The movie is gorgeous and colorful. Sadly, the 3D isn't worth it, but it's still, beautiful to the eyes. I love the amazing music by Michael Giacchino. I just wish, the tune sound more South or Latin American, than European, because it would make more sense. The movie is unsurprisingly well action part. Great pacing. The film is also well-acted. Everybody did their parts, very well. Edward Asner was a great choice as Mr. Fredricksen. I love his grumpiness in his voice. The use of mostly grunts, make it seem, like his responses come from a protective stance, rather than his own grouchy nature. Jordan Nagai as Russell is just as likable. He has the most lines, in the film, and none of it, sounds too annoying. I guess, there was something, sweet about his voice. You really do hear it, whenever, Russell speaks. I love that the actor wasn't even trying to get cast for the role, but end up, getting it, over his brother who was. It show, how charming, his voice is. The supporting cast's voice acting is just as memorable. Christopher Plummer as the villain, Charles Muntz, the explorer was fun to listen to. Bob Peterson as Dug, the dog, was pretty amazing. His voice in this, remind me so much of veteran voice actor, Dom DeLuise. I also love the cameo from Pixar's own favorite actor, John Ratzenberger in his minor role. As much as I love the voice acting; I really love, how the cartoon characters appear in this film. I like how, they have more child-like appealing cartoony look. The whole over the top celebrity caricatured facial appearances kinda works, because the older computer model for humans, used in Toy Story 1&2 are just way too bland-looking and unappeased. It has that creepy uncanny valley look to it. Anyways, I think, the new model gives the movie, the amount of surrealism to make the plot to work. I really doubt, the film could work, with more realistic facial appearances, because how bizarre, the premise is. While, the appearance of Carl is meant to resemble Spencer Tracy as he appeared in his final film, 1967's Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. I like his short square status, and cartoony facial expressions. It makes Carl stand out. Unlike some critics, I also love, how Russell look. He doesn't look, like a kid with Down syndrome. He looks like a normal kid. I think, they were a little too harsh in their judgment. I also love the fact, that Russell is clearly Asian American, but his character lack the typical Asian over-stereotyping. Surprising, it makes the character, so much, more appealing, because it's not stepping over to over-used racial clichés. Charles F. Muntz really looks like, an old explorer, but his character's looks was a bit jarring. I really had a hard time, believing, that he's that well maintain, at his age, when he spent, most of the film, living for so long, outside of civilization. In my opinion, he should have, look, a little more broken-down. Last is Dug. He's a very realistic looking golden retriever. I own one, and they got it exactly right. I like how he closes his mouth and freezes when he notices a squirrel. Funny moment right there. For the story, it's both a hit and miss. I love that the film deals with more adult like drama, than childish antics. Having Carl still dealing with the loss of his wife, gave the movie, so much depth. It was really needed. However, besides the awesome and unexpected genuine tearjerker opening marriage montage, the film goes into another direction, with its absurdity. It's really off the wall, crazy and convenient, that Carl able to travel to South America in the way, he's traveling. The movie takes great artistic license, when it comes to engineering and physics. You have to really, be willing to suspension your disbelief from the rest of the entire film. Especially, when Russell was designed to be the child that Carl and his wife were unable to have, in both a figurative and literal spirit. Another thing, I didn't get about the plot, is how Charles Muntz can be, easily discredited. Clearly, the amount of what he found, in his short life, would give, his statements about the exotic bird, some credit. Clearly, much of the unexplainable questions in the plot, could be solve in the Carl is crazy theory that certain people has latch on. In theory, Carl didn't travel to South America, instead the Balloons are metaphors, reflecting Carl's happy and uplifting memories of his wife. Hints, why he was stubbornly clinging to them and refuses to let go, as if he's afraid he's going to fall. It wasn't until he did, was he able to live life, once more. Other people have notice, some themes similarity in the plot to John Milton's great poems Paradise Lost, Harvey Potter's Balloon Farm by Jerdine Nolen, and most of all, several really obvious references to Studio Ghibli. Overall: It deserve its good praise. A must-watch. Things can only go up from here.
Walt Disney once said that he wanted to make movies for audiences, not just kids. His goal was to produce animated film equal to live action features, movies that were seen and appreciated just like any other movies. One can certainly discuss how well the Disney studio has taken care of this legacy, but the company that kept the innovation going for it has obviously been Pixar. Step by step, movie by movie, the people at Pixar have kept outdoing themselves. To me, Wall-E was them crossing the final frontier, breaking their own roof and kept going towards the stars. That wasn't just a family adventure and it wasn't a kids movie. It was about two machines and the entire human race - a movie for audiences, don't you think?Up is a companion piece on the same level. It's not about the entire human race, but it's about the entire life of a human being - this is a movie that tries to learn very young people a little something about very old people. In the beginning of the movie we meet Carl, a little toddler with stars in his eyes, dreaming about going out into the world for adventure. Coming home from a Newsreel concerning his biggest adventurer hero, he passes a house where adventurous things seem to be in full motion. Thus, he meets Ellie, a happy gal with equally grand dreams as himself. Now, in any other animated movie this would be our two main characters, kids on the screen for kids in the theater to relate to. But what follows is a montage, spawning decades, and upon the end of this montage we meet our main protagonist - it's Carl alright, but now he's Mr. Fredricksen, a cranky old man. The movie has just outrun the eight year olds by 70 years or so! Hey little Charlie, this is your life Mr. Fredricksen. It's dangerously brilliant.Our cranky old hero has a warm and colorful life behind him, but he never got to go out on any of those adventures. While there's still time, and while there's certainly nothing better to do, Carl figure it's time for some adventure so he flies away in his house toward South America, the land of his dreams. His only baggage is Russell, the real kid for the kids in the audience to "relate" to. Carl finds him obnoxious and even though Russell is your average modern eight year old, I guess the real modern eight year olds in the movie house should understand why by now. Back in the days, all Carl and Ellie knew about South America was that it was "America, only south". Russell takes GPS for granted and says "You're going to South America? You know, most people take a plane, but you're smart because you'll have all your TV and clocks and stuff." Russell doesn't seem to have any pure, authentic dreams of adventure in him, and he's certainly not that imaginative, but he does like chocolate.What follows is an adventure as old fashioned as it is fun and original. There's something very classical about the whole fair; an amazing flying machine that has to be repaired somehow, strange dangers in the jungle and giant zeppelins with the insides of luxurious steamboats. In a sense, this is also an adventure movie about adventure movies - it's part of the adventure to explore jungles, discover strange animals and exciting secrets. Carl knew this when he was eight but now, almost eighty, it's all just a nuisance. He is totally uninterested in whatever they discover. "Can we keep it?" Russell says. "No" Carl keeps replying and continues to limp along. "But it's a talking dog!!" Russell finally exclaims.Up also has fairy tale touch to it that is woven into the visual dynamic. It feels as if it's taken inspiration both from the films of Miyazaki, and from that elegant French style of animation that borders to realism. The adventure is strange enough to make you fall back into escapism, but at the same time it's all very close to heart. Carl Fredricksen is as believable as Walter Matthau or Jack Lemmon were in Grumpy Old Men. Up seems to salute these kind of cranky old men too, it seems to give an homage to this soon extinct generation of analog, post- war dream weaving. It also seems to be wanting to tell the kids of today that you should really try and be nice to cranky old men, because being one is not the easiest thing in the world. Another thing the movie seems to be telling us is that no matter how lonely and bittersweet life can be when you're at the end of your days, we are all children at heart.


                
The biggest issue with this movie is that the opening sequence is probably one of the best of ANY movie I've seen (animated or otherwise). And so the rest of the movie does feel "not as good" as the opening, which is a shame because even if it's not the best Pixar movie, it's still a great one.


                
This movie isn't what I expected. There was a lot of talk about this movie and a lot of hype brought from it during its release year. It's a great kids film and it even holds a lot of comedy for adults.I had a lot of fun and enjoyed a lot of the great comedy throughout this movie, even though it's filled with a lot of sadness. It has a cliché montage in the first ten minutes to show a lot of time passing and allow for the main character of Carl to be old.Russel is quite a show-stealing character with his comedic relief and the dog Dug who is a hyper-active upbeat talking dog helps give some comedy too. It's really unlimited in terms of comedy.It's got a tad bit of romance, and it's filled with tragedy for more than one character. It's a fun movie full of heart. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I'm sad I didn't take a look at it in 2009 when it came out. But I'm glad I finally saw it. It's one of the best Pixar has ever had to offer.


                
The madmen at Pixar once again prove themselves the best storytellers on the planet. Or off it.UP is a unique animated adventure that follows crusty retiree Carl (voiced by Ed Asner) on his adventures in trying to float his house with thousands of balloons to his dream locale.Another humbling display of Pixar's incredible grasp of story structure. How do Pixar do it? Look at their ratings record on IMDb - every major theatrical release (except CARS) scores 8/10 or above. From TOY STORY to THE INCREDIBLES to WALL-E, it is becoming boring referring to them "batting another out of the park." They know no other trajectory.The first section of the movie is a sad little vignette all on its own. We first meet Carl as a cute little boy, marveling at the exploits of adventurer Charles Muntz (voice of Christopher Plummer). Also a fan of Muntz, Carl's future wife, Ellie (Elie Docter), whom he Meets Cute in a dilapidated house, as she pretends to fly it to an enigmatic South American rainforest plateau called Paradise Falls. A whirlwind montage of Ellie's and Carl's lives as they marry, move into that house and try to keep ends met while still vowing to trek to Paradise Falls "someday." He's a balloon salesman at the zoo, while she works in the South American exhibit. Montage rushes through their married life, dark days of miscarriage, old age, and finally Ellie's death, throughout, a picture of their promised destination on the mantel seeming to recede further into childhood fantasy. It stirs simultaneous nostalgia, bereavement and regret.And it's just a cartoon! As city developers tear down everything around Carl's little house, he resolves to make his fantasy a reality. He attaches thousands of air balloons to his house, rends it from its moorings and takes to the skies, with ingenious steering and sailing mechanisms that were once merely play-acting ropes for young Ellie.Along for the ride is a plump little Asian-American boy scout, Russell (Jordan Nagai), who was on Carl's porch when he lifted off. It is refreshing that Pixar would create this mixed-ethnicity character, as it has always been the provenance of spoiled blond white kids (which Carl was in the opening scenes) to go on adventures such as these.En route to the Falls, Carl and Russell encounter a big exotic bird which Russell names Kevin (and continues to call it that even after it is discovered the bird is a mother), a dog named Dug with a special collar that enables him to speak (voice of co-writer-director Bob Peterson) and Muntz himself as a neurotic recluse with his pack of trained collar-speaking hounds.Using the word ingenious to describe Pixar is like using skank to describe Britney Spears - it's intrinsic; built into every detail of this production, from the logistics of Carl's balloon-powered house to Muntz's airship, to the house-airship chase through canyons, and the endearing little animation details.Characterizations are, once again, as good as you will find in any drama. Though the movie obviously has a strong kiddie demographic, Russell's pathological need to earn his badges to impress his absent father is far from the usual syrupy guff. And watch how artfully Dug's lovable character is carved out in a few seconds of screen time, through his actions, voice and content of his disjointed dialog--squirrel! This is why Pixar shames Disney when it comes to writing "real" characters - Disney's are STILL written as naively as Amy Adams plays Giselle in ENCHANTED (2007).Pixar writing vets Pete Docter (TOY STORY, MONSTERS, INC) and Bob Peterson (FINDING NEMO) direct, with Thomas McCarthy sharing co-writing credits with them. Creating an action-adventure without overpowering the people at the heart of it.UP was recommended to me by a screenwriter as an example of the perfect execution of the screenplay form. It is. A whip-cracking put-us-in-our-place illustration of just how a story should be told, with humor, action, poignancy, and every little detail paid off--squirrel!
I went into this film amazingly enough knowing absolutely nothing about it except that it was Pixar's newest release, that it was 3D, and of course that it was called UP. I have to say Pixar tops itself again. As a fan of traditional 2D animation, 3D animated films have always been a rough pill to swallow. Even if I really like them I still have a twinge of despair that they are in the 3D medium. I don't want to say that I am completely transformed and now love 3D, but Pixar always does a great job in lessening that pain.I found Up to be a very heartwarming film. We got a glimpse of Pixar trying to play with the heartstrings in Wall-E, but they definitely have some far more emotional moments in Up. But with the great laughs and story included. I found it to be a fantastic ride that will have you almost in tears one minute and then laughing out loud the next. Great story. Great voice actor. And great Animation. Well done Pixar.If anyone could get a stubborn old traditionalist like me to enjoy a 3D film, it's you...


                
When I saw the first clip of this movie on the WALL-E DVD, my first impression was, this is crazy, seeing a house rising into the sky by a lot of balloons! I liked the idea of using an old man as the main character, from the moment he said "afternoon" in the clip, it felt heart warming. When I first heard about the plot, everything fell into place, and the message behind the house was beautiful. I did have another reservation with the relationship between the old man Carl and the wilderness explorer, Russell, but when I went to see it, nearly everything worked.The beginning is definitely one of the best parts of the film, the montage we see on Carl and Ellie's time together was a joy to watch, right through to the end, and it was the first time a film brought a tear to my eye at so early a stage of the plot. As I've already said the message of freedom and being able to do the thing you always want to do in your whole life, was beautifully shown through the flying house. What I was concerned about before hand was the relationship between Carl and Russell. From seeing later clips of the film, I was worried that the film was going to be hampered down by "the main character and his sidekick" gags, especially when you add in a bird that won't go away, and a witless dog. Yet the film doesn't fall into that trap, yes there are still sidekick gags, but the creators don't overdo it. What's more, in a way the characters, Russell, Kevin and Dug, are not like the usual dumb sidekicks you get in any short TV cartoons, they're natural sidekicks. Russell for instance is the kind of kid with curiosity and the idea that everything is a game, which would lead to trouble. There are action sequences in this film that takes you on a helter-skelter of a ride, and when I left the cinema I felt I had a great time. To anyone, this film would seem to be defying the laws of science, and it's not just because of a flying house. Yet, I didn't care about this because this is a children's film! The gags were great, yet there was one on the dogs voices which, though it was hilarious, I felt was a bit camp for Pixar's standards.The Mis-en-scene was beautiful. Obviously the two contrasting settings in this film are the city and the paradise falls. Paradise Falls is of course the main attraction and we see a ray of colours from the natural setting, compared to the grey and organised city. The music meanwhile was charming.From other reviews, I heard that the 3D graphics didn't show anything amazing. For me I didn't think it was bad. It definitely didn't pop out of the screen, but I thought it was better than Coraline. I found that the airborne objects, like the house, seemed to stand out more and I enjoyed it There were however a few problems I had with this film. Firstly, there is the matter of the self-improvement in this film. In many of their other films, Pixar has used more than one self-improvement. In WALL-E for example, as well as the robots want for love, there was the human's self-improvement to find their humanity and return to earth, which fitted in nicely. In this film, it was clear that Russell had a self – improvement to progress in life, namely to become a senior in the wilderness explorers. However, once we got to Paradise falls, the creators seemed to let this self – improvement sit, and although there were moments, such as the time when we hear Russell talk about his relationship with his father with Carl, there weren't many signs of development. Once you add up the sidekick gags and the helter-skelter action sequences, they seemed to take over the whole plot. We only return to the self-improvement near the end, and at that stage, Russell had improved by then. I enjoyed watching Carl improve, yet it didn't balance with Russell's improvement, along with the many things that was going on. Also, there weren't many twists to the plot. The villain was defeated (so no nod to "Ratatouille"), and it was predictable what the dilemma in the second half was going to be (so no nod to "WALL-E"). In the end the plot was just the usual plot line you get in any normal film. Also, after seeing the last three films, I was looking forward to a song in the ending credits, and was disappointed when that didn't happen Despite these, the ending for Carl was lovely, and in essence, the things that make Pixar's films great are there. The film didn't bowl me over like "WALL-E", but I found it to be a charming film.


                
By now it is somewhat passé to mention Pixar's track record as a film studio; the effortless consistency of their output shames virtually all others in the film industry, whether animated or live action. Since their inception with the seminal Toy Story (which, I would argue, remains their best film), Pixar has seen meteoric success with virtually every consecutive release. After the daring and audacious WALL-E, Pixar had a lot to live up to with their next effort, and while Up is a little more routine, it is still another valuable entry into the animated canon with all of the heart and soul that you would expect.Up revolves around Carl Fredricksen (Edward Asner), an old widower who, after having a violent outburst against a construction worker who broke his prized mailbox (which he built with his late wife), is forced to move into a retirement home to live out his days. However, he's not about to go quietly; he attaches hundreds of helium-filled balloons to his home, causing it to take flight, with sail set for Paradise Falls in South America, a trip he had been planning with his wife Ellie, but she died of old age before they could go. Things become more complicated when Carl realises that Russell, (Jordan Nagai), a young Wilderness Explorer, has stowed away on the "ship", becoming Carl's unlikely sidekick.If judged solely on its first reel, then Up is the film in Pixar's canon that can legitimately challenge Toy Story's claim to supremacy. The film begins with the same daring promise that made WALL-E one of Pixar's best films; it features an uncharacteristic (and dark) opening that cleverly traces the several tragedies and injustices of Carl's life, while remaining vague enough not to upset children. In the prologue montage, Up observes the problems that many couples are faced with, such as the difficulty to conceive, and of course the universal inevitability of death and of being alone, and the fact that Pixar chose to even glance over this at all is a testament to their artistic integrity. This isn't an easy film to market as a result, and the fact that there aren't many Carl Fredricksen figures in toy shops is all the more power to their stature as tellers of powerful stories rather than manipulatively cute animations mechanically rendered for profit. As Pixar have proved with the Toy Story films in particular, they care about their predominantly young audience, and won't condescend them. As beautifully realised as it is heartbreaking, Up provides one of the best prologues in any Pixar film, and exemplifies that they're capable of dealing with humanistic themes directly through human characters, as well as through anthropomorphised animals. While Carl does often pore over pictures of his deceased wife, and there are frequent reminders of the inevitability of death, Up is also replete with the exuberant charm and visual brilliance that one expects from Pixar, although in this stead it does also become a more familiar adventure romp. Of course, genuine charm oozes out of every frame as Carl and Russell arrive in South America and meet a host of weird and wonderful animals, but it's clear that the chance for greater depth has been squandered for fear of not tinkering with the success of formula. This isn't so much a complaint as it is an observation; as a clever kids film that's going to entertain tots and their parents, it is tactful enough to allude to mature issues while also not veering too far from the comfortable norm. It's not that one expects pomp and profundity, but given how much Pixar have gotten away with here with a U rating, it would have been nice to see them totally go for broke.Although not nearly as ambitious as WALL-E from a visual perspective, Up is a stunningly rendered film, and those watching the 3D presentation in particular will doubtless marvel at the exhaustive attention-to-detail and resplendent character design. For all of its aesthetic flair, though, what really holds Up together is the earnest voice performance of Edward Asner, whose nuanced vocal work forms the film's heart and soul, making this irritable old coot with a broken heart seem animate beyond his rendered bounds. If the Academy is prepared to consider voice performances, he would certainly be among the first in line to earn a nomination. While the film itself may earn a Best Picture nomination under the revised 10-film category, Up isn't Pixar's best. Nevertheless, it delivers the goods and boasts expectedly incredible visuals. Not to mention, Carl is among the more relatable and personable characters in the Pixar catalogue, and it's difficult not to become entranced and captivated by his heart-wrenching story. As such, it's easy to argue that this is Pixar's most mature and bravest effort to date.
I don't as a rule 'do' animation but the English press were virtually unanimous in four-and-five starring this one so I figured what the hell I'll give it a try. It does actually give the impression that some thought has gone into it not to say daring in the storyline of a widower realizing - in the nick of time to borrow Noel Coward's phrase - that life is for living and lighting out in a house propelled by helium-filled balloons for South America. Not least effective is a lovely montage sequence that takes our hero from childhood through dating, marriage and loss of his much-loved wife. To put this at the top of the show and risk alienating the kids was brave indeed. The 'action' may take some swallowing - we are, after all, talking geriatric here - but is easily overlooked. A fine effort.
Was a pretty darn good movie, in fact...probably the best animated film I have seen since Monsters Inc, or maybe Finding Nemo. It had a good moral for the kids who watch it along with a type of feel good at the end. The movie contained humor which I love and it had a little action... even if it was animated.I'm a fan of movies such as Crank, Gran Tornio, etc... I love my action, but this is a great movie nonetheless. I would recommend it to anybody. I would personally rate this as a "MUST SEE" for anybody... or an 8/10.BTW, if you're wondering why I didn't recap the movie... you can get the gist from IMDb itself, or previews (I'm not one to spoil movies).


                
5 July 2009. "Up" attempts the difficult fusion of both children and adult elements in the same movie and usually succeeds marvelously at both. This sharp, 3-D animated movie handles both roarously funny scenes along with dramatic emotional scenes dealing with love, growing old, and the issue of what's important in life. However, as a serious movie, it attempts to incorporate childlike fantasy elements and sometimes the rigors of logical and reasonable cause and effect go out the window which would be no problem in a traditional animated movie directed towards young people. But "Up" in attempting to have it both, both serious grown-up issues and thoughtful scenes, it brings with it an expectation of a tighter reign on more realistic scenes regarding chases and escapes while thrilling go beyond plausibility, breaking the suspension of animated realism, which when 3-D is used actually increases the need for virtual practical sequences. Overall however, this movie is captivated with fabulous colors, the action is riveting, the plot outline decently strong and in some instances even more intimate than Coraline (2009). 8/10.


                
Really enjoyed the movie, timeless funny, can always rewatch it


                
A humorous, flawlessly animated comedy that does not hurt anyone, and after a few years, I will always be glad to look again. Because of its idea and joke, the viewer is very pleasantly satisfied. I think, there are not many people, who would not appreciate it. There were a few inconsistencies, but I think it's not very important. The main thing is to watch the movie and enjoy it. That's what the creators have done excellently.


                
Pixar, apparently, can do no wrong. This clever and imaginative film was both funny and touching. Kids will love the fun characters and the adventure while the adults will love the quirky humor and the heartfelt story. This movie truly is fun for all.


                
Young Carl idolised explorer Charles Muntz (who somehow looks a lot like Kirk Douglas) and his discovery of Paradise Falls somewhere in South America. Others regarded him as a quack and a fake, so Muntz disappeared. Carl wanted to be an adventurer, he met young Ellie who was even more adventurous but real life got in the way. Now Ellie has passed and Carl is a grumpy old man living alone, hounded by property developers who are bull dozing the neighbourhood and want to see him in a retirement home.Carl has tied his house with loads of helium balloons to float to Paradise Falls. He manages to take with him, an unwitting boy scout Russell who was just helping out an elderly person for a badge.Both find adventures including a rare bird, talking dogs and a fallen hero. More importantly Carl finds a yearning for life as he hangs out with young Russell who himself is freindless.I ended up viewing this film as my wife took our kids to the cinema to watch this and upon her return she told me that I would end being like Carl went I am older. I guess it is a roundabout way of telling me that I am a grouch!The film starts with a segment of Carl and Ellie from childhood to old age. It is the junior Carl who is shy, slightly awkward, a pace or two behind the frenetic and energetic Ellie. As life goes on, they could not have children and it is Ellie who slows down as they get older and she passes on, leaving Carl on his own.It is all about Carl rediscovering that zest for life and having that adventure he and Ellie dreamt about all those years ago. This is a fun and imaginative film, slightly surreal and off beat. For a film called UP it actually keeps its feet on the ground in terms of story and emotion.


                
Up demonstrates the importance of creativity, vision, intention, and especially the power of commitments made with like-minded spirits. The love Carl and Ellie felt for each other was palpable throughout the movie even without words, just music. Their love included trials and tribulations, including a child lost mid-pregnancy, which helped evoke a full spectrum of emotion around the theater.Ellie becomes sick and dies, leaving Carl, now an older man named Mr. Fredricksen, to live their adventure solo. He works to keep Ellie's spirit alive for himself with photos, scrapbooks, memorabilia, and imagined conversations—the same creative play that first brought them together.
In the beginning of the animated film, Up, we are introduced to two young, enthusiastic and very different children who share a passion for traveling and their hero, renowned traveler and explorer Charles Muntz. This connection leads Carl Fredricksen, voiced by Ed Asner, and Ellie to become best friends as well as husband and wife. Their passion for travel never abates and they spend their life saving money to travel to Paradise Falls. Unfortunately, as it often does, life gets in the way and their dream is never reached.Fast forward many years and we find an old, stubborn, grouchy Carl as the world has changed rapidly and left him disgruntled and refusing to change with it, reminiscent of Walter Mathau and Jack Lemmon in Grumpier Old Men. Refusing to sell his house he mistakenly causes harm to someone, which gets him in trouble with the law and he is forced to live in a retirement community. Refusing to let this get in his way, he manages to inflate thousands of balloons tied to his house, which causes his how to rise up and float away. His destination: Paradise Falls. It's at this point that the theme of the movie really begins to pick up: no matter what happens, life goes on and you should enjoy every minute of it because you don't know what will happen next.While flying to Paradise Falls, he hears a knock on his door, and unbeknownst to him, a local member of the "Wilderness Explorers", Russell has accidentally been brought along. Having no choice but to bring Russell along, he navigates them safely through a massive thunderstorm and almost arrived at his destination. Many balloons were lost in the storm and although still floating, it is not able to fly at high altitudes so Carl and Russell must drag the house to its final location.On the trek across the mountainous terrain Carl and Russell encounter an exotic bird and a talking dog that is trying to capture the bird and return it to his master. During this trip the exotic bird runs away because they encounter many other talking dogs and they are escorted to a remote cave where Carl is united with his idol, Charles Muntz, who has spent the better part of his life searching for the elusive exotic bird that has befriend the group. Upon learning this Carl finally shows some emotion and spends the remainder of the film trying to prevent Charles from harming the bird.This film used amazing computer graphics and enhanced colors to bring a mesmerizing setting to the viewer's eye. The focal point of this movie was the balloons that Carl used to float his house away and you can tell special attention was given to the creation and design to create an impressive display on the screen. The vividness they used also translated into Carl and his grumpy face and the transformation he goes through and without this superior artwork, they would have been unable to truly capture the essence of Up and the central theme of the film of how life goes on and to not waste a minute of it.


                
I can't believe that I'm reviewing a cartoon; but what the hell, maybe my second childhood is near. Carl Fredricksen(Ed Asner) was a lonely little boy who worships an explorer named Charles Muntz, a man who was disgraced for faking the discovery of a big bird in Venezuela. He meets Ellie, a neighbor who shares his passion for nature. When they grow up they marry, but are unable to have children. He sells balloons and she works at a zoo. They have always intended to travel to South America to verify Muntz's claims to clear his name. The best laid plans of mice and men prevent it and Elle dies, leaving Carl alone. His house is surrounded by a new development, but he refuses to leave. He injures a construction worker in a dispute, and receives an eviction notice. He comes up with the idea to attach thousands of helium balloons to lift the house into the air and fly it to Venezuela and fulfill his dream of finding Muntz's bird. He takes off with a stowaway, Russell, who is trying to earn a merit badge by helping the elderly. They meet a non flying bird and a talking dog along the way. They make it to their destination and find Muntz living in a zeppelin. They end up in a fight over the bird and, not to worry, this is a children's story, so all's well that ends well.


                
This is one of those movies you have to see several times to get all the nuances and gags.This movie spoofs a lot of movies and salutes a lot of traditional values.The score is perfectly suited to the action.It is amazing that the animation and the score can telegraph emotion as well as it does.While a number of the things that happen in this movie would not stand up to scientific scrutiny, the plot is so engaging that it is easy to suspend belief after the original liftoff.When many other animated movies offer up dialog that borders on the smutty just for a laugh, this is a breath of fresh air by comparison.All in all, a good way to spend an hour and a half or so.Anybody notice that Charles Muntz looks like a caricature of Kirk Douglas?Squirrel!


                
Carl Fredrickson, voice of Edward Asner, was a silent young boy who meets a lively tomboy named Ellie, played by Elie Docter in the movie Up. The two end up getting married and living together as they grow older. Carl and Ellie make a promise that when they have enough money they will go to Paradise Falls located in South America. They work very hard and finally save up enough money to take their trip, and Ellie ends up dying because she grows old. Carl ends up living in their house alone and misses his wife dearly. Eventually Carl receives a notice that he is to move into Shady Oaks Retirement Home. Instead of moving into Shady Oaks Retirement Home, Carl decides to follow his lifelong dream and begin his trip to Paradise Falls. To take off on his trip, Carl ties thousands of helium-filled balloons to his house and it lifts up to the sky. The angle that the camera has on the house is awesome, because you can clearly see the house floating up into the sky with all of the balloons attached. However, what Carl doesn't realize is that there is a little wilderness explorer named Russell attached to this porch. Carl and Russell eventually become very close as they enjoy their journey to Paradise Falls. Carl shows Russell about how to survive in the wilderness, and Russell shows Carl how to have some patience. As the movie moves along, the house eventually lands on Paradise Falls. In the process Carl loses Russell. Carl finds an old scrapbook of Ellie's that had her final wish; and that was for Carl to make it on his own. As soon as he reads the note, he goes out to find Russell. In this scene, Carl has to get rid of some of the things in his house to make his load lighter. In other words, Carl is finding out what matters the most in life. He realizes that getting his house to Paradise Falls is much more important than all of the material things in life. Finally, Carl and Russell end up together again and remain close with each other. In the end, you can see that Carl and Ellie's house now sits on Paradise Falls. This movie reminds me of the movie Facing the Giants, because it is about being positive and going forward you're your dreams. Overall, the main point of the movie is to never give up on love and continue to follow your dreams no matter what obstacles may come your way in life.
