Greetings again from the darkness. Another crackling collaboration of Pixar and Disney, and as expected, it is touching, funny, thrilling and amazing to look at and watch. Only a step below Toy Story just because it is not quite as ground-breaking, though the story is even better.While I love technology and effects, I am first and foremost a story guy when it comes to movies. This has as good of story as any film you will see. My only caution is that it seems geared towards grown-ups, not kids. The montage of Carl and Ellie growing old together is without dialogue and will probably bore some kids. Their parents certainly won't be bored; however, as it will resonate with most anyone over age 40 who hasn't taken the time to chase their childhood dreams.No question, this film is a barrage of color and eccentric characters, and can even be a bit frightening at times. Still, the key to this one are the stories and quests of the elderly Mr. Fredrickson and the young Russell, trying to earn his badge of honor. From the beginning, Disney has always had a finger on the pulse of youngsters. Here, we aren't given the usual Hollywood garbage of brainiac kids who make the adults look stupid. Instead we are given a pudgy, slightly goofy kid just trying to get his parents to take note.Special kudos to Ed Asner for bringing Mr. Fredrickson to life ... in good times and bad. He never goes overboard and is quite often absolutely perfect. Christopher Plummer has a limited role as bad guy Charles Muntz. Or is he really so bad? Cast aside by society, he has spent his life searching for redemption.I am not saying the kids won't enjoy, but I am saying make sure parents and grandparents tag along. You will be entertained, delighted and moved.


                
If Pixar - as a studio - has any weakness, it's that they have no idea how to make a bad film. Again and again they release entertaining movies with not only a terrific sense of humor, but a level of storytelling that has set a standard for today's films, animated or otherwise. While I was obviously extremely excited to see Up, never did I expect it - or, to be honest, anything else from this year - to reach the level of quality of this year's first animated film, Coraline (which, along with last year's Bolt and Wall-E, became one of my favorite films of all time). Well, I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. Simply put, Up is a perfect movie.Easily the most emotionally impactful portion of the entire film, the first ten to fifteen minutes of Up are nothing short of beautiful. Using little to no dialogue, the opening "montage" of this film tells the story of Carl and his wife Ellie, and the wonderful life that they share together. Carl is such a lovable character, that you feel for him from the very beginning. Without trying to come off as cliché or anything, you feel the joy that he feels, and when his wife passes away, you feel his loss. By the end of the whole sequence, I was in tears.This movie is freakin' hilarious. Without a doubt the funniest film that Pixar has ever made, each and every character in Up provides their own bit of humor. Dug the dog (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson) is especially hilarious every single time that he "opens his mouth", and yet still proves to be a key part of this emotional roller coaster ride. The movie also does a terrific job at making you feel a sense of wonder, and you just buy into the adventure of these two characters. Finally, I want to give a special nod to Christopher Plummer as the famous wilderness explorer, Charles Muntz, who is easily my favorite Pixar villain.I love Up. Go see it now, as my review just can't do it justice. Not only is it extremely entertaining, but also gut-bustingly hilarious, and beautifully told throughout. To quote John Campea of TheMovieBlog.com, "The only negative thing I have to say about this movie is that it ended." The result is a film that's on par with Wall-E and The Incredibles as my favorite Pixar movie to date (which, again, is saying a hell of a lot, considering that they're two of my top 10 favorite films of all time) and while it may take a couple more viewings to say for certain, I have no qualms with saying that Up is one of the finest films I've ever seen.
This is another film in which it really helps to know in advance what it is, or more specifically, what it isn't. Then, you go from there. I enjoyed the animated film very much but, some of that was due to the fact a friend clued me in first, saying "this isn't really a comedy or a film for little kids. Don't expect a ton of laughs." So, instead of seeking laughs (although I still got them here and there), I just enjoyed the adventure story and marveled at the amazing artwork. Seen on Blu-Ray, this is yet another example in which you shake your head and wonder, "How does the artwork get any better than this?" Then, about six months from now, another will come along and I'll say the same thing. Overall movies may not be better today than "in the old days," but there is no dispute there are two areas in which films keep getting better and better: special-effects and animation. This is another example of that.The colors and the detail in here are almost beyond description. The artwork ranges from bold to subdued, but always stunning. I lost track how many times I wanted to just pause and admire the picture for a few minutes. From super-sharp closeups of the old man's face to lush jungle scenery, this high-definition disc is worth every penny/Back to the story, I found it a combination adventure-fantasy-comedy-suspense-sentimental story, about in that order, too. Generally-speaking, I would think adults would like this more than kids, but I may be wrong. Everyone - regardless of age - will have their jaw drop more than once viewing the incredible-looking scenes. It's really a feast for the eyes. Finally, if you like extras, there are tons of them in the four-disc DVD set.


                
LOOOVED this movie.I found it so enjoyable to watch and actually had tears in my eyes from a particular scene which included a Doberman (won't say more). I also teared up from an emotional, tender scene with Carl and Ellie.The animation breathtaking, extremely funny and quirky too. It didn't pander to children i.e a kiddy movie, but made sure it entertained 'kids' of all ages.I actually wondered if the writers of this movie got together one night for pizza and beers and penned out this movie whilst a little intoxicated. It's got some seriously good laughs!Can't wait for it to come out on DVD.I highly recommend this movie.


                
The boy Carl Fredrickson is a dreamer that idolizes the adventurer Charles Munts. When he meets the girl Ellie, who also worships Munts, they become close friends. However Charles Munts falls in disgrace, accused of forging the skeleton of the monster of Paradise Falls, and he travels in his blimp to South America to bring the monster alive and he is never seen again. Carl and Ellie get married and they promise to each other to travel together to Paradise Falls and build a house there. Many years later, Ellie dies and the lonely Carl refuses to move from their house despite the offers of the owner of a construction company. When Carls hits one worker that damaged his box-mail, he is sentenced to move to a retirement home. However, he uses many balloons to float his house and travel to Paradise Falls. While floating, he finds that the boy Russell, who is in the Wilderness Explorer Training trying to get his assisting the elderly badge to be promoted to senior, is a stowaway on board. They travel together to South America where Russell finds a weird bird that he names Kevin and the talking dog Doug. Then they meet the insane villain Charles Munts that spent his life in the forest trying to catch Kevin with his talking dogs. But Carl and Russell decide to protect Kevin and they have the adventure of their lives. "Up" is a surrealistic adventure full of sentiments, where the heroes are an old widower and an annoying fat boy. The first point that impresses is how touching this story is with the dramatic situation of the elder Carl after losing his beloved Ellie, lonely and forgotten by the world that is changing. I slightly recalled the situation of Walt Kowalski, performed by Clint Eastwood in "Gran Torino". The annoying Russell is responsible for most of the funniest sequences, especially those with Kevin and the talking dog Doug. There are many details and layers in this beautifully sad tale. Further, it is also impressive how Disney and Pixar succeed in releasing one excellent movie after another like "Wall-e" or "The Incredibles". My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Up – Altas Aventuras" ("Up – High Adventures")


                
For starters, I would like to apologize for the summary description I gave this film (I couldn't resist the chance to use a pun). Now that I've said that, lets cut to the chase; Up is your average Pixar movie...and if you're not familiar enough with Pixar then you should be informed that the average Pixar movie has 1) excellent voice acting. 2)cutting edge animation. 3)great story and script. and 4) heart.In other words, Up is slam dunk of a family movie. The plot is about the misadventures and adventures of an old man named Carl Fredriechson and a tag along boy scout. But there's more! If you want to know the rest, then go see the movie.Like all Pixar movies, the voice cast is spot on. All of Up's characters are brought to life with well read lines, vocally emotional undertones, and an assortment of talents. Pixar's trademark CGI animation also breathes life into the characters, all of them are given convincing facial animations and gestures which could match any Hollywood A-lister's.All of the CGI (which is everything seen in the movie) is done beautifully. The scenery is breathtaking and the jungle sets sometimes look as if they were ripped from an issue of National Geographic. Pixar's signature animation is always cartoonish, yet photo-realistic and of course, ahead of their competition.What's also impressive about Pixar is that they never underestimate the power of story. Up's story is original enough (talking dogs and a house held afloat by balloons aren't even the half of it) but it isn't just about the physical conflict and events. It is really the story of an old man trying to find redemption in the twilight of his life by fulfilling an unrealized dream. Pixar has mastered the art of throwing tragedy and warmth into the same basket without becoming too heavy handed, and you can feel it in this movie. Up is also exciting and fun. The sense of adventure is palpable and the humor is charming. The script is also nicely written and clever. This movie is also very, very family friendly, despite its PG rating.The bottom line is that Up is beautiful, touching, humorous, charming and kid and parent friendly. It is just another grade A Pixar movie. Which means that unless your inner child is completely dead you should see it!


                
The dogs! They kept this thing from being perfect. It was magical and original until those dogs showed up. Then we got the bad humor found in all the awful Madagascar/Ice Age stuff (at least they didn't break out some C&C music factory rubbish). Plus it was asking too much to suspend our belief that this man figured out how to make a dog translator (and taught dogs how to cook dinner and fly planes)-- yet didn't seem to invent anything else on that level. MAYBE if we found him to be some sort of Captain Nemo-esc genius with all these other gadgets and such in his lair... but everything else he had was antiquated. On top of that, why was he still alive and physically superior to our 78-year-old protagonist who was obviously much younger than he? It's like they had it all done and some exec screened it; saying "can you add some humor and action in there for the lowest common denominator video game mentality crowd?".Other than that, it was beautiful. The first 20 minutes or so of it was so amazingly wonderful I found myself tearing up. I teared up at the end as well. But most of the middle "action" part was tired.Nevertheless, Pixar is the golden goose every year. I'd follow them off a cliff.
This is the first time I've been to the cinema in about 18 months. That's having small children for you. So, it's my birthday. 42, since you didn't ask. It's half term, and the cinema is heaving with children; our own son is too small yet for the film, so it's just us adults. We're a little late, and the auditorium is a strange sight as everyone is wearing dark glasses. My first 3D film! Keep up. This is going to be relevant.I'll try and keep the spoilers to a minimum, but anyone who's even half awake will know that Pixar's latest animated feature follows the adventures of an old man and a small boy who fly a house to South America using balloon power. Up is a beautiful movie. Every scene is lovingly rendered with a fantastic attention to detail- to take one example, the way the use of colour alters during the course of the film as the mood changes.The film contains early in its running time a scene destined to become a classic of cinema, a wordless montage sequence explaining our hero Carl's life from a child to an old man. One shot alone contains more pathos and humanity than many films this year will manage in total. At the end of this sequence, it would be a hard heart indeed that was not moved.Once Carl finds his young stowaway, the pace shifts up a gear as the two get involved in an adventure in the mythic location of Paradise Falls where Carl has always longed to go.On one level, this is a fantastic film, surely one of the best of the year; moving, funny, heart-warming (with a soupçon of the environmental message seemingly mandatory in all such features). All kinds of lessons are learnt. Following one's dreams; living in the moment; the dangers of obsession. Carl's house becomes a very large extended metaphor, taking him soaring away from his old life, but then tying him down when he needs to be free.And yet, and yet, and yet.What this most definitely is not is a children's film, especially not younger ones. Fairly early on, a small voice whispered behind me, "I thought this was supposed to be funny." Yes, it contains its share of slapstick humour and chase sequences that will thrill smaller kids, but its main themes will go straight over their heads.For adults, meanwhile, the plot fails on several levels. Yes, I know this is nitpicking, but movies have to follow their own logic. I am fully prepared to accept within the world of the film that a house can be floated by balloons and steered across continents. However, how does an old man who walks stiffly with a cane suddenly start taking part in action sequences? I can accept that someone has invented a device for translating dogs' thoughts into speech- but how do they prepare dinner (or fly planes)? Ultimately, these concerns will fade. My lasting impression will be the beauty of the pictures and the tear rolling down my cheek at the end of the truly amazing montage near the start of the film.


                
This lovely film tells the story of Carl Fredrickson, a little friendly widower who lives alone in a house restored along with his late wife, Ellie, whose memory he cherishes constantly. Forced to leave his home, threatened by real-estate interests, to live in a nursing home where he didn't want to go, Carl decides to go on a long journey that always wanted to do with his wife but that life never allowed... and departs with your home through a system that he created and that makes it fly. But the journey is bound to change radically when he meets the scout Russell, eight-year-old, grabbed on his porch, an unwitting passenger on that trip.Directed by Pete Docter and Bob Peterson, two brilliant directors of Pixar Animation Studio behind hits like "Wall-e", "Monsters Inc." or "Finding Nemo", this film has a number of experienced voices and a touching soundtrack, which earned the Academy Award that year for Best Original Score. A curious fact: the place represented as a destination point for Carl's trip - the fictional Paradise Falls - exists on the real life, in the border between Venezuela and Brazil: its Mount Roraima.The most touching on this film is to see the love of Carl and Ellie, alive even after her death and visible in the way he keeps her memory alive and ever present. Russell's goodness also move us, especially when he is confronted with the harsh ways of stubborn Carl, who sees in Russell a problem. Another deeply moving character is Dough, a friendly and affectionate dog who speaks through a device placed on his leash.For all these things, "Up" is a film for the whole family, is a film that touches us, moves us and thrills. It proves that, if love cannot move mountains can still move homes, and that no one is too old to live an adventure or fulfill a dream.


                
"Up" teaches us to chase our dreams. Good inspirational movie. This is an animated movie but everyone can enjoy it. This movie attracts children and adults simultaneously. The plot of the movie is written very skillfully. Though there are some errors in the plot..but that's not the point. The first 10 minutes of the movie is very heart- touching. There's an adventurer hidden inside every man. And "Up" shows how to find it. Sometimes we've to give up our dreams for some odd situations, but we shouldn't. Hats off to those who made this movie. I'm very much satisfied. A must see. It deserves 8+ rating. In a nutshell, it's not just a movie, it's a classic.


                
Up was I think a slight expansion for Pixar. Right Up in my mind. Their movies in the past hit home well with a wide range of audiences. But this one does even more so. A slightly younger crowd, as well as a slightly older one are easily captivated. This makes for an experience that is just simply amazing, across the board. A tear jerker of an animation, and one hell of a movie. But the expansion of audiences also invites some bad into their otherwise perfect work. I don't wanna give away too much but a high pitched annoying voice and some unexpected plane pilots caused an entire point off for this movie. Nearly two. This may please the younger crowd, but for the older I am afraid it hurt it. It hurt it bad. Besides breaking up the smoothness like a scratching record with this overplayed low-end television trick, it just gives you that gut wrenching feeling in your stomach: They obviously did not preview this movie enough. Now I'm no film critic, but my refrigerator could have caught that one. I mean come on. These moments, and a few more that I cannot seem to remember, leave a bitter taste in your mouth and a feeling of an unpolished work. But besides some absolutely gutter moments, the rest was extremely well done and absolutely a great watch for all ages. And I do mean all.


                
Just amazing how they were able to tell an amazing love story in less than ten minutes and hit a home run so successfully.This shows you, you can do a short film that has an emotional journey that is effective.Love it. It did get a little stranger the rest of the film, and I wish it had taken a different direction and we lost a bit of his wife's connection after he meets the kid, but still lots of fun.


                
I, as well as my kids really enjoyed this film. The entire plot is something new and refreshing, and really just an all out fun ride. It was much better than we had expected, and Ed Asner's voice was perfect for this role. Nothing special regarding the animation, but the story- line was the fun part and kept us all entertained. It's a 9/10 from me and my kids!


                
PIXAR has done it again! A wonderful, clean, family fun film for all ages to see. PIXAR have gone down the more emotional route which is interesting as it will widen the target audience as it is slightly more mature but it really helps with our understanding the character of grumpy Carl. We understand what he has been through and truly empathise with him. There is great character development and PIXAR have managed to create substantial, likable and funny characters. Such as Russel the cute, chubby, quirky kid who tags along with Carl for the adventure of a lifetime. There is Kevin the bird who simply steals the show, Kevin is really funny and very likable (Kevin is so cool) Doug the dog is genius, PIXAR managed to capture the characteristics of a dog in his voice and Carl goes on a character journey along with the audience. It rightly won an Oscar a sit is truly a wonderful animation to be loved by all.


                
Saddened by the passing of his wife, Carl Fredricksen (Ed Asner) misses the love of his life and only wants to fulfill her dreams of getting to Paradise Falls. Frustrated by the outside world moving in on their place Mr. Fredricksen takes matters into his own hands to escape being sent away to a retirement home. He meets an awkward Wilderness Explorer named Russell (Jordan Nagai) stuck on his porch of his floating house and the real adventure begins.John Lasseter and the Pixar team have done what they do best by telling a a fantastic story in a way that everyone can relate to. UP shows that with imagination anything is possible even if only a dream. The dream of reaching Paradise Falls lasts all of Ellie, Mrs. Fredricksen's, life and her imagination kept her feeling young all the time. I believe that Ellie's youthful imagination is what kept Carl going so long. They both dreamed of a better place to live atop the falls of South America, somewhere far from where they lived in the growing city. The wish to be in another place for better things reminds me of the dreams and imagination of Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz. Dorothy dreamed of a better life in the far off land of OZ and she too traveled by house. Both stories show how dreams and imagination can keep people happy in tough times.The use of the montage during the first scenes of the film are perfect to show the beautiful life that Carl and Ellie make for themselves. Without a single line of dialog used we get a very clear understanding of the love they have for each other,and it is beautiful. We, the audience, get a glimpse into the love they share and get to enjoy the good times of the life they build together. From the fixing up of the house, to the painting of the simple mailbox, we get to enjoy their love. The montage paints a beautiful picture of the passing time of their marriage. I also love the use of lighting and color in the film. After Ellie passes from Carl's life things seem dull, gray, and very low key and the lighting reflects that. Carl's life feels empty and the colors and lighting make us feel sort of like how Carl is feeling. As the adventure begins we see more and more color. Carl feels that he is living Ellie's dream and he feels young again. The once colorful life they two of them shared is now presented to Carl and the audience to once again enjoy.UP is a fantastic film with a story of hope, joy, and enlightenment that I really loved. The story, production, and characters grab your emotions and draw you in. This film is something everyone will enjoy.
Up manages to bridge that gap between a simple story and a meaningful concept behind the veil of magical effects and imagery which (from the onset) captures your imagination and makes you believe this story all the more.The presence of such perfected 'animated' cinematography (beautiful surroundings, landscapes etc.) brings to mind only one outstanding feature of this film.The intelligence behind donating an entire scene which captures a lifetime of partnership without the use of a single word is pure genius. Not to mention excellently executed. This is what stood out most for me.The tale of partnership, family difficulties, lifelong promises, hopes, dreams and what's most important to ones self is told in a way that makes you shed a tear in joy for the beauty that is this film.This is a TRUE FAMILY MOVIE! one that will keep the children entertained with a few laughs along the way and one that will surely give adults pause for thought.9/10


                
When Carl was a little boy, he was fascinated with the daring exploits of Charles Muntz, the famous explorer. Then he met Ellie, and she shared Carl's passion for adventure. They had a long and happy life together, but now that Carl is alone, he doesn't want to do anything but be a grump. One day he meets a young scout named Russell and his life changes; maybe Carl has one more adventure in him, after all.I'd heard this animated film was touching, and sure enough, ten minutes into it, I was reaching for a tissue and sobbing. The movie deals with love and loss, and adults who have experienced this may well get more out of the film than children will. It's all about doing what you always wanted to do and it's very good.Ed Asner provides the voice of the old codger Carl and I liked him more than I thought I would. Christopher Plummer is the villain who's not really very menacing at all. The little boy, Russell, is a bit annoying in his helplessness and naiveté, but Dug, the dog is so adorable that I would see the movie again just for him.While not quite as memorable as Pixar's "Wall-E," this movie will leave you with a smile on your face and a lump in your throat.


                
I'll be honest. I was prepared to be disappointed when I went in to see this film. As I said in my review for "Wall-E" last year (which is at this link if you want to read it: "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0910970/usercomments-293"), Pixar is the only 3D animation studio that has not made a bad or even mediocre film yet. I was a bit skeptical about "Up" not because of the recent news that Disney is worrying about its commercial appeal, not because of the unrealistic plot elements (and there are some), but because after nine great movies, a misfire could be on the horizon. Fortunately, "Up" is far from a misfire. Like the other Pixar movies, it takes an intriguing, original plot line and creates a masterpiece of a story with humor and heart.The main character of this story is someone who has the least potential to be made into an action figure, which is probably what is making Disney stockholders nervous as of the date this review is being written. Carl Frederickson is reminiscent of Peter "Ralphie" Billingsley (from "A Christmas Story" [1983]) as a child, and a cross between James Whitmore and Mr. Magoo as an elderly man. Although his image won't send kids flocking to toy stores, it doesn't really matter. Some great movies have been made with senior citizens as the main characters ("Cocoon" [1985] and "Bubba Ho-Tep" [2002] come particularly to mind), and it's about time Disney make one.The most appealing thing about Carl Frederickson is his character. From the moment he appears on screen, audiences immediately get a sense of his happy times and times of loneliness through a clever series of montages in the beginning. There were probably many old men in Hollywood who could have supplied his voice, but Ed Asner was perhaps the best choice. Asner gives Frederickson a voice that is curmudgeonly without being too off-putting, similar to his Lou Grant character from 1970's TV.In the first 20 minutes of the movie, you grow such an attachment to Mr. Frederickson that you can't help but feel like cheering when his house takes off with the help of balloons he spent all night blowing up. Therein lies the point of the movie where you really have to suspend disbelief. Of course this number of balloons can't pick up an entire house, let alone be blown up in one night without really careful planning. And if you spend too much time wondering how the floor of the house didn't stay on the ground, along with the pictures and other breakable assets in the dwelling, you will miss the point of the movie, not to mention the fun of it. The house is really a symbol of seeking new adventures while hanging on to where you came from all along, at least at first.The basic premise expands with the addition of Wilderness Explorer (or Boy Scout, minus the legal ramifications) Russell, arguably the Donkey to Mr. Frederickson's Shrek (sorry, Disney, but it's true). Russell is a very funny character, and doesn't miss a beat from the moment he comes on screen reading his Explorer book verbatim. The two main characters played off each other very well with witty dialogue and precise comic timing. Take away the comic relief of the talking dogs, and the down-to-the-hair strand awesome CGI animation, and you'd still have a great film with these two characters alone. The Russell character simultaneously adds a lot of well-needed heart to the film, actually making even me feel bad for the potential extinction of the otherwise annoying bird companion Kevin.In an emerging subplot, Kevin the bird is hunted down by a Charles Lindbergh/Howard Hughes-inspired adventurer named Charles Muntz, voiced with the right touch of menace by Christopher Plummer. The Muntz character is perhaps the first Disney villain who you don't want to be a villain, especially after seeing the faux newsreel clips in the beginning of the movie. He's a self-made man who's spent his life chasing a dream, sort of like Mr. Frederickson is by dragging his house to South America. He's also killing a bird that many, including Frederickson, finds annoying. However, if it hadn't been for the perfect moral balance between him and Russell, it would have been very hard to root for Mr. Frederickson until the end.The movie, on the whole, is probably more over-the-top than any other Pixar film made to date. You know many kids in America have a toy collection as diverse as the ones Andy has in "Toy Story", and that humans could create a smart robot like "Wall-E" someday. But anyone who spends their time wondering how Mr. Frederickson planned to survive after moving his house to the South American clip, or how the hose he's pulling doesn't break off the house, is missing a great fantasy adventure with many awe-inspiring takes on life. To paraphrase the theme song to "Mystery Science Theater 3000": "If you're wondering how he eats and breathes, and other science facts, repeat to yourself 'It's just a show, and I should really just relax'." On a personal note, having just lost a grandparent who, in the last years of her life, refused to go to a nursing home because she loved the house she had lived in for nearly 40 years, I'm sure the setup of the story will strike familiar tones with many older audience members. I know it did with me, which is why the film was so touching and heartfelt from beginning to end. Hey, I may even be in that situation one day where I love a house so much I would even consider flying it away. If I actually considered doing it, I would hope that 50 years from now they would have more advanced flying equipment to do it with.


                
Carl Fredricksen (Asner) sets out to Paradise Falls to fulfil his life long dream by tying thousands of balloons to his house, but is unaware of Russell (Nagai) on his porch.The only way is up for Pixar. We say it year after year but there is simply no stopping the mighty animators from producing yet another masterful picture.Last year Wall-E brought about their biggest ever gamble by reducing the dialogue to a minimum and telling the story through physical humour and scene settings with enough semiotics to appreciate the earth's decline.And now there is Up. The first 3D picture to open Cannes film festival went down a treat with critiques and fans alike and now in cinemas across the world smashing records once more, they really have soared.I must confess, seeing the trailer I was slightly apprehensive and concluded this was it, this was where Pixar would go down. Carl seemed grouchy, the puns used appeared ordinary and the plot seemed exceptionally thin. I hold my head down in shame for judging this on its trailer.What we have here is yet another wondrous ambition of life that will break the heart, make the kids laugh and make you feel ultimately rewarded.The opening sequence of Carl in the cinema as a young lad watching his hero on screen sets the tone for the film's central dream concept as Carl meets a fellow youth and the pair share the same adventurous spirit. After an hilarious fall and a sweet how you doing moment the film dives into a silent montage of their life together and when Carl hits a stopping point his life falls apart and until he has no choice, does the house start to fly and the adventure well and truly begins.When watching a Pixar or a Disney picture you have to bear in mind the realism of situations. The unlikeliest is high but this is meant for entertainment and it certainly delivers it. The physical science of whether the house can fly based on helium balloons is open to the guys in the labs but this is an imaginative attempt to portray childhood ambition and it succeeds through this.From talking dogs to an undiscovered bird this has adventure written all over and the fun never stops once the house is up. Russell provides that childhood innocence and ambition to give Carl food for thought and with flying dogs, an explorer with a deadly secret and charming dialogue this spells happiness for the entire family.As more and more animations are now made with 3D in mind this picture was evidently more focused on the plot. Impressive but there are exceptionally few moments with actions coming out at you, like in Coraline or Monsters vs Aliens.Irrelevant in my opinion as we have here the best animated picture this year with a charming plot with humorous characters and marvellous ambition.


                
When Pixar first introduced the concept of purely computer-generated feature films, little did they know that they had created a ravaging ravenous monster that only they – and DreamWorks – would be able to tame. Forgetting that Pixar's philosophy has always been that you should always take time and care when working with this technique and that storyline was absolutely paramount, other companies gave in to the temptation to exploit the revolution and whip up several second-rate CGI flicks that were so enticingly easy and inexpensive to make.Computer animation has almost driven quality children's animation to extinction. It has been the death of cartoons, and the decline of claymation. Though the two aforementioned animation giants have thankfully managed to continue producing such wonderful specimens as 'Toy Story' (1995) and 'Shrek' (2001). The last fourteen years have taught us that only these two companies can manage to get it right, that only they can tame the monster.Now Pixar's offerings did falter after 2004, but they regained their footing last year with Wall-E and have sustained that success with Up, an exhilarating yet also deeply moving film. It tells the story of Carl Fredricksen (voiced by Jeremy Leary at the beginning, but mostly by an amazing Edward Asner) a man who dreamed of adventure as a boy, a passion that saw him meeting and later marrying the sweet Ellie (voiced quite well by Ellie Docter, the director's daughter). The two share a long and beautiful marriage in a cosy little house that the couple decorated together, but after many years Ellie dies in hospital next to a very broken-hearted Carl. Though after her death Carl holds on relentlessly to their house and all of his photos and memories of her, he also goes on to attempt to fulfil her childhood dream which was to have a house in a lost land in South America.The story of his marriage is told quickly and with little dialogue, though still with much grace and emotion. This is of course so the exciting adventure he embarks on – which involves him taking off in a house tied to a million balloons – can be given most of the screen time, as it is more of a crowd-pleaser. Though the winsome themes are not forgone at that point, and more depth and more fun arrive when we are introduced to young "wilderness explorer" Russell (voiced perfectly by Jordan Nagai) a naive and extremely animated boy who ends up tagging along to assist the elderly Carl.There is also a villain thrown in – perhaps unnecessarily, though he does give us a fair bit of enjoyment and is a major supplier of the story's complications – with his own story that is first mentioned and begun to be told at the beginning, and waits in the wings until near the end where he reappears and starts being nasty to the two heroes. He is explorer Charles Muntz (voiced splendidly by Christopher Plummer) who surprisingly is Carl's childhood hero, a ruthless tyrant obsessed with hunting down, killing, and taking back the strange bird-like creature that stalks these lands in order to prove he has seen it and has made it to the lost land.Remembering its genre, it is a remarkable achievement and one that reassures us that Pixar is still the best. It even manages to surpass Wall-E, which very visibly tried too hard to incorporate meaningful messages and to be a masterpiece. Although it succeeded, it didn't do so anywhere near as naturally and effortlessly as Up did.
It is difficult to get the image of that flying house suspended by countless colorful balloons off your head, once you see Up. I guess, it would stay with me for the rest of my life.Up easily climbs up to claim a place amongst the finest animation films ever. Not surprisingly, it comes from Pixar, the team that gave us Wall-E, Ratatouille and Finding Nemo. Also, after a quite a long time, its about 'people' as against a garbage-crusher, a rat and fishes respectively earlier. Up is as colorful as an animation film ever was. What a color riot! Some frames just stay with you, the mastery of their composition impossible to miss.The choice of characters itself breaks clichés. A grumpy old man as the hero and an amiable obese kid as his ally completely contrast against what one would have thought would be the choice for characters who are supposed to be on an adventure trip to South America. Both characters endear themselves to us as the story moves along.Two things that stood out for me - (a) The initial sequence that chronicles the life of Fredrickson and Ellie together is a master-stroke. As it ends, it leaves the eyes moist - and all that without a word spoken. (b) The closing shot with the house perched besides the paradise falls - it is one for the textbooks; probably one of the best closing shots ever.Not to be missed at any cost.


                
Typical of Pixar's adeptness in conveying stories, the first few minutes of "Up" pack more wallop than a whole two-hour tearjerker could, as it charts Carl Fredricksen (voiced by Ed Asner) and childhood friend Ellie through the decades, from their role-playing days as intrepid travelers to their marriage, and eventually, Ellie's death. Pete Docter's animated tale is an elegant combination of humor and pathos that perfectly captures the rush brought about by adventure, the uplifting quality of friendship, and -- at once a reminder of Disney's "Bambi" and Pixar's refusal to compromise its narratives -- the pain of losing someone. It's a profundity that's both delicate and penetrating.78-year old Carl and his wife Ellie had kept a scrapbook of their planned adventures and always dreamed of going to the fictional Paradise Falls in Venezuela, where their childhood hero, the adventurer Muntz (Christopher Plummer), has famously traveled. For some reasons, the expedition doesn't materialize and Ellie soon dies, leaving Carl alone in the house, with the latter about to go to predatory land developers. Inadvertently bringing along the pudgy Wilderness Scout Russell (Jordan Nagai), Carl decides to fulfill Ellie's wish as he ties thousands of balloons to his house and floats to South America.Advertised as Pixar's first foray into 3D, "Up"'s candy-colored palette and graceful portraits of Carl's house floating in the sky benefit from the additional visual depth, though the increasingly silly travails of Carl and his slapdash tour is filled with buoyant energy that keeps it from resting entirely on the technology's novelty. Centering on the theme of one's continual search for purpose, Carl learns of how holding to the past keeps him from reaching his destination and from setting off to new adventures, a moral that Docter fortunately doesn't overplay, but rather is represented in splendid visual metaphors. It may be too easy to call it an elevation to animation but there's no escaping the fact that, for all its jaunty adventures and affectionate regard to relationship, "Up" -- pardon the obvious description -- doesn't let down.


                
I went to go see this movie with my two little sisters about a week after it's release and from that release date to the time I went to see it every person I knew was talking. Of course of love Pixar, I begged my parents to take me to see Toy Story, and what I saw in this movie was everything I would have expected plus a little more. The film I saw was not just a children's' comedy but a true heartfelt story. I give this movie a nine only for the reason that my youngest sister was asking me, "Alex, were is the old man's lady friend?" and I didn't have the heart to tell her.Pros: This movie is so funny. The comedy is well timed to get the best effect. I.E. When the large intimidating doberman turns around to speak and the squeaky voice is heard.The characters are colorful and full of life and personality. I found myself genuinely wanting to just walk up and tell them that everything was going to be OK.The story will bring you to tears. The movie is about an older man going to a far off land to fulfill his dead wife's dream of becoming an explorer.The graphics are well done, very lively and nice.Cons: Some of the film's nature is a bit unsuitable for children. Such as the woman losing her child/not being to have a child, the realistic violence, the villain falling to his death, and the child protagonist having a dead-beat dad.overall, this movie is the beauty of Pixar with just a bit of an adult touch. Don't worry though, they all live happily ever after.
beautiful movie.... amazing work, so much emotions for an animated movie. Some thing for every one, I laughed as much as I cried, may be a bit more. Beautiful plot. All the characters were played nicely, specially Dog and Kevin. Worth a watch. Nice colors through out the movie. Loved the dialogue free first part of the movie. I felt like I could live through the characters, who had noting to say. And definitely loved the short introduction of how babies, thunder and lightning are made. Short yet nicely made. I must say I loved the crane that delivered babies from the dark cloud, so much dedication in spite of the suffering, :) ......
Pixar does it again. I've watched almost every Pixar movie and it seems that despite the potentially least interesting, least commercial subject (an old guy flying away in his balloon-covered house), they just can't go wrong. It's another great film, exquisitely animated and downright beautiful to behold. What makes Pixar films, and "Up" in particular, so special? My theory is that beyond the amazing 3d computer graphics, it boils down to likable characterizations and heartwarming humanistic moralistic stories that don't consider their audiences stupid with a dash of good humor and a pinch of wonder added for good measure. Basically, Pixar films like "Up" usually have "heart" without feeling forced or fake. The life story of the old guy presented at the start was a wondrous touching piece of work accompanied only by beautiful evocative music. Actually the music in "Up" is noteworthy for its emotional effectiveness throughout. The story might appear a bit simple in hindsight but it works beautifully and touches on several universal themes and values such as grief, friendship and acceptance. It has its sad dramatic moments but overall it's quite fun, funny and dare I say uplifting. This coming from a guy who's usually allergic to "feel good" movies. It even has an underlying romantic background that makes everything more special.Why is it that Pixar movies, "Up" being the latest case, often have better acting than most live-action films? Is it because of slightly-exaggerated animated emotions, the top-notch voice-acting or the incredible facial expressions and body language? I do wonder how "Up" would keep the interest for younger children. The pace is sometimes intentionally slow (old guy being a bit slower) and it does have quieter introspective moments. Some places might be up over their head but I think the lovable enthusiastic bumbling boy scout and dog would certainly help keep their interest and it's likely they will be fascinated by the graphics and grumpy old guy. I think "Up" can appeal equally to adults and children alike and if the high praise from every corner hasn't convinced you yet, it's definitely worth watching and owning eventually. I certainly want to see it again. Grandparents in particular should see this with their grand kids, or even alone if they don't have any, as they might find it inspiring. My only exception to my high recommendation would be for those few who have disliked Pixar movies in the past. "Up" probably won't change their mind but then again why not give it a try anyway? Rating: 9 out of 10


                
