Tommy Lee Jones and Robert Duvall are always fun to watch, but I was sorely disappointed by the series as a whole, coming to it immediately after reading the novel. Several of the minor characters (Clara, Blue Duck, Roscoe, Peach) seemed poorly cast, and were portrayed in a TV-stereotype Western manner. Several scenes are lifted right out of the novel, but the dialogue often doesn't make much sense, since the background story given in the novel is missing on screen. It would have made more sense--for an adaptation of an epic novel of this scope--to reduce the number of story lines and then develop them more fully, allowing for deeper character and story development all around.


                
The only reason I'm writing this is to counterbalance some of the positive reviews. I sat through this picture because I had read somewhere that it limned the Charles Goodnight/ Oliver Loving story; however, with the exception of the amputation (historically, Loving's right arm), there is nothing here that qualifies as history. There are so many pre-40s Westerns that are better than this--just look at practically anything Ford made. His Calvary pictures were accurate in every detail. Not so, Lonesome Dove. But that's a cavil. The problem is that the writing is mundane and the directing is mediocre and uninspired. Of course, condensing such a long book would have to be a challenge, if not an onerous task. And in many places (as is the case with the character--played in an 'over the top' manner--of Blue Duck), the script wanders away from the original source material. This is truly DuVall's picture; all eyes are on him. He has the best scenes, the best lines; when he's off-screen, everything suffers. To say this is the 'best' or 'greatest' Western ever made is to display a serious deficit of interest in the genre; it only serves to reduce the values of Westerns, as well as dumb down a potential audience. This was a television movie, a shaggy dog tale, a mini series that had to fill a niche. This is not great Art, much less is it great cinema.


                
The first part of the film staggered me with its non-clichéd, realistic and believable dialog. Then things started sinking (or stinking!) rapidly. Mexican bandits on horseback who were returning after a successful cross-border rustling expedition who couldn't hit the U.S. bandits stealing from them at four feet? Was this a Mexican joke being told by an Anglo? The Diane Lane character Lorena: another anachronism so dear to the heart of Hollywood. The beautiful, fragile, busty, articulate $2. prostitute. Duvall, Jones and most of the other actors could pass the muster for looking like 19th Century westerners but show me any period photo of a whore who looked like Diane Lake! Chris Cooper's July Johnson and Barry Corbin's Roscoe Brown: sure, every lawman in the west doesn't have to be a quick-drawing dead-eye shooter but unable to shoot and hit the characters at point blank range who had waylaid Roscoe? Frederic Forrest as Blue Duck is described multiple times as a mean killer but he allows himself to blunder into a scene where his old enemy Duvall is helpless and unarmed in a river and though armed with a Winchester fails to kill him. WTF? Then later in another scene Blue Duck 'knocks out' the kid instead of killing him when he kidnaps Lorena and when he bargains with a wild bunch of criminals they give up their horses for a p of a! There were at least two parts to this scene where Blue Duck walks away showing his back. This wild bunch would have shot him, got their stolen cattle and horses back and still have had as much of Lorena as they would have wanted. Lighting, thunder and rain storm and the stampeding cattle become neon signs supposedly showing they were hit by lighting. Folks, lighting strikes kill! And speaking of lighting strikes, when Robt. Urich's Jake Spoon commands and then physically starts pulling Lorena away from their tent you know lighting will strike it (though the horse tethered to it is unharmed). Finally, for at around this point I realized I was watching a Dove turn into the ship named Titanic, when Roscoe is joined by the forest sprite waif (whose screen credit I can't seem to find) she's pretty, slender and judging by her speech, educated; she and Lorena must have gone to Vassar.I agree with a previous poster who suggested that those of you using 'greatest ever' in your critiques of 'Lonesome Dove' go to Netflix or Blockbuster and rent some of the Westerns made in the 30's, 40's and even 50's that could be called great; 'High Noon', 'The Gunfighter' and 'The Ox Bow Incident' to mention but three.
Started out really strong but towards the end, became very lengthy and wordy. End result was a good western spoiled by poor writing. Seems that an attempt was made to lengthen the series without proper consideration of the overall plot of the story. If this was meant to be a meaningful storyline about families settling the Texas frontier it widely missed the target. The writers of this series could benefit by reading any one of several books about the western movement of America and learning how to organize a plot that would have not only family meanings but some historical meanings other than wild imaginations. It would appear to me to be an effort by network management to fill a time slot just for the sake of having some sort of filler.


                
After reading all these glowing reviews, I rented this. I watched the first hour before I gave up. So I admit, I didn't watch the whole thing, but only because I couldn't take any more. When I stopped it and took the disk out I said to my wife that it seemed like a parody of a western movie. Why? A bunch of things. Some nitpicky, I'll concede. The accents. Like everybody in the Old West spoke like a southern redneck. I wished the DVD had subtitles, because the speech was so exaggeratedly southern. I also started to wonder how these guys earned a living. They mostly seemed to sit around a broken-down ranch house and drink whiskey. Then I found out. Apparently every few nights they ride into Mexico and steal horses. When they do, the light of a thin crescent moon lights them up like they're in a baseball stadium during a night game. As the protagonists are stealing said horses, the nearby Mexicans fire off their pistols into the air, for no apparent reason. Just to express their anger, I guess. Or because, as Mexicans, they're too stupid to aim at the rustlers. And although this appears to be a regular occurrence, nobody on the Mexican side of the border appears to be on the lookout for these guys. What else? Oh, there's the scene where one of the characters hears the bedsprings squeaking from a second-story room, with the window closed, while he's standing outside, making him realize that the prostitute he was sweet on actually takes any paying customer, and wasn't just waiting for him to come back. And did you know that cowboys said "poop" instead of s***? Apparently they did. The little plot development I saw involved a sheriff in Arkansas traveling to Texas to track down his brother's killer. He does so reluctantly because the victim's widow (who is his sister-in-law) bullies him into it. Now I'm not saying that this couldn't have happened, but I think it far more likely that the sheriff would've sent a message, by telegram, post rider, or however they did it, to Texas authorities to watch for this guy. Sure, there were posses, if people thought the guy they were after was nearby, but I doubt that a sheriff would leave his town for who knows how long, to go hundreds of miles to another state to track down one man. Yes, the victim was his brother, but the movie makes clear that his heart wasn't in it; he just wanted to pacify his bossy sister-in-law. And so I gave up. I like Westerns, I really do. But this was just plain bad. Maybe it gets better, but I didn't want to stick around long enough to find out.


                
