Just a little bit of a single spoiler in here - I'm really not giving much away, but better to be safe than sorry and warn about it.I found this movie on sale and read that it had an IMDb-rating of 9.1, so I went for it and watched it over the weekend with my wife. Well, my wife is a very perceptive woman, so she dropped out of the project after half an hour, while I kept going, even though I thought the beginning was more than a tad boring.The first thing that struck us was the sound. It was awful. Probably down to a bad DVD copy, I guess, but everything more or less sounded like you heard it through a tunnel. I kinda got used to that, though.Second thing was the acting. I mean, we know that Tommy Lee Jones can look sulky, but that's more or less all he does here. And Robert Duvall is just Robert Duvall. These two are not the bad ones here - obviously, it is limited how much great acting you can do playing a 2-dimensional character. The ones that struck me as really surprising was Steve Buscemi, who I have never, ever seen overact before, but he played his part like was trying to do at least twice of what was necessary.Third thing was how clichéd this thing was. Everything was so bloody obvious, everything had been done a million times before. And how none of the characters felt like you'd believe they ever existed for real. The bad guys are all bad, the stupid ones are all stupid. Of course it had to have the hooker with a heart of gold, the boy who grows up to become man, the long lost love.The character of Laurie bothered me quite a bit. The happy hooker never really appealed to me. It just seems too easy. I don't believe that's how your average whore of the time felt. And I really don't appreciate that she was so overly dependent on having a man (or Clara) to look after her.All in all, I never got to enjoy this thing and I became increasingly baffled with it's high rating. It's not that I hate it - I just don't think it's above average in any way.
I'm always surprised that this gets such high reviews.  The novel was one of my favorites - so I knew the movie might not measure up - but I was really disappointed by this.  I thought character development was weak.  The story follows the book very closely but leaves out enough that at some times it doesn't even make sense.  I love Tommy Lee Jones and Robert Duvall but thought they were wasted on this one.  If you have the time read the book instead.


                
