Whenever Duval, Jones, Huston, Lane are on screen, the film is near perfect. You will not see a better Duval performance in any of his films - perhaps only equaled in a totally different character in "Apoclypse Now." It is the character that "Boss Spearman" became in Open Range." Forrest is one of the all-time vile, despicable villains. Early Cooper performance is also a treat. The relationships ring as true to life as you will find in any film, western or otherwise. These are people with whom you want to spend time. The action and plot lines are very solid. Some have said the storyline drags a bit, but for most it moves at a more than acceptable pace and sets a tone that is both comfortable and at the same time continues to build the anticipation for the various confrontations etc. You will not lose interest. The Urich performance is dwarfed by the others and makes that component of the story less than compelling. Any western movie fan who has not seen this film has not seen all the great western movies. Those who only enjoy westerns that transcend the traditional will not be disappointed. This is a real movie classic, with no need for the adjective "western."


                
In the early days of satellite TV if you were watching a feed from one of the commercial networks, right in the middle of a program a little sign would pop up that said something like "Put Ford Ad Here." That in a nutshell is my biggest problem with Lonesome Dove, it has the look of a TV movie all over it. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but sometimes I find myself thinking a commercial is coming based on what is happening on the screen, because let's face it, on commercial TV as on the radio, the program is just something used to fill the gap between commercials.That being said, I like this movie a lot. In a lot of ways it's like sitting down with an old friend. It's not perfect, but what is? Robert Duvall, does his usual great job, although Tommy Lee Jones comes off a little plastic in my opinion. Diane Lane is a little out of place to me, but Danny Glover, Chris Cooper, William Sanderson, Barry Corbin and especially Tim Scott are casting genius.I've watched it countless times, and will watch it another countless times I'm sure.


                
My God, what a movie. If it is not the best western ever made (that honor goes to THE SEARCHERS), it is certainly among the best. Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones as former Texas Rangers who head up a cattle drive from Texas to Montana, where Jones intends to establish a ranch. We are with them every step of the way. And along the way, we meet an old flame of Duvall's (Huston), who runs a sizable ranch in Nebraska along with her two young daughters and a single ranch hand. We also cross paths with buffalo hunters, a woman (Lane) who was kidnapped and raped by the Indians, a former sheriff (Cooper) searching for his missing wife (Hedley) and a vicious band of horse thieves/murderers, one of whom is a former Ranger (Urich) and one-time friend of our two heroes. Rick Schroder plays Jones' son and one of the drovers. You will also recognize several other actors in small roles, such a Barry Corbin and Steve Buscemi. What a herculean task it must have been making this 400-minute miniseries. Duvall is magnificent as the honorable Ranger Gus, and it is no surprise that he went on to play a similar roles (right down to the hat) in two subsequent flicks, BROKEN TRAIL and OPEN RANGE. In fact, I suspect Kevin Costner, who costarred with Duvall in, and made the latter film, got plenty of ideas for his epic western from this unforgettable TV movie.


                
