This six-hour television mini-series was as good as advertised, which is saying a lot. I don't prefer long movies but this is very watchable. It's such an interesting story and so-well photographed that you don't mind the long length.The acting is top-rate, led by Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones, with a deep cast that includes many well-known actors. As a male, I really enjoyed ogling Diane Lane and I've always liked Glenne Headley, too, although more for her voice.Fredric Forest is absolutely brutal as the half-breed killer, one of the most unremorseful murderers I've even seen on film. Angelica Huston, Rick Schroeder, Danny Glover, Robert Urtich, D.B. Sweeney and Steve Buscemi all were superb, too.The story has a great mix of drama, romance, action, sadness and just plain realism. The characters are bold and unrelenting and you find yourself getting wrapped up in this story and with these people, what they went through. It's just great storytelling but - as in real life - it isn't all roses; there's a lot of sadness here.


                
Larry McMurtry's wonderful story is beautifully and amazingly brought to the screen by director Simon Wincer.  It assembles together one of the best casts in movie history.  Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones are nearly perfect.  Duvall has been quoted as saying that Gus McCrae was his favorite character he ever played.  He is certainly mine. Angelica Huston is the perfect person to play Clara.  It is almost like Larry McMurtry had some of these actors and actresses in mind when he wrote his novel.  The only exception is Frederic Forrest as Blue Duck.  He does a fine job with what he's got, but the man just isn't big enough or scary enough for this role. The story is incredible.  The scenery is beautiful.  Lonesome Dove is, in my opinion, the best western ever made. A definite must see for everyone.


                
I was about 10 years old when I first watched Lonesome Dove.My parents were away, working hard to provide for our family, and I was left at home with a few channel. To my blessed luck, Lonesome Dove aired in one of those channels. I watched the first part, and counted the days, hours, moments, for next week's part. I was only 10, but I knew I was struck by something meaningful... Among all the junk that was being aired in between, all the TV reporting of wars in my country, all the political corruption I cared nothing about... I will tell you this: Lonesome Dove gave me faith in humanity.To this day, I can say this was the only cinematic film to ever truly touch my heart. I have seen many films/series since, but none has made an impact as beautiful and true as Lonesome Dove.Gus and Call's friendship in this 4part masterpiece, has defined my very idea of what friendship could look like in real life.Today I have a couple of dear friends. People I enjoy sharing my life with. People I'd follow to the ends of the earth if asked. And remembering dear old Gus and Call's journey, is something that brings tears to my eyes. For me... it was real. For me, their friendship was a lighthouse of hope. It was shining the words: "Never give up on your brothers and sisters, they are your light in the darkness".To friendship!


                
I don't want to muck about with hyperbole on this, but . . . yeah, "Lonesome Dove" really is that good. And even though the word epic has been vastly diluted lately, it certainly applies here. This miniseries ably translates the sprawling journey to the screen, a story that spans the length of the United States, Texas to Montana (and back). Characters converge, separate and reunite later on, the trip fraught with peril, but a deeply moving adventure nonetheless.Captain Augustus McCrae is one of my very favorite literary characters, and Robert Duvall is the ideal casting choice. Same for Tommy Lee Jones; theirs is a curmudgeonly but unbreakable bond. And they're backed by a cast that's pretty much everyone who was working in Hollywood in 1989.If there's a negative to this, it's that the claustrophobic TV aspect ratio doesn't do the vistas justice. But it works wonders in spite of the format's limitations.Good luck keeping a dry eye by series' end.9/10


                
I've just recently read the book, and I admit.. it's really a huge book. My Norwegian edition was close to 1000 pages, but it was well worth the read. Highly recommended for those of you who actually can enjoy a book. It dwells better on characters, it give the reader the opportunity to create his own images of the scenery, the characters and the entire epic story.You're done reading it now? Well, then I can highly recommend this mini-series as well. It's really made in the spirit of Larry McMurtry's book, and the great casting makes it a really enjoyable revisit to Lonesome Dove for all fans of the book. It's done with heart, it's close enough to the book to not let fans down and the acting is excellent.There's just one problem. After reading the book it's hard to agree with a couple of the solutions chosen here. It's minor stuff and I do understand they had to make a few choices when deciding on how to do things, but after reading the book it's those few decisions that kills the 10th star from me.I haven't yet read the rest of the Lonesome Dove books from McMurtry, but I've seen the rest of the mini-series made from those books. I got to say neither of them can stand comparing them self to this one. I'll read the books one day though...


                
If you thought the cattle drive was all fun and games, think again. Lonesome Dove is a four part miniseries that follows two former Texas Rangers from Texas to Minnesota in one of the most daring and brutal cattle drives imaginable. Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones star as the two leaders of the drive. The story follows many different characters and subplots that pop up along the harsh trail north. It is a story of absolutely epic magnitude as the cattle drivers fight everything from Indians to thunderstorms in their long journey north. It's incredibly gripping, vastly entertaining, and wildly imaginative. It's simply one of the greatest things to ever grace the face of television.Lonesome Dove works so well on so many levels. It tells of an incredibly exciting western adventure but it succeeds as a charming comedy at points and a harrowing drama at other points. And being that it is a miniseries that all together clocks in at around six hours, we get plenty of all these elements. It's stunning how well the show shifts tones and moods so seamlessly, never missing a beat and never feeling awkwardly paced. Events move from light hearted and spirited to much more serious and powerful. Character relationships act the same way. The dynamics between characters will start very easy going and laid back, but as the situations they are presented with grow more harrowing, their relationships grow deeper and more complex.There are moments in Lonesome Dove that will make you laugh out loud in immense joyful pleasure. Then there are other moments that are downright chilling and so haunting that you cannot shake them as you are pulled further and further into the show. And then there are those moments that are so profoundly heartfelt that it is a challenge holding back tears. Lonesome Dove ranges from the most charming comedy to the most heartfelt drama so perfectly. What more could you want? The one thing you would have to ask for with a range of events, moods, and characters like that would be great actors, and Lonesome Dove certainly delivers in that department. I might even say it over delivers. Robert Duvall and Tommy Lee Jones couldn't have been cast more perfectly and they couldn't have played their characters any better. They are astonishingly good with performances so dramatic, so believable, and so sincere that it would be criminal to say anything against them in this series.But the show also dishes out a laundry list of other huge actors who all do an incredible job. Danny Glover couldn't be any more lovable and the beautiful Diane Lane couldn't be a more compelling prostitute. Then there are other smaller performances that are all equally phenomenal with everyone from Anjelica Huston to Steve Buscemi. Every character that shows up in Lonesome Dove, no matter how long, is always interesting and always does something great for the epic plot, and every actor gives it their all, always with fantastic results, no matter how big or how small the role.Lonesome Dove is simply one of the greatest things that ever happened to television. You couldn't ask for more from this magnificent series. It is, in a sense, a six hour long movie, but I found myself wishing it were even longer. I couldn't get enough of the beauty and grandeur that is Lonesome Dove, and I missed it as soon as the credits began to roll, carried by the immense score, on the final episode. Lonesome Dove is a series that encapsulates the beauty and adventure of the old west in all its glory. It is simply the best.


                
Although it lasts Six Hours, Lonesome Dove is arguably the most realistic and well-acted Westerns ever to be filmed. I am a big fan of Westerns, and Remember with fondness the classics, like Shane, Silverado, The Magnificent Seven, Tombstone and the early black and white films. However, none of these can parallel to Lonesome Dove in its elevated scope and honesty, and perhaps it is unfair to compare them. Lonesome Dove is an epic, wherein two aging Texas Rangers start, from Texas, a cattle drive, bound and determined to be the first to raise cattle in the Montana Territory. Robert Duvall, as Gus McCrae, steals much of the show with his wit, charm and downright rough-edged believability as an aging Texas Ranger with a Heart of Gold. Lifelong friend and fellow ranger, Tommy Lee Jones, reminds one of the harsh lead character played by John Wayne in The Searchers. Joined by an incredible cast, starting with Robert Urich, Danny Glover, Ricky Schroeder, Angelica Huston and Diane Lane, they battle the elements, Native Americans, bloodthirsty outlaws (one played with evil ferocity by Frederick Forrest) and each other to make the trek. There are some subplots with Chris Cooper and Glenne Headley. Lonesome Dove seems to attempt to portray in its starkness and realism, life in the late 1800's. It has no fast-draw gunfights in the streets between Cowboys trying to prove who is the quickest gun. There is camaraderie, bloodshed and emphasis on the fragility of life, but it is done in a real-life manner. Lonesome Dove has lighthearted moments, and incredibly dark and tragic ones as well. The casting was incredible, and the musical score was even better. If you can get ahold of the Soundrtack, you will not be disappointed. In my view, this movie will make you feel both love and heartbreak toward the Old West and the people who lived it. Don't Miss This One!
I kept hearing about Lonesome Dove and how great it was but never took the plunge to watch it until a few years ago. What peaked my interest was one day while visiting the Cowboy and Western Heritage museum in Oklahoma City, I watched a documentary about the history of American Western movies narrated by Tom Seleck, one of the great all time cowboy actors. Near the end of the documentary the final scene from Lonesome Dove was shown where Woodrow walks off into the sunset as the pesky reporter fills him with questions. I was hooked at that moment and within a few days had watched the entire mini series. The one thing that impressed me the most as the series started to wind down to that final scene was how as a viewer, I realized that I didn't experience the full impact of the show, until I watched that final scene within the context of the whole story. It was at that moment the wonderful sense of just how good this story was came to me. The realism of the costumes, the scenarios, the cattle drive, the tough nature of the characters, the courage it took for the real life cowboys to partake of such things suddenly became real. There were Cliché's, but they were done so well I didn't notice or didn't care. That final scene where Woodrow walks into the sunset...it just doesn't get any better than that...a cliché...yes...but a wonderful ending to a great movie.


                
Wow. That's perhaps the most appropriate term to describe "Lonesome Dove", a long, beautiful adaptation of Larry McMurthy's classic book. Director Simon Wincer provides fans of the novel and those who'd never heard of it with a movie which is both extremely loyal to book and never slow. The long running time could have become turgid in less able hands.The casting is absolutely perfect, from Duvall's lovable Gus McCrae to Anjela Huston's stern Clara Allen. After seeing the movie I really can't imagine anybody else in the roles. Tommy Lee Jones in particular shines in the role of Call, nearly stealing the show (although surprisingly several actors wee asked to play the role first, including Charles Bronson).As in McMurthy's novel conventional rules are thrown out the window as sympathetic characters often meet cruel, undeserved fates. The danger and hardship of the old west are perfectly captured in the backdrop of some of the most beautiful photography ever seen on television. "Lonesome Dove" is a must-see for anybody who wants to have an engrossing, memorable experience. 10/10


                
This is and will remain on of the best mini-series to ever be produced for television. It even rivals many of todays best films. Superb acting and directing give this series a charm that cannot be denied.Duvall and Jones are both amazing in their roles. They portray their characters wonderfully. The emotion or lack there of in some cases shown by these actors draws the viewer in and makes them feel a direct emotional connection to McCrae and Call.The directing and cinematography shown in this series should be what film makers aspire to. This series takes the dry land of Texas and the wide open spaces of the west and brings out their true beauty.This series is a must see for any movie fan. Even those who say they hate westerns will love this film. It is much more than cattle, horses, and cowboys.


                
This movie provides one of the best story lines I have seen in some time. Robert Duvall portrays a great character and the development of "Gus" has to be hailed as a theatrical triumph.  This movie will make you laugh and cry and will be one that you won't soon forget.


                
While there is adventure,tension,drama,love,and tragedy, Lonesome Dove is more tone based than plot based. The mood is set early and the characters exist to keep that tone going. Most performers are solid, but it's the work of Duvall and Jones that knock this out of the park. They are both brilliant and work wonderfully with each other. Chris Cooper and Angelica Huston do the best jobs behind the main duo.Wincer went on to direct a few decent films and a few bad ones. His work here is good enough to give the actors room. There is some good cinematography, but nothing amazing. The score is quite memorable. Sometimes, I can get a bit choked up just hearing it.Speaking of "choked up", the final moments between Gus and Capt. Call move me every time. While Gus is trying to express all of his love for different people in his final moments, Call comes close to expressing his for what seems to be the first time in his life. He doesn't want to see his friend go, and neither do we.It's an excellent western even though some moments are heavy-handed.
Lonesome dove came along at a time when the mini series was a dieing form and brought it back in a big way, until lonesome dove mini series were mostly dragged out TV shows or bad movies split up over a few nights, there have been good mini series before but they had been few and far between before dove, since then mini series thrives to be great and we can thank lonesome dove for that with it's wonderful script, casting and the best acting ever seen in a mini series or movie. Lonesome dove is a hard western about hard men (Tommy Lee Jones, Robert Duvall) and the times they lives in, it pulls no punches even when one of their own (Robert Urich) turns killer with a gang of cutthroats, the rest of the cast is super also with Anjelica Huston as a tough as nails horse ranch owner and Diane lane as the beautiful prostitute Lornea, Danny Glover plays the scout with a tons of heart and Ricky Schroder as Newt the boy who may or may not be the son of Tommy Lee Jones hard nosed Captain call. The only problem I had with lonesome dove was the ending, why in the hell would they kill off one of the two main characters? if they left both Call and McCrae alive we could have had a wonderful sequel with both instead of suffering through the averageness of the two sequels without Jones and Duvall. The best mini series ever 9 out of 10


                
