A complete mess. Overlong, boring and offering no resolution, this film is more than bad; it's an embarrassment. That it's been so highly praised internationally is the kind of "affirmative action" pandering that occasionally strikes film festivals; it's success at home just confirms Koreans flock to bad movies too.The major responsibility of a director is to present a movie that is of a piece, that is, it is unified as a story in tone, time and place, and offers a believable and interesting plot. This movie is all over the place tonally: it has moments of madcap wannabe Jackie Chan-style buffoonery with Three Stooges-level relationships among the leads, offers serious policier pretensions for most its second half. As for running time: the whole thing is incredibly long, all the more so for a film that offers no real suspense, no threat to its protagonists and clues that come out of nowhere, like the female officer's sudden, out-of-the-blue discovery that a certain song is played whenever the murderer strikes. (And we're asked to believe that these cops are dimwitted enough to think that the murderer himself may have requested the song with a postcard that gives his accurate name and address!)It doesn't matter that the movie is built on a true case. So what? You don't go and make a movie about an unsolved crime unless it offers some other insight other than the banal idea that the serial killer-rapist could be anyone (which of course isn't true; we're not all killers). After slogging through an interminable running time, to then be offered no resolution (even after a meaningless flash-forward to ten or so years later) is an anticlimax of the worst kind. An absolute piece of total pretension with bungling characters and lousy story-telling (e.g., the retarded suspect obviously has been an eyewitness to a killing but the cops realize this two hours after you will), this movie may sour you for other, good Korean films. Don't let that happen.
In the end they don't tell you who did it, that seems to make it "the best detective movie ever" for the other reviewers here. Well that's 2 hours of my life I'll never get back, hope I saved someone else's.
According to its web page, this movie has received an overall rating of 8.1, and what's more five IMDb staff have ostensibly given it an average rating of 8.3.Horse poop. IMDb has been hacked. There is NO WAY that 68,996 IMDb users could rate this piece of junk 8.1 (unless they were close relatives of the director, which I doubt).In fact, it's hard t0 imagine 69 thousand users watching more than 30 minutes of this pic before pitching their DVD in the trash. The acting is abysmal. The cinematography is awful. The continuity is terrible.IMDb mamagement, please check this out. Your service's credibility is on the line.You've been had!


                
This is a truly awful, pointless, interminable movie. Bad acting, no plot to speak of, making no point, giving no insights. The movie is a stream-of-consciousness mess. The idea that this miscarriage made it into the IMDB Top 250 makes me suspect that a studio publicity department has simply paid people to leave fawning reviews--or maybe it's one guy assuming a bunch of identities and leaving multiple fake reviews. I had hoped IMDM is better at policing this kind of misconduct but the obviously doctored reviews for this movie make me doubt the integrity of the IMDB rating process.


                
