After two women are found dead in a rural community, a detective arrives from the big city to help out. Things quickly mushroom with the discovery of more bodies, more suspects and no end in sight.Whether you like police films or not you should see this movie about the real hunt for Korea's first known serial killer simply because its a great movie. This is a movie that alters your expectations and changes your view of things. Its impossible to guess whats going to happen simply because the twists and turns are so unexpected. At times this is a funny funny movie, especially if you like shows like Law and Order or CSI since what we take for granted in those shows is stood on its head. At other times this is a very taut thriller and you become as desperate as the police in needing to put an end to the madness.On top of all of this is a picture of Korea in 1986, a place with political unrest and civil defense drills that for me at least makes it seem like something out of the 1950's.This is brilliant brilliant film-making.I've given the film an 8 out of 10, even though it probably deserves to be higher, simply because some 12 hours after seeing the film, I'm still pondering what I thought of it, how good is it? At least an 8. I'm sure a second and third and fourth viewings will change my mind.Yea its that good


                
Joon-ho Bong directs "Memories of Murder". A police procedural, the film's first act flows along conventional lines. Here a murder takes place and detective Park Doo-Man is assigned to the case. He's a hotshot cop, hardworking and determined, who thinks he can spot a criminal simply by "looking into their eyes". Joon-ho Bong, however, repeatedly questions Park's abilities. Early in the film, for example, Park's commander points at two men at the far side of a room and asks Park to pick out the criminal. Park looks deeply into each man's eyes, but before he gives his answer, the director cuts to black. We assume that Park has picked the right guy.But 20 minutes into the film, and our faith in Park begins to crumble. Indeed, he begins to come across as a bit of an idiot. He's deeply superstitious, relies on fortune tellers, believes in hunches, and is highly insecure.At this point the film introduces another detective. His name is Sae Yoon, and he's been assigned to help Park on his case. The film's second act is thus a repetition of the first act, Sae Yoon re-enacting all the scenes that we just witnessed Park do. The way Park handles the film's first crime scene is contrasted with how Sae Yoon handles the film's second crime scene. The way Park handles an interrogation is contrasted with how Sae Yoon handles an interrogation. In seeing how a methodical, clever and genuinely skilled detective like Sae Yoon handles his job, the audience is forced to reconsider their views of Park. Maybe Park wasn't a hotshot cop after all. The juxtaposition between the way the two men handle the film's first two murders forces us to re-evaluate our perceptions.This notion of reassessing what our eyes see, is constant throughout the film. A mentally ill kid seems like a likely suspect, but is actually not. A local pervert seems like the killer, but is actually a caring husband. An effeminate loner may be the rapist, but DNA samples prove otherwise. Detective Sae Yoon, himself a "by the books" cop, eventually becomes a violent, loose cannon, determined to throw away rules and regulations based on a hunch, whilst Park, the very cop who consults shamans and witch doctors and stages false confessions, becomes the film's voice of law-abiding righteousness.And so it is the way the film's characters are constantly in a state of moral flux that makes "Memories of Murder" so exciting. The audience is constantly asked to "look the characters in the eyes" and reassess what they're seeing.But what makes the film great is its ending. If surface perceptions are inadequate, then how can we truly understand another human being? If personal emotions get in the way of objective truth, how can we ever trust our own acuity? And so because the criminal is never identified or caught, suddenly everyone is guilty. There can be no closure because everyone, police included, is implicated. Watch how the director contrasts the film's first shot (the innocence of a child's face) with the film's final shot (the retired face of detective Frank staring down the camera and directly at the audience). Frank's catch phrase, "look into my eyes", now takes on a whole new level of meaning. He's a cop again, and everyone including we the audience are now under suspicion. And so while most serial killer films end with closure, or in the case of the recent "Zodiac", with the comfortable knowledge that our killer is now old and largely impotent, "Memories of Murder" leaves us on a note of profound paranoia. We're left uncomfortable, disturbed, and everyone now seems a potential suspect. 8.5/10 – Though it isn't brave enough to stray far from genre conventions, this is a stylish, engrossing film. Worth two viewings.
This isn't your typical serial killer thriller. That's something that elevates this above other movies right from the beginning. But as that is, the question is if you're ready for a change? There's nothing wrong with most of the serial killer thrillers, that follow the rule book, of how to make a movie like that.Back to this Korean thriller, that shows us how cops are dealing with a killer on the loose. The behaviour of the cops (the sort of "good" guys) is strange to say the least. Their methods to interrogate people is at least unorthodox! And that's things you have to keep in mind before you watch the movie. Because if you think that this might be a problem for you, then it will be a problem for you for sure, after you watch the movie!


                
Memories Of Murder is based on a true story of a south-Korean little village in which someone begins to murder young women. The Police can't catch the killer so an agent comes from Seoul to give a hand in the investigation. Soon he'll find that local police's methods are rather brutal, and that they're most interested on finding a scapegoat, someone to blame in order to ease the in tranquility of the population, than on catching the real killer (according to the real facts, they never catched the author of those crimes).The script is solid as a rock, and it's been filmed in a realistic style. trying to show the facts as they happened. Maybe they should've made a shorter movie, and cut some sequences out (the scenes of the interrogations to the three different suspects are a little bit reiterative), and the ending seems a little forced to me. Anyway, Memories Of Murder is much more effective and serious than the most of nowadays' Hollywood detective films.My rate: 7.5/10


                
There are only a handful of serial killer films that actually work, and with the Korean-based "Memories of Murder," it's evident that director Joon-ho Bong has done his homework.Successful examples include "Seven" and "Silence of the Lambs," a pair of films that expose their audience to grisly and suspenseful sights, but all the while creating vivid characters and memorable stories. Other films like "Fallen" and "The Bone Collector" do not. What makes "Memories" as unforgettable and dynamic as say "M," is that the actors of this film are realistic, the story is believable, and the climax is original. You feel the apprehension of the characters, you struggle to understand the killer's motives, and you grimace at the way his victims are taken. Getting under your skin is what serial killer films are all about, and this is no exception.In South Korea in 1986, a naked woman is found bound and gagged in a drainage ditch in a field, and a pair of detectives and a special agent from Seoul has been assigned to find the murderer/rapist. Their efforts are numerous in trying to track down the killer, not taking anything for granted; they even attempt to find clues through the help of a fortune teller, and by even giving merit to the possibility that the killer may shave his pubic hair. Their crime scenes are routinely disturbed by locales, key pieces of evidence are run over by tractors, their forensic team is always a no-show, and their only help at solving the crime thus far is a handicapped boy, who may or may not be the killer. Yet with the boy in custody, and the murders continuing, a serial killer is indeed on the loose.The film has numerous touches of comedy that arguably helps the film numb down its depressing nature; many of these comedic touches involve one of the detective's constantly jump-kicking witnesses and suspects. The detective so habitually beats any and all suspects that he made a custom "bootie," as to assure that his kicks won't leave any scratches. The way the film handles the humor is quite ingenious though, simultaneously showing the downfall and wrongs of police justice, the fallibility of investigative methods, and how a homicide system works without the prevalence of DNA tests. The musical score is terrific and adds tension to every scene, the camera work is top-notch and South Korea's fields and forests remain a visually scenic and eerily set landscape. The acting is genuine by everyone involved, especially from Kang-ho Song, the lead detective who sees the wrongs of the system but can only stand by and watch. The director does a fantastic job creating the mood, and like all atmospheric thrillers, the film is almost consistently covered with rain-shadow. His uncanny ability to create suspense when nothing is visibly threatening also earns the director much praise, and he makes the viewer see what the killer sees, with expert detail. As the murderer lurks behind trees, hides behind field stocks, and picks his prey, so do you and it works wonderfully. Based on the first recorded serial killer in Korean history, "Memories of Murder" is a film not easily forgotten. With memorable visuals, a haunting score, and quite hilariously brutal police work, the film adds realism to a very mature subject matter and succeeds brilliantly. The film was released in 2004 in limited release, and most video stores do not carry it. You can get it off Netflix or any online store that sells dvds.


                
Memories Of Murder, is a highly entertaining well grafted and nigh on perfectly designed piece of cinema about the real life killings of local village girls during the 1980s in South Korea. Memories sets out to make a serious film and not trivialise these events, which it does in a very simple manner coupled with exceptional cinematography and highly idiosyncratic characters whose introductions never over shadow the films events.Memories Of Murder has its own agenda on commentating on these events, making it quite clear that the social situation created in Korea at the time meant the government was "too busy suppressing its own citizens to put resources into a proper investigation". And it is that which is the overriding theme throughout. There is a sense when you watch this film that the operation was completely botched. Not only did the police forces lack the necessary forces to cope with such a killer, but also that the police were more concerned with finding a 'scapegoat', as is seen in the interrogation sequences. They adopted a 'any face will do' motif, and they lost not only valuable time, but face with the public.Memories is marked by a trio of outstanding performances by Song Kang Ho, Kim Sang Kyung and Park Hae-Il who each bring something unique to this creation. Their rivalry and own internal issues mean they clash with each other and must look deep within themselves for answers while yet never distracting from the film. Kang-Ho Song provides the most intriguing of all the three detectives. At the start of the film we see he has no actual intent in catching the killer and a forced confession is enough for him to sleep easy at night, as long as he thinks he's right. However he has a gift for being able to deduce whether people are telling the truth or not by looking into their eyes. The legitimacy of this 'gift' however is questioned throughout the course of the films duration, even by his own family, which is well done in keeping the audience hooked as we want to believe in him but don't know if we should. Detective Seo Tae-Yoon (played by Sang-kyung Kim) is the enforcer of the trio, a high flying, heavy boot wearing, hot headed time bomb. His deep seated anger issues and a a somewhat noticeable lack of refined sensibilities in policing enquiries hamper a man who in the end wishes to do good and we can still sympathise if not empathise. Roe-ha Kim as Detective Cho Yong-koo is the most gripping of the three as his transformation throughout the film as he delves deeper into the depraved mind of a sadistic serial killer, begins to haunt him more than it does the other two. Having been sent in from Soeul he is charged with responsibility of finding this man and the toll it takes on him as a human being is remarkable. There are obviously more issues to discuss about how good this film is but the acting speaks for itself and is truly the driving force of this film, and 'will' keep you watching.Memories is a wonderful film, which is by no means perfect, but its fusion of serial killer thriller will drama and black humour gives this all too familiar genre a refreshing new twist, if Zodiac were any good this is the type of film it would be like, and is more often than not provocative. It's nail biting tension provides the audience with moral qualms throughout, questions over our honour, our integrity and our principles. The notion of What Is Justice? rings out loud and inevitably there are only answers to be found within yourself. While some may find the ending forced, I found it pleasant within the context of the film as it served its purpose to highlight the damage done to our three protagonists. Memories is a must watch film if you are a fan of Korean cinema or the genre, but more importantly, this is a really good film that anyone interested in film (from anywhere) should view and enjoy. This is one you 'will' remember.


                
Echo many of the excellent reviews here - I didn't realise how much the film was a subtle criticism of the 80s dictatorship, though one murder takes place precisely because too many police have been sent to halt disturbances so that there aren't enough to protect the town hit by a series of sex killings. The first half-hour to hour is blackly comic, slightly farcical (forensic evidence destroyed by incompetence), but, for me, the film's greatness is when its tone changes - and the borders between the two leading detectives, Park, &, Suh, become blurred until Suh breaks down. The downbeat ending lingers in the mind, and its realistic portrayal of a desperate police investigation is head and shoulders above most Hollywood sensational crime pics.


                
I gave the above heading for a reason. It was given due to concrete reasons, not for a catchy headline. I do not understand the Korean language, but the subtitles helped me a great deal. But what made understanding the movie easy was the acting and direction, which was fabulous. Especially towards the end of the film the viewer just have the same emotions of the police detectives and understands their emotions as well as the suspect. Normally in Hollywood films, the hero would be the detective. So he might be shown as a very cool as a cucumber sort of guy. But here we can feel their desperation. This is not a fast paced lots of action kind of film, but after watching the entire film, I must say I was touched by it and Mr. Bong Joon-ho, I am a fan of yours.


                
A long film that grows stronger in its last hour. After some initial disappointment at what seemed a conventional city/rural conflict in police-work, I was surprised by the power of what emerges by the end-- enough so that I looked through the extended cast-interviews included on the domestic DVD. Someone who likes the film will be interested in the interview with the actor playing the second suspect: the film is apparently developed from a successful Seoul stageplay, in which he played all three suspects. Fragments of videotaped stage-performance shows him with very different affect-- and you realize the obsessive, haunted conclusion of the film indicates its open-case presence in South Korea's collective awareness.


                
In 1986, in the province of Gyunggi, in South Korea, a second young and beautiful woman is found dead, raped and tied and gagged with her underwear. Detective Park Doo-Man (Kang-ho Song) and Detective Cho Yong-koo (Roe-ha Kim), two brutal and stupid local detectives without any technique, investigate the murder using brutality and torturing the suspects, without any practical result. The Detective Seo Tae-Yoon (Sang-kyung Kim) from Seul comes to the country to help the investigations and is convinced that a serial-killer is killing the women. When a third woman is found dead in the same "modus-operandi", the detectives find leads of the assassin."Salinui chueok" is a very realistic movie based on a true story. The performances are stunning, showing the flaws of a Third World police department in a country under dictatorship, without respect to the human rights, using torture to force the confession and without skilled agents and resources. Unfortunately the identity of the killer is not disclosed and the unsolved investigation gives a sensation that the films has not finished. I am really impressed with the excellent quality of South Korea cinema, with the movies that have been released in Brazil in the last years. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Memórias de um Assassino" ("Memories of an Assassin")


                
You will love it if you liked "Se7en". Lots of details but in an interesting and exciting way. You would start to think and investigate with the detectives during the movie, also the viewer will model and build-up stereotypes about the mystery and about the characters. However, during the script, the characters develop and the director deliver that brilliantly, you'll gradually change your mind of them and start to like some and dislike some. The ending is alluring, absolutely unpredictable and fascinating. Here the director also successes in achieving his goals in tempting the viewer.The viewer may notice the continual scenes and gestures on the situation in Korea back then in 1980s.Critics may say the movie contains obvious insurmountable odds, but with these, there will be not such a great movie.8/10 : Not 10 because personally, I believe it could be made better, moreover I was not satisfied by the end of the film. During the last minutes, I expected much more than the story gives.


                
This movie was recommended to me by a fellow screenwriter, and I was able to watch it online via Netflix. I thoroughly enjoyed it! It's a terrific look at the frustrations of police, when they don't have the evidence necessary to stop a killer in a small town.The movie is top notch, very well made, and Korea should be very proud of their film community.The array of characters are interesting and plausible. Great casting and acting in all roles.It's a completely believable yet complex plot. There was only one point where it felt formulaic and typical, but they pulled me back in immediately, and I forgave them for that one "Oh, come on, now you're getting ridiculous," moment.The contrast between the local cop and the city cop, and the changes they both go through - excellent! The irony in the arcs these characters go through is rich.The ending is strong, especially the very last thing said. Provocative. This is a film that makes you think about many things for a long time after watching it.Very well done!


                
Set in 1986, "Memories of Murder" chronicles the first serial killer case in South Korean history. The victims are all beautiful young women whose bodies have been found raped and strangled in local fields and ditches. The initial agents who have been put on the case are two incompetent bunglers - one a dropout from college, the other a dropout from high school - who seem to have gleaned the majority of their investigative techniques from cheesy TV crime dramas. Enter Seo Tae-yoon, a forensic investigator from Seoul, who wrests control from the locals and brings some big-city know-how to the case.Given the grim subject matter at hand, it's amazing just how funny so much of this movie turns out to be. Blessed with a sly sardonic humor and a willingness to make fun of its characters even while evincing a great deal of affection for them, "Memories of Murder" plays less like a conventional cop movie and more like a regional comedy filled with rich insights into the subtle truths of human nature. The relationship between Seo, the investigator from Seoul, and Park Doo-man, the more rational of the two local officers, is intriguing and complex, as we watch them bicker and brawl and engage in petty power struggles, while slowly coming to realize that each has something of value to teach the other if only they can set aside their egos long enough to listen. Saddled with even-then antiquated technologies, Seo and Park are forced to rely on good old investigative footwork and informed intuition to try and solve the case.There are strong performances by one and all, and a fine sense of atmosphere in the setting. Those looking for a neatly tied-up resolution to the case may find themselves disappointed at movie's end. But the rich rewards of setting and character should be compensation enough.


                
A well-made mystery based on a series of murders committed in Korea in 1986.The film has humor, suspense, action, and tragedy. The portrayal of police brutality of suspects might offend some viewers, but it's consistent with the known tactics that were practiced and tolerated at that time by South Korean law enforcement officers.Good acting by this fine Korean cast.This film and a few other recent ones show that South Korean film-makers are appealing to broader international audiences. Don't miss this one.


                
I have seen this movie after recommendation from my friend. I like the mystery/suspense genre of movies, if anyone has seen the 'The Pledge' by Sean Penn where the main lead was played by legend Jack Nicholson then somewhere you will find the both story meets at some point in the movie. The actors are superb. The movie is all about the serial killer who kills womens on rainy day and whenever there is song 'Sad Letter'is played on radio. But nobody has clue who is the killer, the movie is bit over stretched,but the good thing is that the suspense remained through out. The detective from Seol joins the investigation and he is the one who actually do progress to find some facts which make this movie interesting to watch. But killer is too smart for them and the chase begins for nailing him.The problem about these kind of movies are that more and more short lived characters are introduced just to divert the curious viewer's interest to somebody else who actually has not killed anyone, but all evidence are found against him. Movie is superb and it retain the tension behind the complex characters and the relationship the detectives shared their anger,jealousy and competition are clear and understood well.The ending is also satisfying and it made sense because the case which is not solved ever in Korea is not manipulated into some strange ending.So friends what are you waiting for go and watch this movie and enjoy the suspense.


                
Based on a real murder case in the 80s that now is now closed. It starts out almost as a comedy, the investigator is an amateur and resorts to tae kwondo kicks as soon as the suspects don't tell him what he want to. After a while it turns into a tense thriller.The Koreans really know how to make movies like these. Its well cast, especially the district investigator and Park He-il as the factory worker. Its well directed, and the turn in style is successful.Bong Joon-ho, being the director of the fantastic 'Flandersui Gae' made this, and since I heard a lot of praise for it I had big expectations. Only problem is that it had a few slow moments.


                
basically, Memories of Murder is a haunting masterpiece of crime thriller. For Americans, it would be interpreted as the Korean version of Zodiac, despite the fact that it's released 4 years earlier than Zodiac.The movie is not the nearly half-documentary narration adopted by Zodiac. It's more alike a serious drama but had the touch of reality. And, reality is the topic it tried to deal with. Using this style, the director was able to pull off some fantastic moments that might have already earned the reputation of classics. For instance, every scene with the retarded boy was ingenious, sadistic and sad to watch. The relationship between the victim and the public, the police who tried to solve it, and the suspect had been clearly illustrated by the camera. Their underlying psychologies shined, as the public and the victim just wanted to grab a piece of meat to blame, and the police had the obligation to satisfy such a desire. But for the suspects, they were really caught up in the middle of this misery. That's why each of them was nearly beaten to death. The slow-mo long shot of the retarded boy trying to escape the police and the medias was already a classic.Like Zodiac, Memories of Murder is an exploration of societal changing. Or more precisely, societal tragedy. The murder cases themselves are societal tragedies already. But, the director told the story in the perspective of cops, therefore each time those uneducated countryside cops missed some important threads, the audience will sigh for them. Since all the cases took place in the countryside, it's not emphasized much by the metropolitan polices for Seoul. Therefore, the cops assigned to solve the case were also countryside cops with limited knowledge and technologies. At last, they never caught the killer because their incompetence...... This is a remind that, crimes had been evolving much faster than detectives, and to solve a murder case is far more difficult than to commit it. Such situation could happen anywhere because by trying to solve a mystery, one can become another sub-problem of the mystery.I was mocking the cops about their incompetence, that they never continued to follow those valuable threads and evidences. Once they catch a new suspect, they fell into some kind of self-filling logic, "Since I caught him, he's the murderer." Later, the retarded boy proved to be more valuable witness than they knew, but their ignorance of psychology and mental patient did them no good...... But when the movie ends, I reflected on it, and decided to write this commentary in a fair way.8/10 haunting and deep story, but could be too disturbing for ladies and children. Recommended to 20+.
This movie definitely caught me off guard. I had this movie lying around the house for a month and I finally managed to watch it. Man I wish I had seen this movie earlier.The plot is nothing special. Set in a rural area a killer kidnaps, rapes and then kills girls. The local police are having a tough time catching him so a detective from the city is assigned to the area to help them investigate the crime. You would think that this is a straight forward action packed crime thriller of a movie however this is far from it.I particularly like the fact that this film actually engages the audience with it's character development. For example, at the start of the movie we are introduced to a local cop Park Doo-Man (Kang-ho Song) who is portrayed almost as a street-wise smooth talking cop who use brutality to get what he wants. This image of him stays the same throughout the film until near the end. Whereas the detective from the city Seo Tae-Yoon played brilliantly by Sang-Kyung Kim is the opposite of Park Doo-Man. He prefers to do things with rationality, fair judgement and the usage of scientific methods rather than basing decisions on instincts and irrational thoughts which Park Doo-Man is best at doing. As the film progresses, the murderer continues to kill and the detectives are left with useless clues which lead them to another.And this is where the character development aspect of the movie really shines. After wandering around fruitlessly they become exhausted. Seo Tae Yoon who, originally was opposed to Park Doo-Man's brutal and vicious interrogation methods goes and says 'we just need to beat a confession out of him'. As an audience we can feel the detective's exhaustion and frustration and it just makes you eagerly wanting to know who the killer is.The whole setting itself, in a rural area adds to the tension and suspense. Technology is scarce, and in a period where protests and riots are occurring, you can't help but think that these detectives are on their own in this case. They have to use old methods to get what they want. The change in weather also adds to the suspense. When it is raining it creates a sense of feeling that the killer is about to strike which he inevitably does.The ending itself is what will tick most people off but not in a bad way. It certainly got to me but I should've known since it is based on a true story. I won't spoil it there for you however it should be obvious to you at the start of the movie.Overall this is Korean cinema at it's best. This film has some great comedy moments blend with great drama, tension and suspense. There are some disturbing scenes however that shouldn't put most viewers off. The whole film is shot beautifully with some scenes being gritty and others being peaceful. Its one of the best crime thriller I've seen in my life. I would certainly say its up there with Insomnia and Se7en. I wish to see more of these kind of movies in the future.
The first fifteen minutes or so seem kind of slapdash, with over-emphatic acting, undistinguished photography, and exposition that seems to be going nowhere. But if you make it over that bar, you'll find a police procedural with a good deal of personality and a more subtle story than you might have expected.It could easily have been a typical Hollywood serial murder movie. Maybe it still will be. It will star Brad Depp and Julia Theron and will sport a ten-billion dollar budget. Here, in its original form, we have a small-scale story of an unsolved case of serial murders in a small Korean town.Detective Park, a beefy guy with a big chin who is not too bright, investigates a murder. His partner is Detective Cho, even less bright and more impulsive. Soon another corpse turns up and Detective Seo arrives from Seoul, the big city. While the two rural cops are beating the bushes (and some suspects) looking for a solution, Seo intuits that a third murder has been committed, and he's right. The girls were all young, beautiful, wearing red clothes on a rainy night, and the killings were preceded by requests for a rare pop song at a radio station. I know. It all sounds a little familiar and maybe Dennis Hopper should turn up as the crazed murderer.There are quite a few comic scenes in the first half of the film as the cops bang their heads against the wall and follow false leads. They all go out to dinner with the dour Chief of Police. The intense Chief unexpectedly gets so drunk his head falls on the dinner table, but he wakes up when two of the others begin scuffling with one another. Then he vomits and brightens, claiming he's had an inspiration regarding the case. The drunken Detective Cho explains the difference between the Korean police and the American FBI in terms of geography. The FBI has to use brains because the country is so big that they must sit in one place and figure things out, whereas South Korea is the size of Cho's member and can be covered by detectives on foot in no time. Cho doesn't use the word "member". There's at least as much obscenity in this film as there will be in the Hollywood remake.By this time, I suspect, you'll be grabbed by the story and it gets more serious. And, I have to say, it's curious to see the law exercised in the Republic of Korea. A public announcement tells us that the president is about to make a visit and we expect bands, speeches, and cheers. What we see instead is a tank growling through the crowded streets and protesters throwing firecrackers and stones at it. The cops beat hell out of whomever they want. If a suspect is confessing on tape to a crime he knows nothing about, the cops don't mind giving him hints. "Yes -- I strangled her! I strangled her with -- with -- (a cop cups a pair of imaginary breasts) -- with her BRASSIERE!" They hang an obviously psychotic suspect by his heels and hold him for four days without charging him. On the other hand, only once does a gun appear in a cop's hand, and then in a context that defines it clearly as disapproved of.Things, unanticipated things, happen the way they do in real life. Detective Cho is taken off the case for police brutality, gets drunk, starts a brawl over some bul-kogi, and a bystander interferes by whacking him in the calf with a wooden board, but the board happens to have a rusty nail in it, and Cho winds up with tetanus. Seo, the big-city cop, falls asleep on a stakeout, an important suspect slips away, and another murder takes place.By the end of the movie, the corpses that have provided the occasions for smiles, have become the dead bodies of girls we've gotten to know a little about and it's no longer an occasion for amusement. A suspect is finally identified who looks like the real thing. A young man who operates a computer, handsome almost to the point of femininity, but the FBI's DNA analysis yields ambiguous results. I don't think I'll spoil the ending that, in its own quiet way, is memorable.Well worth seeing.
This movie was very tense and sary. The mystery throughout it all kept me hooked. It got me into Korean movies.


                
How you gonna deliver such a powerful drama that gets us all worked up, just to leave us hanging!!
This was a great movie. It wasn't so much about the victim's deaths or the murderer as it was about the people who were having to investigate it. I love movies that focus in on that aspect because you know that this stuff really stays with the investigators long after things come to an end. The cases they never solve haunt them. This is supposed to be a thriller and it does come with some suspense but it is more dramatic mystery than anything else. That was a bummer for me because I was never really on the edge of my seat so I wouldn't recommend it if you are looking for big thrills and suspense. However, if you are looking for a mystery this is a great choice.


                
There's a quiet sense of hysteria present throughout Joon-ho Bong's Memories of Murder. Though on the surface the movie plays as a detective with many comedic elements, its true core consists mostly of deep despair and paranoia. It is a testament to the director's skill that these two sides are joined together so well without it resulting in a disjointed mess.Memories of Murder portrays a case of a serial rapist in a small town on the outskirts of the Korean countryside. Three detectives with very different methods of investigation are put together to search for the killer. It becomes quickly clear that this isn't a usual case and the complexity of the case puts the detectives way over their head. You get the sense that these are effective investigators in their own right, but they are way outmatched for the situation they are put up against.Part of the effectiveness of the film is that it actually conveys the overwhelming fear that slowly seeps into the persons facing the unknown evil. The horrific acts committed are all the more scary because they are happening in a town with seemingly nice people. Everyone in the town seems to know each other by name. This makes the killer seem like somewhat of an alien presence, a ghost hiding behind a human face. As the girl describes the presumed killer in the end, his appearance was that of just an "ordinary" guy. The most scary thing is that he isn't a hideous deformed creature driven to these disturbing acts, but that this person could ostensibly be hiding in each other person that you know, with no way to determine which one in particular.Because there seems to be no rhyme and reason to what is happening the movie makes for a very scary experience. I have to admit I am not an avid watched of foreign films, but at the same time I found this movie to be thrilling to watch. It is not a light experience (it will likely leave you drained at the end) but very worth seeing. Highly recommended.
I had just recently lived in South Korea (from 2011 to 2013), yet I had never heard of this fantastic film until early this year. Memories of Murder is a wonderfully well-made film with a haunting and simplistically beautiful score, as well as excellent performances from the actors of the film - especially that of Song Kang-ho, an actor of whom I've had to learn the name of to properly recommend this film to friends.I have only heard of one other film by this director Bong Joon-ho and that is "Snowpiercer", a film that was widely advertised in the last few weeks I lived in Korea, yet I also gave that film a miss thinking that it wouldn't be anything special. I have not yet seen Snowpiercer, so I still have to check that out.The cinematography of Memories is absolutely stupendous and shatteringly graceful in it's artistic clarity. The writing of the film - the adaptation of the true events to the big screen - was also handled very well. Everything about this film is quite wonderful and I advise those who like Korean cinema not to give it a miss.


                
Memories of Murder is based on the real events of first serial killer in South Korea, a pair of detectives are searching for a killer and a new detective from Seoul comes to accompany them.It is real pearl from Korea and one of the best serial killing movie ever made.The story, backdrop, acting, cinematography and editing are top notch. The comic incidents are portrayed wonderfully by the characters. You will feel the complication the detectives have while searching the killer. The character development is magnificent.It is very far from Hollywood clichés and yet original as depiction of a true story on screen.The Korean have their distinct style of narrating a story which is brilliant and Hollywood should stop making making remakes of these gems.


                
Just a brief comment on Bong Joon-Ho's "Memories of Murder": I typically avoid gory or violent films. Unless it's done in a funny way or it's a legitimate, useful device for storytelling, I see no reason to expose one's self to revolting images. For a film about multiple murders, "Memories" has minimal gore (around 5 brief scenes in a 2-hour film). Bong managed to create a really absorbing character-driven portrayal of a murder investigation, focusing on the investigators rather than the culprit. Nor does it even attempt to analyze the culprit's motives, an annoying pitfall which most similar films can't resist (but which "Silence of Lambs" does so well). It's a pretty straightforward ride along with Detective Park and his fellow small town underdogs, anti-heroes who sometimes employ questionable tactics out of sheer desperation or just because they don't know any better. Even Detective Seo, the big shot from Seoul, isn't the suave city guy, a prototype Bong relishes in squashing right upon Seo's introduction. Thrillers usually are slick, well-made products from the Hollywood factor and slick this isn't. "Memories" is engaging because of its clumsiness, rough-around-the edges small town quality, and even situational humor<U+0097>things you don't expect from thrillers, much less one based on dead serious real life situations.


                
