I'm one of those people who tend to think that South Korean movies are perhaps a bit too slow-paced for my taste. Memories of Murder isn't a fast-paced film, by any means, but this time the slow pace made this movie about an investigation of serial killings so much better than 95% of its American counterparts.Essentially, Memories of Murder is a drama first with thriller and comedy elements (yes, in the first hour or so the movie is actually quite funny). Kang-ho Song and Sang-kyung Kim are brilliant as the two cops who have drastically different views on how to solve a crime. The character development is fascinating and believable thanks to a great script.Highly recommended.


                
This is probably the best crime thriller I've seen since "Insomnia," and contains the most haunting climax of any serial killer flick since "Seven." But like most films reaching for greatness, this is most admirable for its striking details.The filmmakers here craft a taut, careful, and delicately strung together motion picture that relishes in its amazing development of mood, place, and character.First, the mood: Haunting cinematography (rain falling on a small village at night, shadows darting across a thick field of grass, figures lurking in the woods, a masterfully choreographed hot pursuit scene on foot), a poignant music score (aided by the creepy use of a Korean pop song that accompanies each murder), and no-nonsense direction (peppered with fabulous doses of comic relief--how Shakespearan!) keep the film more and more intriguing at each turn and fascinating to watch.Second, the place: South Korea, circa the late 1980's, and apparently under some sort of militia rule. This is inspired by the true story of Korea's first publicized (and still unsolved) serial killer case. This unique time and place serves as a wonderful respite from the typical American big-city setting of so many other films of this ilk.Finally, the character development: The small details revealing the haunted souls of the detectives on the case is nothing short of brilliant. Witness the tiny executions of minutae: The cloth one rogue cop wraps around his boot so as not to leave scars when he kick-boxes suspects into submission, the harried chief of police checking his own blood pressure while trying to keep his off-the-cuff detectives in line or fighting to keep headline-starved reporters at bay, the young female officer desperately trying to showcase her abilities in crime solving between serving the chauvinistic detectives cups of fresh coffee, the outsider detective from Seoul's insistence that documents never lie (and the brutal irony at the climax that challenges his entire sense of being), and the main village detective's scathing speech on the difference between American FBI agents and Koren policemen. The beauty is in the details, and this film, like all the great ones, revels in their uncovering.One flaw is that some might find the film a bit long in the tooth, but this is not to be missed for fans of serial killer thrillers and police procedural movies. For the Korean filmmakers, and the amazing cast...this is their master stroke.


                
What a good movie.What a great work of casting. Perhaps a little bit long, but the most part the movie is enjoyable and there's no perfection without mistakes. I think i haven't ever seen before a Korean movie and if there are much of them like this one i shall become Korean movie fan. The tempo, the thrill, the development of characters, everything it has been well worked.The direction is good yet without emphatic resources, there are just two moments with a little much use of slow motion but it doesn't arrive to be an abuse of it.If you can see it don't loose your time with Hollywood sad-bad thrillers bet for this Korean present.9/10 cause perfection doesn't exist.


                
I have long since heard of the excellence of this korean movie on koreanfilm.org, but it was only after reading the review in detail and realizing that the score was written by Taro Ishiwaro ( a well known Japanese musician who also wrote scores for Shohei Imamura and Japanese TV serials, including The Inanimate World ), and that the DOP was Kim Hyung-gu (who also shot Musa, One Fine Spring Day and Chen Kaige's Together) that it stumped on me I was indeed missing a masterpiece.And a masterpiece it is, one deeply haunting and disturbing asian crime thriller. The mood invoked during the last few minutes of the film is something you would probably never forget.Watch this film not only for its cinematic brilliance, but also because of the mezmerising score written by Taro Ishiwaro, track no 29 on the OST the favourite on my list.


                
This film is based on the true series homicide happened in the country of Korea from 1986 to 1990.Salinui chueok is similar to Seven but focuses more on the back ground of Korea at that time and explains why the police couldn't catch the murder.  The murder is very careful and cruel.  The cops are dying to catch the murder but the military government uses the police force to cease the protest.  The cops, also uses violence to the suspects to get the false confession rather than using a scientificinvestigation.After the film, I felt sympathy for the victims and was furious at the murder who hasn't got caught, yet.  This is the director's intention to make the audience look back the sad past of Korea.Excellent directing, acting, cinematography.  The best Korea film lately.
Recent Korean (and other international) films have surpassed Hollywood films in many ways except in the department of special effects. Special effects and big names is the main reason Hollywood still rules. However, for sheer originality and creativity, look away from Los Angeles towards Seoul.This grisly, dark, eccentric film shows why. "Salinui chueok" is a quirky, moody film that starts off not quite serious, almost comic. Well, not surprising, since the two naive, rural cops don't deal with much crime in the countryside in a militia-ruled Korea (set in the mid- 1980s). They find themselves in a case they can't handle: they have to deal with a serial murder that gathers press coverage and scrutiny. As the murders grow, detective Park has to compete with the smarter detective Seo from the big city (Seoul) and he learns solving crimes isn't just about intimidating suspects. The city and rural cops have to cooperate increasingly to try to capture the murderer. But the teaser, as all unsolved murders remains. The witnesses are unable to help, confessions are worthless, and the killer runs free. The film evolves into a serious masterpiece as Park matures throughout the movie from using police brutality to dealing with the press and proper evidence. As the end the film shows a more mature Park with a family maybe moving on...but not quite, he is still haunted by memories of a murder.Acting and cinematography are outstanding. It's a nice cultural peek into a rural Korea with unadorned eateries, schools with outhouses and broken-down police cars. The quirky fascinating characters (the half-crazy detective Cho or the simpleton Kwang-ho) add to the fun.


                
Based on an actual series of murders in South Korea between the years 1986 and 1991, Bong Joon-ho's Memories of Murder is a well performed, thought-provoking film about the investigation into Korea's first serial killings. The film, which combines bleak reality with dark comedy, is less about the actual crimes than about the emotional toll it took on the police officers investigating the case.The film opens in 1986 when South Korea was still under the control of a repressive military dictatorship. A woman's body is found in Gyunggi province in a drainage pipe in a rural area outside of Seoul, raped and strangled by her own stockings. The crime scene is chaotic. Reporters and spectators mill about and a tractor rides over the area destroying footprints and other potential evidence. Local police officers Park Doo-man (Song Kang-ho) and his aggressive partner, Cho Yong-ku (Kim Roe-ha) are in charge of the investigation but are joined later by a volunteer from Seoul, detective Seo Tae-yoon (Kim Sang-kyung).The police, however, are preoccupied with protest demonstrations against the government, and do not put the necessary manpower and resources into a proper investigation. A rivalry soon develops between the intuitive Park and the cerebral Seo. Park claims that he can detect a killer by simply looking into a suspect's eyes. Seo is more rational and scientific but both overlook crucial evidence and both do not hesitate to brutalize suspects. Although they force confessions from Baek Kwang-ho (Park No-shik), a retarded man, and a man who masturbates at the crime scene, they know that the confessions will not stand up in court. Showing signs of desperation, they torture an eyewitness to the murders to the point where he tries to escape and is run over by a passing train.Eventually the detectives locate a suspect who admits that he requested a song heard on the radio each night a murder has been committed, but not a shred of evidence is ever found. After they beat him, he tells the police, "People know you torture innocent people.... You'll never victimize me." Memories of Murder presents a powerfully haunting picture of a society so inured to violence and repression that a serial killer is a minor annoyance. As more strangled women are found, a sense of sadness and frustration begins to settle on the investigation and it becomes obvious that the police force is not prepared either by education or methodology to achieve results until the society it operates in can be purged of its authoritarian past.


                
I don't really need to see another serial killer movie but I'm inevitably drawn to look. Most are stupid, clichéd, and incredibly disappointing -- the obvious exceptions are the two classics: "Silence of the Lambs" and "Seven".The performances are superb. Rich, fully realized, fully human characters that are sometimes very faulted, sometimes funny, sometimes surprisingly heroic. The tech credits in this movie are uniformly excellent. The cinematography and editing are as good as anything you'll see.This is a first rate investigation that has plenty of twists and turns, red herrings, drama, suspense, and humor. But what sets this apart from most is its focus on the detectives -- their foibles, weaknesses, faults, and humanity.SPOILER ALERT: The key difference between this and most serial killer movies is that the killer is never found. But this movie is ultimately not about finding a killer. It is about the effect the investigation has on the detectives -- something we almost never see.A superb film. If you liked "Seven" don't miss this one!
It is difficult to know how best to describe the merits of this gripping yarn. The story is very well done; funny and horrifying, like life itself. the direction, action, lighting, acting, sound; all superb. The characters are entirely believable and engaging. While the movie deals with adult themes in an adult way, it is not in the least distasteful, even when for instance one hapless suspect is apprehended masturbating at a crime scene. The one sex scene is borderline hilarious and true to life. Funniest sequence of all is when the lead detective is looking in the sauna for the hairless suspect. And when he told the sauna staff to look out for the hairless one "They just smirked at me!" The various interrogation scenes are very well done. The conflict among the detectives is very convincing. The economy of storytelling is such that the viewer cannot afford to miss a single minute, unlike typical Hollywood pap where you could practically go and take a bath or a a shower, come back and you won't have missed a thing. A great, fascinating commentary on Korea at that time also.
This definitely is one of my favorite Korean films. On the surface "Memories of Murder" might appear as a simple cop-genre film. Yet underneath this costume lies an honest depiction of South Korea during the military dictatorship in the 80's. The lead actor Song Kang-ho's performance is outstanding as ever under the direction of Bong Joon Ho (The Host). The style and tone of the film constantly alludes and reminds the audience of the Japanese director Immamura Showei(Unagi, Vengeance is Mine), while the narrative structure seems too plotted according to the film's genre predecessors. For instance serial killer who gets stimulated by color red and rain while good/bad cop buddies come together in an expected fashion. However, I give 9/10 for its subtext rather than the film's outer appearance. Strongly recommend it!


                
The crime thriller genre is something that is particularly difficult to pull off. Most films of the genre end up being simple predictable and unoriginal. Even a lot of the films that are supposed to be great in the genre just end up being dull and forgettable. Luckily there are exceptions, films that break the clichés and tropes of the genre. One of these rare exceptions is Jong Boon-Ho's Memories of Murder.Bong Joon-Ho is a Korean director, though while being popular in his home-country of Korea, and while never receiving any main-stream attention or praise here in the west it still has a massive cult following. Memories of Murder though not his first film was the first to get him noticed. The film is based on a string of murders in the small town of Hwaesong. The serial killer ends up being more that the small town detective, Park Doo- man, (played by Korean actor, Kang-ho Sang famous for his roles in Sympathy For Mr. Vengeance, and The Host) can handle. So detective Seo Tae-yoon (played by Sang-kyung Kim) from Seoul is brought out to help the local police to catch the killer. And very clearly he was needed, the local police are very clumsy when handling evidence, and often resorts to beating confessions out of people they think are guilty. Needless to say Seo and Park clash. They end up spending more time fighting with each other than they do looking for the murderer. This clash never feels forced, like it does in some movies. This is because the characters are well written and well acted, not cartoonish one dimensional clichés. But as more and more bodies pop up the detectives quickly become desperate, resulting in am intense heart-stopping third act.Bong Joon-Ho crafted arguably the best cat and mouse serial killer film ever. But how did he do this? Well there was no one thing he did that made it so very great instead it was a large amount of different things that came together to make it a masterpiece. I already mentioned how the characters were written and performed. But another that he does that most American directors don't dare try is have happy comedic moments in the film. This is so very effective because by juxtaposing the comedic scenes with the darker ones make each stronger and more memorable. Few directors true to do this, because there's a fine line between making the film tonally stronger, or just tonally confusing your audience. Another thing that Bong Joon-Ho uses to make Memories of Murder fantastic is world building. First the film is nearly entirely shot on cloudy days, (a tactic the David Fincher would later use in several of his films.) and throughout the film their is a constant state of "panic," for example in one scene when Seo goes to a school, the school children are conducting some sort of drill for an emergency situation. Or in another when sirens are blasting in the streets and someone says over the speakers that it is just a test. Bong Joon-Ho is also a master of directing the audience he knows exactly where to put are focus, and how to move the focus to be sure to keep us interested. Bong Joon-Ho's direction actually matches the story structure, how the detectives constantly shift form suspect to suspect desperately trying to find the killer. And not to mention the films strongest part: the ending. I'm not going to spoil it, but nothing in the world will prepare you for it. And I think it's safe to say that it will cause your jaw to drop, and you won't be able to get it out of your head for days.I said it at the begging of the review, but I'll repeat it. Bong Joon-Ho has never received any mainstream success or recognition, (at least in the west.) but nevertheless his influence is undeniably. Quentin Tarantino named Memories of Murder as one of his 20 favorite films since 1992. And Memories of Murder was definitely the main inspiration of David Fincher's Zodiac. There are to many similarities between the two to deny that, not to mention that Zodiac came out only 4 years after Memories of Murder was first released. But even though major publications and websites have not given Bong Joon-Ho any mainstream success, he has developed a loyal cult following, and rightly so.


                
I recorded this on the Sundance Channel and knew nothing about it. Wow! It was such a treat! The story started out kind of slow and satisfying ... reminded me of some Hong Kong police procedurals I have watched. But then this cop from the big city shows up (the murders are happening way out in the countryside), and we start to see a really interesting interaction among the cops (the city cop, two country cops, and their supervisor).If you like watching police try to solve a tough puzzle -- and people keep on being murdered, so the stakes are high -- this is an excellent film. I was a little surprised at how long it was, but the story kept shifting and I didn't feel bored. In fact, I was a little sorry when it ended.


                
Just everything from the corrupt cops to the subtleties of the acting was top class believable stuff. I loved how corruption was shown not to work but yet at the same time you understood why cops get frustrated with the job. It would be interesting to know if the songs on the radio evidence was actually true because it seemed very credible as evidence for the factory workers guilt. This is unfortunately the reality of policing when often they don't catch the guy and it is frustrating and not at all satisfying for them or the viewers. I still remember The Pledge by Sean Penn. That left me more dissatisfied than this film and i suppose it was because this smart university trained cop was pushed to this frustrating point where violence was his only release. The conclusion was understanding how difficult it is and also why morally crime doesn't pay. The violent cop lost his foot, the one for kicking suspects. lol
It's not hyperbole to claim that Korean cinema is the finest in the world, of course there may be hundreds of turkeys that are never seen in the West, but those films that do make it to our screens are almost always excellent. 'Memories of Murder' is no exception, a gripping mix of detection, character study and black humour. Based on a true story it involves the incompetent and under-resourced investigation of a serial murder spree in a rural Korean village. The script and acting are very good, the two mismatched Inspectors are both changed by their ordeal and the differences between them become blurred towards the end. No doubt the inevitable Hollywood remake is not too far away, what a depressing thought.
Eh, South Corean cinema... What cinematic art coming out of this backyard, small country. Recently I have seen several Corean films and I admired them all: the vengeance trilogy, Tae-Guk, Castaway on the Moon, and this one. All highly recommended. What shocked me most about this one is the ending, unlike anything u could expect from a Hollywood blockbuster. True, Se7en had an unexpected, bitter-sweet, emotional ending, not a happy one for sure, but this one is impossible for Hollywood, because here it all ends so true to life and reality, almost leaves u hanging there. The film is not only a brilliant crime drama, it also is a study of the changing South Corea and how rural life looked there 20 years ago. It also makes fun at the Asian kick-culture of violence and trying to solve problems this way, embodied by the detectives' third side-kick (oh the pun:)) and his fate. It also shows a piece of rural life that contains misery, loneliness, deviations. All washed in a sepia, gray-brownish colors of the Corean countryside. I think South Corean people can be proud of their film industry.


                
Memories of murder is a beautiful thriller movie set in a very unusual setting, in a culturally distant country. It might well appear as the usual find-the-assassin movie that we see in rows every month on TV but it is not the case, absolutely. What set this movie apart and makes it a gem is the perfect psychological exploration of the characters and the astonishing poor means they have at disposal to reach the solution of the case, the distorted and terrible way to get information and confessions, the portrait of the distant and impotent countryside victim of its poverty and too far from political interest and from the eye of the media and the politicians who only seek scapegoats and not the real assassin because it's easier and at low cost, given that only poor farmers are involved and accused of the murders.A mind opening movie, very well directed and totally enticing till the last minute. A gem that must be seen.
Salinui chueok (2003), a little known South Korean crime-drama film, absolutely blew me away - as the title implies, the recollections from a job as mentally scarring as a detective can be difficult to forget. This story takes its time in developing its characters, tone and overall story and does so with an amazing amount of beauty, suspense and even a little bit of humour. The cinematography is gorgeous, the musical score is both poignant and haunting and the characters develop in such an honest and believable manner. It masterfully shows how the murders become so internalized by the detectives, to the point where rationality ceases to exist. These different character views are so intriguing and it's really what makes this one of the best character studies I've ever seen.Don't miss this minor cinematic masterpiece. It is in the smaller details where this film escapes formulaic development and becomes something so much more. Great stuff.


                
One might expect that biggest challenge with a Korean film would be the subtitles. You'd be wrong. Though I have seen films from all over the globe in the original cut, with subtitles, Korean films are, and have always been, in a class by themselves. Part of this is because of the technical perfection. I have never before encountered a country where even the second-string directors (not the case with this film!) are so lacking in error, so crisp in technical perfection. But understanding that fact only sets you up for the larger puzzle. Korean films are never about what they seem to be about. Yes, I know that is a broad statement and may get me in hot water with any reader who strides over 100 earlier reviews to get to my late entry. But that is the truth. This film, a blockbuster hit in its native land, is a good example. Over two hours long -- feels like 90 minutes -- it seems to be a police procedural about a serial killer in the boondocks. Except the killer (spoiler) is never found. Except much of the film is more focused on the ineptitude, lack of equipment, jocularity, and cruelty of the cops. It is almost as though the director is challenging you to decide which is more interesting -- capturing the killer, or become gobsmacked by what passes for police work? This is not CSI Korea. This is more like Keystone Cops Korea. Yet, whatever choice you make, the film remains as compelling and yet puzzling as ever. This reviewer, having seen several dozen Korean films, each of equally astonishing quality, believes that the split between North and South has created like a void in the very DNA of Korea and its people. The pain of this void is so great that even when a story seems to be about something else entirely, the real story is the disconnect between two halves of the same whole, and the sorrow it brings. This is a superb film, whatever you think it means, and highly recommended.
It gives me chills to write about this one. This movies has so much patience that it reminds me the golden '70s films from Hollywood. like The French Connection.It's kind of a buddy cop movie, but done right. It's also a period piece. The setup is so delicate, the payoff so cerebral yet it doesn't seem to compromise.Most memorable for me is a fantastic chase scene. What is memorable is how it came to be. But the chase is just as exciting..on foot no less .. at night no less.There's good acting from the 2 leads and there's a good (supposedly true) story. What more can you ask for?


                
A suspenseful crime drama, crafted with beautiful cinematography, wonderful direction and acting. It is almost void of the extreme and gratuitous violence we often see in Korean movies. The music is hauntingly beautiful and the setting plays as a silent character. Eerie, yet mesmerizing at the same time. Like the real life case, the circle of mystery is left incomplete and wanting. Although I'm glad the main characters reach a certain impasse and transformation. The karmic resonance that befell one of the detectives alone will serve you a cold justice up your spine. A really well made film that surpasses Zodiac on all accounts. . 


                
This is one of the most interesting thrillers I have seen in quite a while. The acting is quite good ans especially authentic, the story of the murderer is gripping, the conditions at the time when the movie takes place are different, unusual and mostly based on intuition and courageous ideas so that this movie is easily distinguishable from other ones of the same kind. This is a psycho thriller that takes a look a the souls and feelings of its different characters and doesn't need any technical forensic analysis as it is a quite mature old school movie. This charm is underlined by some very brutal scenes and a lot of dark humour. One could easily describe this movie as an Asian film noir. You also learn a lot about Korea and about Asian culture in this unique movie as this is mostly based on true events. The ending of the movie might surely not please to some people but it is once again unusual and different from the mostly boring Hollywood stuff nowadays.The movie is highly entertaining as new possibilities and surprises arise throughout the whole story and create a complex and mysterious story. Maybe the characters are doing some mistakes in the movie (they don't realize that they have an important eyewitness until the end of the movie, they don't follow the hints of that disturbed witness and they are way too brutal with the different suspects) but this imperfect behaviour is somewhat the charm of those characters and the movie. The only reason why I didn't give the highest rating is that the movie was not always as suspenseful as I expected. This movie has a slow development and prefers to show us the conditions and the personalities of the movie rather than the fear of the victims and the pitiless brutality of the murderer and I think that a little mixture of both could have helped to not only create a very good movie but a true gripping masterpiece. Nevertheless, this is only a small detail and the movie is truly entertaining and original and wants to be authentic rather than being weird or shocking.


                
Memories of Murder is set in a town/village in S Korea, and is based on the real events of a serial murderer, where a pair of detectives are working with (and even in conflict with) a detective brought from the capital Seoul to assist.The face of the serial murderer is unknown, and his executions of his kills are practically perfect leaving practically no trail leading to him. His victims, all females, are all brutally attacked, and one of the main emphasis of the movie plays strongly on the detectives condition and the impact that this is all having on them, as the strain and stress of not being able to crack the case weighs down on them.The murder hunt is very intriguing, but this is not your usual Saturday night detective program. If anything, this film is original with stunning camera work and scenery complemented by some great acting by all the characters. Storyline is not overbearing, and overall IMO it seems to walk the line well between acceptable and unacceptable with respect to violence and horror.This is another excellent film from the wonderful Korean stable. Not one many will have heard of, but if you get a chance I would definitely recommend it.


                
Excepting Snowpiercer, this filmmaker has a distinct style. He surveys watchers and watching by creating and weaving layers. So far as I know, this is his masterwork. This filmmaker sees differently. He sees people seeing, weaves stories around this to keep us engaged, then simply shows watching.The story here is superficially a murder investigation. A serial murderer preys on girls in a small city that seems to be dependent on a quarry. Rain is involved, and the apparent trigger of a requested popular song on the local radio station.A pair of local detectives work the case, aided by their police chief boss and a more seasoned detective from Seoul. They speculate, beat suspects and fail to solve the mystery by the end of the movie. The interpersonal dynamics among these men matter, but I won't write about that here. They are simply an excuse to twist a police procedural into a related set of cinematic essays about seeing and believing.Our primary watcher is the senior detective on the case. There are two others with radically different ways of reacting. We have girls, a psychic, the detective's girlfriend, a mentally challenged witness, film crews, lingering townspeople<U+0085> We have the murderer of course, who we glimpse hiding in the scrub, watching. And there are more than one suspect. Some of these move from watcher to being watched. The shifting fabric gives us a story.The novelty here is that we as watchers don't particularly notice that this is very experimental narrative, exploring what you see and what you remember. It seems like a regular murder mystery, until the end when it becomes clear the murderer is not revealed.
A normal notion that we have, when we watch any murder mystery is that the killer ought to be unveiled at the end of the film. But, this film completely shatters this very notion. This film is fascinating enough to keep the viewers at the edge of the seats till the very end of the movie. This film starts with a murder of a girl. The police comes to investigate the case. In the beginning the police just wants to frame a ill witted guy, by making him confess that he had committed the crime. The police is not much bothered about it. I never knew about the enactment of the crime that the culprit has to do in some countries. It was really funny to see that the mentally disabled guy was doing the enactment, while his father comes and say that why he is doing this when he knew that he didn't kill that girl.One more main character is the detective Seo Tae-Yoon, who is mistaken as a rapist by Park Doo-Man and beats him. Detective Seo Tae-Yoon doesn't quite understand the working culture of the local police. In the beginning, there is a slight tiff between the two main characters- Park Doo-Man and Seo Tae-Yoon . But, as time passes they do get along.This movie is funny. But, the Park Doo-Man along with Seo Tae-Yoon finds out some patterns in the murder, but all ends up in futility. In the end, the desperation of not finding out the killer is seen and terrifically portrayed by the detective. I particularly like what Park Doo-Man says the the killer always goes back to the scene just to confirm that he left nothing behind.


                
I don't know if it's just me, but Korea seems to continue to impress me with some of the releases coming out of that country. I just saw OLDBOY last week, and now Memories of Murder. This film was a lot better than I had hoped for. It's better than any recent Hollywood film I can think of, and one of the better detective/crime films I've seen in a while. I guess going in **SPOILER** I wasn't aware that is was based on a true story. I was upstairs during the opening credits, so I missed that little introduction line that stated that.I thought the end was powerful in that it left me hanging, and upon finding out it was based on a true story it hit even harder. I find most movies try to follow the "cookie cutter" approach... This obviously missed that lesson as it doesn't offer the typical Hollywood "oohh, he did it" type ending. LOLI'm really glad I saw this film. If you get a chance to see it, pick it up.It's worth the watch.
