I'm not writing a critical review. I'm not telling you whether this movie is good or bad. I'm just warning you gentler folks out there that this may be too offensive to watch.In the first 2 minutes we see an erect penis and a gory calf slaughter and disembowelment. (By the way, it's not just "stock footage". It's Bergman's trademark camera technique which prompts me to believe that Bergman ordered the slaughter whilst he filmed it. Classy.) That's all I have to say, but just for the sake of meeting the IMDb 10-line minimum, I'll inject one opinion. And it's just an OPINION, gang, so calm down. I believe it is easy--if not amateur & pedantic--to shock an audience with animal slaughters and genitalia. Any pervert with a camera can do that. But what I consider true art is the subtlety of presentation. Movies like Kurosawa's "Ikiru", Chukhrai's "Ballad of a Soldier" or even Bergman's own "Seventh Seal" are fine examples of poetic subtlety which carry powerful (ofttimes shocking) themes, and they don't resort to schlocky in-yer-face tricks like this or the trash that Godard was vomiting forth in the name of "art". In 1966, Godard and his French New Wavers were in full force, and I believe Bergman was unduly influenced by this sort of tripe. Persona is the low point of his career. Avoid it, lest you lose all respect for the man as I did.


                
Having seen about 5 of Ingmar Bergman's films throughout the years I always end up extremely angry, literally FURIOUS, after suffering the man's boring, pretentious, inhuman stories and point of view. Why am I subjecting my self to this torture? Why? Because for some reason, all the great directors (and my favorite directors) admire him.I don't believe that his movies were made by a human being. They feel like they were made by sociopaths, or even aliens, trying to emulate human emotions and behaviors. No, nobody speaks that way, nobody reacts that way, nobody thinks that way. Nobody would confess their deepest secrets to a mute patient. Nobody would ever care so much (to the point of madness) about what a mute patient thinks about them... But, wait a minute.... A MUTE PATIENT? What ???? An actress who stopped talking?? Oh, boy, are the Swedes having a hard time or what? People survived the holocaust and kept on leading normal lives, but "Ingmar Bergman" characters are such sensitive existentialist geniuses (even when they are nurses...) that they are so deeply traumatized by an abortion or marrying the wrong man that they decide to go mute, or develop an alter-ego in their heads... Yeah, sure, one can definitely relate to that (NOT!).Of course this movie is filled with pseudo-intellectual clichés (Hallo Vietnam screening - Make our super-sensitive actress go completely insane from a TV programme) and "freudian" imagery that tries to point out hyper-OBVIOUS things about life and human psychology, in such a pretentiously artistic way that literally makes my blood seethe with anger. What? We project a different persona than our real deeper self to the outside world - IT HAD NEVER EVEN CROSSED MY MIND BEFORE THIS MOVIE, THANK YOU SO MUCH INGMAR BERGMAN! What??? People have to suppress their deeper sexual fantasies and preferences when they enter marriage??? THIS IS SO AVANT GARDE I CAN'T EVEN BEGIN TO GRASP THE GENERAL PICTURE!!! I hope that one day this pretentious piece of trash will be regarded as an equivalent to Tommy Wiseau's "The Room" because that's the only other movie that I know with such annoying-logic defying characters and behaviors, such pointless scenes and such unreal dialogue.


                
This is a very stupid film. Very pretentious. Pretends to be profound. The only people liking it are those that haven't a brain cell working in their own skull.It pains me to say this because Bergman's Seventh Seal is one of the great films. Unfortunately, he must have read too many of his own press clippings to create this piece of trash.Sometimes multiple interpretations possible in a film is a sign of a director with insight and subtlety. In this case, however, it is a sign of a muddled mind too lazy to clarify his story.If you see this film and you are confused at the end, just remember that you are intelligent and its the director who is stupid. Don't let the reputation of Bergman intimidate you. The film is not only actually and really bad, it is seriously and most truly bad.


                
After a series of images including a crucifixion, tarantula and the killing of a lamb, a boy wakes up in a hospital or morgue and pulls up to a large screen, which shows a blurred image of one or two women. One of these women is possibly Alma, a young nurse who is assigned by a doctor to see a patient, Elisabet Vogler. Elisabet is a stage actress who has suddenly fallen silent and still, although the doctors have determined it is not a result of physical illness or hysteria, but willpower. While at the hospital, Alma reads Elisabet a letter from her husband, which comes with a photo of their son that Elisabet tears. She also becomes distressed seeing TV footage of monk Thích Qu<U+1EA3>ng Ð<U+1EE9>c's self-immolation in the Vietnam War. The doctor decides Elisabet will recover better in a cottage by the sea, and sends Alma and Elisabet there.While at the cottage, Alma talks to Elisabet, remarking no one has ever really listened to her before. She speaks about her first affair and her fiancé, Karl-Henrik. One night, she relates how, while in a relationship with Karl-Henrik, she was sunbathing in the nude with a woman she had just met named Katarina, when two young boys came along. Katarina initiated an orgy in which Alma became pregnant, and she had an abortion, feeling guilty about the matter.
