Ingmar Bergman's 'Persona (1966)' opens with a bewildering montage of sounds and images, a frenzied newsreel of sex, death, cinema and comedy. The sequence is so far removed from my previous experience with the director that its effect is jarring, shocking; I momentarily wondered if I'd hit a wrong button and started playing Buñuel's 'Un chien andalou (1929)' by mistake. I question Bergman's motives for including such an uncharacteristic opening, for it appears to have very little to do with the narrative that follows. Is this montage - an account of the sickening and concealed horrors and desires of society - a possible explanation for Elisabeth's continued silence? Even so, it all seems somewhat exploitative, as though Bergman was simply going for shock-value, obliterating any notions of subtlety with which I had begun to associate him {though I'll admit that the strength of 'The Seventh Seal (1957)' arose from its not-so-subtle representation of Death}. The opening scene concludes with a young boy awakening in the morgue, his hand outstretched towards the vague image of a woman's face. Elisabeth's unloved child? Alma's aborted fetus?An endless line of critics, it seems, have celebrated 'Persona' as a masterpiece, and among the greatest films ever made. I'd hate to be the lone voice of dissent, but the film is certainly the lesser of the three Bergmans I've hitherto seen, if only due to the noticeable absence of the good-natured humour to be found in both 'The Seventh Seal (1957)' and 'Wild Strawberries (1957)'. If, indeed, I were to describe 'Persona' as a masterpiece, it would be in regards to the visuals, which, photographed by long-time Bergman collaborator Sven Nykvist, are beyond description in their detail and intimacy. The film takes particular interest in the human face, and entire conversations of words and emotions are played out through the communication of the eyes, and the glimmering hint of a smile on the lips. There is one immortal moment in the film when Bergman juxtaposes the faces of each woman onto the screen, merging Elisabeth (Liv Ullmann) and Alma (Bibi Andersson) into a single entity.Persona also includes one of the most vivid depictions of sex that I've ever seen. Though the film shows us nothing, Alma's whispered description of an intimate encounter on the beach is staggering in its effectiveness; her words allow the viewer to formulate their own visuals, every emotion and nuance perfectly incorporated from the rich story we are being told. Though I may exhaust hours spouting the merits of Ingmar Bergman's film, I can't escape the fact that watching 'Persona' felt very much like a chore. The film boasts a relatively short running time, but it never seems to attain any comfortable sense of rhythm, and, by the film's end, I was left wondering just what the film was trying to get at. Bergman includes various allusions to Bertolt Brecht's "Verfremdungseffekt" effect <U+0096> highlighting the inherent artificiality of the cinematic medium <U+0096> with the film at one point appearing to burn; but, unlike in Fellini's '8½ (1963),' these self-referential flourishes seem to serve little foreseeable purpose. Am I looking too far into this film for meaning? Or am I not looking far enough? Even just hours afterwards, another layer of meaning has unfurled itself. Maybe it'll get better.


                
For all its bizarreness; avant-garde feel and totally disorientating visual style at points, Persona actually tells rather a straight forward narrative and adopts a relatively simple visual approach. The camera work is sly and unspectacular, relying on the film itself and its various bursts of disturbance to get across more of a 'bang' in the viewers mind and its story, with particular attention to the manner in which a relatively routine love story-come-psychoanalytical tale is told, is shot and unfolded using gentle camera-work and soft female voices to aid the visuals. Such a juxtaposition between visuals and timbre are the hallmarks of someone who knows what they're doing especially given the other visuals elements director Bergman includes.So about these other visual elements. The film begins with such a rapid display of images; it is difficult for the human eye to garner exactly what has just flashed up. This is after a slow and deliberate track into a person lying in a hospital, looking dead. The opening and closing montages which share the same powerful punch are two of the most eerie I've seen and rank up there with Elem Klimov's 1985 film Come and See and its closing display of images. But what does it all mean? Thrown in at the end of hands touching steamed up glass and odd looking creepy bugs crawling up same said panes is a projection unit playing rolls of developed film onto a white screen. I think to come up with a stone wall idea on what this means is futility of sorts. It could be Bergman reminding us that a film is still just a film and the following events (and events we've just seen) are obviously not real but the psychology behind the events to come (or just transpired) are real and do exist.This forces us to consider a complicated area: Sweden's (the nation that made the film) or indeed the world's attention to psychoanalysis and how much we are aware of such a thing. Although the film is produced several decades after the writings, it was made a mere six years after Hitchcock's Psycho which itself included such issues. Bergman's Persona covers the loneliness and isolation of a character named Alma (Andersson) who is a nurse and her gradual appreciation for hospital patient Elizabeth (Ullmann) after so many deviations and, quite possibly, regrets to do with and into the past of the life.But the film is a little more than a psychological study, even if by not very much. From my own viewpoint, no matter how wrong or how basic it may be or respectively sound, Alma suffers from this loneliness so much that to have the individual of Elizabeth around actually reminds her of what it's like to have human contact. Indeed, the contact is not a physical one and is not one as graphic as regressions into the past have us believe they used to be. One scene has Alma describe an orgy on a beach with males she did not know at the time and tells us of a friend who was also there but where is that friend now and what meaning does it have toward the larger scale of things? How did she become so 'unpopular' and secluded?There can be no denying that Alma comes across as a confident person and looking at the role she plays within the film, a nurse, you would think she needs attributes of charisma and a strong soul in order to combat any nastiness she might see on the job and to work up a strong communicative relationship with any doctor or patient she may come across. Incidentally, that scenario is played out in this film and makes me think that the film is somewhat purely a study of an individual loosing consciousness of what's around her but using the mute character of Elizabeth as a slow burning reason to tell the story. Either way, it's all very complicated but somewhat intriguing.Persona is the sort of film that gives you a headache but it's one of those 'nice' headaches you get when trying to work something out. Due to the sheer nature of the film and general inclusion of elements of the avant-garde, there cannot really be a stone wall conclusion to the film. Much like Luis Buñuel's early work, Persona is a mixed bag of interesting ideas and un-readable content <U+0096> an exercise in futility from any non-qualified film personnel to read into and get marginally close to a correct reading. The film has its characters write letters; read the letters; question one's sanity; show us cameras and film stock being played; have the fourth wall being broken; give us metaphorical montages that are too quick to absorb and then have the audacity to render whatever reading we may have into it all incorrect. But I guess that's all part of the genius of Bergman.


                
There was a time when people believed in Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung. They really thought they could scan the depths of the psyche and come up with some meaningful information. I seem to remember an anecdote about Salvador Dali who once wanted to hold a lecture in a diving suit. He sent someone out to get one and this person, while at the shop, was asked: to what depths is mr. Dali going to dive? The guy answered: mr. Dali will dive into the subconscious. The shop owner said: well, we need a reinforced helmet then.Unfortunately, what the believers of Freud and Jung frequently came up with was incomprehensible drivel. For me the worst of all was Anais Nin's novel 'Incest', in which she is actually inspired to have sex with her father at the advice of her therapist. She goes on for quite a while about the quantities of semen he is still able to produce at his ripe age. I thought this was rather sad, but undoubtedly it paid the bills. Not the semen, the story. Come to think of it, it may not even have been true. On the other hand, the great Norwegian writer Knut Hamsun (mentioned by some, like Ernest Hemingway, Henry Miller and Charles Bukowski, to have been 'the greatest writer of all times') seems to have benefited greatly from his psycho-analysis, which enabled him to write some more masterpieces, such as 'Wanderers'.Does this apply to Bergman at all? His biographer states that Persona is a film about anxiety, fear. He also states that Bergman did not feel too much for psycho-analysis. This is a bit of a contradiction already. If it's a film about anxiety, I find the execution to be lacking. I think in this case we should get a little more information about what's going on. Bergman made notes about the stills he put in the film (it is interesting to note that 'an erect penis' is not among these notes; 'a c**t would be nice', however, is), but the effect of those was lost on me, I just found them annoying. What is the picture of Nazi's apparently rounding up people (jews?) doing in the film? I like it when a film asks questions, but please, please, give me a chance to come up with an answer. Just a tiny bit, you know, just a chance. Another thing the biographer notes is that Bergman was interested in the similarity of the girls' faces. Apparently he was pleased that, when he made the still of the faces melted into one, and he made the girls pick out their own half, they both got it wrong. Now that's a nice teenage game for in your dorm when you're a bit drunk, trying to impress the girls, but do you make a movie out of that? Come on! (it must be said, in fairness, that Bergman showed he was quite able to impress the girls. All his life, he got the real beautiful ones. He married them, loved them to a point that they believed it, and stayed friends with all of them all his life. That IS impressive)There is one more thing that bothers me. Quite a bit, really. If I decided to shut up and never speak a word again, I doubt if anybody would care. I certainly wouldn't get a luxury vacation on some island with a handsome private nurse. What is it that makes people think that some kind of personal trouble, rising out of comfort, protection and self-consciousness, is so interesting that they can burden others with taking care of them, giving them all the attention and affection they crave and, ultimately, paying all their frigging bills? Have they no shame?Incomprehensible drivel is easily mistaken for profundity. Me, I like my coffee black and my trees to be trees. Also, I like a woman to be a woman and Bergman really has me there. What beautiful faces and what loving shots! And the faces were real, unplastered, unphotoshopped, un-color-corrected, these girls had wrinkles and spots and all. I bet they even smelled like themselves. Where can I get me a woman like that? These days they even perfume their houses! I also had them upside down, I thought that Ullman was Andersson and vice versa.So maybe I got the point after all. Alright, seven stars then.


                
A film that starts with a collection of clips, from old movies to spiders to scenery to a lamb being slaughtered to a crucifixion. After which we delve deep into the psyche of two women and start asking questions. Is there or can there be a clearly defined self? If we are to assume that everything is a lie based on the fact that all of our existence is merely our brains interpreting signals sent by our senses, the truthfulness of which we have no way of confirming, is it then the most truthful thing of all to stop interacting with the world so as to not add to the lie? Can someone become someone else by knowing everything there is to be known about then, and even then are we that person or something else because we have our own memories as well?You know... art.Sometimes referred to as the Mount Everest of film critics, Persona by Ingmar Bergman is not an easy movie to get into. Countless papers have been written about it, and for a reason. Its plot is hard to follow and complicated, but at the same time you're keenly aware that it means something. Quite what that something is... well, that's up for debate.The story goes that a great actress Elisabet Vogler (Liv Ullmann) had ceased talking. She has been deemed mentally and physically healthy, but still she remains silent. She is sent to a distant beach-side house with Sister Alma (Bibi Andersson), her personal nurse, to heal. But soon Alma, being the only one who wants to talk, finds herself revealing more and more to this great presence, this great personality. More than she has ever revealed to anyone. It's almost like Elisabet is learning everything there is to know about her, but at the same time she's learning about her. And the blurring starts.The only clear theme in this film is that of identity. We are complex creatures. Our personalities are shaped by countless little things, from past events to falsely remembered memories, from something we once heard to the expectations of the society, from learned habits to the whims of nature. But how often we truly think about this. How malleable are our personalities? You are you, naturally, but who are you really?The film asks the questions, but doesn't provide much in the way of answers. But if there are no answers to be had or if the questions themselves are the journey's end, what then? Hard to say, but your first step on this path could be this film.


                
The movie fits well at the beginning of a new year. The two woman reminds me of the two faces of a Janus. Janus was a roman god related to ends and beginnings. It was the door between them. Januari is derived from that. People here come to a full circle and afterwards they move on. 
It's easy to see that the much more bombastic film Ofret by Tarkovsky was an ode to this film.


                
Years ago when I had seen Persona for the first time, I feel I was not mature enough to appreciate it in its entirety. The mind games at play in this relatively short film are key to this movie, and it makes the film a disturbing look at psychology and reality.I have to say that I am not a fan of the idea of Persona as an "art" film. The montages at the opening and closing of this film do not necessarily make sense of the images used, though it can be taken at the ending that the boy shown could be Vogler's son. I usually prefer a good narrative when it comes to film, though non- traditional narratives like The Tree of Life can be intriguing as well. I just did not find too much meaning or content in these montages within Persona.It is very interesting the way the two leads seem to represent two halves of a whole, though I do not agree with the fact that Bergman was going for the idea that the two women look very similar; I can distinguish them very easily. However, there is a brilliant image formed by half of each character's face, and it is manipulated in a way to show the two are one in the same. I am astounded by this effect and wish I knew how it was achieved because it is very interesting and is definitely at the core of the film.I love films that deal with psychology at its core, and I think that is why I am intrigued by this film on a second viewing. However, Persona could have been better if it was made to be a less pretentious film, one which has a reach which does not exceed its grasp.
