While I'm not a "League of Gentlemen" fan; I loved Reece's performance in "A Field in England." Therefore I was prepared to give "No 9." a go. This series has an impressive line up of guest stars from Katherine Parkinson to Tamsin Greig. Each episode is a mini-play set in a different location. I especially liked the creepy mansion in the final one. The stories contain twists, humour & horror. Only one of them ("The Last Gasp") disappointed me. The make-up and costumes for Reece & Steve are great. "Sardines" has a terrific end to hook viewers in. "A Quiet Night In" is full of surprises. "Tom & Gerri", my favourite, is a compelling moral tale. "The Understudy" examines the price of success. "The Harrowing" is traditional horror with a scene stealing role for Reece. I look forward to a second series.


                
From the writers and creators of The League of Gentlemen and Psychoville, when I heard the title I assumed it would be something to do with the house opposite No. 10 Downing Street, I could not be more wrong. Writers and stars Reece Shearsmith and Steve Pemberton brought us another British series full of fantastic dark comedy, but this was not a sitcom or series of sketches, it is an anthology series. Each half hour episode focuses on a self-contained storyline with new characters and new settings, the stories are only linked by the fact that they take place at a number 9, e.g. house, flat, desk, dressing room, etc. Shearsmith or Pemberton, usually both, star in each episode, but each has a new cast, a number of well-known stars, these have included: 4.3.2.1.'s Ophelia Lovibond, The Musketeers' Luke Pasqualino, The IT Crowd's Katharine Parkinson, Four Weddings and a Funeral's Anna Chancellor, Green Wing's Julian Rhind-Tutt, The Mother's Anne Reid, EastEnders' Timothy West, Nativity's Marc Wootton, Oona Chaplin (Charlie's granddaughter), Denis Lawson, Fonejacker's Kayvan Novak, Gemma Arterton, Tamsin Greig, Sophie Thompson, Dead Set's Adam Deacon, Skyfall's Helen McCrory, Mark Benton, Coronation Street's Julie Hesmondhalgh, Jack Whitehall, Sheridan Smith, Paul Kaye, Another Year's Ruth Sheen, David Warner, Jane Horrocks, Tony Way and Alison Steadman. Stories in the first series included: a game of Sardines that turns dark, bumbling burglars trying to steal a painting from a mansion, a homeless man stepping into the lives of a couple and changing dynamics, a celebrity dying at a little girl's birthday and his last "valuable" breath being held in a party balloon, an understudy actor doing whatever it takes to steal the leading role of Macbeth, and a young girl hired to house sit in a Gothic mansion with bumpy noises and a disabled family member "not to be disturbed". Stories in the second series included: a French sleeper carriage with passengers coming in and out and a dead body in a bunk bed, a young lady's life is mixed and unravelled following a car accident towards Christmas and New Year, a woman is put on trial in the 17th Century as she is accused of witchcraft, a man starts working for a helpline company called Comfort Support Line and gets some disturbing calls, a grandmother's 79th birthday party with a a large fake cake for hiding someone underneath brings out some embarrassing but also life changing home truths, and a TV personality sets up a séance with an actress playing a spiritualist medium to prank unsuspecting members of the public, only for it to turn dark. It is a fantastically written and performed show by Shearsmith and Pemberton, each episode is full of great jokes, dark and sinister or moving and dramatic moments, believable domestic and social situations that become unusual, strange, cringing or twisted, and you never know what to expect, a must see British dark comedy anthology. It was nominated the British Comedy Awards for Best New Comedy Programme and Best Comedy Drama. Very good!
The quality of the plots and the writing is excellent. The former (current?) league of gentleman X2 writers / actors / directors (?) make good use of mixing up the time-frames of different scene's so you have to follow carefully.Each episode tells a different story some macabre, some funny, some bittersweet, shocking, dissapointing (you get the picture). However, the stand out performance for me was from Sheridan Smith in Season 2, Episode 2. This is the must watch episode and deserving of a 10/10.
