Inside No. 9 is the brain child of Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith, the writer/actors party responsible for The League of Gentlemen, which I think is one of the best British TV comedies ever. With this new series, they retain the comedy with horror undercurrents basic idea but with each separate episode being a standalone teleplay. All stories occur in a place with the address no. 9. The format is such that the action in each instalment never moves from the one location. It reflects that these have been made on a pretty tight budget but despite this the writing is good and the cast does include several respected actors such as Katherine Parkinson, Denis Lawson and Gemma Arteton; Pemberton and Shearsmith themselves are of course brilliant character actors themselves and appear throughout the series too.Season One:Sardines – in a large country house, a game of sardines is played, resulting in everyone ending up in a wardrobe in one of the bedrooms. This is a claustrophobic opener.Tom & Gerri – a man enters a downward spiral when he befriends a mysterious tramp. This episode is the best of the series. A genuinely dark tale.A Quiet Night In – a couple of bugling burglars try to steal a painting from a luxury home. This is I guess the experimental episode. It plays out effectively like a silent movie.Last Gasp – a pop star dies while making a home visit to a sick girl, his entourage and the family then squabble over a balloon which holds his dying breath. This is the weakest episode, with a definite lack of material.The Understudy – an acting understudy eventually assumes centre stage but at a price. This one is an interesting atmospheric tale.The Harrowing – a teenage girl is hired to house sit but it appears that there are scary things going on in this home. This is the most clearly horror influenced segment. It has interesting things going for it but it doesn't really amount to as much as it could.Overall, the first season is good but not a great one. As a comedy it's really not all that funny, surprisingly so when you take into account just how hilarious The League of Gentlemen was. But to be fair, I don't honestly think they were going for laughs a lot of the time, quite often it seemed like it was the dark tone that was the main idea. Ultimately pretty uneven but certainly an interesting bit of work though.Season Two:La Couchette - a group of passengers share a Trans Europe sleeper carriage in a train where something very bad happens in the night. A good start to season two that benefits from some fine comic performances from a good cast of TV familiars. This one is quite a bit more obviously funny than most in the series.The 12 Days of Christine - twelve key days in the life of a woman called Christine. I reckon that this has to go down as the best episode in all of 'Inside No. 9'. In fact, this is one of the best bits of television I can remember seeing for a long while. In half an hour, this fantastically constructed episode conveys a huge amount of genuine emotion in an interesting and original way. Sheridan Smith is quite brilliant here also.The Trial of Elizabeth Gadge - two witch finders arrive at a village in order to interrogate a woman accused of witch-craft. The influence of the 17th century horror films of the British film studio Tigon is very much in evidence. A little more straightforward than most in season two, yet very satisfying all the same.Cold Comfort - a new volunteer worker at a Samaritans phone line experiences a series of unpleasant events. Once again this is an episode that shows huge invention on the part of its creators. Shot from a permanent split-screen that shows the views of three static in-house cameras, the story is expertly told and uses this restriction to its benefit even if the final pay-off is perhaps slightly under-par.Nana's Party - events at a family birthday party go from bad to worse. This one is typified by lots of psychological tensions maximised by a set of oddball characters that don't seem to know how to socially interact.Séance Time - a bad tempered TV prankster gets more than he bargained for during a mock séance he set up. Like the final episode of season one, this is another that goes for a horror styling in a much more overt manner. Once again it works well, as a result of some strong acting, even if it isn't ultimately the best work of the series.In summary, season two was a blinder and, for my money, noticeably stronger that season one. I think Shearsmith and Pemberton have really got into their stride here and there really aren't any weak episodes in this second batch at all. The level of invention is highly impressive and the quality overall is very high indeed.


                
But a lot better in many respects. With only one episode left this has been an interesting ride.Shearsmith & Pemberton work/write very well together and their pedigree is indisputable. Some of the twists could have been less telegraphed but overall the quality of the work is high and evident and its diversity will find fans amongst most viewers.What works well is the casting done afresh for each episode (other than Pemberton and Shearsmith who are chameleons.) It shares the love and lends separation between tales. A mix of big hitters and new blood can make the writing shine.I confess that Sardines was making me impatient at first - the mortifying awkwardness of Ian for example - but when we finally are given the reason for "Stinky" John's aversion to soap and the darkness really begins to gather it becomes compelling.Tom and Gerri was a really sterling tale. The twist was neatly concealed and delivered with a sting. Gemma Arterton was a great choice for Gerri with that rare combination of flawless beauty and earthiness that is the golden rock to which Tom's life is moored. The pathetic figure of Migg was so woebegone that it made the thing work - who couldn't feel sympathy for such a bedraggled battered figure? So when things turn sinister it feels like a betrayal.Last Gasp fell a little flat for me though Tamsin Grieg added a frisson with salty language and a heartless character. The Understudy was fun, particularly Pemberton's drunken thespianic rants and the twist another kicker.Overall a splendid work. I sincerely hope these gentlemen can produce more like this because contemporary television needs all the help it can get.


                
When asked if the Voyager space probe should carry an audio recording of J. S. Bach's music, Carl Sagan (or possibly Freeman Dyson) supposedly replied: "That would just be showing off." If we assume aliens have any concept of dark humour and visual storytelling, the same could be said about this series.The first three episodes are absolute masterpieces of their respective (quite different) styles, which is even more impressive when you realise they were all written and directed by the same people.Episode 4 is probably the weakest of the first series, but episode 5 is fairly solid and the finale goes back to near perfection, manipulating the audience's assumptions to deliver a surprise even after we've learned to expect it.The second series can't quite live up to the first. There are a few stylistic highlights (especially the 2nd and 4th episodes) and a few laughs (especially in episode 3), but the plots are more disjointed, the twists more predictable, the direction blander, the endings less satisfying. Even the order of the episodes somehow feels "wrong". It's still better than 99% of what's on TV, and definitely worth watching, but it won't humiliate alien film-makers as thoroughly as the previous season.


                
I am in awe. Completely engrossed in every episode and left slack-jawed by Pemberton and Sheersmith every time. Exceptional cast(s), fantastic writing that will tickle your funny bone as much as it wrenches your heart, sometimes simultaneously, this show is one of the best of all time.


                
It took me a couple to really get into it. I actually tried watching this show a while back and couldn't make it thru the first episode, "sardines" which in my opinion was the weakest one of the whole 20 plus episode series; after watching all but the last season, which I can't seem to find in the US. Strange for me, Bc I love anthologies and usually give them a few eps before I make a judgment. Maybe I wasn't in the mood for British humor that day, but obviously I ended up giving it another shot a couple nights ago and binged the 6 episode seasons this week. The second episode was creative enough, as well as very well shot and set up from a film making perspective, while a little flawed in overall execution. It did indeed pique my interest enough to keep going; and boy am I glad I did. The first two seem to be the most extreme and straight up dry "British humor" of the entire show. The rest of the episodes get super dark, and less goofy, some straying away from pure comedy all together, whilst still maintaining a dark comedic tone. Some Hardly have any humor at all and resemble The Twilight Zone more than Mr Bean, these are also some of the best episodes. It's a truly eclectic mix, and some sick twists occur across the entire show, none that I really saw coming. I'm so glad I came back and watched this, good anthologies are far too few these days. As with all anthologies, however there are hits and misses, even their misses that I wished woulda been a little better have plenty of redeeming value, far far more hits than misses. All of the acting is superb. Stick with it if the first 2 episodes don't get really suck you in right away, honestly I would almost recommend starting with episode 2 or 3 and then going back to the first two after you get a feel for their style. I had never really heard of these guys before this but it seems they have a couple other shows they wrote together that have earned a watch from me, based on my enjoyment Of Inside No 9. Must watch for anthology fans. Go in knowing as little as possible.......


                
