"Raging Bull" isn't the average, stereotypical underdog boxing movie, because it isn't really about boxing at all. Like most great movies, its focus is much deeper. It came out in 1980, earned Robert De Niro a Best Actor Academy Award, and was marked down as another solid triumph by director Martin Scorsese, whose previous 1976 outing with De Niro earned them both critical acclaim (and for De Niro, an Oscar nomination, although he would actually earn an Oscar for "Raging Bull" four years later).It dwindled in production hell for quite some time, with Scorsese's drug use halting production and only the duo's strong willpower that kept the project moving ahead. It was after De Niro read boxer Jake LaMotta's memoirs that he knew he wanted to make the film, so Scorsese and De Niro turned to Paul Schrader for a script. Schrader, who had previously written "Taxi Driver" (1976), agreed, and wrote the screenplay for them. The rest is history."Raging Bull" has often been regarded as the greatest film of the 80s. To be honest, I'm not so sure about that, since various genres offer different feelings and emotions (comparing this to a comedy might seem rather silly). But to say it is one of the most powerful films of all time would be no gross overstatement -- it is superb film-making at its finest.De Niro gained 60 pounds to play LaMotta, which was an all-time record at the time (later beaten by Vincent D'Onofrio, who gained 70 pounds for Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket"). His physical transformation is on-par with any great screen makeover, especially the most recent, ranging from Willem Dafoe in "Shadow of the Vampire" to Charlize Theron in "Monster." In addition, co-star Joe Pesci also lost weight for his role of Joey, LaMotta's short, eccentric brother. The greatest scene in the film is when LaMotta accuses his brother of having an affair with his wife. The tension is raw, the dialogue amazing, and the overall intensity electrifying.The film is most often compared to "Rocky," more than any other, apparently because they both concern a certain level of boxing. As much as I absolutely adore "Rocky," "Raging Bull" is a deeper, more realistic film. But whereas "Raging Bull" is raw, "Rocky" is inspiring, and that is one of the reasons I do not think these two very different motion pictures deserve comparison, for the simple fact that they are entirely separate from one another. The only connecting thread is the apparently central theme of boxing, which is used as a theme in "Rocky," and a backdrop in "Raging Bull." They're entirely different motion pictures -- one uplifting, the other somewhat depressing -- and the people who try to decide which is better need to seriously re-evaluate their reasons for doing so. They both succeed splendidly well at what they are trying to do, and that's all I have to say about their so-called connection.De Niro, who could justifiably be called the greatest actor of all time, is at the top of his game here. In "Taxi Driver" he displayed a top-notch performance. He wasn't just playing Travis Bickle -- he was Travis Bickle. And here he is Jake LaMotta, the infamous boxer known for his abusive life style and somewhat paranoid delusions during his reign as world middleweight boxing champion, 1949 - 1951. Throughout the film, he beats his wife (played expertly and convincingly by the 19-year-old Cathy Moriarty), convinced that she is cheating on him, and that is more or less what the film is truly about. The boxing is just what he does for a living, and could be considered as a way to release some of his deeper, harbored anger.LaMotta has a close relationship with Joey, his brother, and their interaction is often what elevates the film above others of its genre. The dialogue is great, close to the perfection of Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction," rich in that rapid-fire filthy language and brutal insults. Pesci, who was on the verge of quitting showbiz at the time of pre-production, was spotted by De Niro in a cheap B-movie named "The Death Collector" (1975), a.k.a. "Family Business," a truly horrid film that nevertheless showcased an early sign of things to come for Pesci. De Niro wanted him for the movie and his premonition was either very lucky or very wise -- this is one of the best performances of Pesci's entire career.Scorsese shot the film in muted black and white, portraying a certain era of depression and misery. To make the blood show up on screen during the occasional fight scenes, Scorsese used Hershey's Syrup -- which is an interesting tidbit of trivia for any aspiring film-making planning on filming a violent movie in black and white. But how often does that happen?This is certainly one of the most intense films Scorsese has directed, and one of the most important of his career. Along with "Taxi Driver," it is an iconic motion picture that will stand the test of time for years and years to come. Scorsese and De Niro's partnership over the years has resulted in some of the most influential and utterly amazing motion pictures of all time: "Mean Streets," "Taxi Driver," "The King of Comedy," "Goodfellas" and "Casino" come to mind almost instantly. But perhaps the one single title that will be remembered as their most daring effort is "Raging Bull," a motion picture so utterly exhilarating that it defies description. It is simply a masterpiece for the mind and senses, leaving you knocked out cold after its brutal one-two punch. If I had to assemble a list of required viewing, this would be up there towards the top.


                
Easily one of the most powerful films I have ever seen. I have watched it at least ten times, and it only gets better and better with each viewing. Martin Scorsese is absolutely the greatest filmmaker of the last quarter century, and this film is his best. The story of how boxer Jake LaMotta watched his career and marriage crumble under the weight of his violent temper and deep-rooted misogyny is told with no punches pulled (excuse the bad pun), as Deniro (in what may be his best performance) and Scorsese unflinchingly explore what drove this man over the edge, and what ultimately may have pulled him back. The boxing scenes easily rank with the most brutal and violent moments ever put on film, shot in stark, unadorned black and white and utilizing unlikely sounds including shattering windows and animal cries to great effect. Thelma Schoonmaker's jarring, discordant editing in these scenes also deserves special mention. The scenes of domestic violence are not for the faint of heart, but there is really no other way to tell this story. If there is a more perfect exploration of why as men we act the way we do, then I'd love to see it, because this movie made me re-evaluate my life. 10/10


                
Raging Bull is one of Martin Scorsese's best films and with out a doubt the best film of the 80's. It follows the career of middleweight boxing champion Jake LaMotta as his career progresses but his emotional problems worsen.The most notable feature in Raging Bull is the colour. All but the home Video footage is shot in black and white. This was a huge risk on Scorsase's part but it defiantly pays off, the film wouldn't feel the same had it been done in colour.Throughout the entire film acting is simply impeccable. De Niro and Pesci are both stunning. The script is amazing, you really feel like you understand every character, none of their actions seem out of character no matter how outrageous they may be.Scorsese's directing is stunning. He really is a very talented director and in Raging Bull it shows. The fight scenes are famous for their brutal realism and it's easy to see why. He puts you right in the ring with the fighters and you cant help but admire their technical brilliance. However, the most stunning aspect of all is Thelma Schoonmaker's editing. Its some of the best editing I've ever seen especially during the fight scenes where it's positively breathtaking.No matter what happens you always find yourself sympathising with La Motta, even during his most outrageous moments. Not only is Raging Bull the greatest film to come out of the 80's but is one of the greatest this century that's highly underrated and defiantly worth owning.10 out of 10


                
From the story of a one time middle weight champion of the world and his apparent necessity for internal conflict and self destruction, America's greatest director in the history of cinema has carved a masterpiece of a feature, teaming up with the greatest actor of his generation in order to establish what will no doubt go down in history as one of the most powerful films of all time. "Raging Bull", directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Robert deNiro in the brilliant performance that ensured him a well deserved Academy Award, is a raw feature film that will have you stunned at its conclusion and leave you reeling in your theatre, couch or bed until the final credit has finished rolling off the screen.The film, adapted from another source, revolves around the rise and fall of Jake LaMotta (deNiro), an ambitious middle weight fighter who has struggled for years along with his manager brother (an unforgettable Joe Pesci) to get a shot at the title for the middle weight champion of the world. Frustrated with himself and the life that he's had to lead, LaMotta presents the complex mind of a self destructive man who's inhumanity and self-destructive nature push him away from all the people in the world that love him and ultimately transform him from a prize fighter into an overweight sleaze with nothing but the clothes on his back. From the flawless and gripping boxing scenes to the raw yet accurate portrayal of his abusive habits towards both his brother and wife, "Raging Bull" succeeds on absolutely every level.DeNiro's performance in the film is unquestionably his finest piece of work in his own personal career, if not throughout the history of cinema altogether. Completely believable as a boxer, he furthermore went on a diet to put on 60 pounds for his scenes situated in the latter half of the film when he has hit rock bottom which is testament to both his dedication and his unparalleled skill of establishing a believable character. Joe Pesci is absolutely brilliant as his portrayal of Jake's brother, Joey LaMotta, and considering the fact that was one of his first feature films in the spotlight, he completely delivers a character who loves his brother unquestionably but who also has internal struggles regarding his own nature and his methods of dealing with his brother. I fell in love with Joe Pesci due to his performance here, and he is clearly one of the more talented and gifted actors within Hollywood.Scorsese is also in top form, and you can feel his presence, his brilliance and his uncompromising dedication to showing you the real life and times of Jake LaMotta in every single piece of footage presented to you on the screen. Martin Scorsese illustrates the reason why he is considered by many to be cinema's greatest film director of all time as he takes you on a journey of Jake LaMotta's personal and public existence. Scorsese doesn't leave anything out, and his brilliance obviously lies within the fact that he can illustrate everything about a character in the simplest of scenes to make you empathise but simultaneously make you comprehend the various fundamental layers of such a despicable character in cinema history. And on top of that, he can make you like the character and hate the character at the exact same time - a brilliance unprecedented throughout Hollywood and surely testament to Scorsese's superiority to directors such as Steven Spielberg and Clint Eastwood who, despite having tremendous talent, cannot realistically present characters to the extent that Scorsese can.Further supporting cast members, Cathy Moriarty and Frank Vincent deliver completely credible characters with Moriarty well deserving of her Oscar Nomination for her performance as Vickie. The editing was completely flawless and top notch throughout the entire feature with Scorsese's other partner - Thelma Schoonmaker - bringing Scorsese's incredible vision to life once more without a single complaint in the world. Brilliant cinematography ensured a visually compelling piece of work, exemplified further by an Oscar Nod towards this element of the picture also.All in all, this is arguably the finest achievement from the Scorsese-DeNiro partnership, and it delivers everything that you would predict from our beloved Martin Scorsese. Love, deceit, hate, an underlying theme of violence, some of the best acting ever put on film as well as some of the most brutal and compelling sequences of boxing you'll ever see: all are shown with flamboyance and an honest brutality that we've come to accept as the trademark of Martin Scorsese in this poignant tale of one man's annihilation of self. And who is the only director who could realistically bring this to life? We all know the answer.Well done, Mr Scorsese. Regardless of what the pretentious fools responsible for the decisions that the Academy makes, the people are fully aware of who the best director in town is."Raging Bull" is flawless and perfect. 10 out of 10, all the way.


                
Jake La Motta's story is no doubt the best movie about boxing of all times together with Robert Wise's The Set-Up. Besides the legendary performance of Robert De Niro, there are many things in this film that will remain in my heart forever: the splendid black & white, the contrast between the slow moving scenes and the frenetic ones, the choice of the music and the sense of loss which entangles the whole movie. De Niro faces another "born loser" role (after Travis Bickle, John Rubin, Johnny Boy) and strikes again; Martin Scorsese is the most poetic director of the last 30 years.


                
Raging bull is my favorite film. Robert de Niro's performance in this film is truly amazing and the direction from Scorsese and the script from Paul Schrader are flawless. The fight scenes are the most brutal that I have ever seen on film even though theres only like 12 minutes of them and the editing is simply brilliant. It should have earned Scorsese a best director oscar but at least they had enough sense to award de Niro the best actor oscar.I'll come back to this film forever.


                
From my understanding, before this film was made, Martin Scorsese, arguably America's greatest filmmaker, was at the end of his rope. He was about to call it quits. His good friend, arguably America's greatest film actor, Robert De Niro, approached him with a book he had read. The title of the book was Raging Bull. After some coaxing, Robert finally convinced his friend to do the film, and it resulted in a MASTERPIECE!!!!!
"Raging Bull" is the story of former boxing middleweight champion Jake La Motta, and his penchant for self-destruction. La Motta is not in the least a nice guy. He is well, a jerk, who eventually drives any and everyone who has ever cared about him out of his life. He evolved from a lean, trim boxer to an overweight loser who owns a night club.This film currently ranks on AFI's 100 Greatest Movies at #24, and for very good reason. It contains arguably THE GREATEST acting performance in the history of cinema, by arguably the greatest actor in the history of cinema, directed by arguably the greatest director in the history of cinema. But together, nothing needs to be argued, they are the greatest tag team in the history of cinema. Robert De Niro is flawless, superb, excellent, amazing, any positive adjective is warranted by his performance. There is a reason why they call him the greatest actor. This is it. (also "Taxi Driver") Naturally, Scorsese's direction is flawless, and Thelma Schoonmaker's editing will pretty much speak for itself. The black-and-white(or tinted monochrome) was an ingenious touch, similar to William Friedkin's gunshot at the very end of "The French Connection". It is the most beautiful movie I have ever seen, if it were a woman I could only beg to drink its bathwater. Joe Pesci is excellent as Jake's brother Joey, as is Cathy Moriarty as Jake's long suffering wife. It is sad when you realize that De Niro will never act that great again, but you find solace in the fact that he once did. He is maybe my favorite actor, Scorsese maybe my favorite director, and I only hope to have a millionth of the impact they've had on film. Far superior to "Rocky", even though Rocky is very good and contains maybe the most inspirational theme song ever.This film was criminally robbed of 1980's Best Picture and Best Director Academy Awards, by "Ordinary People", another one of those dysfunctional family drama's. The Academy has since lost a huge amount of credibility, but I find solace in the fact that they honored De Niro with an award for Best Actor, in a performance that warrants two of them and makes me want to shine his shoes.The film gets nothing less than a 10. It was voted the film of the 1980's decade. I agree wholeheartedly.Scorsese and De Niro forever.


                
Contains possible spoilers.First of all I should qualify this comment by saying that I am a massive fan of Scorsese - pre-Cape Fear anyway. This is definitely his masterpiece (although Goodfellas gives it a run for its money) and the finest of his collaborations with Robert De Niro. The fact that its shot in black and white works very well because it gives it an authentic feeling - sometimes its easy to forget that this film was made in 1980 and not 1940. Robert De Niro gives his all in arguably his best performance. The scene where his punches the cell wall and bangs his head against it is incredibly difficult to watch and possibly the best single piece of acting I have ever seen on film. He IS Jake La Motta for the 2 hours of this movie. The way he gets inside the psyche and mindset of a brutal cold hearted beast like La Motta is admirable to say the least and absolutely mindblowing to be honest. Yes this film can be hard to watch simply because La Motta is such an unlikeable guy and his self destructive personality is difficult to warm to. The domestic violence he inflicts on his wife is particularly hard to swallow but it's this violent and abhorrent behaviour which makes the character so compelling whilst so unlikeable.The cinematography of the fight scenes is simply amazing. On the DVD it explains that Scorsese put a fire underneath the camera lens to get the hazy appearance of some of the shots - genius. The scene which sticks in my mind most vividly is where Sugar Ray Robinson is destroying La Motta and his face explodes in a burst of blood and broken noses. The shot of La Motta's blood flying into the faces of the boxing judges is pretty gruesome, as is the shot of his blood dripping from the ropes after he loses the fight.What makes this film so powerful is the fact that is based - quite accurately - on Jake 'The Bronx Bull' La Motta's real life. He appears on some of the special features of the DVD. Now a frail, cracked faced old man, he cracks jokes and comes over as quite a charmer. But having seen his antics portrayed so convincingly by De Niro in the movie, it still isn't easy to like him.This really is a magnificent film. Superb acting from the ever brilliant De Niro and good support from Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriati complement Scorsese's stunning direction. One of my top 3 films of all time along with Amelie and Shawshank Redemption. Do not miss.
I've been wanting to watch 'Raging Bull' for a long time. Finally 'got the collector's edition DVD and watched it. Now I can see why people call it one of the best movies. Yes, I absolutely loved it but it's one of those films that makes you think (long after the credits have rolled) and when you think about it you understand it better and appreciate it more.The screenplay is tight, concise and balanced. There's been some very skillfully wonderful editing. Nothing is loud or over the top or irrelevant to the main plot. Cinematography deserves mention as the camera movements are fantastic and very effective. Lighting and sound effect deserve mention too (as its a black and white movie and must have been one of the hardest tasks to achieve, while the sound is very well balanced).'Raging Bull' tells the story of the infamous Jake La Motta (played excellently by the one and only Robert de Niro). Its classification as a boxing movie is totally erroneous because the film is just too much more for it to be labelled as such. And by giving such a label one would be ignoring it's brilliance. Yes, boxing is a part of Jake's life (it's what he does for a living) and that's how it's portrayed. It hardly had any significant resemblance to other Boxing movies like Rocky etc. The film is more about his relationship with his brother and wife, his ups and down in his professional life ie, his rise and fall to and from fame.'Raging Bull' belongs to Robert de Niro but Joe Pesci (as the brother and manager) and Cathy Moriarty (as the wife) are equally effective in their smaller roles. The relationship between the brothers was very moving and one can't help but feel bad for La Motta when he tries to reach out to his brother in one of the final scenes. Moriarty gives a very subtle performance of the tolerant wife.Even though we see La Motta as this mean hateful jerk, we see his vulnerable side and feel sympathy. Maybe that's also why his wife Vickie stood by him through all these years. It's also interesting to see that he wasn't physically abusive to his previous wife but towards Vickie he was quite violent. His brother too tries to protect him and his family (although he has his share of flaws) but in the end when La Motta's paranoia takes over things go from sour to very bad. We just see how human these characters are and at times we hate them, we like them and we feel sorry for them.Martin Scorsese deserves special mention for putting this beautiful piece of work on the glass canvas. He obviously has a very compelling way to tell the story. It is without any doubt one of his finest works and it has stood the test of time (one of the greatest achievements for a director I suppose).


                
Since John Wayne and John Ford stopped making films, the greatest director/actor combination of the last 35 years is in my mind Martin Scorsese and Robert DeNiro. In Raging Bull these two guys are within their element. An added dimension to Scorsese's direction and DeNiro's portrayal is that these are the people they know and grew up with. Raging Bull invokes a world of the past that isn't always pleasant, but is brutal and honest.Jake LaMotta as middleweight champion of the world 1949-1951 may have had the hardest chin in boxing. He was a good puncher, but he had a marvelous ability to not only take a punch, but roll with it so it did less damage than thought. He fooled many an opponent like that and set them up for the kill.Large parts of the boxing establishment was controlled by organized crime back in his days, the fathers of the people you'd later see DeNiro play in Goodfellas. You had to play ball with them or you went nowhere in the fight game. Jake compromised himself by agreeing to throw a fight to someone named Billy Fox in order to get a title shot at the middleweight crown. It seared his very soul in doing that.One thing that wasn't covered in Raging Bull was the drama behind the title fight itself with Marcel Cerdan the man who LaMotta took the crown from. Cerdan was a national French hero, resistance fighter, lover of Edith Piaf and possessor of a murderous punch who had never been knocked out and only had sustained three losses in his career, two by disqualification. He was quite a brawler himself. Cerdan broke his elbow in the first round and for 10 rounds literally held LaMotta off with one hand. When he failed to answer the bell for the 11th round, LaMotta got the title on a TKO. He was immediately promised a rematch and was on his way to the USA for that rematch when he was killed in a plane crash in the Azores. His death set off a national period of mourning in France.LaMotta later admitted throwing the Fox fight to Congressional investigators and that with the win over the injured Cerdan cast a pall on his career and reputation. Sad because it was something he couldn't help. Jake the Bronx Bull certainly did have reason to rage. DeNiro is something special. Watching this film you really think you are peeking into a heavenly newsreel highlights and lowlights of the life and career of Jake LaMotta. This film should be seen back to back with Somebody Up There Likes Me, the Rocky Graziano story that Paul Newman brought to the screen. Covers roughly the same era with the same quality. Joe Pesci as DeNiro's manager/brother and Frank Vincent as the neighborhood wise guy would work together again and well with DeNiro and Scorsese. Cathy Moriarty gets her first notice as Jake's second wife Vicky who became a celebrity in her own right after Jake's boxing career was over.Raging Bull is one of the finest boxing films ever done by a master director assembling a perfect cast to tell the tale of a bygone era.


                
This is the best boxing film ever made. The fight scenes are incredible and so are the performances. A masterpiece in film making! 10/10


                
There is such an ambience in this film reminiscent of the great Charlie Chaplin, because what we did not hear from him, we understood through his expression and gestures. Here it is the eyes and enigmatic contact with the viewer that gave us the understanding of what goes on inside a troubled boxer's mind . As a boxing fanatic myself I have always wondered about the fall and rise of many boxers knowing that many of them , if not all , are from rags to riches. Dare I warn that this film is not like Rocky at all, so spin your expectations in another direction and let this film get into you, like it did with the heart of the viewer.


                
A newcomer's face busted up in a fit of jealous rage. Spectators being trampled by an angry crowd. Our protagonist's face swollen so badly that he can barely even see. These are some of the images Martin Scorsese presents to us in "Raging Bull", and they are beautiful. Beautiful in their starkness and rawness, beautiful in the masterful black-and-white photography of cinematographer Michael Chapman, and beautiful in how they illustrate the depressing tale of Jake LaMotta.LaMotta (Robert De Niro) is a man of surfaces. After one look at the beauty of teenage Vicky (Cathy Moriarty), he makes the decision of pursuing her and eventually marrying her, leaving his first wife in the process. He becomes violently jealous at the sight of Vicky greeting other men with innocent hugs and kisses. And he himself is all surface. This is a man with no great complexities, no real depth to his character, driven almost purely on the animal instincts of lust and rage. And in this characteristic lies the key to his downfall. LaMotta is so incapable of dealing with these base tendencies that he allows them to destroy him, driving away anyone close to him and causing his life to implode in the process. By the end of the film, he has become a washed-up loser who owns a sports bar in which he delivers his joke of a comedy routine. A pitiful shadow of the raging bull he once was.Robert De Niro gives one of the most brutally raw performances in modern film history (this is his best, excluding "Taxi Driver"). No matter what scene he's in, he completely transforms into Jake LaMotta, whether it be his viciousness in the ring, his bullying outside of it, or his sleaziness and decadence in his later years. Nobody but De Niro could do such a great job of portraying a man constantly at his boiling point.He's fully backed up by the supporting cast, mainly Joe Pesci as his brother and manager Joey, and Moriarty as Vicky. Pesci and De Niro have some of the greatest chemistry in film history, and Pesci's work here rivals his Tommy DeVito in Goodfellas. Moriarty is sublime as a woman equal parts victim and schemer who gets drawn into LaMotta's whirlpool of rage at an age where she's too young to know better.All in all, "Raging Bull", like much of Scorsese's work, is a tragedy about an immoral, violent man whose personal flaws lead to his downfall. It shows the tragedy of a man who had all the potential in the world, but because of his ineptitude in handling his personal life, blasted straight into the gutter and brought everyone else down with him.


                
Everything in this movie is perfect
I remember seeing it for the first time,i was blown away by its direction,cinematography and MAN O MAN the acting,de niro,pesci,vincent everyone is in this movie are at their peaks
Do yourself a big favor and watch this masterpiece
YOU DONT KNOW WHAT YOU'RE MISSING


                
Martin Scorsese' "Raging Bull" stands as one of the greatest films of all time. Its the greatest work of Martin Scorsese' career and Robert De Niro's greatest acting performance. This film stands atop my all time list. Robert De Niro's performance is also the best and most authentic acting performance I have ever seen. What a transformation it is to watch him become middleweight boxer Jake La Matta in this true story of more than just boxing. It's a film of one mans decent into misery and loss. The film will stand the test of time because it's realness and its captivating look is purely mesmerizing, astonishing, and jaw dropping.Right from the start we are punched in the face as Jake La Matta is eating dinner. The ordinary dinner scene turns into a husband and wife fight like nothing you have ever seen. All over an over cooked stake that isn't ready for eating. Right from the start we see that Jake La Matta is a tormented and troubled man with serious issues ranging from paranoia to insanity to inadequacy to emotional instability to reckless abandon to raging anger. La Matta is a complex character that is brought to us in a riveting performance from one of films all time greats. Throughout the film we see La Matta battle his inner demons as he's always in a 12 round bout with himself. His emotional pain is relentless and his physical pain pails in comparison. He's always trying to prove himself, not to anyone around him, but his own demons and inner pains. His brother Joey (Joe Pesci) tries to manage Jake to a title shot, but that is nearly impossible thanks to Jake's relentless and constant problems that he causes. In a highly memorable "Hit Me" scene following the dinner fight; Joey is ordered, then demanded, to punch his brother in the face by Jake himself. Joey after some talking into, starts beating on Jakes face until his cuts- from his previous fight- start to bleed and crack open. What is the purpose Joey asks. Jake responds with a smile and a playful pinch on the cheek. Right from the start we see that Jake has no purpose. All he has is pain. It would hurt too much to stop it so he takes it.As Jake climbs up the boxing ranks his tormented life and his inner demons start to take a toll on not only him but everyone around him. His life style mirrors his fighting style. Jake La Matta' fighting style is just like his personality. There's no technique or any strategy given to him by his corner. He uses outside forces to take out his opponent inside the ring and the inside forces take out the people outside the ring that he loves. He is relationship impaired and knows of no way to deal with women(or with anybody for that matter).Some of Scorsese' greatest moments come during the boxing scenes. We hear the cringing cat cries and exploding light bulbs and we feel the brutality even though we may not even understand what we're hearing. In a fight with the "good-looking" Janrio, Jake is a large imposing animal taking out all his frustrations on the face of Janrio. He makes him ugly and pierces a hole right through his wife (Cathy Moriarty) who called Janiro "good-looking." Then as his career starts to unfold due to his misery and paranoia. He looses the belt, then he looses himself.After Jake retires from boxing a weight has been lifted off his shoulders- but physically a weight has been added. Now he doesn't have any responsibilities and he no longer has to worry about his weight, which fluctuates in the film and by films end; De Niro gains 60 pounds. Without any worries or responsibilities, La Matta is still incapable of being happy. He looses everything that he has ever fought for and in a brutally emotional scene at the end of the film where La Matta finds himself in jail; we actually sympathize for his character. We wish he did right, but he never does. Something appeals to us, maybe we see some good in him even though it never shows through. Maybe we want some good in him because it never shows through. Maybe we see how troubled he is and we just want to see some happiness in his life. The dark scene is shot in perfection and Jake takes his past regrets out on his jail cell's cement wall. Jake lets out a fury of punches and head butts, but not even this bull has a punchers chance in hell. After his cries of "Why! Why! Why!" go unanswered. All he has is his 10X10 Miami jail cell to sit and stew in. Completely in the dark, Scorsese' final touches bring us into the cell as Jake breaks down emotionally. We see no remorse as he doesn't see himself as the bad guy that everyone says he is. He believes he's just a troubled man not wanting to hurt anyone. The worst part of it all is: He doesn't think he has hurt anyone; when all we see is that's all he's ever done- is hurt the ones he loves. There are no apologies. He has no acknowledgment of anything he's ever done being wrong, which is truly heartbreaking, because it looks as though he will never change. A brutally honest portrait of an animal. 10/10


                
During World War II, when death and destruction are rampart, a different kind of war rages inside the mind of an American boxer. Jake LaMotta, perhaps more comfortable inside the ring than outside, has personal demons to battle. For his nature is one of insecurity and jealousy and self-destructiveness. It is by rage, and by rage alone, that drives the great fighter. Look at his ring rejoinder after his second wife Vickie states that a particular fighter (Tony Janiro) is "good-looking." Wham! There was another, external quandary: the rackets. They controlled who fought whom. And boxing decisions are often problematic. In Raging Bull's first fight scene, we see the undefeated Jake LaMotta crushing Jimmy Reeves in the ring but not getting the decision, apparently because of a fix (1941). In a subsequent fight he would knock out Reeves (1943). Nevertheless Jake LaMotta had to relax his own ring "moral" standards (!) and play ball with the mob as urged by his brother. Only after he throws a fight to Billy Fox in 1947 (TKO in the 4th) and paid some cash, was he given a shot at the Middleweight title. He made the most of it when he defeated Marcel Cerdan (1949). But then again, a new problem arose: Would he have the hunger to maintain the belt? By the way, LaMotta's career did not end with his last loss to Sugar Ray Robinson (1951), as he had ten more fights. When he did retire in 1954, he had lost his title, wives, and money, although he had his jokes (and there would be more wives). It was his stand up comedy routine which later sustained him.While Raging Bulls' boxing scenes are brutal enough, look at LaMotta's deep-rooted internal turbulence when he deals with members of his own family. The man's conflict continues long after his retirement. For one thing, his words and persona remain pugnacious. To LaMotta, women always seem to be either nuns or whores, and there was little middle ground for an equal marriage partner. Thus there is domestic violence. Then we see LaMotta morph from a tough lean and mean boxer to an overweight joker, still missing a few principles (DeNiro actually gained 60 pounds for the role). What is amazing is that LaMotta is alive and well in his 90th year as of this writing. Maybe he has finally outlived his old demons. One tough dude indeed! Director Martin Scorsese has brilliantly captured the flavor of living in the teeming tenements of New York. Note how wonderfully he pays attention to detail and sets the 1940s mood. There is the grittiness, the noir, the black and white feel of the period. Inside the apartment we hear the external sounds of crying children and automobile horns. For it is a noisy and crowded and hot city that emanates through open apartment windows that lack modern air-conditioning. In the ring we bear witness not only to the precise choreography (including the sound effects) of the fight scenes – the sweat and blood of it all – but also to the claustrophobic nature of the ring itself.Besides the lead, the casting is splendid all around. To mention a few, Joe Pesci is Jake's mentor brother, Joey LaMotta, who managed and organized his bouts. Cathy Moriarty is convincing as a sensual Vicki, LaMotta's second wife. Nicholas Colasanto and Frank Vincent are appropriate as mob bosses. Robert DeNiro as Jake La Motta deservedly won the Academy Award for Best Actor. Scorsese was robbed of the Academy Award for Best Picture, no question about it. Does anyone really think that Ordinary People was better? Total Film Magazine named Scorsese the second greatest director of all time, ahead of Steven Spielberg and behind the master, Alfred Hitchcock. But it took years for Scorsese to win the Academy Award for Best Picture (2006). See Raging Bull, which is now number 4 (!) on AFI's Top 100 all-time movie listing (2007). Where does Ordinary People rank?
"Raging Bull" is routinely named one of the greatest films of all time. "Scorsese was robbed! This is his best film! This should've been Best Picture of 1980!" are the typical battle cries. Watching the film now, it emerges as one of those films I respect wholeheartedly as a Scorsese fan, and more importantly, as a film buff. It's not on my favorite films of all time list, and as far as Scorsese goes, I enjoyed "Goodfellas" and "The Departed" far more. Still, it is an uncompromising example of film as art.First, we have the usually bombastic Scorsese, beautifully subdued here from the classical music to the graceful camera movements to the haunting black and white photography. Second, we have Robert DeNiro as boxer Jake LaMotta giving the performance of his career that rightfully won him the Oscar. Thirdly we have all that we come to expect from a Scorsese film: iconic shots (like the pan to the blood dripping from the ropes), quotable dialog ("I've heard things. I've heard things"), and his rich archetypes (DeNiro and Pesci in their love/hate relationship as brothers, and a raspy and sassy Cathy Moriarity in the objectified wife-as-whore role). The fight scenes are the most artistically satisfying of any boxing film that has come before or since.Finally, it contains something only in which a rabid movie buff can find joy. It contains the link between two of my favorite directors: Martin Scorsese and David Lynch. As Joe Pesci watches one of the fights on TV, Pabst Blue Ribbon appears as the corporate sponsor. Later, in a scene where DeNiro is being interviewed at his Florida home, a Tony Bennet version of "Blue Velvet" can be heard playing in the background. The movie gods shined down on us six years later when David Lynch made his classic thriller "Blue Velvet," which, in no small coincidence, featured prominently, Pabst Blue Ribbon as the favorite drink of Dennis Hopper's psychotic Frank Booth.


                
There is at some point every few years where there are a few films spoke about that are just unbelievably good from Citizen Kane, On The Waterfront, 2001 : A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange, Godfather, Taxi Driver etc. Raging Bull would fit easily in the classics above.Robert De Niro who plays Jake La Motta is fantastic, if there is ever an example of near perfect method acting then this has to be it. Having already played Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver to a creepily amazing level he ups it a notch. From getting in shape to play the young Jake through to eating his way to gain an additional 40lbs+ for the older Jake, this i believe is the most committed role an actor has ever portrayed.The film examines from Jake's life from 1941 - 1964 from his first defeat in the ring through his marriage to Vicki (Cathy Moriaty) to gaining the world title, losing the title and losing all those around him including his wife, children and his brother Joey (Joe Pesci) and ending up in jail, through to being a bloated comedian in one of his clubs.Moriaty and Pesci both turn in good performances as the downtrodden and abused wife and the supportive brother respectively. The interactions between the characters is totally believable.the black and white (of which the film is entirely shot in apart from some home movie sequences) is put to good use in the film and really gives a good feel to the era of the film, the actual boxing scenes have to be the best in any sort of boxing film.Martin Scorsese deserved the Oscar for this picture and the fact that he didn't get it is a travesty.All in all 10/10
The partnership between revolutionary director Martin Scorsese and iconic actor Robert De Niro which spanned for about 20/25 years will forever be remembered by critics and fans as one of the greatest periods for cinematic achievement. A time were both of these legends peaked in their careers. Of course there were other actors involved (Joe Pesci, Frank Vincent, etc) But the two constants of these movies were Scorsese and De Niro. They are credited with making some of the greatest movies of all time IE; Taxi driver, Raging bull, Goodfellas and Casino just to name a few. These movies have received marvellous critical acclaim and continue to be loved even after 30 after some of them were made. They gave us a look at a world most of us had never seen, the underworld of society. They made us feel for characters we wouldn't usually associate with. And they set a standard for their type of movie which hasn't yet been conquered. But as much as I could talk all day about how these two geniuses revolutionised cinema the main concentration of this review will be based on the 1980 movie raging bull. To an outsider given only a vague idea to the story of Raging bull it is just another boxing movie. But if we look deeper into the surface we find that it is much more. It is more than just another rocky movie, it's not about a brain dead boxer who tries hard and wins it has much more deaph than that. The movie tells the story of an emotionally self destructive boxers rise (ish) And fall. It is a study of a man (Jake La Motta played by De Niro) who keeps knocking himself down everywhere he goes in life. A man who we learn more and more about throughout the course of the movie. We see he abuses the women in his life he sees them as slaves not human beings. We see throughout the course of the movie that he ends up despising himself. We see that he will be willing to change himself just for the sake of masculinity something which most men can relate to. The boxing ring is nothing more than a symbolic parallel to his life outside it. it's almost as if he is punishing himself for what he has done in his life. La Motta ends up in a state were he doesn't demand pity but the audience feels sorry for him anyway. Although La Motta is a scumbag we are still interested and relating with the character throughout the 2 hour long movie. Scorsese makes Raging bull a lot more classical with the use of classical music throughout the films gritty tale it gives us a feel of beauty beneath the surface of this man tough guy exterior.The film won Robert De Niro a best actor in a leading role Oscar although Scorsese's fully deserving best director Oscar went to Robert Redford.
Contains Spoiler!Raging Bull is my favourite Scorsese films and one of favourite films generally. The film follows the story of Jake LaMotta, a famous middle-weight boxing in the 1940s. In my opinion I believe the film is about the destruction of a person's character and how misleading the American Dream can be. In the film you see LaMotta as a successful boxer, but also a violent and abusive character. He was abusive to his first wife and ended up starting a relationship with a 15-year-old girl, Vicky. He had a loving relationship with her and ends up getting married but as the film progressives you see they relationship disintegrate. You see the same happen between Jake and his brother Joey who was also Jake's manager. LaMotta does make it to the top, becoming the world-champion and becoming well-off. However, after his career was over he moved to Florida, owned a nightclub before getting arrested. After he was released he ended up being a has-been performer.The direction by Scorsese is some of his best. He does some very good shots, the boxing scene are fantastic with the feeling that it was real. Filming the film in black and white also was an excellent move by the director. The performers were also top-draw. De Niro was perfect as Jake LaMotta, and he performed brilliantly with Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriarty. De Niro deserves to his Oscar for this film, and Pesci and Moriarty would have been up their. I also felt that this should have been the film Scorsese should have won his Oscar with.
In flashback, flabby ex-fighter Robert De Niro (as Jake La Motta) recalls his life, rising from Bronx, NY obscurity to become a World Championship-winning boxer. Unfortunately, the "Raging Bull" finds his soul imprisoned in the boxing ring, with demons on the ropes<U+0085> This is an amazing piece of work.The Robert Chartoff/Irwin Winkler production team does for the seedy side of boxing what they did for the more reputable "Italian Stallion" in "Rocky" (1976). Even without the weight gain, Mr. De Niro certainly deserved his "Best Actor" accolades. Director Martin Scorsese is at an artistic peak and, arguably, should have won as many "Best Director" awards. The supporting performances, from brother Joe Pesci (as Joey) and wife Cathy Moriarty (as Vickie), are also outstanding. Mr. Scorsese, with exemplary editing by Thelma Schoonmaker and superb cinematography by Michael Chapman, creates often wondrous sequences of film art...One of the best ever<U+0085> And, shout out to young apprentice Billy Chartoff, who was learning the ropes in style with "Raging Bull"; remember walking to the movies with sister Jenny from (was it) Apaquoque (or Georgica) Road, EH. Best wishes to you and your siblings. See you in the movies! ********** Raging Bull (11/14/80) Martin Scorsese ~ Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci, Cathy Moriarty, Frank Vincent


                
Few sites in cinema are as poetic as the opening shot of Martin Scorcese's dramatic masterpiece. The slowness and grace of Jake La Motta preparing himself for the fight is an excellent juxtaposition for the rest of the movie. It's the calm before the storm. It's Scorcese's way of putting us in a false sense of security, and it works perfectly.However, this is just one of many great things about Raging Bull. The editing, cinematography, art direction and sound all excel like in no other movie. Robert De Niro's career best performance as the tortured boxer stands as one of the best ever committed to film, the script is brutal and realistic, and the direction is unbelievably good. Few films have the same impact on an audience as that as Raging Bull. It could be because Scorcese directs it in such a way that we all respond to it emotionally, but it's more likely that for all that Jake does wrong to his family, we sympathise with him, because we all want to be forgiven for the things we've done wrong.I think this film is perfect in every way a movie needs to be. It's a masterpiece, a work of art. It's films like this which change the way a person looks at the world


                
Raging Bull is a story about the dark, gritty, lonely side of the 1940s & 50s boxing phenomenon as shown through the eyes of the champ Jake La Matta (Robert De Niro). Shot as a type of coming-of-age thrill as it opens with the future and dissolves into chronological flashbacks. We see the rise and fall of a superstar. Someone sailing on the tight ropes of fame only to let classically let it all go to his mind and body. He is cocky because of what he is. With each battle he grows less human. He's stronger physically, but emotionally, he's lost his sense of sight. Lost all ties to reality and more possessive as the days pass. As he gets a big head through his talents, he grows confident starting courting 15-year-old Viki Thailer (Cathy Moriarity). It starts out well, but it certainly turns sinister as Viki tries to talk to other people. He gets a paranoid persona and develops a rage in him. He starts questioning everything around him and doesn't trust anyone. The beginning of rage starts in the scene where Jake and his brother Joey La Motta (Joe Pesci) were in the middle of an argument at the kitchen table with their wives and baby present. The brothers told their wives to leave and take their children with them. As a form of dominance, Jake changes his attitude from than on.There were many scenes in which Director Martin Scorsese portrayed a sullen atmosphere in the Black and White cinematic vision. The music, for one, was taken from the works of an Italian composer Pietro Mascagni. Gives the film a sad feeling and brings even more emotion to the actors on screen.There was a scene in which a section of the film was in color. For this one scene, Scorsese paints a more laminated picture depicting a genial time in Jake's life. Seems a bit contrived to the real world. The black and white to me, has signified the character's true personality. What life really is. Not optimistic. Just is. Life is previewed in a strange light in the film. We're pulled to care for Jake throughout the film and than we care even more as the movie builds these layers surrounding the characters. A true definitive of what the boxing beast can do to anyone. One of my all time 5 favorites.
There has been a consistent complaint against Martin Scorsese regarding the fact that the protagonists in most of his films are horrible people and Scorsese makes us watch these horrible people do horrible things and so it is very difficult to find anything likable about them. While I agree that many of Scorsese's protagonists are questionable individuals, but Scorsese doesn't just use them and make them do reprehensible acts on screen just for the shock factor. He has always attempted to deeply study these characters. He explores the environment surrounding his characters and in a way he seeks to find the source and the reasons behind the behaviours and natures of his characters. His protagonists aren't always likable, but they are pretty much always interesting and multi-layered.Raging Bull starring Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriarty is a biopic based on the life of famed boxing legend Jake Lamotta. The main character is certainly not an individual that you would like to spend too much time with. He is a misogynist, he is massively insecure, he is violent and regularly assaults his wife throughout the film. The boxing ring and the fights are used as a dramatic theme to show and reveal what Lamotta is thinking and what he is going through emotionally. The boxing ring also acts as a means for Jake to legally vent his frustration and all his accumulated anger. Jake Lamotta, in the film at least, is the result of the environment that he grew up in. It is hinted from time to time that maybe he had to spend his childhood in the midst of extensive poverty, which probably has made him as hard and as abrasive as he is shown to be. He has always aimed for the stars and wanted to achieve his goals without anyone else's help. This is a reason why he always refrains from taking the assistance of the mafia, just to glorify his independence. He views everything as a goal or a trophy. The house that he has bought for his father is a trophy to him and a symbol of self assurance that he is a big shot. His car is a trophy which he uses to woo his then would be wife Vickie. But this uncontrolled materialistic mindset gives birth to a massive sense of misogyny. When he meets his future wife Vickie, he only sees her superficial features like her figure, her legs, her cheekbones, etc. So in a way he sees her only as a human trophy and like everything he has achieved before, he makes it his mission to win her. But once he gets her, he never makes an effort to get close to her emotionally. Another thing that is so apparent about the character of Lamotta is his insecurity. After his marriage, this insecurity of his constantly makes him suspicious about his wife's supposed infidelity which slowly drives him mad. These insecurities lead to volcanic eruptions of rage throughout the film, and the ironic thing about it is that the rage that initially made him a world renowned boxer in the ring also destroys his personal life. The eccentric and violent life he leads ultimately also makes it difficult for him to maintain his performances in the boxing ring.Apart from Jake Lamotta and Vickie, another brilliantly interesting character is that of Joey played by Joe Pesci. His back and forth dialogue with De Niro is absolutely fascinating. The two brothers clearly need each other and really love each other, but the underlying anger between the two brothers is also apparent.The direction by Martin Scorsese is another character in the film effectively. He makes us completely engaged in the plight of this character. The direction is so intense, that you can't help but feel drained out. You feel the punches, you feel the knockouts and you can't help but feel connected with Lamotta even if you hate him. The fight scenes are some of the most intense scenes I have ever seen. The cinematography is awe inspiring. The film is in black and white and it looks beautiful. I think Scorsese made the film in black and white as a means to recapture the essence of the films in the 1940s and 1950s which are the decades portrayed in the movie.Last but by no means least,I have to talk about the editing. Scorsese's long time collaborator Thelma Schoonmaker edits this film with a passion. The editing during the boxing scenes is just awe- inspiring. The zoom-ins, the slow motions, the tracking shots are all perfect.As soon as the opening credits come on the screen with Lamotta jumping around and practicing his punches in the background in slow motion, I knew this was going to be a masterpiece. Interestingly while we look at Lamotta in slow motion in the opening credits sequence, throughout the film Scorsese shows us many things in slow motion from Lamotta's point of view which reveal what his mind is preoccupied with at that precise moment which range from lust, jealousy and rage.Raging Bull is a masterpiece made by an auteur in his signature intense style. Jake Lamotta is not your regular hero. He is flawed and imperfect. But Scorsese's rich character study makes him iconic due to his imperfections in the movie and the film ends with a monologue sequence that is absolutely heartbreaking.


                
