I suppose I am in the minority, but I do not believe "Raging Bull" is a great movie, or even a particularly good movie.the photography is fine and the acting is very good, but I could find no reason why anyone would make a film about Jake La Mottas' life.There is no question, that Mr. La Motta was a fine boxer, but other than that there is nothing especially noteworthy about him. In fact, Mr. La Motta seems to have been a violent, abusive man.During the film, Mr. La Motta, beats on opponents in the boxing ring, beats on his wife, beats on strangers, beats on his own brother, and beats on cement walls.Jake La Motta isn't the only violent member of the family. Jakes brother Joey(Joe Pesci) commits an extremely brutal assault against a stranger just for talking with his brothers wife. Its fine to make biographical films about less than noble people, but there should be an underlying lesson.All I learned from "Raging Bull" is that Mr. La Motta was a violent, abusive jerk.


                
Many consider Raging Bull to be Martin Scorsese's masterpiece. Granted, he made some excellent films during his long career, boosted numerous actors to stardom, and made piles of money. But calling this mess a masterpiece is cheapening the word in every sense.As with many Scorsese films the subject matter is extremely interesting, but in no time at all turns into a tiring bore. Good Lord, how many times must we be forced to watch a long drawn-out scene with De Niro's character screaming, yelling and slapping his wife around to realize he's not very trusting and has a shaky home life? Okay, we get it, enough already!The main thing I want in any movie is to be entertained, but Raging Bull didn't even come close.


                
I watched this movie because it was highly recommended and was an award winner, and because I love boxing movies, especially Rocky and Cinderella Man. What a mistake. The only thing I enjoyed about this was the actual boxing scenes, especially the one with Sugar Ray Leonard. The scenes were too short and never showed a whole fight. The story was choppy and hard to follow. And just when you thought the movie should end, it kept dragging on and on and had no defining climax or resolution. Then all of a sudden it just stopped. Very poor film-making in my opinion, and not worthy of any awards. This film was basically plot less. It would be as if you took two arbitrary points in my life and chose to make a movie about the time in between. There's no plot, it builds up to nothing, there is no climax, no final resolution, nothing at all to indicate that the end is coming. The movie just starts, and then it stops later. There's no completion, no story, no sense that it is building up to something. This would be one star if it wasn't for the amazing boxing footage.See my profile for my rating philosophy.


                
Like several other commentators, I just couldn't sit through this film on a couple of tries. I had no idea it was made 25 years ago, but it made no difference - I just don't get into overly graphic violence in a film. If people are really that way, then they have a big problem. I'm not a fan of any particular director/actor/actress - the finished product has to get to me. I think I've seen only one film with De Niro that isn't brutal - "The Score"......anyone else see that ? Yet, I think he is a good actor, because he makes me see and understand people I don't like to be around.No praise to heap on anyone, no matter how many others think it was the greatest film of all time (????), or of the '80s (?????). I can see how people who need all that violent action got into this film, but I'll take a good story over it, anytime. I've noticed all of the commentators were male. Hmmmmmmmm - that causes me to wonder about them. I just read an obituary for a young man who died of prize-fighting injuries at a very early age. Prize-fighting, to me, is purely sadistic - that females are now engaging in that "sport" is just horrific. No doubt good work by all the crew - good acting by De Niro and Pesci - just leaves me cold, and am wondering how I made it through the whole thing this time.........Boo !
Raging Bull is a "boxing" movie about A boxer named Jake La Motta and follows his life from 1941 to 1964. Why do I call it a "boxing" movie, because there is very little boxing in the movie. Sure there a lot of Motta's fights shown, but half of them are less than two minutes and mostly show time spent at the end, beginning, and in the corner. The other half is a few stills of the match combined with the who, when, and where. The grand total is less than 15 minutes. They don't even talk about boxing much or show Motta train. Most of the movie is about Motta's private life. That is not very interesting either. I got no emotion from the story at all. Scorsese also tried to convey that Motta and Sugar Ray Robinson were rivals. Other than them fighting a lot, that never comes across. Other problems include the blood effects and continuity of the blood. The blood squirts out in a very unrealistic fashion. When blood does get on someone, it is gone in the next shot.Don't watch Raging Bull ever, even if it comes on TV and there is nothing else to do.
Raging Bull masquerades as a boxing movie, trying to capitalize on Rocky popularity in 1980. It failed. The fundamental difference between both movies is that we care what happens to Rocky and want him succeed as the underdog, whereas we couldn't care less about what happens to an ungrateful bum called Jake LaMotta. The movie does nothing to bring you closer to LaMotta's character, it actually does the opposite and makes you loathe him. Why should we care what happens to him? Isn't that the point of a movie, to bring you closer to the characters and story?That brings me to the boxing scenes. They are horrible. The blood is the worst I've seen in any movie - it just sprays everywhere like a geyser. Very realistic. We are not told the significance of any of Lamotta's fights, except the one where he's fighting a guy that his wife said was good looking. The boxing is pretty meaningless in the movie, so they should have just left it out. As it is, it was painful to watch.The movie is shown in black and white. Did Scorcese think that we wouldn't be able to tell that it's set in the 40's if it was in color? The effect is that the movie just looks cheap. Couldn't afford color cameras or what?It's also too long. Over 2 hours is a challenge for most to stay awake that long. I kept watching in hopes that the movie would stop sucking, but it never did. It sucked from start to finish.DeNiro is a fine actor and plays his role well, as did Pesci, but even they couldn't do anything to save this sad excuse for a movie. There just isn't anything that draws you into the movie or makes you care about the characters in the slightest. What you end up with is a hollow movie in black and white about some bum that wasted his boxing talent. Big deal.There's no actual ending to the movie either. It just kind of degenerates to the point where Lamotta lands himself in jail, and that's pretty much where it ends. I was half asleep by that point, so maybe there was a point to the movie and I missed it. But I doubt that.After wasting over 2 hours watching this movie, I couldn't help but echo Lamotta's sentiments after he threw a fight:"What'd I do? What'd I do?"2 out of 10. 1 for DeNiro and 1 for Pesci. Both tried their best to save this movie, but couldn't.


                
I've returned to Raging Bull a number of times over the last 30 years, but unlike other movies I've come to enjoy (after initially disliking them) I never find anything more in it than the meager merits found in the first viewing. I like many movies that Scorcese likes, but I find his own work pretty feeble and desperate.Raging Bull is structurally facile. It starts nowhere & goes nowhere. There is nothing for a viewer to discover, because Scorcese doesn't trust you to find it. He presents this movies symbol set overtly, so that none of that pesky 'searching' or individualized viewing is required. ("Ooh there's a religious image in the bg of the sex scene. I found the meaning!") Scorcese is either enamored of these brutes or repulsed, but either of those viewpoints offers slim pickings for a viewer. When all is said and done a movie needs to offer more than a catalog of scenes depicting and embroidering a stereotype. Movies can either deliver ideas or sensations. But viewers are now too ignorant to even figure out when ideas have been offered. Better to give them something showy; outbursts, near-constant violence, acting with a capital A, real human fat and 'pretty,' conspicuous camera work. These isolated conceits have become the traditional way of persuading lazy, inarticulate viewers they've seen a 'masterpiece!' There is nothing to pore over or to cogitate about when watching this movie. It accepts no meaning except that concerning violence.In the insect world, this movies equivalent would be to force bugs to watch people step on roaches for two hours. This movie is for thoughtless viewers who can think of no better purpose for a movie than delivering sensation. Raging Bull is barren.
Trust this to be a classic. You must be having a laugh. It doesn't step anywhere near that mark. Fistly Robert De Niro, what the hell went wrong their. Whne i watched it all his dialogue was mumbled and very, very hard to understand. I will admit, okay some of his acting talents were okay emotionally. The supporting actor Joe Pesci also like Robert De Niro's acting-some good but most bad. And i know that the film was released in black and white because of the mood and atmosphere of the film, but it lingers far too long. Finally the directing was class c from Martin Scorsese and most probably his worst film. The boxing scenes are meant to be in your face-bold, long, bloody and violent. Instead most of them are at least 30 seconds to a minute long, its pathetic. Even the final championship fight was only something like 30 seconds. It really does put a shame around Raging Bull and especially De Niro. Too right, Rocky's better than Raging Bull......... "Go the Distance" Well at least Rocky tried and greatly succeeded, whereas in my opinion Raging Bull is just a forgettable mess of cinema.
