Scorsese's RAGING BULL is rightly up held as a wonderful piece of film making . Robert DeNiro takes method acting to new heights . Yeah we've all heard the story about how he built his physique up by going to the gym and then after these scenes were filmed he did nothing but sit on his butt and gorge himself on junk food so he'd physically resemble the bloated and overweight Jake La Motta in later life , but this story is worth repeating again and again . Look at the scene where DeNiro uses the public phone box , he raises his arm to speak into the receiver and you can subtly see DeNiro's pot belly bulging out from his shirt . All the performances are good but DeNiro totally dominates the movie It's not just an acting masterclass we see . RAGING BULL is very much an art house movie brought to mainstream cinema by Scorsese . Look at the scenes inside the ring . I doubt if a boxer would recognise these scenes as being realistic as such since everything about them are highly stylised . It's not a film that shows the gritty realism of being inside a boxing ring where two modern day gladiators fight one another , it's a film that paints the pain , poetry and ugly beauty of boxing . On a technical front this is absolutely superlative where editing , cinematography , make up and sound mix all come together " Hey Theo , if it's such a great movie why have you only given this eight out of ten ? " True it's a great movie and you didn't need me to point that out and when I say it's a very honest movie this is not meant as a criticism , in fact I do wish more movies would be far more honest when it comes to biopics , it's just that the problem with RAGING BULL can be summed up with the scene that starts with Jake and his brother banging on the TV set wondering why they can't get a picture . It's a scene that's wonderfully structured and built upon by the screenwriters , it's absolutely brilliantly acted by all the cast and superbly directed by Scorsese. It's just that it culminates with some extreme domestic violence and finishes with a haunting , nay heartbreaking scene of two children standing there as members of their family are brutally assaulted by La Motta . Don't be confused by what I'm saying , I don't want want biopics to be revisionist sycophants charters , it's just that for a movie to work perfectly the main protagonist must achieve some sort of empathetic connection with the audience and this is where RAGING BULL fails somewhat
I'm no boxing fan so I can't honestly say that I was dying to see this movie until I learned that Scorsese himself is not a boxing fan but he wanted to tell this story so this intrigued me even more and after always hearing about the massive praise for Robert De Niro performance I have to say I was very impressed. I'm gonna start out by saying the cliché thing when talking about this movie, Robert De Niro is absolutely incredible in this film it's in my opinion the greatest performance he's ever given, through De Niros performance when see La Motta gradually becoming his title of being a "Raging Bull" and was a truly terrifying presence. The boxing scenes in this film are so real, Scorsese did such a good job directed this film he put you right in their to the point where you could feel the power of every punch and move made. Joe Pesci was so fantastic in this film he seemed like a real scumbag but was never over the top at his chemistry with De Niro was completely on point. La Mottas character arc was handled perfectly, you understood just how much of his humanity he was losing both physically and mentally to the point where you actually start to pity him while still fearing him at certain points. Now one of the most common things to find in a Scorsese film is a female love interest that comes to hate the protagonist and this film has this but works for this film as it added to character arc of La Motta and gave room for Cathy Moriarty to give such a great and damaged performance in this film. However if I am completely honest I don't quite like this film as much as everyone else does, I do have one of two minor issues with this film for one, I didn't think making this film Black and White really added anything to this film and at times was just distracting and I think that the portion of the film that focuses LaMottas success in the ring is to short, the film montages over his major successes and does subtract some What from the intensity of the final fight. However I do think that the last act of this film was very effective as it got away from the boxing and focused on the characters aftermath of his time in the ring and we go from despising LaMotta to as I said sympathising with him and I truly thought that De Niro pulled it of perfectly. Raging Bull is a fantastic film, I don't quite think it's a masterpiece but it's got an incredible Robert De Niro performance, really intense and personal boxing matches and a perfect way of giving insight into its title character and giving him a complexity that makes him a better character. 86%/A-


                
A recurring theme in Martin Scorsese's filmography is the clash between professional and private life. In both Goodfellas and Casino, the protagonist's family is eroded by the same criminal connections which initially helped forming it. In Taxi Driver, Travis Bickle's psychosis is fueled by his nocturnal contact with the city's seedy underbelly. The paramedic in Bringing Out the Dead experiences burn-out. In The Departed, the main characters are both undercover, mirroring each other in their daily deception. Shutter Island features a neat subversion, which I won't spoil as it's the movie's main twist.This biopic of boxer Jake La Motta (De Niro) may be Scorsese's best execution of this theme. La Motta's ferocity propels him to championship, but takes a toll on his life ruining his relationships with his brother (Pesci) and wives - domestic and professional violence appear to feed each other in a terrifying, self-destructive spiral.Raging Bull is technically exceptional, with stylish black and white cinematography, perfect editing, masterful use of sound. De Niro burns the screen with an incandescent performance - one of the two-three turns which made him a legend as opposed to just a great actor - making his loutish, unsavory character an unsettling, pitiable, tragic figure.8,5/10
Bio pic of controversial and troubled boxer Jake La Motta.Hard to say quite why a La Motta bio-pic should be the "pet" project of Martin Scorsese (director) and Robert De Niro (lead), but clearly it was, so a great deal of time and effort was spent over a character the world had not only forgotten about, but only the most ardent sports fans knew about in the first place!While La Motta was clearly a world class boxer (even middleweight World Champion for a short while), he was hardly one of the all-time greats and had a fighting style that involved more bravery than skill. His habit of walking through a jab was almost a lesson in how "not" to box!Out of the ring his habit of articulating emotion with his fists, rather than his mouth, was well known, but here he is turned in to a fully formed psychopath to accommodate De Niro's acting abilities. Certainly the young La Motta was a wild criminal and occasional mugger (something that the film makes no reference to - despite being mentioned in his autobiography, the inspiration for this film), but it is hard to believe what we see on film.The film was conceived and written for De Niro to go clean over-the-top and for people that don't know any better to mistake it for great acting.(In this he was successful - as he won the Best Actor Oscar.)De Niro got himself fit and then got himself fat for this film, but so what? Anyone can box for short takes on film, it is boxing for 15 rounds with only 30 second breaks that the public can't do. As regards getting fat for the later scenes - so what again? Has anyone else ever got praise for eating two dinners a day in France?The strange thing about this picture is how much it is like those old B pictures. Not only are we mostly in B&W (colour for a single home movie), but also spend extended periods in medium shot. The fights are announced in subtitles, and then we are in to the boxing clichés that involve point-of-view, the blood, the slow-motion, the ringside cigars, the flashbulbs. Scorsese seems to think that we don't know that boxing is legalised violence and need it pointing out to us then underlined for good measure. The strange thing is that La Motta wasn't (and isn't) a dullard or a patsie, but quite a canny guy who later worked as a second rate comedian (shown in the film) and even after dinner speaker, but here he appears a bit slow, tongue tied and withdrawn. To this day (at 80 plus) he is a machine gun of wisecracks and mini-jokes, yet is portrayed here as a sullen introvert. I can't marry the two images.(Given his involvement in the film and having read the script I cannot see why he would sanction this. Maybe he thought the film was just a piece of passing nonsense and objected - even to the point of talking about legal action - when he realised that this gave him a false image?)It is interesting to note that the scene where De Niro attacks his brother-in-law (in a fit of paranoia) was not rehearsed. Pesci was not told what was going to happen and the surprise on his face is real, not acting!The film effects people because violence is very cinematic and despite all the disclaimers most of us enjoy short bursts of it. The dialogue (by Paul Schrader and Mardik Martin) is good and truthful, but drags after a while. The characters expose their limits early and have only to play them out for the rest of the time.Having seemed doubting and questioning it may surprise you that I like the picture and recommend it. It is very compulsive and has something that you can't put your finger on. Despite being violent and sometimes unpleasant you can't help routing for the guy and hope he can find happiness somehow.Maybe this is because I take my hat of to all boxers, they have bravery, dedication and courage that even twenty million dollar a picture actors envy and want to wear the clothes of.


                
Although the movie was great, Taxi Driver still tops as my favorite Scorsese movie. Raging Bull is a movie that really shines through in its own light. Impressing performances by De Niro and Pesci but I was mostly blown away by Moriarty who only was 19 years old at that time. She did an absolute wonderful performance here that somewhat people forget to pay tribute to. Schoonmaker and Chapman did excellent work with the editing and photography. This movie is really worth discovering if you like old Martin Scorsese movies. Personally I am not at all big on Scorseses latest work (WoWS and Silence) but his old work is golden and defines him as an excellent director.


                
Raging Bull is a great movie with a really well developed storyline and a terrific cast. The movie is mostly a great watch because of Robert De Niro's absolutely outstanding performance, he owns this character from start to finish, delivering an honest, sincere and real role that makes it very clear why he is one of the most successful actors of all time. I honestly don't think it comes near to be being Martin Scorsese's best film, it is very character driven, more so than the majority of his films are, which is fine but it isn't entirely exciting the whole way through, delivering little of the violence I've come to expect from Scorsese. Stunning performances and a superb script, I would recommend Raging Bull to anyone looking for a good sports drama. A boxer with a huge temper begins to isolate himself from the people around him. Best Performance: Robert De Niro


                
One of the best movies ever. With good actors, good soundtrack, good story (with exciting scenes, touching scenes, scenes that let you laugh and scenes that make you cry). But the best (or worse) is the fact that the movie is a biography of Jake La Motta. Without a doubt one of the best films of Robert De Niro and one of the best films of MGM Pictures. Highly recommend.


                
De Niro gives a seething, tour de force performance of legend.


                
Success is what all aspire but success is not momentary win in an event or a game. This is the process of making a good family, strong relationships and friends. This is a film centered on the story of a popular boxer who wins at the Championships but loses on his relationships due to his self-destructive attitude and skepticism. This is more of lack of synchrony between the personal and professional life.
The screenplay, the acting and the direction are worth noting. This is not a win or lose situation rather a series of events and misgivings that make or destroy our life. This draws a line between ambition and life. 
What makes a man popular?
Could not get the crux of the movie in 1st half but it catched up and clarified its theme in the second half. Well done on multiple fronts.


                
Two things I miss in this fight movie: the actual training for the fights and any sense of real happiness. Maybe that's the characters' make-up but it produces a movie very much on an even keel emotionally. It's probably the director's constrained attempt to give everything an almost documentary feel of realism. This sucks the blood out of the core of the story. Of course, brilliant acting and camerawork. (viewed 10/16)


                
Jake LaMotta unleashed a raging tiger whenever he stepped into a boxing ring,and it won him acclaim.That same raging tiger broke free of the cage that contained it a few times too often and proceeded to devour his personal life.Robert DeNiro gives one of the best performances of his career as LaMotta.Raging Bull is a gritty and dark story of a man who flew high on his own inner demons,yet crashed and burned on those same demons.The black and white cinematography suits the story well,and Joe Pesci leads an excellent supporting cast.It's too dark and violent a story for me to visit often,but nonetheless it is a well done piece of film making.


                
When I went into watching Raging Bull, I think I set my expectations too high. After hearing all the hype that it made about it being the greatest sports film, I just had to see it. I was not disappointed in the least bit, but by the end, I found that it lacked the same level of emotional girth that other great sports films were so abundant in.First and foremost, the acting in Raging Bull was undoubtedly one of the best of any film. De Niro was brilliant as the boxing paragon Jake La Motta, both as a young, talented up-and-comer, and a washed-up, overweight drunk. This was definitely one of De Nior's finest performances. Moriarty, at the tender age of nineteen, was perfect opposite the seasoned De Niro, and Joe Pesci gives another in a string of great performances as La Motta's concerned brother/manager.The film was an homage to the boxing scene in the 40s and 50s. I believe Scorsese shot the film in black-and-white to accent the heavy use of blood in the ring and experimental fight scenes. At some points int the film, the punches looked very fake to me, like in the beginning when La Motta asks Joey to hit him. Even if the punch isn't altogether powerful, a person's head will still fly back a considerable amount.Raging Bull was an amazing achievement in all respects as I stated before, and I am not bashing it or anyone who enjoys it in any way, but I don't think it will be one of those films that sticks with me. I will hold Raging Bull in high regard as it is a cinematic marvel, but I feel that is a perfect example of an acquired taste.
Raging Bull is the real life story of successful boxer Jake La Motta. The movie was a life saving one for Martin Scorsese. Robert De Niro made a record weight gain of 60 ponds for the movie.Jake La Motta is a successful boxer. But, he is never a easy going man in his life. He always fights with his wife. As his successful journey continues in the ring, he meets another young and beautiful girl Vickie. He marries her. They were happy together for sometime, but Jake's low temper and jealousy leave their life in ruins.The movie is shot in black and white to grade down the rate of violence, to avoid showing blood in red. It also adds to the time period where the movie is set.The movie is in top list. A must watch. Highly recommended.#KiduMovie


                
8.5/10We are society and society is us.This line is what the movie justifies. It is the story of a boxer named Jake La Motta who lived in ego throughout his life thinking that he needed nobody. It was his aggression that made him winner on "Achieving his life goals" part but a sore loser in his personal life. Hence, the society never accepted him and it turned on the cycle of hatred and nonacceptance for La motta.Martin Scorsese is one director who has bested his understanding of society, we can observe that in his movies. In this movie he portrays a boxer who according to me suffers "Psychological illness". Psychic illness here means La motta's never ending ego, which was satisfied by his boxing career but not the society. At this point the director challenges both the society and the one with ego because both are unable to accept each other. Scorsese knows the meaning of society as well as its relation to one's personality, his life and the most importantly his pride. Ego is nothing but the excuse for one's failure to blend in with the people or the thinking that the society should be grateful towards them for no particular reason. The script is just perfectly written. A great director's first ability is to make a movie on what he/she thinks the world should be like. Though it is a biography still Scorsese has made it look as if it is his thoughts which are being portrays through the biography. He deserved a academy award for this.A script this good needed a actor who could bring the character of Lamotta to life and yet again Robert DE Niro does not fail to surprise you. Two actors who should not be reviewed for acting are De Niro and Pacino. He has done tremendous acting here. Joe Pesci as Joey LaMotta's brother is perfect. Rest of the cast has done some great work.The movie is well edited. Frankly, I did not like the black and white environment and neither the cinematography, for which I have deducted 1.5 rating.Overall the movie is great, it tells the story of a man destroyed by his obsession to achieve something great.Being obsessive towards your goals is fine but too much obsession might make you not to enjoy what you have achieved.
Whoa! Martin can pull anything out of his behind and make a masterpiece. If it's a caper, gangster, period piece or anything he can do it and in 1980 he made a boxing movie. And it was so so so good. And it deserves applause from everybody. De Niro like usual is great and his usual partner in crime JP is also good as his brother. This really isn't all about boxing. It's a study on how messed up a mans life can get. Jake had it all but he lost it all to. His sense of manliness is shattered and he ends up a shadow of what he could of been and thats the saddest part. Just like most of the cinema's boxers (Except Rocky Balboa) he ends up missing the biggest chances of his life. Scorsese you've done it again 8/10
It is said that when the Amish women make a quilt they deliberately leave a flaw in it, under the worldview that only God could truly make something perfect.  Fortunately of course, the flaw the Amish women choose to leave is something trivial not fatal.It is this analogy that I think of after viewing Martin Scorsese's RAGING BULL.  The only problem is the flaw that Mr. Scorsese left in was akin to omitting an entire seam.  And the quilt unravels.RAGING BULL is masterfully filmed, masterfully acted, and masterfully written.  It is genius.  But it lacks sympathy for the characters.  The viewers are unable to make an emotional connection with the characters on the screen.  Watching the story (viewing the art) is only half the requisite.  Viewers should be allowed to experience the story (experience the art) via making an emotional connection.This was a fatal flaw.  Interestingly the consequential question we are therefore led to ask is -- was the story of Jake LaMotta worth framing on the screen?  Why or why not?  Very interesting.


                
The Raging Bull, released in 1980, is a film directed by Martin Scorsese and stars Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci as brothers Jake and Joey LaMotta. Jake LaMotta was a popular boxer turned controversial figure in the 1940's and 50's. DeNiro drove the vision of the film, as he was fascinated with LaMotta's life. Raging Bull takes the viewer on a journey through the rise to success and ultimate demise of a talented but troubled athlete. It was shot in black and white, to not only pay homage to 1940's boxing, but to reflect the darkness of the subject matter. The film is not for the faint of heart, as it is peppered with scenes of dramatic violence. Not only violence during the intimately-filmed boxing scenes, but domestic violence between LaMotta and both his first and second wives. The combination of Scorsese's direction, and DeNiro's acting is magical. The movie generates an emotional response throughout the entire 2 hours and 9 minutes of running time. From the beginning, when a young LaMotta is navigating through the boxing world, as well as his relationships with his brother and associates, until the end when he is breaking down alone in his jail cell, the viewer feels like they have been on this emotional roller coaster right along with him. All of the characters are from low-to-middle class neighborhoods in New York, are uneducated and lack a governor on their emotions. Scenes can sway from pleasant and touching to explosive in just a few short minutes. In one scene, Joey (LaMotta's brother, played by Pesci) is eating dinner with his family, and he threatens to stab his son with a knife if he doesn't stop playing with his food. The beginning of the story elicits a sense of hope. Jake LaMotta is winning fights, becoming a more seasoned fighter and starting a life with his second wife, Vickie. While the circumstances of their courtship were questionable, with Jake being married and Vickie being only 15 years old, the love between them seems to soften Jake and give him more purpose in life. Ultimately, Jake's demons overcome him. They creep in slowly, starting with fits of insecurity and jealously, and spiral into violence, substance abuse and other reckless behavior. DeNiro physically transformed himself, gaining 60 pounds to portray the fighter turned comedian and sleazy club owner. By the end of the movie, Vickie has become fed up and leaves LaMotta, who is ultimately arrested for nefarious activities in his nightclub. Any movie that can create a personal connection between the viewer and characters can be considered excellent, in my opinion, and the Raging Bull did exactly that.
Raging Bull is a 1980 film starring Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci. The film is directed by Martin Scorsese and based on the autobiography of the champion boxer Jake LaMotta. LaMotta's rise from contender to middleweight champion is chronicled in the film alongside his tumultuous relationship with his manager and brother, Joey (played by Pesci), and his second wife, Vickie (played by Cathy Moriarty). The latter third of the film depicts LaMotta's equally raucous post-boxing life and the disintegration of his family ties.Scorsese's direction is superb. The camera angles and cuts during the boxing scenes provide a visceral feel for the audience of the gritty style of boxing employed by LaMotta. Scorsese contrasts LaMotta's ability to quickly turn a certain defeat in the ring into a victory while also showcasing LaMotta's ability to slowly erode his much-needed personal relationships. Shot in black-and-white, the film is reminiscent of a documentary. It sometimes feels as if we are peering into the actual living room where the LaMotta brothers are arguing about the next bout. De Niro, Pesci, and Moriarty give masterful performances of a family propelled by unbridled emotions.Boxing, however, is simply a canvas for the screenwriters (Joseph Carter, Peter Savage, Paul Schrader, and Mardik Martin) to overlay a raw examination of ego, emotions, and family relationships. Jake LaMotta's ego is so large, and yet so fragile, that he accuses his brother and longtime manager, Joey, of having an affair with his wife. Vickie, Jake's wife, often acts on impulse and responds to Jake's outbursts and abuse by consorting with mobsters. No character here is beyond reproach, yet there are familial bonds that will be recognized by many viewers.Raging Bull reflects working-class emotions. Even today, many people can relate to the type of raw personalities and family dynamics that are depicted through the LaMotta brothers in this film. In less capable hands, Raging Bull could easily have slipped into caricature. There are very few explanations given for the character's actions. But, Scorsese's keen direction and understanding of the culture, combined with the casts' brilliantly nuanced performances, provide a redeeming sensibility and a humanity to the story. Raging Bull is a dark, but recognizable, film.
It's interesting how the protagonist of Raging Bull is almost completely unlikeable, yet you still want him to succeed. Robert De Niro does a great job of losing himself in the character of Jake LaMotta, and this is before Joe Pesci went full Joe Pesci, which is interesting to see. Plus, Martin Scorsese tells the story in a unique and stylized way. This movie may be a bit overrated, but I definitely feel like it should have won the Best Picture in 1980 instead of Ordinary People.


                
This Scorsese-Classic shows us an unsympathetic protagonist, who deserves nothing better than what the movie shows us. We don´t really want to see a happy ending for him but the movie manages to keep our eyes on the screen anyway. Although we don´t cheer for La Motta, we want to see what is going to happen next. Our eyes are watching him beating his wife, his brother, being an awful human and an even worse father, but we still want to see how the story ends. We don´t want to see him living a live in harmony, we want to to see him getting what he deserves.Scorsese and DeNiro´s fourth colaboration can easily keep up with "Taxi Driver" or "Mean Streets".8/10
Directed by: Martin ScorceseStarring: Robert De Niro, Cathy Moriarty, Jo Pesci, Nicholas Colasanto, Theresa Saldana. Budget: $18. Million Gross: $10 Million in box office, at the time Martin feared for a future in film making.Summary: A Martin Scorsese boxing classic, that unlike other 'classic' chin hitting, floor bouncing boxing films, this one shows you the whole twelve rounds of fame, the price of one man's journey through the four corners of a ring to stardom. But always asking, is it worth it? and at what cost? In the corner of a small dressing room sits a large figure of a man, with a thick nose (like its been broken countless times) stumpy body, smart suit, cigar in hand, drink on the dressing table. He begins to speak with a thick New York accent, you question in your mind, is this Robert De Niro as he looks like a broken large gangster from New York with a face that seemingly represents the staring actor of this film, but again so different. Who you are in fact looking at, is the character by the name of Jake La Motta (Played by De Niro), it is Jakes story we as audience follow throughout this film. At this point, Jake as described above is a washed out, "bin had" broken man, who has resorted to comedy in small town bars reminiscing of a past life, fighting (quite literally) for fame and glory within the world of glass jawed, iron fisted, feet skipping boxing legends.Scorsese is well known for his use of violence and gritty story telling nature. Allow me to expand: within Raging bull Scorsese has masterfully incorporated the use of a black and white cinematic film style. As an aesthetic (which was a bold step for a director to take within modern film) this use of (for lack of a better word) 'lack' of colour allows the audience to divulge, empathise and 'feel' the struggle and story of Jakes life as a rising boxing champion. Furthermore, when filming the opening credits, Scorsese was convinced something was missing. We see Jake in the ring warming up whilst the theme tune plays, jabbing, stepping, dodging, ducking but there was no gritty nature of this pre match ritual. Therefore, Scorsese felt by removing all colour you will invite the audience to focus on this ritual, as a pose to the colour of the gloves, the ring, what time of day it is etc. Moreover, the 'lack' of colour really focuses attention to the impact of each punch, and was a way that Scorsese could really draw attention to the blood being drawn from the faces of each competitor, during the earth shattering jabs being made.I have watched numerous boxing films, and as you would all probably agree the novelty has clearly started to wear off. But Raging Bull is by far superior to all your 'classics' like 'Rocky' etc. Robert De Niro provides arguably one of his best performances within a film, and that is a big statement. De Niro's performance takes you on a journey through despair, fame, heart break, isolation and loneliness. You will follow a man who struggles to distance himself from life within the ring, and outside of the ring. We see Jake push his family away, quite literally, constantly battling with paranoia as he believes his wife 'Vickie la Motta' is having an affair (a young Cathy Moriarty) with every man she comes into contact with. And the breaking point, is when he accuses his brother Joey (played by the fantastic Jo Pesci) of having an affair with Vickie (who also is a married man), and from this he cannot contain the balance and attacks Vickie. This moment is the turning point of the movie, we see Jake remember what is important in his life, and slowly you are led to believe maybe there is hope for Jake, maybe he can find away to 'hang up the gloves' and live a happy life.Like the title suggests, this film demands masculinity, violence, misogyny and desperation. And all of this you are given, as from the moment go you are forced to understand a mans desire to achieve. But throughout you see the 'Bull' of Jakes nature, in both his boxing but also his personal life. Vickie (just like in a lot of Scorcese's classics) is perceived as the virgin or the whore, there can be no in between, and Jake will always find this out to late, the Love is what is important, not the lifestyle.I found this film to have a very enthralling storyline, and is a fantastic insight to the life of a sportsman but also to the life beyond the fortune, fame and strain of the ring. Furthermore, you are given the perspective and feeling of what family life is like for an Italian American family within New York during the early years of world war 2, and what things like boxing, comedy and clubs were like. However, the jump between years as they pass within Jakes life are sometimes unclear and sporadic. Also, it is clearly a key part of the story the relationship between Jake and Sugar Ray as this drives Jake further into his 'bull' like nature, and I think this wasn't emphasised enough.Not all films have happy endings, I guess this could be a metaphor for both life and this particular story. Greed, fame and fortune can take over even the best of us. Sure enough Jake cannot, is not able to notice what he has, had, needs, and therefore you are left with a man who had it all, but lost it. A man who really went the full twelve rounds.Ratings:IMDb: 8.3/10 Rotten Tomatoes: 98% MovieMAster: 7.8/10
Even though this movie came out over 30 years ago I only got around to seeing it currently, the recently released Blu-Ray copy from my public library. And as we would expect the picture and sound are perfect. De Niro won the Oscar for Best Actor and it is easy to understand why.How this movie came about is just as interesting as the movie itself. De Niro is a boxing fan and after reading Lamotta's book figured it would make a good movie. Scorsese was NOT a boxing fan and resisted. But Scorsese was also having personal issues, with drugs, and Di Niro's visit to him in the hospital in 1978, urging him to get himself clean, and also to make the movie. Scorsese did and credits Di Niro with saving his life. Also, in preparation for the role Di Niro trained as a boxer and actually won 2 of the 3 boxing matches he participated in. And for the later life of Lamotta gained a reported 60 pounds. Since the movie is based on Lamotta's book, and Scorsese works hard to make accurate movies based on real people, the story we see, of a paranoid and jealous Lamotta, is probably very accurate. But upon seeing the movie and Lamotta asking his former wife if he was really like that, her response was "You were worse."he got the name "Raging Bull" for his fighting style, just getting low and barging in and beating up opponents. But as we see the story of his life there always was a "rage" inside of him. Because of his paranoia and jealousy he had no good relationships, both his wife and his brother had to leave him to escape his wrath.Robert De Niro of course is Jake La Motta and the story starts in 1941 when he was a young fighter just about 20. He meets his eventual second wife, Cathy Moriarty who plays Vickie La Motta, when she was just 15 and they married a year later. It was a bit disconcerting because Moriarty looked much older even though she in fact was still a teenager when filming.And Joe Pesci, still a relative unknown, is remarkably good as the brother and business manager, Joey Lamotta, until Jake's rage drove him to estrangement.The fight scenes are recreated very believably, and in the late 1950s after his boxing career came to an end Lamotta became an entertainer of sorts, usually a comedian in night spots and bars. His life was hard, and he spend some time in jail, but it was all of his own making.
A surprise movie. Movie from the 80's but black and white. Movie made by Scorsese but not bloody. Without complicated and crossed inter-individual connections. With a culmination in the end but emotional one.Raging bull is the naked nerve of trust and the feeling for closeness with the others. When this feeling is not present the result is clear - loneliness, roughness and madness. It is possible when somebody is extremely good in what he does that this guy to be a genius. Even if he is not, he can be at least a master. Living in extremes always build contrasting features of the different.Each up has its down that is giving birth to another up before its down. When there is balance, when the break is hit before the depression and before the peak, when you are not making difference. The way up is slow, stubborn and hard. The way down is fast, teaching and painful.The question of the meaning stands in front everything and everybody. It is clear, spread and bright but not explained. Are we going to explain it now or then or at the end it is all the same. But it is good when we keep an eye on it.http://vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/


                
This movie has the full potential to go to a 10 star but as I saw it (for the second time I guess) in my college with the intro in very poor condition I have to say this only gets 8 stars. Forgetting the above shameless fact I thought the film is very good not just by the awesome performance by R. De Niro but for all the atmosphere created (the time depiction and the fact this film is in black and white (when there was already color)). If someone seeing this flick could not identify the great actors in it could be thinking this might have being a very old film. I was amazed by the quality (and very hard work) they have done portraying that specific time (and going forward as the movie progresses). It's also very interesting to look to the progression of LaMotta and his "subtle" change to his final state. A must see for everyone and in particular to all combat related fans.
Absorbing, extremely popular fight film from a master Director. There is a sharpness to it all and it cuts like a pulsating, powerful jab. The expanded realism is indicative of a film craftsman and it has a personal stamp of authorship that separates the artist at play from those who play at art.The crisp black and white cinematography has a residing effect that is present in the indelible. For these strokes of style (best evident in the riveting ring scenes) this film is a poetic presentation of a very reprehensible person that is a fighting force of nature.Problem is, he can not separate that power from the professional to the personal and is a one dimensional destructive dynamo that causes a hurt whenever he is present. His brother is his fulcrum and when that breaks the fall begins.The film is not an easy watch because the Champ is not an easy fellow to like. In fact, he is a thoroughly unpleasant person. Like so many achievers, he is driven to the top at the expense of his humanity. He is a very ignorant brute as are so many of our successful people. That is sad and so is this movie. You never feel sorry for him but you do feel sorry for the human condition.That is the point. This is not a pretty picture and was never meant to be (one of the many reasons it was filmed in B&W). It is a glaring, dark look into the primitive "animal" that cannot make the hand-heart connection.


                
