If I may start 'off-topic' for a moment. I am male, mid sixties, and have watched, like many others, all the great (and not-so-great) horror films. After watching the ten episodes of 'The Handmaid's Tale' I can safely say that THIS is a real horror story. It makes the entire horror genre seem like cotton candy. After each episode I find myself shaking, often with tears in my eyes. I'm not going to talk about the story. I am going to tell you that the acting is beyond reproach. In almost every movie, every TV series, there are at least one or two characters that don't fit or are poorly portrayed. Not so here. I simply cannot find fault with the performances of the entire cast. Stellar! The sets, the direction, the camera work, the intensity all fit together seamlessly. This is a story of a good world...gone very wrong. This is a story about faith, twisted by evil intent, then thrust upon the common people. For me it is truly horrifying. I'm sorry I can't find better words to describe how this show affects me. I will say this: My daughter is currently attending university in the U.S. and I can tell you I fear for her safety every hour of every day. Not because this story is happening now...but because it is so close.


                
I've never written a review in my life. After seeing this and then looking for more information about it, I came across IMDb and instead of finding intelligent reviews from intelligent people, I find a few that scream of ignorance. It is pretty easy to understand why.As the 20th century began, human evolution was at a turning point. Science fiction of the day predicted a future that was more enlightened, civilized and more intelligent. But as time went on, things seemed to be heading in the opposite direction. A dumbing down of society began to occur. How did this happen? Natural selection, the process by which the strongest, the smartest, the fastest, reproduced in greater numbers than the rest and in which the weakest or not-so-intelligent were culled, a process which had once favored the noblest traits of man, now began to favor different traits. Evolution began not to reward intelligence, but to coddle and save the weakest. With no natural predators to thin the herd, it began to simply reward those who reproduced the most, and left "Intelligent Man and Woman" to become an endangered species. One need not look far within these comments to see that in effect. It's not that hate which is shown in some of these reviews that is killing the world. I think that up to a certain point all of us possess some level of hate. It is not having the mental acuity or aptitude to recognize it within ourselves, and to not let ourselves be led by it. Some of these so-called reviews are downright scary when you stop to think that is the actual mentality of the person who wrote them. One guy decrying interracial couples and gays to the point of not watching a television program that has them. A woman who says this could not happen and in the next paragraph goes on to detail how it could happen, only not as Christianity. Who cares what it is called, if you admit it could happen?As for this series itself, it is relevant. For now. In this time. More than ever. Beyond that, it is beautifully filmed and acted. Do not fall for the negative reviews of those fanatics and zealots who are purposefully trying to bring down the ratings and who are so lost they cannot even practice the very laws of a god they are trying to defend.This series is a masterpiece.


                
To begin, I believe that most people visiting these pages are intelligent enough to tell the difference between those that are reviewing this series with honesty versus the ones who for reasons other than the viewing experience, wish to tear it down. As someone has already mentioned, the negative reviews are fraught with fear and the worst kind of delusion that exists: self delusion (the delusion a person hides behind and convinces themselves of in order not to see the truth).The Handmaid's Tale is a series that presents what could happen were women's rights reverted or taken away. There is nothing in my previous sentence that is not true. Let me type it again. The Handmaid's Tale is a series that presents what could happen were women's rights reverted or taken away. Is it an extreme depiction? Let's study that for a moment. In a Puritanical society, the Bible was the sole authority. Puritans believed it applied to every area and level of life. The Salem Witch Trials are one such example of Puritanical beliefs in action. Were it not for historical documentation, you would have people negating those as well. So, as to the question of whether it could or couldn't happen, the people most decrying it and stating that it could not happen, are the ones that most believe it can. Don't let them fool you.The Handmaid's Tale takes you into this dystopian future, and it has never felt more real. I had to pause it on a couple of occasions to catch my breath. No, it doesn't hit you over the head every so often with good scenes; the beauty of it is that it is equally haunting, strong and breathtaking in its entirety.To grab from another review: "The echoes of resemblance to the United States' current political administration create another layer of exceptionalism. Make no mistake, this is a political work. But it makes its case in a way that, like George Orwell's 1984 reflect our world back at us in a mirror that is both familiar and perverse", and because of it, it is extraordinary.Rating: <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> Excellent


                
Strong is the word for this series, and little, weak people detest strong so be prepared for the fake reviews and thumbs down across the actual reviews for it. Fear is a powerful thing.The Handmaid's Tale is perhaps one of the the best Television accomplishments of not only the year (hands down), but of the decade. It is a profound glimpse into a future that could very well happen were it not for people like most of you and me. In three unforgettable episodes, so far, women such as Offred ("Of FRED", since she belongs to Fred), played by the inimitable Elisabeth Moss, are coerced through bodily harm to be both concubine and scape/punching goat for well to do families. These women are subjected to physical, emotional and mental abuse in the name of God, or if not so much in the name of God, under the twisted word of god, by man. This is not to say that it is a Christian-bashing show, but it depicts what could happen under a theocratic society. What is most outstanding is that the acting is so amazing, that its quietest moments may be its most powerful. In fact, at times, the series can be emotionally overwhelming and draining — but isn't that a characteristic of a superb and masterful viewing experience?Don't turn away from it.


                
If you haven't seen it yet or haven't read the book let's try to set the scene without spoilers;Mankind is failing, most women are sterile because of industrial pollution (or Mother Nature just having enough of us parasites). Birth rates are plummeting. An ultra religious cult see it as their God given mission to 'save mankind'. They seize power by staging a fake terrorist attack against the US government, impose marshal law and set about rebuilding American society.('War On Terror' anyone?) They use The Old Testament as their blue print, but with some totally wack interpretations and distortions. Fertile women become the property of the state. Brain washed and farmed out to the new ruling elite as baby makers, slavery and subjugation is all they can hope for. Margaret Atwood, Canadian hero, social commentator, environmentalist, activist, feminist, tech inventor, business woman and visionary always maintained that this isn't sci-fi, but 'speculative fiction', things that have a chance of happening in the near future. Written in the '80's it's probably more profound now; the Neo Con Christian's have become a powerful force in US politics. Could there be a Tea Party without the ultra religious Republicans? Probably not. Maybe it takes a next door neighbour from Canada to really see what's happening with the totally dysfunctional family next door? It has always been a source of debate about how a country so entrenched in the ideas of freedom and liberal philosophy can also be the home of such obvious bigotry and divide? Surely teaching Creationism instead of proved science in some State's schools is a warning sign? Maggie may well ridicule this dogmatic un-thinking, however it's far from funny when she points out the possible end game and consequences for society and women in particular.The book, although heavy going at first, is one of those you can pick up every few years and just dive right in (thanks to Una for making me read it back in '87). I was worried that this TV adaption wouldn't do it justice. How wrong I was. It's slightly different, and relies on a lot of flashbacks like the original narration; however this narration helps to smooth over the cracks nicely. So it still sticks faithfully to the principles and main events of the story, albeit in a roundabout 'more up to date' way. The subtle creep up and takeover of government and power has been well handled so far. I am enthralled, totally impressed and on tenterhooks with Bruce Miller's adaption. The direction is also smart, (the hanging scene seen from the back of a van was powerful stuff). Every image is a perfect composition, nothing is wasted, it's real art in the hands of skilled camera operators. The feminism is subtle, not the clumsy and overt 'all men are bad, all women are good little victims' like of some of the more hardcore feminist literature. Maggie recognises that some women can be bad too, and some men will die to do the right thing, as you will see. Her book made a point that this could only happen if most women were willing parties too, and that a 2,000 year old book of moral tales can hold a massive amount of power when deliberately abused in the wrong hands.It's also highly commendable that the cast are just 'normal folk', no super skinnies, models, hunks or pretty boys are in sight. This makes it all the more believable, it could happen to you and me. The lead, 'Offred' (Elizabeth Moss) absolutely nails it. No spoilers, but she will impress you with her canny nouse and determination to survive despite many obstacles and traps. I haven't seen one bad actor in here so far, they've obviously got bags of talent and emotional range. The design and resurrection of 'The Shaker Movement', as in the book, harks back to an American and European age of persecution and religious fervor. Adhering to Maggie's descriptions of the colour coded dress, the production designer's subtle placement of now highly valuable Shaker furniture here and there helps; the muted drab colours, even in the opulent wealthy homes, take us sub consciously back to the times of Salem, witch trials, mass hysteria and life devoid of 'modern vices' like free speech, self determination, free love and modern relationships.I can't wait to see how this progress', although I know how it ends (can't tell you, but get ready for some shocks!). It's been made fresh for me. I hope you will all love it too.


                
This story is terrifying (especially if you are a female). Imagine what happens when the world goes completely crazy and some new completely sadistic world order emerges who claims their acts of incredible cruelty, murder, control , oppression and slavery are all in the name of some mystical God that no one has seen, spoken to or has any proof exists and yet uses the name of God to justify the most horrific and barbaric atrocities. Without spoiling this is the story about this new world where women who are still able to bear children after the most of society is rendered infertile are made to be handmaidens/slaves to wealthy women who want to have babies but can't. Despite their unique baby making abilities they are still treated like the lowest life form on earth and the only reason they even get to live is because of this ability. Elizabeth Moss and Alexis Bledel are amazing in their performances along with the rest of the cast. They broadcast the first 3 episodes on Hulu last night and of course I had to binge watch. It made me cry and made me incredibly sad to see how cruel a species humans can be.


                
In a nutshell, the story is real. It is rooted in historical fact. It includes nothing that has not already happened to women across the world. The acting is brilliant, and beyond that, the cast seems determined and devoted to tell this very powerful story for not only women, but men. When people's rights are trod on, it affects everyone. Let's hope that if it ever comes to something like this, more people will be strong, rather than weak. Unfortunately, based on just today's society and who holds the office of POTUS, that may not be the case.


                
Like others on here, I too could regale you with moving words that would depict my experience and thoughts while watching this. I thought it best however to simply suggest that those who believe such a thing could not happen, or that we are nowhere near what is depicted in this show, scroll down and read the review by gene0915 from United States (unfortunately it has been deleted or removed now).See for yourself how that level of rage, bitterness, hate, misogyny, impotence and homophobia is alive and well.Enough said.This is a powerful series with a tremendous message and a must-see for every person alive.


                
To begin, the book it is based on was written in the 80's, before the IVF - however, the reason they use coitus is because of the puritanical system of beliefs they have established in the land and which they base EVERYTHING on. As in the bible which they quote Genesis 16:1 "Now Sarai, Abram's wife had borne him no children, and she had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar. Sarai said to Abram, "Now behold, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children. Please go in to my maid; perhaps I will obtain children through her." Seriously, for people speaking of "IQ's", this shouldn't be hard to grasp.Secondly, the more you watch, you see how things transpired to get them to the point they are in Gilead. It is presented through a series of flashbacks, and yes, there are books, and cell phones, and the Internet, and cars and trains and automobiles - imagine that! It even shows who they are trading with, and what they are trading. If people had watched even a bit of it as they said they did before leaving reviews simply to give it a low rating, they would know this.Beyond all this, the book and series are rooted in HISTORICAL FACT and in point of fact, things that happen in our world today. 'BUT NO! That can't be!' some say. Yes, hate to burst your bubble, but it is all true. Even with all this obvious discrediting and outright attempts at audience manipulation by certain reviewers, I am happy to see that The Handmaid's Tale holds a high rating, as well it should.It is an astounding work of television, with a distinct visual bite. Gilead's world is harsh yet the most intelligent and bravest of us cannot look away, nor do we lie to ourselves or others in the hopes that they will look away.Simply, in my estimation, it is one of the best shows ever made. Watch for yourself and see if you agree.
Haha. I hadn't even noticed that my comment had been deleted. This show does that. :) It stirs people.Anyway, my sister has been talking about this nonstop for about two weeks, and so last night I finally agreed to watch. We binged it because although she had already seen three of the episodes, I couldn't stop watching. It was so very well executed and some of the people who have posted reviews saying it is terrifying, are not too far off especially in these times. Many forget that the U.S. has very deep religious roots and that many of the same things we see in this Hulu series have already happened, so to say it will never happen (again?) is very ignorant but also very irresponsible.>>>>>>> Just TODAY in the U.S., Trump signed an executive order to ease the ban on political activity by churches, in essence allowing churches and religious groups more rights without regard to separation of church and state. <<<<<<< (Well, now, a few weeks back).Watch The Handmaid's Tale and send a big MESSYOU to those jerks who would try to suppress you (kind of like in having positive reviews deleted). :) Don't let anyone dissuade you. Nolite Te Bastardes Carborundorum!


                
I started watching this show without knowing anything about it. IMDb recommended it for me that I trusted it. I didn't know that it will become my favorite show for all times. I watched only 9 episodes for now, but I've already become addicted to it. Aside from astonishing cinematography, the story captured me. I live in Turkey and the situation is very similar to our country's course of events. It gives me goosebumps from time to time seeing that such a situation may also occur in here as well, the change happens slowly, nothing happens in one night. And whatever happens women are the ones who lose the most. There are strong opinions of some people that our sole reason for existence is to reproduce (which is very common in Turkey as well). The show reminds me again and again why secularism is so important. I highly recommend this show to everyone around me. For those who are not from religious countries should also watch it, because when there is need for change, the religion seems to be the easiest way to influence masses; and it is possible in even U.S. or other developed countries regardless of their improvements on secularism or women's rights.


                
So much has been said in these reviews that I will just add to it. I think this show is spectacular in every aspect - the cinematography, the acting, the political commentary. It will scare you half to death but it will also wake you up.In reading the negative reviews, it's notable that many are written by people who are dismissive of it being so "PC", think it goes so overboard it bears no resemblance to reality, or are defensive about it politically. Those people might want to consider the flipside. What if, instead of a so-called Christian theocracy, it was a regime that persecutes Christians? Maybe executes people caught stepping out of line for, oh, reading a BIble? Is it possible women could lose their rights? How about gays? How about Jews? You don't think that can happen, anywhere? Really?Is it possible one group could take over, take the women as spoils of war, and force them to bear children and grow the regime? Could that happen anywhere in the world? Ask any of the women kidnapped in war or trafficked on a daily basis. Is it possible that people protesting could seek refuge in a restaurant and have to crouch down to hide from guns? Nah, that would never happen, right?How about the loss of a free press? Journalists executed? Watched the news lately? Why not ask any of the journalists around the world who have disappeared or been imprisoned? Oh wait, you can't.Is it possible someone could be sentenced to a labor camp where they work until they die? Maybe of exposure to toxic materials? Anywhere in the world? Is it possible people could be forced to be married off to strangers or forced marriages? Here? Anywhere? Is it possible that women could be forbidden to read? To go to school?Is it possible that someone, somewhere in this world, loses a hand or an eye as state punishment for some minor infraction? Genital mutilation of women? Anywhere?Is it possible that the government could engage in systematic torture? Our government? Any government in the world? The brilliance of this show is that it breaks through our American arrogance, our complacency, our sense of "oh, isn't that awful that X is happening, I'm so glad I'm safe from that as an American. Oh look, The Bachelor is on!" (No disrespect to the Bachelor - trust me you'll need it after watching this). It forces us to experience these things as if they were happening here. And we are shocked and traumatized. It seems so unlikely that people would snark, 'oh that would never happen.' And yet these things happen to people every day all around the world. Who are shocked and traumatized, who we see in 1 minute of a 4 minute news block and then go order pizza. So if you want to whine about being "PC" - you may want to think about this just a little bit deeper. Our laws and freedoms are the only things that protect us. All of us. We have to guard them.Could a band of crazies launch a coup upon Washington and all over the country? Logistically, probably not. But if we allow our freedoms to erode, don't defend our institutions, take our protections for granted, over time we will all be in danger. We can do that to ourselves. If this program doesn't stand your hair on end, you are most definitely in a coma.
The Handmaid's Tale is a series not to be compared with any series I've seen before. The story shows a terrifying future told by amazing actors, fabulous camera shots and brilliant artwork. The close up filming, that had been used in many shots, demands top acting to make the audience really feel and with this cast you do not need to worry. Alhough every part of That is absolutely top notch, I can not write this review without mentioning, the incredible, Elisabeth Moss! She is the heart and soul of the show and she added another delicate pearl to her crown. What an absolute brilliant actress this woman is!! Yes, the series left me knock-out after watching the last scene, made me uncomfortable, emotional and doubting humanity, but what a must see this is...


                
That's what another reviewer called it. I call it "Hip Amish Chicks Leading the Revolution".The characters are chained to a fundamentalist society, perhaps not that far removed from current world events, yet most remain gritty underneath. I like the strong roles for women and find it interesting that the only ones having sex are not portrayed as glamorous or sexy. This future is a hard one: grim for both the oppressed and the oppressors. Like a book you can't put down, you'll be tempted to binge this one.


                
Don't mind the bad reviews, they are probably made by Trump voters or other fascists who are unaware they are fascists. The Handmaid's Tale is a warning for the next generation. To not take the rights we have for granted. They can be taken away. Human rights, women rights, animal rights, rights in general. We're living in a world of great turmoil where very dark forces are gaining ground more and more. This series dives into a dystopian tale where authoritarian and totalitarian regime has taken society and controlling it Gestapo style. We follow Offred, a woman that is supposed to be a breeder for upper class leaders. I find the whole theme reminiscent to Children of Men, but in a very different way. Watch it, just watch the first episode if you're hesitating and you'll know. Don't even read the negative reviews, they're fake news :P


                
Hulu's The Handmaid's Tale is a beautiful surprise. The scene that sold me to this show was in the first episode - 'Offred'. I do not want to spoil that but when you watch it, you will agree with me that it is clearly a masterfully directed piece of art. (SHOUT OUT TO REED MORANO) This show IS GREAT! Honestly, I am not overrating the show but it truly is a must-see show that I hope will continue to climb up to its greatness. People who gave it a negative review clearly felt it HIT TOO CLOSE TO REALITY! Well they will have to deal with it. Watch all 10 episodes and you will not regret even a single second of it. It deservedly won 8 Primetime Emmy Awards and I hope the critics also think the same about the show!!!


                
I started watching this show not knowing what I'd be getting into, I had the impression that it was going to be some kind of gory futuristic cult thing, but I couldn't be more wrong. The main character, Offred, is a non-religious XXIst century woman that gets sucked into a religious cult that is based on the greatest hypocrisy the world has ever seen (Women are the only ones who can save humanity, but women are to be blamed, enslaved, brutalized, and assaulted) while her daughter and husband are taken away from her. She is then subjugated into an almost emotionless state and continuously raped and threatened, to produce a child that will be given to her masters as if it were theirs. While you would think that this cult like society is deeply religious and non-corrupt, you see the men cheating on their wives with the handmaids and other sex slaves, while saying that "they are only human"; the wives allowing other women to be raped and stripped away from their children; and the Aunts justifying that it is their duty as Handmaids to mend the wrong that they have done for being sluts (lesbians, promiscuous, being on the pill..)So my question is: ¿Why are people getting so angry with this version of a dystopian America? Well, I think because it isn't sooooooo far fetched after all.This show is the depiction of what religion does to societies, and I mean controlled religion, not the spirituality of one self. I started reading the reviews, as I always do, and I got the feeling that people are confused about the role of the woman in religion. I kept reading reviews that said that this show is depicting the Islamic religion and not Christianity, because Christianity is not based on misogyny, AND THAT IS WRONG. As far as the Islam goes, I cannot speak for it for I have never been introduced to it, but I can speak for Christianity. As a citizen in a country where its culture is embedded in the Christian religion, but we are taught in laic schools, I can say that I have a pretty good understanding of it without being in it. Christianity shows that women were the cause of everything that is wrong in this world, like Eve eating the apple and causing humankind to be expelled from paradise. Women are conceived as sinful and full of lust and lies, whereas men are shown as the opposite. All this to say that when introduced to this dystopian future where infertility is an epidemic, OF COURSE, THE WOMEN WOULD BE THE ONES TO BLAME. For what I've seen, since the beginning, America has struggled with the separation of church and state, and it was not far fetched to think that if such epidemic were to happen, the zealot elites that exist would immediately take over and try to find the culprits (women, LGBTQ communities...) with the words of an invented book that is The Bible.So when watching this show, instead of being horrified, you feel accused, you should get it checked out.
As the subject says, this is a brilliant adaptation of the original text. As several articles about it have said, it's incredibly timely. I, unfortunately, made it to the third episodes but I won't be watching it anymore. I can't. It's too terrifying to watch considering that we're 3/4 of the way to this being a reality, at least in the U.S. and especially for women of color. Still, if you can look past that, I would definitely recommend this series. The acting is incredible, the sets and costumes are flawless, and even the way that flashbacks are handled is fantastic. Elizabeth Moss deserves every award and Alexis Bledel and Samira Wiley are right there with her. Even Yvonne Strahovski is brilliant - not that she isn't always, but her character is definitely not as likable in this as those she normally portrays. I hope everyone involved with this understands how important it is that they've made it and that they've made it now. They all have my undying gratitude for taking such an unflinching look at such a terrifyingly real story.


                
This series/miniseries was incredibly well written, acted and directed. What more could you ask for? Elizabeth Moss was incredible once again (check out Mad Men if you haven't seen her work before) and I loved Samira Wiley (Orange Is The New Black). It's hard to describe without giving away the plot but it had me from the opening scene until the end. It is depressing, to say the least, though there are admirable traits in the courage that is displayed in some of the characters. I could go into the discouraging foreseeable reality due to our current political climate but that would be doing a disservice to the astounding work here. The best thing I can say is to watch it. Looking forward to season 2.


                
I did not know what to expect but this TV series, it has proved a great surprise! Superbly directed and very atmospheric. It shows how societies can become completely nuts in a very short time period. Although Series 1 is exactly based on book, I believe this is not the case for the forthcoming series 2 in 2018. Waiting with great excitement to see how things will develop!


                
I absolutely love this show, there isn't anything that compares to it!


                
I ll make it simple is amazing.
great story , acting ,
best show l watched in long time


                
Watched this with my wife and now she is hostile at me! Even with that I really enjoyed watching season one and am looking forward to season two. An interesting look at how political and religious extremes could impact society on a larger scale. Very good acting writing and really enjoyed the cinematography. I would highly recommend if looking for a compelling show to binge watch.


                
What do you get when you combine a compelling story, first rate writing and the finest acting seen in a long time? The answer is The Handmaids Tale. One of the local TV stations was streaming the entire series on its website. I started watching on Sunday afternoon and had finished all 10 episodes by the following night. This was, simply, TV drama at its finest. If Elizabeth Moss does not win an Emmy for best actress and Yvonne Strahovski for best supporting actress, there is no justice in this world. 11 out of 10.


                
Beware - the future is NOW! I read Margaret Atwood's book back in the late '80's and I thought then that this could actually be our future, based on the society which I lived (as a young, white, college educated, first generation middle-class female in an immigrant family).The original production of The Handmaid's Tale back in 1990 seemed almost quaint, now that we had fought our way through to freedom! But I lived through the Civil Rights Movement as a teenager, and I lived through the Women's Liberation Movement as a young adult, and I KNEW how fragile our freedom (as women, as people of color, as intellectuals, as individuals!) was and IS.This version of the book and the film seems to modernize the story, but the truth is unchanging.... if you think you are safe from the forces of repression and you relax your guard, you will be SORRY! This story can actually BECOME our immediate future- we are very close to the tipping point. Read the book, watch the movie, view the series, and take action.


                
